

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
bsolutely
Pure,
herefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
M The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB— _ .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE—
-56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Orb 99 and “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 CasKs Knight Cement.
• FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
1 -‘iif
A
4?
Tl
4>
So
o
<?
o
<RAci<tAsocK>
*3o^
o
o
o
V
•fc
o
V
A J
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps,
Huston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Rcston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Tiiomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured bv Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elkcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, and SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
SOLE
AGENTS
FOR
p? $
This Steel, which is of the highest quality,
is fast displacing every other brand on all
the leading fields throughout Australasia.
Price, £3O per Ton.
Before viyih'nj fhe wrireFo the Manager for
C»ra «f Tariff, Correspondence prompHy attended to-
Lennon 9 s Hotel,
bhisb^istb.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
' WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE - -
6rosV?i)orNotel,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDKTISY.
For TEEMS, please address the Manager.
TjtcU^iM
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
XOcl., lldL., la.
Sr.ocks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
J.
C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
TANNERS,
162 Clarence Street (Only), SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-BEN OWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
IS EDM & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
HOBIART.
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
1 GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
xL Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM,
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS.
PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol. 18.— jSo. 922. j
[Saturday, October 16, 1897.
leg:stered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robirtson & co.,
George SrhKET, Sydney
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S • TOTIIES- (from Tim Bvllk-
tin ; price, Is. 6,1.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OL:> REGIME (new series, from Tin?
Bmutruj), by Price Warring ; price, 25.; post-free,
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderio (juiun ; prioe, os. 6d. •
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to ns Jot any Book or Magazine you vsawt.
A. G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between. Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P.O. SYDNEY
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application. '
T
H E
LAS T
O E
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST. Is.
SIX.
Sd.
THE RED PAGE
iAsks ‘ Cynic ’ : ‘ln the matter of Guy
Boothby, why waste so much space in say-
ing that literary trash is literary trash, since
the fact is obvious, and there are many works
of literary merit which clamour for atten-
tion?’ For this reason, chiefly, that even an
intelligent person is apt to be persuaded by
puffery into buying books ; and where there
is no expression of judgment a favorable
judgment is sometimes inferred. For ex-
ample, two wretched specimens of book-
making were included in the Australian
museum not long ago. One was called
Sally ; ’ the other was a romance of the
bush by Michael Costello. They were so
bad that it was thought kinder not to say
how bad—not to say anything at all about
them. But now they have blossomed into
English editions, and are hawked round as
specimens of Australian literature, and
papers like ‘The Scotsman,’ whose praise
isn t worth much, are found to more-or-
less praise them, and the praise
is advertised—and so it goes on. And
‘ The Athenaeum ’ opines that ‘My Bun
Home that tedious diary-hash—is one of
he best books the author of ‘ Bobbery Under
has written ; and the opinion is duly
bdvertised ; and an Australian journal which
grieved silently over the evidence of Browne's
lecay might be taken by many people as
llently rejoicing in it. Wherefore it seems
iesnable to point out now and again that
übbish is rubbish, even if it be Australian
übbish, and even if purchased English or
Lustralian opinions affirm that its price is
*r above rubies.
* * » *
Of course, honest-speaking does not pay
r indirectly pay—it never did. ‘ The Bul-
>tin ’ is quite accustomed to be refused pub-
shers advertisements which are sent regu-
rly to journals with a tenth of its influence
id circulation—because they can be relied
pon to give a column of fulsome praise to
iblishers’ ‘deadstock,’ and assist in foist-
g worthless ‘ literature ’ upon an unhappy
. . And the purely literary journals of
“tain are in much worse case, for cotnpeti-
-3n among them is so great that without
iblishers advertisements nearly all of them
suld die at once. So they are forced to
mper truth with a great deal of diplomacy
d mislead m order to live. For every
iblisher occasionally publishes worthless
oks and he is just as desirous of getting
ck the money he has invested as in the
[ e of valuable books; and a damaging
tice, however just, wounds him in his
ider pocket. ‘ The Saturday Beview ’ is the
»st brilliant and most competent of British
irary journals known to the writer ; and it
■lso the one (age and status considered) least
ored by the advertising publisher. For
joes not hesitate to expose literary shams
and deride literary puffery, and it endeavora
to maintain something like a decent standard
of literary capacity and taste. But only its
igh price and its high traditions enable it
to meet expenses.
* * * *
As a rule, the sale of a book or of a maga-
zine is m inverse ratio to its literary or in-
tellectual value. The worse it is as literature
lup to a certain point, the greater the public
it commands, and the greater the profits. It
is alleged of the editor of a comparatively-
new magazine which has achieved a large
circulation by printing religious fiction and
pc ures of royal babies in every number
that he commissioned a story from a London
man with a good name. The story was
wntten—and delivered—and declined ; and
the author called to know why. ‘lt’s too
?ood, ’ said the editor. ‘ Too good ? ’ queried
the astonished author. ‘ Precisely • it’s over
ffie heads of my public—they would find its
arilbancy incomprehensible. But if you
an ll kindly re-write it worse, and put a
mined girl m it—a moral ruined-girl, you
enow—lll be very pleased to take it.’ The
tuthor declined. But no doubt the editor
ras right. To appeal to a large British audi-
>nce there is nothing better than moral
iction and royal babies and ruined girl. In
Lustralia, fortunately, there is ground for
lelieving that quite a substantial section of
he reading public cares nothing for the
ayal babies or the religious fiction ; and, if
1 llk . es lts ruined girl, it doesn’t like her
loral.
AH ARTIST'S IMPRKSS10S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Here goes for an impression of an old alluvial field
Which in the early fifties did many a nugget yield
To lucky diggers working hard and seeking out the go
Where are they now? I guess they’re dead, if not, they
very old.
A dirty lemon-yellow stream meanders idly through
Great heaps of burnt sienna mud, and mullock prussi
blue,
Except in sundry places, worked at a later day
Where the earth thrown up from deeper depths is
decided gray;
With now and then a patch of sand from claims by digge
To catch the eye and hold it fast-I’d best describe
mauve.
Uneven digging shows that some poor wretch, rig
methods scorning,
Rose madder each succeeding day than on the previo
morning;
Each shallow hole deserted, left before he’d scar
begun,
Explains that all the gold he saw was gold of settifi
sun.
Out to the streamlet’s right, there, thanks to th
beauteous Ohow,
What once was heaped-up tailings is market-garden now
With a crop or cauliflowers, spuds, and appetising bean,
The desert’s one oasis, a patch of emerald green.
Chow must be an artist, notwithstanding all th
To effect such transformation, yellow ochre to terre vert
In a corner stands the hovel, imagine it you must,
Roofed with old kerosene tins, in different shades of rust
1 11 give you the color exactly while the owner snores i
slumber—
A dab or two of ohrome yellow, with a pinch of dar
burnt umber.
A cobalt creeper climbing, hides part of the hut from
sight,
A shirt hangs out on a gum-tree—you may call it Chines
white ;
On the left there grow some wild flow’rs, mountain ash
and oak, which make
A color obtained from cadmium and a dash of crimson
lake ;
On distant hills you catch a glimpse of Bendigonian
houses ;
Round Chinkies’ huts and poppet-heads the sportive
tame goat browses ;
Far up above the sky looks down in bright cerulean blue
(You did not know I tapped the Muse, but now you see I
do),
Aoross its face white fleecy clouds they race and tumble on
In headlong strife to be the first to reach the horizon.
Now that is my impression, but don’t think me too humble
If I think the whole would be improved by a mild per-
spective scumble.
Before I close take my advice-" As long as paints
endure, oh 1 v.
86 B curo" miX y ° Ur colors well a>d mind your ohiaros-
SID.
A TRIUMPH OF ORDER
A squad of regular infantry
In the Commune’s closing day*,
Had captured a crowd of rebels
By the wall of Pi>re-la-Ohai*e.
There were desperate men, wild wome*,
And dark-eyed Amazon girls.
And one little boy, with a peach-down ok*ek
And yellow clustering curls.
The captain seized the little waif,
And said, “ What dost thou here f'•
“Sapristi, Citizen captain ;
I'm a Communist, my dear! "
‘‘Very well! Then you dis with the other*."
‘‘Very well 1 That’s my affair ;
But first let me take to my mother,
Who lives by the wine-shop there,
“My father's watch. You see it :
A gay old thing, is it not ?
It would please the old lady to have it;
Then I’ll come back here, and be shot,”
“That is the last we shall see of him,"
The grizzled captain grinned,
As the little man skimmed down the hill
Like a swallow down the wind.
For the joy of killing had lost its zest
In the glut of those awful days,
And Death writhed, gorged like a greedy snake
From the Arch to Pbre-la-Chaise.
But before the last platoon had fired
The child's shrill voice was heard:
‘ Houp-14! the old girl made such a row,
I feared I should break my word.”
Against the bullet-pitted wall
He took his place with the rest—
A button was lost from his ragged bleuse,
Which showed his soft, white breast.
“Now, blaze away, my ohildren,
With your little one-two-three 1 "
Tile Chassepots tore the stout young heart,
And saved Society.
John Huy.
NOTES.
I Effect of Moon-Rays.
‘Cassell's Magazine,’ July, 1897, pp.
‘ I am too much i’ tne sun,’ said Hamlet to his mother,
and although ordinary sunburn is by no means a danger-
ous effect of exposure to sunshine, what we call sunstroke
can produce madness or death. Mothers and nurses are
oareful not to leave children too much in the sunshine,
and there is a case on record in which several children
were so badly burnt by the sun as to suffer from erysi-
pelas or phlegmon, which ended in the death of one. The
observation that Rontgen rays and the electric arc pro-
duce effects similar to sunburn or sunstroke, has led some
French investigators to examine the matter, and they find
that the bad effects of sunshine are due to what are called
the ‘ chemical rays ’of solar light—that is to say, the blue
and ultra-blue rays, not the red or heat rays.
These rays, like the Rontgen rays, act powerfully on the
living body, disturbing the growth of the cells and des-
troying the tissues. Happily there is a material which
forms a soreen for them, and it is uranium glass. We
nay yet see the helmets of persons exposed to the tropi-
ial sun or the rays of eleotric furnaces lined with this
lort of glass. It is an old notion that to sleep in -the
noonlight may cause madness, hence the word * moon-
itruck '; and perhaps there is a slender foundation for
.he belief, other than some superstition of moon-worship
n the past. Moonshine is reflected sunshine, and there-
ore contains the ‘chemical rays ’ which do the harm.
Moreover, there are, perhaps, electric rays in sunshine,
vhich, when they strike the moon, are turned into Ront-
;en rays, which, as above mentioned, act powerfully on
he living tissues, and might affect the brain.
Exposure to intense direct sunlight certainly can
,nd does, cause great disturbance of the nervous
ystem, as all works on medicine tell ; so, too the
effected sunlight off snow, ice, glittering de’sert-
and, water, or a burning-glass, may cause partial
r complete blindness, as any standard work on
he eye will tell. Therefore, it is far from impos-
ible that sunlight reflected from the moon might
o the same. Also, Rontgen rays certainly cause
urious skin-troubles in workers therewith As-
:onomer-Royal Prof. Piazzi Smith (‘Lancet,’
308, vol. 1., p. 24) states that his therrnometrical
istruments were sensibly affected on the Peak of
eneriffe by the moon’s rays ; that in tropical
imates meat exposed to the moon’s rays rapidlv
scomes putrid ; and that in the West Indies the
sgroes, who will lie sweltering and uncovered
meath the full glare of a tropical sun, carefully
utne their heads and faces when exposed to the
oonbeams, which they believe will cause swelling
id distortion of the features, and sometimes even
mdness. Again, Dr. James Hildige (‘Medical
mes and Gazette,’ 1801, vol. 1., p. 83) remarks :
Vin e travelling in South Africa, near the river
nj u ’ ■ lnefc W ' t * l severa l cases of what is
lied by sailors in that part of the world moon-
udness, as they trace its cause to the moon’s
ys falling on a person’s face during sleep. It
nost always yielded (when recent) to the appli-
;ion of leeches to the temples.’—X.Z.
p . wn u- The Bell Bird.
Lhe bell-bird is so plentiful in the bushland
rounding Fort Lindsay that its note becomes
notonous ; but I haven’t come across it in
th-west Australia ; and have no recollection of
'ing encountered it in Queensland. Its bell-
) note does not ‘ break the silence with start-
> suddenness.’ There is no silence to break
sre the ball-bird reigns. Its note assails the
vellers ears incessantly from morning till
ut. Ip is a doleful note, that would tinge the
est spirit with melancholy ; and it infuses into
average bushman’s soul a creeping, brooding
ness—not, however, unpleasing.—E.S.S.
19.— ‘ The Real Mackay. ’
have heard this in Scotland more than 30
rs ago applied to whisky, meaning that it was
good stuff. My impression is that Maokay
the name of a distiller who had a reputation
making a “goot speerit.”—J.P.
39.— Kangaroos.
•angaroos’ears are not pointed like a horse’s,
they are always made to appear so in sketches
.hem. lhe ears of kangaroo, wallaroo, and
ali.y are nearly semi-circular at top. Neither
i the kangaroo ever place his tail to one side
arallel to his legs, as nearly always depicted
rtists. His tail is always carried out straight
nd him, and he uses it as a leg when feeding,
i. anatomically impossible for a kangaroo to
ns tail between his legs, as frequentl v depicted
>pe this is the case with all Australians.)—
QUERIES.
th?nT^f ldom / n ° r ®, than one and more
than two, are found in a wild turkey’s nest yet
upon disemboweHing a turkey I found one’ egg
with full shell, another soft-shelled, a third near
full size without a shell, and so on—in all 13 eggs
that certainly would have been laid in the season j
and I have seen a turkey with nine young ones in
a brood. Does she sit on her nests in turn’ or
does the sun hatch them ? and if so, how does 'she
collect the brood.—R. Williams, Gilgunnia.
49.—What is the native meaning implied in the
r {towns °„ N.rt er®
rivers) Wollongtor, Nureftar, Tintin&ar, Murwil-
Ybldt 6Vlden,ily corru Pfced), Coonela&ar, &c. ?
.
-JR® kooka , burraf > (laughing jackass) kill large
snakes or only small ones ? Have they ever been
wera'tl 4,6 k,l ling snakes, and what size
were the snakes ?—6 xS.
“ACCEPTED.”
We were walking home from meeting, in the mlm o,
Country sheet.
Where only a glimmer of moonlight through Mm are
of the elms came flown,
And watened the twin&lmgshadows that played with he
little feet—
Played hide-and-seek with the little feet that peepei
from beneath her gown.
There are things that a girl shouldn’t think, and oertainl,
shouldn’t say—
But when she says them to you, the difference it makes
is queer.
And the touch of her hand on my sleeve seemed to ask, in
a 8 «ft, shy way :
“Cant you put your arm around me, or ian’tttdark
enough here?”
A man doesn t let that chance slip by him beyond reeall;
But I felt that it wouldn’t do, after much considering—
Her parents were just ahead, which didn’t concero me at
all-
But her younger brother behind us—ah, that was a
different thing!
We reached the dear old homestead the moss nsnd te«-
derly white,
And stood on the broad front porch, and all of them
lingering to chat
Of how the soprano had sung and the parson had preached
that flight,
And how the widow was out in another scandalous hat.
A loos of appeal from me, and a wonderful glance from
her,
And we slipp d away from the crowd, unnoticed and
swift and si ill—
I think t,was the (1 >wer-bids I crossed ; but I didn’t care
if it were—
And she went hack through the house, and we met at
the window sill.
At the window around the corner, with never a soul to-
see !
And I stood on the grass below, and she bent down from
above,
And the honeysuckles were round us as she aferetohed:
her arms to me,
And our lips met there in a new, new kiss—our be-
trothal gift from Love,
H. C. [?]
THE CHAPERON.
t take my ohaperon to the play—
She thinks she’s taking me,
And the gilded youth who owns the boK,
A proud young man is he—
But how would his youag heart be hurt
If he could only know
That not for his sweet sake I go
Nor yet to see the trifling show;
But to see my chaperon flirt.
Her eyes beneath her snowy hair
They sparkle young as mine ;
There’s scarce a wrinkle in her hand
So delicate and fine.
And when my chaperon is seen,
They come from everywhere—
The dear old boys with silvery hair,
With old time grace and old-time air,
To greet their old-time queen.
They bow as my young Midas here
Will never learn to bow
(The dancing-masters do not teaoh
That gracious reverence now) ;
With voices quavering just a hit,
They play their old parts through,
They talk of folk who used to wo*,
Of hearts that broke in ’fifty-two—
Now none the worse for it.
And as those aged crickets chirp
I watch my chaperon’s face,
And see the dear old features take
A new and tender grace—
And in her happy eyes I see
Her youth awakening bright.
With all its hope, desire, delight—
Ah, me ! I wish that I were quite
As young—as young as she !
H. C. Burner.


medical.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
X
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
Erikm DSOi' sufferers
Second to Nome in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head o£ the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. I bat
they Lave investigated fui ther into the naysteiies o
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets oi disease,
thau their quite worthy hut less success!ul associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here m S x I)JN hi j ,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
* they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
ME MEN,
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfuleess,
aversiou to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r^en.
IrilftJUMH nuliU ® Uuiw in
5
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching hacks and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
wifliout pain and detention from business.
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to tbe
doctors if living
away from tbe
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-
tises, NERVOUS
AND PJRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
m
iflCv^P
isSipflS
All Trams stop at the Door.
Drs, FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Rooms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABoro PbySkiaO-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
the greatest and most successful practi-
tioner IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life. J
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success. t ,
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney" and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidnev troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
gave future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Oorpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
' 121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention ™ IS I‘avku.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and . t ° n ? l ®
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The firat week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERAI
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself raining in weight and flesh. hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigoi of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Ever}' person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
E A DIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq..;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 309 Collins-st., Melbourne.
-■JOHN PURAHT
i 1
'i
JWeß^fefferlte-
puu. t>ire.Chous'
i ENCLOSED!*,
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
T-m A. 13 I E! S !
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
gijpeer’S invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
bos 920. 29 York Street, Sydney.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-. 127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 265. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
enV Ag°mtsfor Australasia-Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO JTB.NE.
AgentsforN.S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,"
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
i\ stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Rooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Erequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.»
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of Gd. in Stamp s lie 1v2.il send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
dbbilit y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside, at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work, '
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every ease undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
are destroyed by pire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, A.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours :
9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday,
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT MIiOGD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
•WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible. ...
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the winters
only i otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
I\
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes “ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp
toms too numerous to mention; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
j'ours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said: ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding-my testi-
mony to vour extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong maw once more, and the distressing 1 symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving ani' benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes * —** Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that lam well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthv, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until /was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one kjeat
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands vnil not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
II a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76Iuwao.
f/
mV


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Melbourne 0.
2nd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne 0,
2nd November.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name ' •
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
*• • r
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ON€!
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USB
Spooocr’S
*«*!s>*
iRQYALNAVY DRESSIRC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS it SHOES
!: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
EDIBECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning; and Polishing'Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, f/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worthed up, “2/ 6 per oz.
We are the cheape&tin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w; H.wi 2Z ,ii,
* 110 WtLhUM Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Price List. ■-
Prompt attention given to Country Order*
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARUE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring's, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
•lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O. _
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Tamer Wheels, Springs, etc.
Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles for Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one, do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE*
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
or PIANOS nr
Tbe FioeSt aijd Largest WarcljotiS*
XIST AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC AT
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKTEY
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES Bed lh r h ouhJ of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED _
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is orepared with snecial beautifying- ingredients and will produce the most loyely Com-
nlexi.ii free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessly ss, purity, and beautify mg qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions Atall Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY. 5, Denman Street, to nil on
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird's Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird's Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
■k.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United. Typewriter & Supplies o°.,
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Wkbstkr & Co.
ADELAIDE— Ref,vrs & Co.
LAUNCESTON—HBDkKV Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over tOO in se.
Send for particulars of Free Trial,
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOD-FORGOTTEN.
Lies the town of God-forgotten duly west,
Sleep the folks in God-forgotten, like the blest,
And the dreary plains that bound it
Sweep their drowsy blast around it
Till you nod and drawl: “Confound it! Let us
liquor—let us rest 1 ”
There are pubs, in God-forgotten, half-a-score,
And a few surviving topers prop the door,
And the grog they drink’s a query
Quaint compound of potions eerie,
And the casual drunk it smiteth as it smote the
drunk of yore.
And they brag how God-forgotten in its prime
Raised a dog-fight in a cursed fit of crime;
And, though times have waxed pacific,
Still they boast with pride terrific
How “ Forgotten was a ‘hot-un’ and a daisy in
her time.”
And the God-forgotten men are lank and lean,
Bony scaffolds of the men they might have been ;
They’re a curious blend of Pawnee
Bullock-puncher, nomad, Sawney,
And they live by swapping lies about the things
they haven’t seen.
And it blinks, does God-forgotten, through the
blaze,
And it winks, does God-forgotten, through the
haze,
And its eyes are mostly bleary,
And its voice is mostly beery,
And its intellect is doting in a chronic state of
daze;
And it glares, does God-forgotten, at the skies,
And it frizzles through the summer and it fries,
And you leave its region hearseful
Feeling sad and mad and curseful,
For the fear of God-forgotten is a fear that never
dies.
Why they started God-forgotten no one knows,
For it’s shunned by all the self-respecting crows ;
And some day in sandy distance
It will sink its poor existence
And we’ll wonder where the deuce it’s gone and
how on earth it rose.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
RAIN.
“ Geddown, poodle ! Oh, darn you, geddown 1
Cornin’ up for a change over Buckalong range:
Jus’ my luck ! It’ll rain, for a crown !
“ An’ it isn’t as if all the tanks
Was dried up around ’ere, like an or’n’ary year ;
They’re full up, to the top of their banks!
“ Poodle, come an’ sit down! Come to heel!
A dawg’s life ? Spare me days 1 Work it out any
ways
An’ the dawg’s got the best of the deal!
“ There it comes ! Good-bye all the dry feed
In the mullenised ground ; I’d ’a’ given ten pound
To ’a’ kep’ back that damned ‘ summer-weed ’!
“ Emma ’ll shove on another year, now !
That’s the way, all along; somethin’s bound to go
wrong
So’s to put off our weddin’ somehow !
*' I’ve a good mind to give the thing best!
It ain’t much as I’ve got; I’d as lief sell
An’ jus’ strike straight away for the West! ”
NIL.
ODE TO A RIVER DARLING STEAMER.
Like unto Noah’s Ark,
Unlike an ocean barque,
Shapeless and slow;
With thine assorted freight,
Burdened with over-weight,
Always at “ current ” rate,
On thou dost go.
On thine own Darling’s breast.
Peaceful and self-possessed,
So still and calm ;
Thrice blest thou art indeed,
From ocean’s fury freed,
So may no snags impede
Or cause thee harm.
But when, in times of drought,
Her life’s-blood ebbing out,
Darling seems dead ;
When each fresh “ turn ” she takes
And every “ reach ” she makes
Looks like a line of lakes
Pools in her bed.
Then will thy throbbing cease,
And thou wilt know no peace
Till she revives ;
Laid up, and out of sorts,
Closed will be all thy “ ports,”
Longing to hear reports
That she survives.
She who for years hath been
Thy sole support, and seen
Down-sinkings rare,
She will fresh strength rega.n,
Rising with might and main,
Then—to be “ borne again ”
Thou must prepare.
But while thy Darling’s dry,
Thou eanst reflect on thy
Darling’s deep worth ;
When she hath ceased to flow
’Twould add, for aught we know,
Years on thy life to go
Back to thy “ berth.”
Then, when the welcome rain
Brings her to life again,
Back to life-size.
Then, all sad doubts dispel,
She’ll soon flow strong and well,
“ Dead,” tho’ thy Darling fell,
“ Quick ” she must rise.
Banks that have been her prop
May break, while some may stop,
And fixed deposits drop
In large amounts.
If so, they’d show their sense,
They burst in self-defence,
And simply make “ suspense ”
“ Current” accounts.
Until her bed be dragged,
Until her course be snagged,
Thou’ll oft be blocked ;
Until her waters be
Kept under lock and key
Thou never wilt be free
Until she’s looked.
J.A.P.


Australia 17 MGtGal p rftl/i XTr < ftriofl/
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■ ■VVI(I t If L 'W 0%•% ty *
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office s 87 PITT STREET, SYDNE Y.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
02
HSi
■ z -
mm
wmmm
mm
SiS.l
j f T Y ■'
m
HOTEL
AUSTRALI
RATES: 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Gastlereagh-street, Sydney.
A.LL \
CLASSES \
OF \
accommooation\
—FOR— \
TOURISTS, \
Commercial ... \
. . . Travellers, \
Theatricals, Families, \
&c., &c. \
ROOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night. \
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week. '
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE.
FederalX
Palac€\
Hotel.
MELBOURNE.
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door.
WRITE FOR
CARDS OF
TARIFFS
Ruberoid
Roofing.
&
T - •. ►:
r
pm:
K
\
S
as
hq
ss
SSSS
00-.\
P & B
DAMPCOURSE.
PARTICUIiARS FROM
E. RICH & CO. LTD.,
O’Connell-sfcreet, Sydney.
P& B
DAMPCOURSE
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from «£2 2s each
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE ” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS bv ill
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality■
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from T 3 3s. each. ’
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
Summer Suita! Summer Suits!
• — 1 »♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦*
Tl>€ Lofydoi) & Tailoriog Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have one of the Largest and most Varied Stock of SUMMER SUITINGS in the City.
CdU or send for Patterns and Measurement Forms.
GT SUITS— 4S/-, 50/- to 90/- . TftOUSERS- 12/6 to 25/- T 8»
All Goods delivered FREE to any part of the Colony.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED. S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH mtOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate iri Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
r PHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Jiridr/en’ork.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
-98 ■st., S v tiney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
* \
FREE ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, _ 60s, 90s, and 105 s ;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s ;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, 75s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
For Reviving the Liver and Brain
ANJJ RESTORING VIGOR.
“oh, what a difference in the morning!"
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK—
Fisher & Co.’s
FAMOUS ‘ KOLA NUT” TONIC,
The GREATEST “PICK-ME-UP” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAKES YOU STRONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, Gd. per Glass.
2s, 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co.’s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHARMACY, 337 George Street
(Nearly opposite General Post Office), SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN - -
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE—
CITV MUTUAL FIRE
' JRANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Umpire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA*
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
dp" INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Com2>any Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1886 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes <£97,763, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 12,000,000.
Policies issued, 73.972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders. £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Aeeiden
and
Guarantee
Co. hid. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachby, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
F arquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ O- lEXiX) j&IIDG-ZE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 TooS njore Imported Leaf
tljai) all tl>e other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by DXXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of DixSOll’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in ihe Southern Hemisphere.
Yaokee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cbanjpioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqO^ror.
New and Old T
Sir Roger.
Choicest
CeptcDQial.
he Working
Dark Twist.
man’s
Cigars.
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Imported). The Club Favorite l^EoilOpo 7 ©,
Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
vo LIB -No m
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1897.
Price, 6d.
PREMIER REID TRIMS HIS HAT.
"At the fancy fair which was opened recently by the N.S.W. Premier, in connection with the Central Methodist mission, considerable amusement was caused by a
hat-trimming competition among gentlemen.”— Daily paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian N^wsnapsr.
“ Australia for the Austral i-um.
Printed and Published by William M acleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for T e Bu 'l’IN
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the 0.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ••• ft
Half-yearly ... ... l. „
Quarterly... ... ... ••• u
NOTICE.
Bu sending direct to The Bulletin _ Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added where reqxniea
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal A ote.
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. . ..
Cheques, Pratts, etc., andall Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing X)wecto».
Literary Communications to be addressed J. v.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words-, are specially
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-'"Hypings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. h fit. we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Jit ark and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted.for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions tinier
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 1 \ 00l Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<(.- Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A.. Thompson and Co., 3 LhiiTcri
Street , Capetown. Also in- the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers Mews Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — it. M. Smith <k Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. A ustralia,
Westralia and Mao rHand .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on hitervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside ~ N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
(is. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
In Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the, unreasonable
po -toge -lj'l. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1897.
Beer and Referendum.
The Local Option Bill which Postmaster-
General Cook attempted to introduce into
New South Wales Parliament struck a snag
even before it arrived. It didn’t get so far
as the first reading before the blight fell upon
it—the trouble began at the “ order of
leave.” Cook asked the House for per-
mission to introduce a Bill to “ regulate and
prohibit” the drink trade “in accordance
with polls taken in certain areas.” The
House, incited thereto by that man of Belial,
Copeland, M.L.A., promptly excised the
word “prohibit.” Then, being further in-
cited by Copeland, it added a clause pro-
viding for compensation to dispossessed pub-
licans. So the irony of the situation was
that the Assembly gave Cook permission to
bring in a measure to regulate the trade,
which he doesn’t care about, and to compen-
sate the discharged grog-dealer, which he
utterly loathes, and all this made the godly
Cook feel just about as “good” as if the
Assembly had authorised him to get very
drunk and become an atheist. Also, it
showed that the liquor difficulty remains just
as difficult as ever.
* * * *
So far as any question of cash compensa-
tion is concerned, The Bulletin is with
Cook, though not for Cook’s reasons. The
country can’t afford to compensate the publi-
can, especially under a Reid Government,
which would inevitably pay the compensa-
tion out of loans and make it part of the per-
manent debt. It couldn’t logically compen-
sate the publican without also compensating
the brewer, distiller, grog-importer, the em-
ployes of all four, the cooper, the publican’s
landlord, the vigneron, the man who grows
barley, the cork and bottle dealer, the man
who sticks on the labels, and the temperance
lecturer—who lives on the drink-trade quite
as much as the publican himself. 1 hen it
would have to finish up by compensating it-
self for the loss inflicted on it by the sacrifice
of the drink-revenue. And when the prin-
ciple of compensation was once established
it is impossible to say where it could logi-
cally end. If the beer-retailer has a vested
interest in the trade because of his long con-
tinuance therein, and can therefore claim
compensation for going out, there is an
almost equally good case for the iinporter
whose trade is suddenly wrecked by I lotec-
tion, or the manufacturer who is ruined by
the removal of Protection. Also, the land-
holder might come in under the same cate-
gory. When the State imposed a tax of Id.
in the £ of capital values, it annexed, roughly
speaking, one-twelfth part of the rent, aric
thereby it, to all intents and purposes, took
one - twelfth undivided share of the pro-
perty. And, as it didn’t mention any pur-
pose of the sort when it sold the land in the
first place, it is an open question if the land-
holder has not just as bad a claim to com-
pensation as the publican.^
Another point where the impossibility of
cash compensation comes in is that there is
no sort of finality about it. In all proba-
bility Australia, or some part of it, will try
absolute prohibition some day, and it is
just possible that it will be so foolish as to
“blew” some hundreds of thousands, or
perhaps a million, or two, or three, in com-
pensating the ejected dealer in blue ruin.
And when the drinking minority has been
deprived of its desired refreshment, and has
paid its share of the compensation as the
price of being forcibly deprived of it, and
has settled down to pay its share of the extra
taxation required to replace the lost drink
revenue, the matter will be no more definitely
finished than it was when it began. Pro-
hibition has no more chance of lasting
for ever than has anything else in this
shifting, unstable world. It is impos-
sible to so fix the prohibition law that
it couldn’t be repealed like any other
law, and as likely as not the Thirst
Party would come on top again in a few
years, and the trade would start afresh, and
all the compensation expenditure be dead
loss. In the course of a century the country
—if it once started compensation—might
compensate three or four or six or ten times
over, and have the drink business in full
blast at the end of that time just as if it had
never compensated at all.
* * • •
The Bulletin has at least four solid con-
victions on the liquor question : (1) The local
option vote should be taken for a whole pro-
vince, not for separate municipalities. It is
no earthly good abolishing drink in Peter-
sham if any amount can be obtained at the
other side of the road in Leichhardt, or
making one street teetotal if the next one is
fearfully and wonderfully drunk. (2) If it
is proposed to put Prohibition of retail beer-
selling to the vote, there should also be a
vote taken on the abolition of brewing, dis-
tilling, wholesale dealing and importation.
(3) Compensation, in this paper’s opinion, is
a financial impossibility. (4) The country
wants, not a separate law giving the teetotal
crowd the right of a referendum on its
own special fad, while everybody else’s
fads—those of The Bulletin included
—are debarred from the same privi-
lege, but a referendum generally. Post-
master-General Cook, in his own small,
mild Cold Tea fashion, asks that his
one little idea shall be put periodically to a
public vote so that he can get a straight-out
verdict on it, while other matters are left to
be swamped among the confused issues of a
general election. He would like to keep on
taking his own particular referendum until
he gets the verdict he wants, and then to
stop short, so that if the public should after-
wards desire to reverse that verdict it will
have no machinery for doing so. And he
desires that the public shall have a vote on
just as many aspects of the question as he
pleases. The Bulletin’s amendment is that
there be instead a general referendum, and
that, if a certain number of the people or a
certain proportion of the Legislature so
demand, any question shall be referred to
the popular vote under certain fixed con-
ditions. Then the Cook crowd can invite
the people to vote the abolition of drink,
and the Copeland crowd can ask them to
vote that the sale of drink be freed from
all restrictions, and the nation shall have the
same right to give a straight vote in favor of
Protection, which Cook doesn’t want, as in
favor of teetotalism, which he does. Also
the people could settle the compensation
question for themselves. The Bulletin
believes cordially and thoroughly in the
Option idea as a whole. But it certainly
does not believe in having only so much
Option as suits P.M.G. Cook or any other
individual.
♦ * * *
New South Wales, by the way, has a halt-
ing kind of Local Option law already. It
allows the people in each separate ward of
each municipality to vote, every three years,
on two questions—whether any new licenses
shall be granted and whether any removals
of licenses shall be allowed. As the system
only applies to municipalities, 97 per cent.'
of the country is not affected ; still, it affects
by far the largest part of the population. Only
a miserably small proportion of the people
votes at all, yet the poll occasionally pro-
duces some interesting results. In 1896, out
of 353 municipal wards in which the vote was
taken, 273 were against, and only 80 in favor
of more licenses, and, if the whole municipal
district had been lumped into one electorate,
the majority would have been arge enough
to prevent any new licences being granted in
the area under local government. But the
great mass of the population was so blankly
indifferent to the business that, out of
177,000 voters on the roll, only 10,900 voted
at all. So far as the matter went, which was
no distance worth mentioning, the result was_
generally favorable to the Cold-Tea cause.
But, if the larger and much more exciting
issue of absolute prohibition were involved,
the community would rise up, like a lion
robbed of its grog, and give a much more
definite expression of opinion, probably with
very different results. The Liquor Referen-
dum, however, is unsatisfactory in all its
aspects, and the short way out of the
difficulty is by establishing the Referen-
dum for all purposes. And that is so easy,
logical and democratic a solution, that
P.M.G. Cook’s conduct in fooling with any
mere Liquor Option Bill is unaccountable.
“The Bulletin” Receives a Post-card.
The Bulletin receives the following weird
whoop on a post-card from Boy-Politician
Caulfield :
You have asked Victoria to send back the Turner
Government. That Government is now being supported
by the Tories and is doing their work. The only party in
the Cabbage Garden with a clear-cut, bold, and honest
policy is the Hancock-Prendergast party. But for them
there would be no life or fight or progress in public life
here whatever. Trenwitii doesn’t count; he is playing a
game. Which party is The Bulletin with now ?
The Bulletin also notes that Labor-member
Prendergast has declared gory war against
the Turner Government in his paper, the
Tocsin, while Hancock, M.L.A., practically
demands that the joint Ministerial scalp be
presented to him on a charger. It further notes
that the Argus, the organ of Victorian Tory-
ism, is more friendly to the Ministry than it
was, which is a genuine misfortune, for those
whom the Argus blasts with its support are
mostly doomed, and that paper is plainly al-
most half-inclined to support Turner. Yet,
though The Bulletin recognises the good
work Hancock and Prendergast have done in
the interests of the Victorian democracy, its
vote goes just as straight with the present
Ministry as ever it did, Boy-Politician Caul-
field’s infuriated post-card notwithstanding.
« * * *
The Government’s programme includes one-
man-one-vote, an industrial conciliation law, a
measure to proiect homes against seizure by
creditors, a perpetual-leasing system, and an
act for acquiring large estates and cutting them
up for settlement, as well as a number of other
useful measures. If it carries these, in addi-
tion to what it has already done, Victoria will
be many miles further advanced in a democratic
sense than it ever was before, and as the
Turner Government has a good record for
carrying out its promises there is a fair chance
that it will carry these out also. The Argus
professes to approve of this programme in a
feeble sort of fashion. It started professing to
approve when it became evident that the Tory
case was utterly hopeless, and that the only
chance of claiming a victory was to say, much
against its will, that it was, and always had
been, on the side of the man who was evidently
going to win. To go on saying it approved of
the old Duncan Gillies crowd in the face of
their demoralised condition was merely court-
ing humiliation. Only the shallowest and
most gassy variety of Democrat would
be led into opposing the party which
puts such valuable reforms on its programme
merely because the Argus, for the sake of
making the best of a dreadfully bad situation
and to avoid being again among the lost, pro-
fesses to like them. If the Argus says that it
wants to see the property-vote abolished, that
is no reason why' the Vic. democrat, for the
sake of being always against his ancient enemy,
should say he doesn’t.
* * * »
The Hancock-Prendergast party is against
Turner, mainly because it regards his policy as
lukewarm. It demands, in addition to his list,
the abolition of the Legislative Council, annual
Parliaments, State payment of election ex-
penses (presumably candidates’ expenses), a pro-
gressive tax on land values, State work for the
unemployed, old-age pensions, direct employ-
ment of labor by the Slate, State Bank, State
ownership of coal-mines, State diink and to-
bacco monopolies, the repression of private
monopolies, rings and trusts, the remedy of
all legal abuses, nationalisation of shipping,
State insurance, including insurance against
sickness and want of work, a State theatre,
free railways, free justice, State pawnshop,
abolition of usury, purification of sport,
and 58 other things equally sweeping—
some of them a great deal more so. Natu-
rally, the Hancock - Prendergast party
feels bitter towards the Turner programme,
which looks so miserably small by com-
parison. But if the Hancock-Prendergast
party was in power, and had been there
sufficiently long to know what the situa-
tion felt like, it would probably be
content to do as little at a time as Turner is
doing. It would then have to find the money
for the free railways (about ,£3,000,000 per
annum), and the candidates’ expenses, and the
old-age pensions, and for supplying work and
wages to the unemployed, and for the stacks of
other things. It would have—in addition to
doing all the routine work of the State Depart-
ments —to draft about 80 tremendous bills,
some of them of a kind which would be
sufficient to drive 10 Governments into
the lunatic asylu m. The bill for the
remedy of all abuses of law, and the one
for purifying sport, and the one for abol-
ishing all laws which place woman, whether
in a public or private capacity, at a disad-
vantage as compared with man, and the one
for State insurance against sickness and want
of employment, would alone be the death of
any ordinary man, if he planned them out
effectively and drafted them accurately.
* ♦ * *
An unattached party is perfectly justified in
demanding, in a general way, every reform it
can think of. A Government, before it puts
them on its programme for a Parliament of
only three years’ duration, has to consider how
many reforms it can draft into proper shape in
a given time, how many lengthy bills it can get
through the slow processes of a garrulous
Legislature in a given time, how many expen-
sive changes it can find money for in a given
time, and after all these things are done, how
many new undertakings it can start simul-
taneously. For, in addition to merely passing
bills, it would have to look after the nationalised
shipping, and to more or less supervise the old
age pension department, and the State Bank,
and the system of State insurance against
death, sickness, and want of employment, and
the drink and tobacco monopolies, and the
State theatre, and all the other things. It
would have to find the right men to run them,
to supervise these men, to make the necessary
rules and regulations, to set all the varied
mechanism going, and to be responsible for the
solvency of them all. And as the number of
things which even a Ministry of eight geniuses
can create all at once without its head bursting
is limited, the men who have to do the things
can never go fast enough to keep pace with the
men who have only to demand that the things
should be done.
* * * *
The Bulletin cordially agrees with the
Hancock-Prendergast party in one thing:
there are a multitude of necessary reforms
which are not mentioned in the Vic. Govern-
ment programme. But the things it has there
are mostly good, and it will probably carry
them out, and there is no other probable
Government in sight which could do half
as much, and the programme is probably
as large as any Government which has the
House of 48 Rich Landlords in its road can
hope to get through in the time. No doubt
the progress could be marvellously accele-
rated if that House was removed, and, as
the Prendergast organ rightly asserts, it
should be removed. It is also a painful fact
that its removal is not included in the present
Government policy. But in view of the fact
that the 48 Rich Landlords are all Conserva-
tives, that the heavy property qualification for
membership keeps them conservative, that the
qualification can’t by altered without the con-
sent of the 48 Rich Landlords, and that they
won’t consent, The Bulletin doesn’t know any
present expedient, short of something very like
revolution, that will cure the evil. The Vic.
Labor-party has also failed to suggest any
practicable way short of revolution, and it
doesn’t even promise that if Turner tried
revolution Hancock and Prendergast would
sail in with him, and hang along with him for
high treason if the movement failed. There-
fore The Bulletin, while regarding the Vic-
torian Council as the most utterly infamous
legislative chamber on this continent, isn’t
absolutely prepared to blame Turner for not
finding a lawful way to extinguish it—seeing
that no one else has found a way either.
The best present hope lies in the crea-
tion of a powerful and democratic Federal
Parliament which will have power, or will
assume power, on the demand of the Victorian
popular chamber, to squash the obnoxious 48
Rich Landlords out of existence. The other
way is to firmly—though' reluctantly, and as a
necessary evil—spill the brains of Cornelius
Job Hah in Collins-street, and cast Frederick
Sargood, in old Bohemian fashion, from a top
window.
* * * *
Judging by their past record—which is, after
all, the only thing any man can be judged by—
The Bulletin regards Turner and Isaacs as
more useful and practical and, in some re-
spects, more advanced democrats than Han-
cock or Prendergast, or even Boy Politician
Caulfield. In its opinion the effort to mini-
mise borrowing and mitigate as much as pos-
sible the bondage of this country to the foreign
usurer should be the first item on every demo-
cratic programme, and in this matter the
Government looks a lot more democratic than
many of its critics who accuse it of Toryism.
The fact that its members haven’t adopted any-
thing like the whole of the Tocsin platform is
no reason why that paper should object to them
so strongly. They have carried out part of it
and they promise to carry out some more. ■lf
they had the whole of it at once the
country would never have returned them to
power, and they would never have carried out
any of it. No Australian community at pre-
sent existing would return a Ministry which
sprung all that platform—including the free
railways, State theatre, shipping, medi-
cal dispensaries and coal mines, the State
tobacco and liquor monopolies, and the
other stupendous mass of undertakings—
before it in one act. if the community was
far enough advanced to stand such a thing it
would have executed Cornelius Job Hah,
M.L.C., in Collins-street long ago. Moreover,
Governments are not to be judged by pro-,
grammes alone. They need also great adminis-
trative ability to run the machine of State,
and in this respect the Turner Government,
with its past financial record, stands well. It
is a lamentable fact that a Government with
the grandest programme on earth may lead a
country straight to ruin, and until Prender-
gast, and Hancock, and Caulfield with his
infuriated post-card give solid evidence of this
administrative ability even the best programme
is hardly sufficient reason for placing them in
power. Probably the best Liberal, Ballance
only excepted, who ever ruled Maoriland was
George Grey, the “ Great Pro-Consul,” a man
whom all delighted to honor ; and Grey’s Go-
vernment ran Maoriland into utter disaster
simply for want of the vulgar virtue of com-
pound addition. Grey had nearly every virtue
going except compound addition, and a party
which hasn’t got that one quality is of little use,
whatever its other good points. After weigh-
ing all things, The Bulletin gives its vote to
Turner because he has compound addition well
developed ; this alone would be a sufficient
reason even if there were not a dozen others.
If compound addition isn’t reckoned # demo-
cratic virtue, it ought to be. Australia has
suffered as much from the want of it as from
nearly all other forms of maladministration
put together.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Exceedingly Casual Brunker.
The GoD-fearing Ministry has dropped the
Sunday banana question and the betting shops
to go on a fierce crusade against the Sydney
mendicants. Stringent orders have been issued
to the police to run them in, and for the
moment they are being run in vigorously. Just
here a very old problem turns up again. Ihe
street mendicant, and the Sunday banana-man,
and the tote, and the Sunday public-house, and
the betting-house keeper who has his name in
big letters on his window and advertises his
address and illegal calling openly in the papers,
and the midnight siren at the street corner, and
many other things are all equally illegal. They
are illegal all the time, and it is the duty of the
police to run every ope of them in every time on
sight. Such a proceeding might be harsh and
brutal in some cases, but it is the business of
-the cop to enforce the law as it is—-not to argue
about its possible harshness. Sunday Brunker
has instructed the police to begin to do their
duty in the matter of the street mendicant for
the first time in about 25 years, but no explana-
tion is offered as to why they haven’t been
doing it all the time, or how they took it upon
them for so many years to suspend the law, or
why the police boss allowed this shameful
neglect of duty on the part of the force, or why
Brunker, and many previous Brunkkrs, so
shamefully neglected their duty by not calling
the police boss to account. Meanwhile, the
anti-gambling and anti-Sunday trading laws are
again suspended by the connivance of Brunker
and the police and the authorities generally,
and once more tlie Sabbath-breaking banana
rages in the land. And The Bulletin wants
to know who or what is Brunker that he
should suspend laws at his pleasure? About
one-half the statutes of N.S.W. seem to be
enforced only when some Brunker or other,
for some private reason of his own, sends orders
to the police to do their duty for while
by way of a change, and government by
Brunker alone is wearisome. One reason why
the N.S.W. Statute-book is crowded with old,
foolish and utterly pig-headed laws is this same
system of tacit suspension. If the police did
their duty, and the Brunker of the moment
made them do their duty, by enforcing all the
law all the time, then there would be a
great weeding - out-and straightening up of
these hunks of bygone legal bigotry. They
remain where they are simply because they
are so seldom enforced that the public
only suffers from them occasionally. But
they exist, and can be revived at any
moment, therefore they enable police and
detectives and others to levy blackmail in
consideration for continued turning of a blind
eye on the situation. Also, they enable the
occasional Brunker to have fits of violent and
unpleasant morality at intervals, and to cadge
for the pious vote by ordering the police to sup-
press Sunday - trading or some other old-
established and neglected illegality. They also
enable him to cadge for some other vote later
on by afterwards instructing the police to
resume their old neglect of duty and let the
Sunday banana pass till the next time it is
Brunker’s interest to drop on it. New South
Wales fondly imagines it is governed by Parlia-
ment, whereas it is mostly governed by spasmo-
dic attacks of Brunker.
The Church as a “ Sludger.”
Not many weeks ago a female prisoner went
to gaol from Melb. City Court rather than
become an inmate of a local religio-“charitable”
institution, where she would have been clothed
and fed free of charge, and—as she elicited
from questions in court —where she would have
been worked also free of charge for a period of
six months. The accused was aware that
prisoners in gaol are fed and clothed and worked
free of charge, and also that their work is
limited and light. So, on the principle that
the devil you know is better than the devil you
don’t know, she chose the penitentiary. It has
recently transpired that th,e Vic. Factories Act
does not apply to “ charitable ” institutions,
and, according to published and, so far, uncon-
tradicted accounts, she might have been blessed
with twenty hours’ furnace-stoking daily in a
“Home” for the fallen, instead of with the
comfortably luxurious pastime of plucking
rabbits in gaol. The amount of liberty in both
prison and “ home ” is practically the same, the
discipline is ditto, and the State, which carefully
guards against its criminals being overworked,
declines to stretch out a hand to prevent
the grievous overworking of the lost female
who has got into the hands of the church-run
charity. On the ground of its merciful actions
towards the fallen girl, the church-charity gets
a Govt, grant of land and exemption from taxes,
to say nothing of a money subsidy. Where this
money goes is scarcely apparent, but possibly
even the sweated labor of the inmates is in-
capable of supporting the hordes of pious
persons who are run into billets in the different
homes, and the subsidy is applied to making up
the deficiency. Meanwhile, the very existence
of the homes is held up as an evidence of the
church’s charity, and as a reason for contribu-
tions to its own funds. In other words, the
church makes a steady income out of the fallen
woman (who, in many cases, has fallen only
into alcoholism) and would feel financially
aggrieved if its “system ” were a great moral
success—which it certainly isn’t. The Homes
have their regular, unreformed customers, just
the same as the Gaols. As regards a consider-
able number of these lady customers, the terms
Home-bird and Gaol bird are interchangeable.
Compensation to Publicans.
Ed. Bulletin, — In South Australia the claim
of the publicans for compensation was strength-
ened by the wording of the local legislation.
Many years ago the whole province was one
licensing district, and the publicans had to
apply personally every 12 months for a renewal
of their licenses. To obviate the inconvenience
to the publicans, and bo avert the possible
d inner of so many bonifaces being in Adelaide
at the same time, a clause was put in one
of the L.V.s’ Aits providing that the pub-
lican should, if he had committed no offence
under the Act, be entitled to his renewal
as of right. The object was plain enough ; but
the clause was afterwards held to confer upon
the licensee a perpetual right of renewal.
When the question of compensation came up, in
one of the Local Option Bills, six or seven
years ago, a clause was inserted limiting this
right to a period of 15 years from the passing
of the Act, and providing that no fresh license
should carry any right of renewal. The basis
upon which compensation was to be calculated
was fixed in the Act. If any hotel were
closed during the first year, the licensee
would be entitled to the full compensation, if
closed during the second year to 14-lsths of the
compensation, and so on. Would not a similar
provision fill the bill in N.S. Wales? It would
not satisfy the extreme prohibitionists ; nor
would it satisfy the licensed victuallers. But
it is a common-sense way of settling the diffi-
culty, Public feeling is against shutting up
the hotels without any consideration of the
claims of the publicans. As a matter of fact,
very few of them are likely,to be shut up. It
is important, however, that the question of the
licensee’s right to renewal should be definitely
settled. And if it is provided that the right
shall not attach to new licenses, no injustice
will be done. People will still open hotels if
they are likely to make a good thing out of
them, just as they start other businesses with-
out any legislative guarantee of their perman-
ence.—To Beer or Not to Beer.
Duncan Gillies has reduced his electioneering
campaign to a dreary reiteration of personal
respect for J. B. Patterson, and the rest of
the crowd that smuggled him away to Hingland
as Agent-General. Six times a week the poor
old identity straddles upon a platform to
“ refute ” Age “ slanders ” re the Patterson-
Gillies ’ arrangement, and every speech in-
cludes a reference to the deceased J.B. as “a
worthy gentleman.” Even the Tory voters of
the Eastern Suburbs exhort their Duncan to
remember that his Agent - Generalship was
one of the principal nails in Patterson’s
coffin at last election, but the flabby
little man persists in giving himself away
with constant eulogies of that “ worthy ”
jobber. A three years’ official picnic in London
has probably exhausted all the pettifogging
astuteness that Gillies ever possessed. He
looks and speaks like a thing of the past fading
into oblivion. He might at least have asserted
a great, inglorious claim to the paternity of
Victoria’s railway deficit, whereas he now
crouches behind the mountain of borrowed
capital and pokes his head round the corner to
protest that “ he was the head of the Govern-
ment,” and for everything that was done then
his colleagues were equally responsible.
“ Melbourne’s Met. Board of Works,” writes
a Bulletin correspondent, “ seems rapidly get-
ting to be a sort of benefit society, run by
Roman Catholics for the support of themselves
and their poorer co-believers. The proportion
of Faithful to Heretics on the Board itself is 4
to 1, and the pass-sign to a contract, or an in-
dividual job at sewer-making, is the sign of
the Cross. It is this sort of thing which
accounts for the survival of Orangeism among
working men. Holy Church, in its secular
bearings, is a Labor Trouble, more objection-
able than Wesleyanisrn, because it is much
wider spread, and more persistently active.
When will the Unbigoted band together
for the overthrow of all ruling powers that
put any sort of faith in church or chapel
creed ? The world’s only hope of fair play
all round is in snuffing out the religions
of its fathers from king - worship, which
is the most ancient of all, down to Mor-
monisra. Meantime Fitz Gibbon’s Board of
Works continues to feed its pet superstition
with the hard-earned CQin of Atheistical rate-
payers, and St. Pathrick is extending his
precious dominion into the bowels of the earth,
where the germs of faith in Apostolic Succes-
sion, or something, will presently mingle with
Smellbourne’s sewage and be employed in fer-
tilising the ground, and fresh controversies will
spring up among the young cabbages. After
all, I had better withdraw the suggestion for
a grand rising against religious authority. The
disease will never be eradicated until another
Jenner has discovered a means of vaccinating
the immortal soul.”
+
The Vic. P.O. authorities seem much con-
cerned at the rejection, by the Postal Congress
at Washington, of their wishes for stringent
regulation of indecent literature, &c., passing
through the post. Abstractly, of course, much
may be said for their proposals, as no doubt
much has been said for the Index Expurga-
torius and for the motives of Mr. BowDLKßand
his kin ; but to give any commercial depart-
ment of the State anything like a decisive say
on the indecency or otherwise of “ Baudelaire ”
or the Bible is to open the door to the most
atrocious interferences with art and literature,
is, in fact, to establish a bureaucratic censor-
ship of an intolerable description. Such powers
given to an American official were unscrupu-
lously used, some years ago, to prevent the cir-
culation of Walt Whitman’s “Leaves of
Grass,” and threats have often been made there
that even the classics were not to be free from
the confiscatory pawings of a prurient sacer-
dotal officialism. Duffy is accordingly to be
congratulated on the failure of his efforts, and
the hope may be expressed that the present
Vic. regulations in this respect, which could
easily be administered tyrannically, will be
decently modified if not altogether repealed.
+
Ed. Bulletin, —The contention of “One”:
“ That from the point of view of the community
no consumptive life is worth saving ” is open
to objection if humanity is regarded from other
than an ox-like aspect. A raiser of stock would
eliminate diseased beasts; but it does not follow
that a breeder of men should go on the same
Drinciple. Brain counts more than beef, and
we have no evidence that the cerebellum can be
evolved like the shorthorn ; on the contrary,
disease seems to be a brain - stimulant. A
timely bolus might have robbed the world of
“ Hamlet,” and, without doubt, dyspepsia gave
misery and reputation to Byron. Also, civili-
sation conquers disease not so much by ellmina-
tion as by becoming poison-proof. Jenner oid
Pasteur worked on this theory : “A hair of
the dog that bit you.” It is stated to be doubt-
ful if a single European is free from the taint of
King’s Evil, the one-time scourge of the world,
now regarded with relative indifference. Pure
blood, so much belied, is the fatal endowment
of indigenous races ; give them a tract and they
catch cold, give them a suit of clothes and
phthisis follows. And the aborigines, black,
brown, and red, have a liquor-crave like the
thirst of the damned. Where does heredity
come in ? Again, there is doubt as to how far
immunity from one or more specific diseases
tends to promote the general health. Sanita-
tion pours the diseases of filth down the drain
but nervous complaints seem to promptly fill
the gap. As to “the State demanding a cer-
tificate of health before marriage,” to be effi-
cacious it should enforce a clean pedigree,
which would promptly stop all matrimony ; for
no man could claim such a certificate save per-
haps a casual hod-carrier, King Billy, or a
South Sea Islander.—H.F.
Hear Bulletin, —The Melbourne parsons and
tract-peddlers, and the monkeyfied men with
the sacred shave, are out and about, agitating
for “ gawspel ” in the State schools, and it is
understood that candidates who refuse to pro-
mise Bible in the school, and lots of it, are lost
souls in danger of the judgment. The State is
charged by the shaven saint with resisting the
Spread of Grace, despite the fact that the Vic.
sects have been so liberally endowed by the
nation that the average sectarian “college” —
where there is much more Grace than meat,
according to the boarders —is a fine structure,
standing in magnificent grounds, whereas the
average State school is poked down in the
dustiest corner of its district with a barren clay
playground in which there is just about room
enough to swing a cat by the tail if the cat is
not too tall. The Church of England Grammar
School, for instance, occupies, perhaps, the
most valuable suburban property in Mel-
bourne. The gardens, football-fields, cricket-
field, tennis-court, &c., &c., cover a space
larger than half-a-dozen ordinary blocks, but
the State school 3'oungster has to take to the
streets when he wants to play football, and is
hunted down by an alert constable, and duly
fined and abused by their Worships, who have
no sympathy with the common, unkempt
youngster of the democracy. If this Godless
nation did as well on an average by its schools
as it has done by the churches, every one of the
former would be situated in a verdant park,
and the city would have to get out to make
room for them.—S.S.
The question of teaching Scripture in State
schools is only half-discussed while the rights
of the teacher are ignored —as in that respect
they usually are. Alongside the argument as to
the injury which may be done to the child-mind,
by forcing or inducing it to listen to erroneous
or inefficient explanations, runs the argument
that it is unfair to place a teacher where his
conscience will be strained to state as an ex-
planation what his own intelligence rejects as
such. At present State schools offer employ
ment to all members of the community. Mrs.
Besant may become a female teacher, Ingersoll
a male one. Under such a system, teachers
have rights as to the subjects which they shall
be bound to teach, just as children have in re-
spect to what they are to learn. A system of
education which professes to be secular, and
yet compels the teachers to expound the foun-
dational book of dogmatic religion, is a delusion
and a fraud. It is unjust to both pupils and
teachers, and more so to the conscientious
teacher than to the unthinking child. If the
Bible is to be taught by teachers, then no
teacher should be employed unless he professes
to believe in the Bible.
A sickening horror is alleged by wire from
Marble Bar (W.A.). It relates to sundry
“indentured natives” —otherwise aboriginal
s | ave j—wko absconded from their humane
white boss. The party—three men, a woman,
and two girls aged eight and twelve —were re-
captured, and flogged off-hand by their cap-
tures without any legal process. Two men
and the woman, it is alleged, were flogged to
death, and the other man and the two children
still survive, though all three are in a terrible
condition. There was an inquest, and at it one
white gentleman Sandgroper acknowledged
having tied up and flogged the deceased
woman with a rope, although she was sick
at the time, and also that he flogged with
a rope the two girls—including the poor little
mite aged eight years. Though the tele-
gram mentions the inquest and the evidence
given bv this human horror, it doesn’t state
that anybody has been arrested or even that
there is any definite idea of arresting anybody.
Yet, if the admissions made by that white gen-
tleman are correctly reported, even the bar-
barous legal system of Westralia should
contrive to hang somebody in a case, like this.
The person who acknowledges that he flogged
with a rope a sick woman and two girls aged
twelve and eight would, one might imagine, get
himself disliked a good deal even in the slave-
land of Westralia.
-»
The burden of Ben Tillett’s appeal to Aus-
tralian Labor-in-politics has all along been that
the Parliamentary Labor-party should be an
IsHMAKL —an utterly irreconcileable Ishmael—
that it should not associate itself with any
other party, or merge itself in any other party,
or let any party be merged in it, but should be
a lone, ’lorn institution by itself for all time.
Yet Ben Tillett comes from a country where
there has never been any Labor-party, large
enough to call a party, in Parliament, so his
mostly theory. And in five out of the
seven Australia* there are Parliamentary
Labor-parties whose practice is dead against
the Tillett theory. In Maoriland and
Victoria the Labor-party has partly merged
itself in the Government following, and
paftly absorbed it, with the result that these
two provinces have now the most progressive
Governments they ever possessed. In N.S.W.
the party secured a good deal of democratic
legislation, by allying itself first with Parkks,
then with Dibbs, and finally with Reid
whereas if it had posed as an absolutely irre-
concileable party it would probably only hava
driven Parkks and Dibbs into a coalition
against it at the very outset. The one Labor-
party which follows Tillett’s advice to the
letter is that of Queensland, and so far it has
got nothing—except that it has frequently gob
suspended by Speaker Cowley, and the pro-
vince is mercilessly bossed by the worst Go vern-
ment, bar one, in the Seven Provinces. Judg-
ing by results up to date, Ben Tillett’s advice
is very bad.
Ed. Bulletin, —Woman’s wrongs in N.S.
Wales are real, and not imaginary. Prior to
her marf-iage, my wife had a banking-account
in her own name. After her marriage, she
gave notice to the bank of her change of name.
She was required to draw a cheque for the
balance slanding in her former name, and to
pay it into a fresh account in her new name.
I, as her husband, was supplied with a printed
form to sign, by which I solemnly informed the
bank that she was opening the account
with my consent, and that she would only
have the privilege of drawing cheques until
I withdrew the consent which I had graciously
given. I have had to do some peculiar things
in my time; but this strikes me as being about
the coolest piece of effrontery I have heard of.
The money is my wife’s, left to her in trust;
and yet if she puts it in the bank she cannot
use it without my permission. The worst of it
is, if I withdrew my consent I don’t suppose I
could use the money. I presume the bank
would keep it. Botany Bay legislation is
peculiar. It insults the wife, and does not
benefit the husband. —I).
Re “the Hainault jump,” Mr. Leslie A.
Norman writes :
Editor Bulletin, —Of malice prepense, or for other
reasons, “ Alter and “ Lietor ” have glaringly misrepre-
sented the facts of the jumping of the Hainault lease,
Kalgoorlie, and the subsequent action of the Government
in passing’ a Bill through the House reinstating the
Hainault Co. as the legal owners. The facts are very
simple : On March 31, 1896, I, as attorney of the Hainault
Co., paid the rental due on the lease, the money being
received in Coolgardie by Mr. Compton, now relieving
Warden on the eastern gcldfields. Just about that time
the fields had been subdivided, consequently the numbers
were altered. I paid the rent on No. 224, whereas under
the subdivision the amended number of the lease had
become 81E. At the moment, however, the numbers had
not been changed in the official plans of the Survey depart- .
rnent. The Warden’s office at Kalgoorlie was duly noti-
fied by Mr. Compton of the payment, of which
nothing further was heard until toward the end of 1896,
when a notice appeared in the Gazette declaring the
lease forfeited owing to non-payment of rent. The affair
created a considerable stir at the time. Enquiry by the
Minister for Mines elicited the foregoing facts, whereupon
the Cabinet decided to annul the forfeiture. There the
question rested for some time. Later on, however, an
astute lawyer discovered that when a lease was gazetted
as forfeited it became Crown Lands and, as such, could be
applied for by anyone in due course. Therefore a party of
men put in their pegs arid applied for the'lease as Crown
Lands. From whichever point it may be regarded, the
jumpers had no equitable rights in the matter. Further,
they were cognisant of the facts set out herein as well as
almost every other man in the province ; while further,
though the co. had paid the rental it had lost its title
owing to official neglect or carelessness at Kalgoorlie.
Where was the necessity for the select committee to call
evidence beyond that afforded by the court records ? The
official receipt was forthcoming, also the copy of the
official letter sent to Kalgoorlie announcing the payment;
also there was the entry of the payment in the official
records at Coolgardie. The chain of evidence was com-
plete. Not a single link was missing. Any fair-minded
man must come to the conclusion that the co. was en-
titled to a clear title, and that the Govt., in the interests
of the province, had no alternative except to give them
that title. The party who pegged the lease received very
handsome remuneration for their spirited and progressive
action, while it gave one or two individuals an oppor-
tunity to talk rot and nonsense at the rate of about a
million words and one-twentieth of a grain of common-
sense per minute. Kurnalpi, Sept. 27,1897.
♦
In 1896, Queensland had the largest birth-
rate among the Seven Provinces of Australasia ;
S.A. came second; Tasmania third; N.S.W.
fourth. Westralia had the heaviest death-rate,
with Victoria second, and N.S.W. third.
Westralia had the largest marriage-rate, with
Maoriland second and N.S. W. third. -N.S. W.
came first in the matter of illegitimate births,
with Tasmania second, and Victoria third. In
proportion to population Westralia does the
largest shipping business ; S.A. comes second;
Tasmania third; N.S.W. fourth. Westralia
has the biggest import trade in proportion to
population, with 'S.A. second, and N.S.W.
third ; while in the matter of export trade,
S.A, comes first, with Queensland second, and
N.S.W. third. Taking exports and imports
together, Westralia does the largest trade per
inhabitant; S.A. comes next, and N.S.W. is
third, as usual. In the matter of exports of
local produce per head Queensland takes first
place; Westralia comes second and N.S.W.
third, with M.L. so close up that it is practi-
cally a dead-heat. In the area under agricul-
ture Victoria comes first; S.A. second, and
N.S.W. third. Westralia has the most profit-
able railway system, with N.S.W. second, and
S.A. third. In proportion to population Wes-
tralia has the largest revenue ; Queens-
land comes second ; S.A. third and N.S.W.
fourth. N.S.W. comes to the front again
as the biggest mineral producer, and Queens-
land leads in the matter of debt. Total:
N.S.W. leads in minerals and illegitimacy;
Victoria is ahead in agriculture. Queensland
has the biggest birth-rate and owes most money
per head, and is the largest exporter of locally-
grown produce ; South Australia has the largest
export trade per head ; while, in proportion to
population, W.A. has the most deaths, marri-
ages, shipping, imports, total trade, and reve-
nue, and has the best-paying railway system.
Tasmania and Maoriland don’t come in first
anywhere.
Public) opinion may soon need to be invoked if
M’sP. continue to fall such easy prey to the
tick of militarism. A House consisting of 20
or .30 per cent, of volunteers of one rank and
another would necessarily be a dangerous ele-
ment in Parliamentary deliberations at a time
of war-fever. A House 50 per cent, volunteers
would be a mere barrack-room and canteen
united. Modern nation-making shows that the
civil power must effectually dominate. Military
zeal and ambition need a tight rein in the
general course of things, and at great crises
almost a repressive hand. If the Australian
public go on giving their M’sP. epaulettes,
striped trousers and knives, they will one day
find that they have a garrison of bravoes in
stead of a Senate of statesmen.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £45,161,239
Increase in Assets during 1896 ... ... ... ... 3,284,283
SURPLUS ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,995,246
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ... ... 552,744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 190,646,265
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896 ... ... 540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
Any other Life Office in the World. •
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); non. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S W TV A ROY TRVTNE. Manager for N.S.W
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
AUSTRALASIAN DEI* ART till!NT !
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) • • £48,202,081.
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company :
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors ;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life;
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years,
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager, at the
Company's Balding, Martin's Place, Sydney, or at any
of the Branch Offices—
-28!) Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
lu Qukbn Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 Kino William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Bt. Üborok’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
AS M »oqit*hj» Street Hobart. Tasmania
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only £l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
The rumor that Gov. Hampden has taken
umbrage at certain comments in a weekly paperand
is being urged by advisers to invoke the aid of the
libel laws, recalls the fact that Governors in the
early days thought it quite the thing to go into
court in vindication of aspersed reputations.
Governor Arthur had a printer fined <£soo
and sent to gaol for publishing matter
found to be libellous; and Governor Darling
instituted a series of prosecutions, with varying
results, against his pen-and-ink critics. He
obtained a verdict for £lOO, with six months’im-
prisonment added, against one editor, a verdict of
12 months’ imprisonment against another, and a
fine of <£lo against another. The action against Dr.
Wardell, the most serious of the lot, fell through,
because of the jury disagreeing.
h Fortune
for
Your own face is always an
interesting study to your-
self and to your friends. .
Very often a face is a for-
tune, so if you possess the
exact counterpart of your
face you will possess a for-
tune, and in this sense we
offer you .........
A Fortune for 7/6
7/6
THE IDEAL PORTRAIT CO.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground FLOOR. NO •TAIRi.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge-(
ment in Permanent Bromide or f
Opal. Any style urpote. No extra*,)
7/6
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Gay I’arisienne."
Royal “Confusion.”
Lyceum “ At Duty’s Call.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Palace “A Bunch of Keys.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “A Royal Divorce."
Royal “ Jaquelina.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Bijou Dramatic Medley (Sat.)
Alexandra...*... “ Kerry Gow.”
“In the Ranks,” which George Rignold
staged at Sydney Royal with his usual lavishness
and color, didn’t quite meet with the support it
deserved. The drama is full of good points,
both as a play and as a spectacle. The little
brook of real water which gurgles and guggles and
goes gluggety-glug down at the back of the glade
where G. Rignold s uncle by adoption is plugged
by the seedy person who claims to be G.R.’s
father, has a refreshing sound and tempts the
audience to put its head in it. Rignold’s wedding
is also a pretty spectacle, which appeals to the
soul, and so does the scene where he comes out of
gaol (after doing three months) along with the
other discharged prisoners, and one of them
promptly stoushes his wife in his joy at their re-
union, and takes all her small change. There is a
well-constructed plot which one can follow; the
Slorious free-fight when Private Rignold gets at
is enemy and dabs his head in the dust, while the
other soldiers swarm on top of the hero like ants
on a hill and try vainly to drag him off, is full of
thrill; and the bogus parent is a deep, dark drunk
almost as good in his way as Eceles, the beery
ancestor in “ Caste.” Thirty-six people, besides
a quantity of miscellaneous chorus, held up this
deserving effort, Rignold, Diver, Hazlett, Frank
Hawthorne, Harcourt, and Misses Wheeler and
Ada Guildford being the most notable of the three
dozen.
* * • •
Nevertheless, “ In the Ranks ” will prob-
ably have disappeared by the time these remarks
are in print, and if the management sticks to the
intentions announced at time of writing a very
brief season of “ Confusion ” will also be nearly
over. “ Confusion ” is a clever comedy with a
strange complication about a dog which persists
in turning into a baby, and a baby which is some-
times an infant and sometimes a dog, and an ex-
tensive derangement of epitaphs generally.
** * *
The MacMahons now throw in their cine-
matographe pictures along with the great military
howl at the Lyceum, without any extra charge,
and, for the prices, it is the biggest show yet
offered in Sydney. Further study of “-At Duty’s
Call ” fails to shed any light on the plot, or to
fully explain why Boothman purloins the incrimi-
nating papers in Egypt, but it is vaguely under-
stood that duty calls Alfred Woods into the tank,
and he gets there. Jhe moral of the drama is
that, when the British soldier is called into the
tank in the face of tremendous odds, all the hordes
of the foreign invader won’t keep him out of it.
There is a strongly patriotic atmosphere about the
play ; even when the colonel comes out and looks
over the wall to see if the enemy is in sight—which
he isn’t, because he is still too far away —he
makes a thrilling statement to the effect that a
British officer never hesitates to expose himself
when his country requires it. The same fat streak
of patriotism runs right through the dialogue;
the most ordinary kind of private gets off some
remark about the Queen before firing his gun pro-
miscuously all over the place. But the miserable
Egyptian, manfully blowing off his little gun for
his native country, isn’t allowed any patriotic
remark at all. He isn’t even permitted to state
that he is ready to die, like a lost brown man and
a dreadfully bad shot, for the sake of his native
pyramid and the honor of the late Cheops. He
raises a dust in silence, and then pegs out with no
flag, no tank, no glory, no nothing, and the lime-
light isn’t thrown on him when he is dead—not
much. To-morrow (Friday) is a military night at
the Lyceum, when Major-Gen. French and staff
and the forces generally will be there. As many
of them have never seen real war, probably the
cheerful dramatic way of hitting the enemy over
the head with the tank may not excite so much
amazement as it deserves.
*# * *
Miss Lottie Moore in her short frock pur-
sues her precarious somersault nightly at the
Palace without any dreadful results. The spec-
tacle of Lottie’s two interesting limbs going sud-
denly over her very pleasing head is the thing
which sticks longest in the memory after seeing
the Palace show. The woman who hesitates when
she is turning a somersault in a very brief frock is
lost, especially if she hesitates when she is just
half-way over, but Lottie does her little turn with
a rush, and comes up again a trifle flushed but
triumphant. The rest of the “ Bunch of Keys ”
is phantasmagoria, and the impression it leaves
is one of a hash-house gone mad with the
pie set to fast music. Barring the fact that
the gentleman who falls downstairs with the trunk
appears to have brightened up somewhat, and to
fall in a better frame of mind, the company
remains as described last week. It is a very
strong company on the whole, with a very small
stage to operate on, and the fact that it manages
to bustle through without getting its feet entan-
gled in the side scenes is much to its credit. Any-
one who wants to swing an adult cat on the Palace
stage would be well-advised to wave the animal
perpendicularly. There is no room for him side-
ways, unless he is a very brief cat for his age.
** * *
A one week revival of the “ Gay Parisi-
enne ” commences at Her Majesty’s on Saturday.
The “ Parisienne ” is distinctly ahead of the
“French Maid,” inasmuch as it is about some-
thing while the other is mostly about nothing;
tnoreover, Ernest Shand’s serpentine Frenchman
is worth all the rest of the present show put
together. This conclusion has been arrived at
after several weeks’ consideration, and 1 he Bul-
letin will not be shifted from it even by dynamite.
“ Two Little Vagabonds ” is due on the 23rd.
K j|(
Sydney Opera House and the k ßoyal
Standard appeal to the public on Saturdays, Mon-
days and Tuesdays as heretofore; on the other
three nights of the week the companies pursue the
depreciated silver coin round the suburbs. At
the former “ Saved from the Deep ” rages with a
mighty canvas billow, and the Standard is taking
a turn at “ Margaret Catchpole,” a lady who got
into trouble long ago about a horse or something.
** * *
Friends at a distance will please accept
this intimation that the Tivoli is still above ground
and doing business at the old stand.
** * *
Looking at the Corbett-Fitzsimmons cine-
matographe, one starts thinking what a pity it is
that the machine was not invented earlier. Think
of having a cinematographe view of the Creation,
or a view, per medium of the same machine, of
Chaos which was before the Creation, or a series
representing the Fifth Day, with the plesiosaurus
stepping briskly across the film ! One thing is
tolerably certain : When the cinematographe be-
comes so cheap and handy that every important
event will be reproduced by it, no more mystic
religions will be started. No new religion would
get a decent show if the beginnings of it were
cinematographed. They all begin among cobwebs
and legends and dreams, away in remote places,
and a cine, picture would bring them down to
sudden, hard fact. The beginning of Moham-
medanism would probably only show a hairy,
brown camel-driver —the same kind that can
be seen any day in W.A. or out beyond Bourke
—haranguing the Arab unemployed in his spare
time and telling them to “awake” and “arise.”
The beginning of Confucianism —an ordinary
Chow sitting down thinking. The beginning of
Genesis, some aboriginals sitting by a fire beside
the Euphrates. Going 1000 years further back in
search of the real beginning—more aboriginals
sitting round another fire. Ten thousand years
further back —still no Creation ; only more abori-
ginals and another fire. And so the machine—if
there had been one—would probably go back,
following the smell of roast bear away up the
procession of the centuries, and strike streaks and
patches of civilisation, with the aboriginal and
his fire in between times. But the original seed
King Billy it probably never would strike—the
last thing it would see when it fainted from ex-
haustion through toiling over the ashes of the
dead ages would be the fires of more aboriginals
on the far horizon, and the odor of roast bear still
wafted down through the aeons.
** * *
“ A Royal Divorce,” with its four interpo-
lated tableaux, and much purple and fine linen,
promises to boom somewhat at Melbourne
Princess’s. Money was turned away on Saturday
night. The same serious-minded crowd that
followed “ The Sign of the Cross” is inclined to
come along and weep for Josephine, whose love for
her Napoleon’s France seems very like Mercia’s
florid devotion to the Kingdom of Heaven in the
early Christian melodrama. “ A Royal Divorce ”
doesn’t improve on acquaintance, but the show is
good value for cash ; also, any story of Napoleon
appeals to a large population, and the manage-
ment merely asks that everybody will take
one look at the lonesome captive on the rock,
out on the Rock when the sun sank low.
The figure is a lingering recollection, be-
cause true to fact, whereas the rest of the
entertainment is fictitious and easily forgotten.
Even the effective retreat from Moscow has false-
hood fore and aft. Napoleon didn’t walk home-
ward through the snow at the head of his frost-
bitten legion, neither was Moscow blazing in the
middle of the Russian winter. Fortunately, the
“ Cross ” drama has created a demand for histori-
cal anachronisms and impressive statements of
things that never were. “ A Royal Divorce ” fills
a short-felt want. It is difficult to believe that
the play flourishes in England on its bare merits,
without the assistance of Gordon’s tableaux. Per-
haps the Buonaparteian allusions to British bull-
dog courage help to do the trick in that distant
island, and, possibly, the “comic relief ” is a factor
in the undoubted success. W. G. Wills was
an un-humorous romancer, and one or two
comic passages dumped into this gaudy
tragedy are sad beyond expression. Hence the
innocent merriment of a good many people sug-
gests that the recent “Cross” production has
opened up a new gold-mine of patronage for the
Firm. If they laugh when a General's wife dis-
guises herself as an officer, and swaggers around
after the manner of the she-male duellists in
“ Dorothy,” what a treat they will have when the
forthcoming pantomime arrives ! Miss Ferrar and
Julius Knight are less satisfactory performers
than they were on the opening night. The lady’s
Josephine grows more stagey, whilst the Emperor
is relapsing into Julius Knight, as Marcus Super-
bus. Probably a deputation of love-sick maidens
waited upon Julius, and implored him not to spoil
himself with Napoleonic mannerisms. Anyhow,
his unloveable straddle has been toned down, and
his moody grunt is melting into the declamatory
accents of Roman heroism.
** * *
The life-size photo, of Jim Corbett will
continue to fall before his bald-headed adversary,
at Melbourne Royal, until Friday night. The
fight is well supported by men in general, and it
certainly might have been produced at a nunnery
without bringing a blush to the cheek of the Lady
Superior. The figures wear the clean white body
of a blameless life, and they don’t visibly hurt one
another. Moreover, the bad language uttered by
their visionary admirers is inaudible, and the
place where Corbett gets his knock-out is quoted
in Latin by a genteel stage-manager.
Maggie Moore and her co. will re-appear
at the Royal on Saturday with “Jaquelina.”
Melbourne is invariably glad to see Maggie Moore,
and now that she is returning after a rather long
absence to produce a new drama every week, the
old favorite can depend upon getting the old wel-
come a few degrees warmer than usual.
*# * *
The Bijou, empty since the departure of
Frank Thornton last Monday, will re-open on
Saturday for one consecutive performance of a
Dramatic Medley by the sistirs Barbara and
Olive Sisley. Gladstone Wright is to sing a
couple of songs, and the rest of the programme
will be carried through by the bright girls afore-
said. Singly and collectively they appear in
sundry sketches, and in their last item they under-
take to play five characters from “ Pickwick ”
between them.
** * *
Athas and Collins have joined the Rickards’
Co. at Melb. Opera House, and the multitude finds
them a first-class 3(sth instalment of variety-artists.
At the Alexandra another melodrama of the
deepest dye scored a tearful and wonderful triumph
on Saturday, when the child who was drowned in
the prologue came back to defeat the ends of a
corpse that didn’t die as was expected. The next
Btaggerer on the Alexandra list is “ Kerry Gow,”
an Irish drama with blood and whisky in it. •
At Poverty Point.
Ed. Bulletin, — Re recent par. Barton M'Guckin is
about as Scotch as Daniel O'Connell, or the majority “ av
the foorce.” His father was a pensioner of the Royal
Irish Constabulary, and. in the late fid’s and early 70 s,
Barton was an assistant vicar-choral in St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, Dublin. The three great musical cognoscenti
of that time—Dr. Frank Robinson, Joseph Robinson, and
Dr. R. P. Stewart (afterwards knighted) considered B.
M‘G. the only pure tenor in the kingdom, bar Sims
Reeves, who had even then wilted considerably. M’G.
resigned the choristership to join either Carl Rosa’s or
Mapleson’s opera co.—Harry Monck.
A syndicate has been formed in Melb. to educate and
exploit a Sale (Vic.) blacksmith, with a marvellous voice,
but no knowledge of music.
Melba told Arthur Deane in London that she intended
soon to tour through Australia and give the proceeds of
her concerts entirely to charity'. “I want them to see
that I haven’t forgotten dear old Australia,” said the
songstress. An unprecedentedly liberal promise, even
though Melba has made her pile, and belongs, besides, to
a very opulent family; her father, contractor David
Mitchell, has many irons in the fire—rare hot ones, too.
Pity Barton M‘Guckin would not leave Handelian airs
and such stuff as Schubert’s “ Address to the Almighty"
out of his repertoire. He is one of the most perfect
ballad artists in the world, his rendition of “ Angels
Guard Thee ” and “ Once Again ” being worth all the rest
of the show. Moreover, that’s what the public wants.
The ever-gentle musician ! When Henri Ketten was in
Australia wrecking pianos, he was invited to hear, during
one of his lucid moments, a celebrated local pianiste.
After the lady had scrambled over her little piece, the
genial Henri said—“ Vould you blease und blay me von
skell, MeesSmit?” “ Play a scale ?” she said in surprise,
“what scale?” “ Vot skell ! any skell. Vait, I show
you.” He sat at the piano and a mighty roar of scales
filled the air. He tore up and down the keyboard like
mad ; scales in thirds, sixths and octaves —diatonic and
chromatic —followed each other like streaks of greased
lightning. At the end he said, “ Dat is de skell; alvays
learn to blay de skell bevore you blay de toon.” At a
recent social grovel in his honor, Mark Hambourg said
brusquely that he would certainly not visit Australia
again ; but, melted by the agonised prayers of his female
admirers, the “slogger” eventually said he might con-
descend to come and take some more money out of a
country where he has been worshipped like an idol and
paid like a Prime Minister.
Paradis : “The misfortune of ‘A Royal Divorce’ is that
Miss Ferrar is a picture of Marie Louise, while Miss Page
as thoroughly embodies Josephine. Of course the leading
lady must take the leading part, even if, speaking allegori-
cally, a thirteen foot has to be thrust into a seven boot.
The idea of juxtaposing the pair is taken from Schiller’s
daring in fetching Marie Stuart face to face with Queen
Elizabeth, at Fotheringay, and so knocking sparks.”
Mofussil: “ Brough has carefully paved the way for his
Indian trip, and the welcome is ready for him in Bombay,
Calcutta, Simla, Poona, etc. Titheradge, who has been
over the ground, gave him some ideas.. A co. not of tip-
Jop calibre may just as easily be stuck in Hindustan as in
Maoriland. Every city has its brilliant amateurs, soldiers
and civilians, and they are very jealous of new-comers,
who have to incorporate them.”
When the Australian songstress goes 'Orae and makes a
hit the Australian dailies call her “ Madam.” Ada
Crossley, once “Miss,” has gained the hall-mark of
success. Sydney E. News announces that “ Madame Ada
Crossley appeared with great success ... at the Bir-
mingham Festival.”
“ Keira ”to The Bulletin “ What a dramatic, fear-
fully-sudden death was that of poor Andy Blanchard at
Dapto last Wednesday evening ! He came out, looking
the picture of health, to sing ‘ Their heads nestled closer
together.’ The last (third) verse was descriptive of a
young couple stricken with grief, standing at the open
grave of their first child, and falling on each other’s
shoulders in their first great sorrow, just as he had sung
the last word (‘together’) his knees seemed to fail him,
he threw out his hands helplessly like one blind, took a
halting step forward, and fell from the stage to the floor
of the hall—dead—almost into my arms, as I rushed
with several others to catch him. We carried him into
the ante-room, and Doctor Wade, after one glance,
shook his head. He was dead when we picked him up-
hemorrhage of the brain. Twenty years ago I heard Andy
on his d6but at St. Francis Hall, Haymarket, Sydney, at
the penny concerts held under the segis of Dean Sheridan.
He had a splendid tenor voice. Maggie Oliver, Harry
Leston, Barnett, and Miss Kate Slattery frequently ap-
peared with him there. He complained to me about an
hour before the concert last Wednesday of a bad head-
ache. Possibly the effort to sing caused the traffic finale.
I shall not soon forget the crowded hall, the rapt audience
listening to a really fine singer, and, five minutes after,
his corpse lying- in a back rooin on a table.
Jakoff llambourg’B favorite encore piece is Bach’s well-
known air on the G. string. Jakoff has played this air
about six times in Melbourne, and he declares that after
each performance the best-known local musical critic has
come up to him and said, “That’s a pretty tune—what's
the name of it?”
The last night of the Bracy season at Perth was a wild
shivoo of hooray and gorbless, and bunkum and butter ;
and at the railway-station the send-off was garnished
with much collar and cuff and crook-stick and turned-up
trouser, and local Johnny publicly dissolved himself in
tears over the departure of his darlings.
S.M. Herald, Oct. 11 :— “ Art Society’s Concert. Mr.
Sydney Hoben organised a pleasant concert at the Art
Society's exhibition on Saturday afternoon, with the
result that, although the show is now in its last week,
there was an excellent attendance. Miss Edward Deane
sang Mr. Hoben’s melodious 1 Ave Maria’ with good effect,
Mr. Stevenson playing the violin obligato, so as to sup-
port the voice advantageously. Mrs. Edwards sang
‘Passion’s Sway ’ (Hoben;, rendering the simple melody
with much taste, and Miss Gwen Dallas pleased the audi-
ence with ‘ See the Stars.’ Miss Cookson, a pupil of Mr.
Hohen’B, played Rubinstein’s difficult ‘Staccato Study’
with firmness and brilliancy. Mr. Stevenson, who was
accompanied by Miss Maud Fitz-Stubbs, won acceptance
with Svendsen’s violin romance ; and other solos were in-
cluded in an agreeable programme.” The art of self-
advertising is evidently still alive.
An actor shouted across the footlights to the conductor
last week: “Why don’t you play better?” The con-
ductor shouted back :“Go to ! ” When the actor
came on for his encore there was no music, the indignant
conductor calling out that he might see what sort of suc-
cess he could make “on his own.” The next number was
a solo by a lady, but no one paid any attention to it, as
the audience was listening to the bad language which the
actor w >s firing off behind the scenes ; an audience would
rather hear swearing than singing any time it would
stop listening to Patti to watch a fight between two lani-
kins in the gallery. Iri the interval, when the parties
met, the stout musician’s life was narrowly saved by the
stage-manager and seven strong omnes getting the actor
down and sitting on him.
At Robert Brough’s recent send-off in Sydney he said
that he looked to Australia for his future, and promised,
on behalf of spouse and self, to give us “ Here we are
again !” in two years or under. The welcome will be in
good working-order.
Alfred Dampier and co. are doing a provincial tour in
Victoria under the MacMahon management, prior to their
departure for England. Bendigo is Dampier’s stronghold
in Australia, ana “ Robbery Under Arms ” is the piece
which Bendigo particularly loves. It reminds the old
survivors a little of the good days before the shafts were
down 3000 ft., and when the roaring digger used to line
up in the Shamrock and make the place swim in liquor.
The roaring digger doesn’t roar any longer, but he likes
to recall the times when he could roar if he liked.
The first concert of the Professional Orchestral Benefit
Association will be held in Sydney Town Hall next month.
Alfred Hill is hard at work with the band. A subscrip-
tion-list will be opened for a series of six concerts.
Colborne Baber has been engaged for the coming season
of the London ballad concerts (Boosey’s). Her husband
(Harrison White), ex-honorary accompanist to Sydney
Liedertafel, has been appointed organist at a London sub-
urban church.
_ Mr. Lee Williams, who has come to Australia in connec-
tion with the Royal Academy of Music, finds fault with
the peal of Sydney G.P.O. clock. He says that one of the
notes might be somewhat better in tune, and suggests
that if an extra second were allowed between each stroke
of the hour-note the effect would be positively astonish-
ing to musical ears. But isn’t the main thing to have all
loud noises over as soon as possible?
The pro. now doing “ heavy old man” parts with the
Clitherow Co. at Sydney Opera House is the double of
Chief Justice Darley. The resemblance was specially
marked in Hobbs, the Grocery Man in “ Fauntleroy.”
Miss Beatrice Newman, of Bathurst, has been credited
with the distinction of “ Local Exhibitioner,” Trin. Col.,
London. Of all the violin candidates competing in Eng-
land and elsewhere, Miss Newman was the one selected
for the honor. She is the second Australian to receive
the award ; Miss Brady, of Wellington, M.L., was the first.
Daddy Hallewdl and a quartette party visit Grafton
next month on a concert-tour. The local Caledonian
Society are delighted at the popular basso’s decision to
meet them, and are arranging for some concerts on the
river. “Dad” has been recently “doing” Brisbane,
where he was received with acclamation.
The charming Melbourne soprano, Lalla Miranda, is to
appear soon in opera at the Hague Court Theatre—this
as a result of her successful singing in Paris, where she
made her debut. She has already studied over two dozen
operas.


R. BELL & CO.’S
- - British Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtainable Everywhere.
A us. I
Reps, j
PHTTiTPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Aobkt,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
Refreshment Rooms
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey,
A us. |
Heps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
• * * *
Ed. Bulletin, — As the rich placer gold dis-
coveries in the N.W. Territory of Canada are causing
great excitement on the Pacific coast, a wave of which
has probably extended to Australia, it will be as w< )l for
those miners vrho get “ Klondike fever” to come supplied
with sufficient funds to enable them to return in event of
failure. The labor conditions in British Columbia are as
follows :—Wages, $1.50 to $3.00 per day, $3.00 being the
exception. Hours of work, 10, including Saturday. This
applies to all mines, underground and surface. Board,
$5.00 per week (owing to long hours, most men
are compelled to board). Dollar equals (say) 4s.
2d. Working the full seven days of the week is
common, and no extra pay is allowed for Sunday.
In such fall-back-upons as firewood contracts, etc., you
have Chinese competition. The salmon-netting and can-
ning industries give remunerative employment while it
lasts, but here again you have warm competition by
Chinese, Japs, and Indians.—E.B.F., British Columbia,
29th Aug., 1897.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic Mother Sod as,
Bcrax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
SroT and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Mblbournb; 14 Currie-st., Adblaidb.
To My West Australian Friends.
I shall exhibit, my “KING O’ THE
ROAD,” “OVERLANDER,” and
other SULKIES at your SHOW, held
at Guildford, Oct. 26 and 27. Bv at-
tending the Sydney Show I have often
profited by little friendly hints given by
those who drive a sulky, and I hope to
learn a little from those that drive them
in the West, where my build is equally
known and appreciated, also the new
“ Easy ” Buckboard and a Track Sulky
weighing 501 b., fitted with Dunlop
Tyres and Westwood Rims. We build
anything on wheels.
SIDNEY SIMPSON,
Nbwtowk, Sydney.
City Hotel, Perth, Oot. 25 to Nov. 1.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Premier Turner includes in his programme a
scheme for the conversion of the Victorian public debt.
No particulars have yet been furnished, but The Bulle-
tin trusts Turner’s plan is very unlike most of the other
debt-conversion ideas which have been propounded in
these provinces. There is no reason why the debt
shouldn’t be converted, but there are ten reasons, each
larger than a full-grown elephant, why it shouldn’t be
done the way all such operations have been done by other
provinces. Victoria owes about £46,000,000 at rates vary-
ing from 3to 4)4 per cent., and falling due from 1899 to
1926. The totafannual interest is about £1,840,000. Five
millions at 41 per cent, fall due in 1904, and if they can
then be renewed at 3 per cent. £75,000 a year interest will
be saved. Eleven millions at 4 per cent, fall due between
now and 1908, and if they can be renewed at 3 per cent,
there will be a further saving of £llO,OOO per annum. The
other 4 and 3J per cent, stock is more remote. By the
time these stocks fall due the British money-market may
have burst so badly, or Australian credit may have gone
down so badly, that they can’t be renewed below 5 or 6
per cent. Therefore, if they could be converted now
into a 3 per cent, stock which the Government would have
the option of repaying any time after, say, 20 years, but
which would otherwise be interminable, there would be
sundry advantages about the arrangement. It would
save the cost of future renewals, and the risk of loans
falling due and having to be renewed at a time when
money was only obtainable at exorbitant interest, and it
would probably—if the transaction was judiciously
worked—save £lOO,OOO to £200,000 a year in interest.
Against this there would be an increase of several
millions in the principal of the debt.
Other provinces which have gone in for conver-
sion schemes have always worked on the one nefarious
plan ; the saving in interest went to relieve the revenue,
while the increase in the debt which was the price of that
saving was left to be a permanent burden on the country.
Maoriland, for instance, saved about £160,000 a year in-
terest by a conversion process which added over
£2,000,000, and may yet add a good deal more, to its
debt. It could have saved the interest when the loans
fell due without increasing the debt at all, so the increase
was simply incurred to secure some immediate relief to
the finances, and the result was exactly the same as if
the amount had been borrowed and put into revenue at
the rate of £150,000 per annum. If Turner proposes to
do his conversion on absolutely straight and honest prin-
ciples he will pass an Act providing that the £1,840,000
or thereabouts of interest now payable shall be set aside
every year for the service of the present debt, and if by
adding to the debt he saves, say, £150,000 a year interest,
the amount of that saving should go to pay off the extra
debt incurred in the conversion process and afterwards to
wipe off the original liability. Otherwise there is very
little difference between conversion and the plain taking
of loan funds for revenue purposes. Also, if he wishes
his conversion to be a success, the new consolidated stock
should be redeemable after a fixed date at the option of
the Government, and not otherwise. The Maoriland pro-
cess leaves nearly £20,000,000 falling due at one date, in
1929, and if there is a bad financial crisis on when this
huge renewal has to be negotiated, the latter end of
Maoriland may be a great deal worse than the first.
* • * *
Tlie collapse of the Graziers’ Meat Export and
Butchering Co. (Brisbane) apparently means more trouble
for the luckless Queensland National Bank as well as for
a good many people. The co., which is a huge concern
with 18 butchers’ shops, a meat-preserving factory and a
very large export business, a fellmongery, wool-scouring
establishment, soap work, cycle agency and various other
things, kept its books t>y rule of thumb. According to
the liquidator, it had a system of single entry, the
ledgers were never balanced, the cash-book had not
been added up for months, there was no reliable
balance-sheet, and the co. plugged away cheerfully
in the „ dark never having any idea “ where it
are.” It had with the Q.N. Bank a dead overdraft
of £28,087 which hadn’t been shifted since the 1893 re-
construction ; a nice, new, fresh overdraft of £72,653, and
advances of £139,313 against shipments valued on paper
at £173,015. If the shipments just cover the advances,
which is about the way such things have a habit of turn-
ing out, and the estate yields the expected 10s. in the £
on unsecured liabilities, the Q.N.B. seems to get out with
£50,000 loss. But the wildly chaotic state of the big beef
and cow’s liver concern shows that a very different kind of
Companies Act is much wanted in Queensland.
» * * * *
The Graziers’ Butchering Co. smash, in Bris-
bane, has turned some rather amusing side-shows to the
public view. A most remarkable proposal was made at
the meeting of creditors to give trustee in the estate
5 p.c. on all assets realised provided he gave 2 p c. off this
to the committee of inspection. (According to Thynne,
the Act does not allow creditors to remunerate committee
at all.) The fun of it was, a g ntleman present seconded
the nomination for trustee of an individual who (the
seconder naively admitted) had written him (the seconder)
a letter in which he agreed to give the committee, his
masters, the abovementioned 2 p.c. provided he secured
the trusteeship. And, of course, the meeting was filled
with possible committee-men.
*‘ * *
The report of the Queensland Auditor-General
on the Q.N. Bank contains two or three points of interest.
The doubtful accounts are set down at £2,086,623. There
are also doubtful debts, £453, and it transpires that the
bank property is put in the balance-sheet at cost price,
£72,407, whereas it is valued by the bank-officials at
£56,906, making another 1 15,501 to be wiped off. But
the tale of the Q.N. B.’s losses is nothing new; the really
interesting part of the story is that concerning the current
business. Apart from the old reconstructed deposits,
which the public has to leave in the.bank because it can’t
get them out, the new business is represented by the item
“ deposits and liabilities,” £2,610,770. This looks as if the
Q.N.B. had still a moderately-good connection, until it
transpires that the deposits of private customers amount
to barely £570,000 all told. Govt, deposits are £975,000,
and the rest consists of suspense account, contingency
account, unclaimed dividends, £480,000 capital to be
written off, and similar dead items. Taking old and new
deposits together it seems that the private Australian
depositor’s interest in the Q.N. 13. is about £1,650,000; the
Queensland Government is interested to the extent of
about £3,000,000, and the British public to the extent of
about £2,700,000. If the Q. Government had known as
well as the private depositor when to get in out of the
wet there would have been very little Q.N.B. to-day.
The Q.N.B. audit says nothing about whether
the alleged provision for losses is sufficient. The Q.N.B.’s
provision for losses was mostly alleged, by the way. It
was assumed that it had enough assets to pay three-
fourths of its deposit liabilities, so it arranged to square
things by reckoning three-fourths of the old deposits as a
direct liability and giving a pledge to pay the other
fourth by instalments, without meanwhile regarding it
as a liability in the ordinary sense of the term. The more
this arrangement is looked at, the more beautifully in-
genious it appears. And while the A.G.’s report shows
that £2,435,423 loss is to be provided for, it says nothing,
so far as the writer can see, about whether the provision
and the alleged provision made for losses will cover this
demand.
• * * •
Another ex-clerk of the late Mercantile Bank
went broke the other day in Melbourne for £98,614, calls
on shares belonging to the Mercantile, which had been
put in the clerk’s name. He had no personal interest in
the shares, but, as he stated, if he hadn’t undertaken to
carry the infant for the bank he would have got the sack.
The bank promised to protect him against liability, but
didn’t do it, hence the unfortunate burst. Judge Moles-
worth said sternly that the conduct of the insolvent was
wrong, if not actually unlawful, but he said practically
nothing about the unlawfulness of the bank. A bank is
not allowed, by law, to openly hold shares carrying a
liability for calls, so the Mercantile, like many other insti-
tutions, held them in a mean, underhand fashion through
its clerks. As two of its late employes have gone broke
for £143,000, all calls on shares which stood in their names
as compulsory dummies for the Mercantile Bank, that in-
stitution seems to have been a very large and riotous
shareholder, and a very unlucky one as well.
* • • *
A recent census shows 150 empty houses in Perth.
Apparently the building-boom has at last got ahead of
the increase of population.
• * • •
Melbourne Board of Works, the institution pre-
sided over by the bard Fitz Gibbon, which already owes
£3,893,000, is floating another 500,000 loan locally at 3)4
per cent., and it will probably get all the money it wants
at a handsome premium. A proposal to float in London
was righteously snuffed out. The Melb. Metropolitan
Board of Fitz Gibbon tried the London market before, and
the recollection of how it was squeezed there is too
painful to mention.
• * • •
N.S.W. Civil Service Co-operative Society ends
the half-year with a profit of £3962 as compared with
£3785 last half. Shareholders get 10 per cent, dividend,
10 per cent, discount on cash purchases, 3% per cent, dis-
count on monthly accounts, and there remains £475 to
carry forward.
• • * *
The N.S.W. and Queensland revenue for the
September quarter of 1897 is less than that for any corres-
ponding qu u'ter in the last three years. Vic. revenue is
larger than for any corresponding quarter in the past three
years. S.A. September quarter is worse than ’96, but
better than '94 or ’95.
» • * *
The Melb. Caledonian Society, which foreclosed
on its mortgage over the Hibernian Hall, also holds a lien
over the biggest Jewish Synagogue in Melb. to the extent
of £BOOO. Mac Levi !
• * * *
The smellful Brisbane Exhibition Co. has gone
into liquidation without any statement of position from
the directors, or any balance-sheet. Somebody suggested
that at any rate the shareholders should be allowed to
inspect the dog that bit boss director Finney, as some
evidence of good faith, but was informed that the animal
had died the next day, and the meeting closed with a
bang.
• * * *
Brisbane (Q.) Bung has raised his “ pint ,r from
4d. to sd. ; all on account of the 3d. a gallon extra tax on
beer. The brewer charged Bung £1 a hogshead because
of the tax, thus getting 7s. extra profit out of the change.
Bung charges Tosspot £1 14s. Bd. per hogshead more,
thus gaining 14s. Bd. by it, or a little more than 3d. a
gallon ! Beer’s the tax for the Treasurer, evidently. It
doesn’t lose him any votes.
» * * •
Another syndicate, this time purely Tasmanian,
announces a Bill to build a railway from Chudleigh (Tas.)
to Mole Creek. If all proposed lines go through, then the
West Coast will have three railways—one connecting with
Hobart, another with the N.W. Coast, and a third with
the main line from Hobart to Launceston. There will be
a furious struggle between the two cities for the trade.
* * • *
Emu Bay railway shares are selling at 3s. pre-
mium. They were largely over-applied for. Trouble is
threatened by others who have railwai r concessions in
Tasmania. Stated that one of the conditions of the
Hobart-to-Zeehan private scheme is that no other railway
can come within ten miles of Mt. Lyell, and that the Govt,
of the tight little island will soon find itself in a tight fix.
* * * ■*
The Goulburn district (N.S.W.) warden has put
in another three days in hearing objections to a number
of leases taken up on the Shoalhaven River. “It was in-
tended to bring the water 21 miles, to spend £2o,i>oo, and
to work the ground by hydraulic sluicing—the only
possible way of making it pay. The money was coming
from London, and £5OO had already been received for
preliminary work. The warden has sent the papers for
the consideration of the Minister.” Why is never a refer-
ence made to the enormous sums of money already spent
and lost on the Shoalhayen River in exactly the same
business—£4o,ooo in one case and much over £lOO,OOO
altogether ? There are many miles of abandoned races,
several large unused dams that cost many thousands to
build, and pumps —some of the biggest made in Australia
—lying idle. Writer wonders if these little facts are pro-
minently brought under Bull's attention by the men ask-
ing him to put up more money ? There are tons of gold
in the 30 miles of the Shoalhaven River drift, but as an
old digger on that river once put it to the writer : “ Yes,
plenty of gold, but it is in too much dirt.”
Things don’t seem too bright at Hillgrove,
N.S.W.—“ The Sunlight mine closed down recently, pre-
sumably to clean out boilers, but there is not too much
stone to crush. Most of the stopes have been worked out,
and very little progressive or exploratory work has been
done. Rumored that the manager is leaving. Baker’s
Creek. —The payable ore seems now confined to the No.
11 level and stopes of the old Baker’s Creek North, owned
by the parent co. Baker’s Creek Consols.—l6o tons,
1330 z. Large amount of copper filings found in the
amalgam, and a reward offered for conviction of offender.
Levels and stopes looking well, and a better return ex-
pected next time. Eleanora. —This mine is again improv-
ing. Chutes of gold in the stopes all making north, and
reef at 500 ft. in the south shaft looking well. Garibaldi. —
Tributors cleaned up over 100 tons for 18oz. Men paid at
the rate of a little over Is. a day. They refused to return
to work unless wages were guaranteed, and the mine once
more closed down. After three days the leases were re-
pegged. Bull must be getting tired of the Garibaldi.
Possibly he may pull out better in the case of the Golden
Gate and Baker’s Creek Extended, lately registered under
new names in London.”
« ♦ * *
Mt. Drysdale, N.S.W. : 220 tons, 80oz. Another
falling-off—this time from an ounce down to Bdwts. Is it
not possible for this co. to better regulate the grade of its
ore?
* * • *
Coramba, N.S.W.: “ The Beacon crushing for
four weeks gave 817 oz. from 511 tons stone.” More than
payable, but the average is coming down, as usual with
99 mines in 100 when the battery has to be kept running.
It will need to keep over the ounce for a long time before
the Exploration Co. sees its money back.
» * * •
The shareholders of Falkner’s mine, Pambula,
N.S.W., are divided against the directors, who are to be
asked to resign, and if they don’t—which they won’t —
“steps are to be taken.” One Molesworth reports fc'so,ooo
worth of ore in sight, and told a meeting of shareholders
that he had not seen a better mine in 17 years’ experience.
Nasty things said of the management. It never had
£50,000 worth of gold in sight before, and, if true, the
management is not so bad after all. Hard to tell how
this estimate was arrived at, in face of the manager s last
report“ The gold in the lode is very erratic. The
richest of the ore occurs in bunches, and this means a
great deal of watching. Some very good ore came to
hand this week which would assay very high.”
* * * *
Boucher, representing the United Exploration
Co., who lately bought a mine at Wyalong, N.S.W., com-
plains of the needless stringency of the labor-conditions,
which, he says, are four times those required in any other
camp in the province. This is the first big co. to tackle
Wyalong, and he predicts that no other wilj go into it
unless things are changed, though he thinks its perman-
ency has been established.
•** . *
Braidwood Proprietary Sluicing Co., N.S.W., is
about to start hydraulic-sluicing on Shoalhaven River.
“ A race (12J miles) has been carried out substantially and
well. The fluming-bridge is being pushed on. As a re-
sult, the race is one of the finest in the province, and the
water-rights unequalled in Australia. It has been sug-
gested that the power obtained might also be utilised for
electrical purposes, there being a good fall within four
miles of the town of Braidwood.” Alas ! how often have
similar gorgeous forecasts been given by other co’s on the
same river! Perhaps it is a good thing for this little
crowd that their total outlay is a mere fraction of what
was irrecoverably lost by the Spa Jessop co., of which
John Wallace, the boss alluvial-miner of Australasia, was
chief.
• * * »
The 100-head American stamp mill on the Cobar
Gold Mines, N.S.W., is now running, Sundays and all.
Over 3000 tons have already gone through, and the inten-
tion of this gormandizer is to feed on that gigantic ore
body at the rate of 8000 tons a month. The stuff will
have to be horribly low-grade not to pay under these cir-
cumstances. Not much doubt of gold contents ; the only
question to determine is whether the gold left in the
tailings will warrant the erection of cyanide works big
enough to deal with so large an output—if so, up it goes.
» * * •
The Chesney-Cobar copper and gold-mine, ad-
joining the C >bar Gold Mines, N.S.W., is being put into
shape for Australian flotation. Over 20,000 tons have
been crushed, and whatever was got out the tailing
heap has been thoroughly sampled to prove that there is
as many pounds worth of gold left behind. Tens of
thousands of tons of low grade, but payable auriferous ore,
are in sight. The copper zone has been reached, inter-
sected and driven upon from one shaft, and sunk upon in
another, and the value established in each. Nevertheless,
it wants a lot of money to put any mine in a position to
treat 6000 tons of ore monthly.
• • * *
Burra Burra copper-mine (N.S.W.) : “ Rich
oxide ore 100 ft. level widened to 4ft., similar to samples
sent to Stock Exchange. Mine opening up remarkably
well.” Writer is glad to hear it, but it is also well to re-
member that a lode which suddenly opens out is liable
suddenly to close again.
♦ * * •
Value of bullion produced from the mines of
Auckland (M.L.) province during 28 days—£37,467, and a
song is made about it. One mine, the Waihi, produced
nearly a third of this. A M.L. mining man now in London
is satisfied that the mines taken over by Bull are coming
out all right. “ Investors do not realise that time is
needed as well as money to put mines in shape. There
are signs of a revival, and well-informed circles say the
market will shortly improve.” It does not seem suffi-
ciently understood that the vast majority of shares in
M.L. (nines are held by London underwriters. The public
never have come in to any extent Until the underwriters
are able to unload they are not disposed to enter into any
fresh obligations. And the chances are they won’t easily
unload. Between the price paid by the underwriter and
that the public are usually asked to pay there is a gulf
fixed that the mines cannot cover. The slump, it is
said, has been caused by W.A. “ cats.” W.A. started the
M.L. boom, anyhow. Several Bull experts, kppalled at
the prospects of “white quartz” mining in the former
country, went to Maoriland, where the conditions were so
English, you know —abundance of wood and water, and
every other facility for cheap mining. But striking wood
and water isn’t striking gold. It was one extreme to the
other.
* • * »
Dear Bulletin, — lie Klondyke. I spent the
years of my childhood in Nova Scotia. I have seen snow
20ft. deep in drifts, ground frozen for months; rivers
carrying ice 3to 4ft. thick every winter. This on the
edge of the Gulf Stream. What must it be like 1400 miles
further North ?—F. Croson.
* * « *
Prom ’Frisco to The Bulletin,— “ The KJon-
dyke quest has a ghastly commentary in the daily-news
items. The baptism of blood has begun, the gold-martyrs
are falling in the Skaguay Pass, and beside the first sui-
cide’s grave has been dug another for the first lvnch-law
victim. A short-shrift, and a strong-limb tree, and all
for a bit of fat bacon ! This takes the shine off the gilt.
Less than a month ago ringing cheers and a dictionary
of flattering adjectives for the knights-errant of
Klondyke. Now sensible folk are asking whether
gold-seeking is the ennobling putsuit it was ac-
counted ? And they get no answer. For, after all,
though sacrificing one's life for gold may seem a big thing,
sacrificing it for bacon is—well, if stealing bacon now is
reckoned equal to murder, stealing a crust of bread will,
ere many months, be ditto. The gold crusaders have
voluntarily subjected themselves to a siege which only
Nature's hand can raise. When, months hence, she re-
moves her frozen barriers, the beleaguered citadel bids
fair to be a den of famished, ravening wolves.
“ But there are other tragedies that no one has
time to note. Women failing by the wav, baby graves
dug by the hands of broken-hearted mothers ; the deso-
lation that marks the course of an invading army is
already on thp Klondyke track, and yet the gold-fevered
maniacs refuse to turn aside. And the daily journals,
like so many cantankerous women, having first spurred
gold-seekers on, now wring their hands and weakly wail
‘ I told you so.’ ’ Many people will be killed and eaten on
the way to Klondyke before another year.”
“ I am satisfied that all it wants to make Wad-
naminga (S.A.) one of the greatest gold-fields of Aus-
tralia is a fair amount of capital,” says no less a personags
than Aid. Polkinghorne, who went up for a Broken Hill
syndicate. As usual, no reference made to the heap of
money already sunk in that hole of a place where, up ta
now, there has been so much mineral and so little metal.
More than one co. went down for all it was worth.
• • • •
West Coast (Tas.) stocks had a bit of a boom
last week, and numerous wild cats furtively climbed up
amongst the quotations and defiantly whisked their tails
under the noses of a purblind public. But after nine
days of innocent enjoyment the great, tired sensation
overcame the operators, and everybody sought sleep once
more. It takes even a healthy pussy all its time to stay
awake in the Land of Sleep.
• * * •
The Knox-Schlapp-Curtin-Davis crowd have
secured the Colebrook mine, and the big amalgamation
will be launched in London. Pending the deal Colebrook
and pups advanced in the market quotes. N.W. Cole-
brook, the most valuable of the aforesaid pups, reached
respectable figures, but judicious Knox and Schlapps
seem to have shaken the hopes of shareholders sadly.
* » * •
Tasmania is once more to have a mining boom.
The Stock Exchange, after years of dulness, is enjoying a
repetition of the good old days, “ before the bank broke.”
New co’s are being floated daily, the towns are full of
scrip, and little squabbles about shares and sections are
beginning.
* • * *
“ It is reported that the directors of the N«w
Golden Gate mine, Tasmania, have declined £250,000 for
the mine. A similar offer was made by ‘ Bravo ’ Jones,
some years ago, but the deposit was forfeited ” —says
Sydney D.T. This is incorrect. Jones bonded the Tas-
mania gold-mine for a price above that named. At that
time, the G.G. mine might have been got for a sum much
below it, and, it was here remarked that it looked much
the cheaper mine of the two at the price wanted.
• * » •
A unique chajiter of horrors is furnished by the
recently-published (Sydney D.T.) particulars of the fate
of the * Ehlers expedition across Papua, two years ago.
Ceaseless rain, storm, gloom, starvation, fear, fever,
loathsome skin-diseases—and, finally, dissension, murder,
and cannibalism ! No doubt now that the two white men
of the party—asserted to have been drowned—were killed
and eaten, and the whole hideous story suggests the
nearest approach to hell-upon-earth on record.
* * * *
The new reef in the Columbia Smithfield, Gym-
pie, jumped the shares from 14s. to 20s. Is. div. declared.
• * * *
Charters Towers divs. for Sept, total .£26,000,
and for the nine months exactly £250,000. This year bids
fair to rival ’B9, the greatest the Towers ever saw. Some
recent results :—Clark’s Brilliant, 760 tons for 24090 z.
The Brilliant, 2584 tons for 31040 z. Brilliant Block, 952
tons, 6710 z. A 6d. div. (the 26th).
* * » •
Dear Bulletin, —Tell your 'Wild Cat” man
there are some very good shows bout Mt. Morgan,
notably Ussher’s and Queen of the Valley. The former
belongs to Bull and Co., who paid t30,0u() in cash and
£30,000 in shares. Twelve tons from the latter, treated
at Aldershot, gave a net return of 9oa. 13dvvts. per ton.
As the crow flies they are about two miles from Mt.
Morgan.—Digger.
* * * *
The White Star Gold Mining Co., capital
£12,500 (prospectus in this issue), offers 6000 contrib.
shares to the public at 2s. 6d. each. The property is a
Crown lands lease of 30 acres in the salubrious region of
Croajingolong (Vic.), and the Govt. Assis. Geological Sur-
veyor reports very favorably upon the two reefs that have
been cut, gold showing very freely in the lower one. The
line of lode is long, the Govt, will erect a battery on the
adjacent Ellery Creek, and the prospectus is able to say,
with its hand upon its heart, that “the mine is admir-
ably situated for cheap working.”
* » » *
Of all the W.A. mines floated in Q. only three
are apparently alive, according to the local Exchange—
viz., Q. Menzies, Raff s Great Western, and Minnie Palmer
South.
• * * *
The mines of Menzies, W.A., do not seem to
improve in depth. On the contrary, it begins to look
only a matter of depth when that camp will have to fall
into line with all the others working quartz-reefs in that
country. There are exceptions to prove every rule, hut
Westralia will probably never be distinguished by its
deep quartz-reefing mines. Menzies Crusoe, 232 tons,
183 oz. ; Menzies Consolidated, 800 tons, 7950 z. ; Menzies
Gold Reefs, 120 tons, 2130 z. Good enough, but a re-
markable falling away in the average. It is so with
Queensland Menzies and several others, whose earlier
crushings were more than twice as much per ton. One of
two things must have happened—either richer and
selected streaks must have been first worked, or the ore-
average has gone down with depth—perhaps a little of
each.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe —one of the new Kalgoorlie
big producers-355 tons, 15390 z. Tailings said to assay
2)40z! The mine is reported to be looking very fine.
In no part of the world has so rich a mile of country been
opened up, in pyritic formations, as that round about
the Great Boulder.
■ • • •
A Bulong (W.A.) man insinuates to The Bulle-
tin that some of the best mines on the Queen Margaret
line are being worked mainly with a view to the ultimate
benefit of the few who happen to be “in the know.”
“ The Queen Margaret line,” he says, “is without doubt
a permanent gold-producing lode, and if the parent mine,
the Queen, were worked for its full value the whole
group would speedily be provided with machinery, &c.;
as it is, ihe output is most perplexing. During the last
five months the average has been kept down by a jump of
some 90 tons of ore in the quantity treated —for less gold
yield. No extra stamps were used, and, if anything, there
was less water! This week a man was charged with
having stolen gold from the mine, and it transpired in
court that for some considerable time specimens have
been daily taken from the face of the particular drive the
man was working in. The management invariably put
the value of these specimens at considerably lower stan-
dard than others would. There is no thought in my mind
that any wrongful use is being made of the gold won
that is not sent to the battery ; but no doubt a big fund
is being reserved to put up the crushings at the right
time —quite a legitimate thing to do, no doubt, always
provided that there is no element of secrecy in the matter.
An effective course of depreciatory tactics pursued in re
the Queen Margaret West led to the Queen party buying
out the former mine ; the Princess Margaret, whence the
water was pumped to supply the Queen battery, was
exempted owing to want of funds, and water had to be
bought at extra cost for battery purposes. The Kal-
goorlik Miner’s reporter mentioned this, which was con-
tradicted by the management; yet within a few days
men are put on again at the Princess’ pumps, clearly
proving that the Miner was right. The Princess will be
swallowed up, that is the next move ; then the hundreds
of ounces of free gold obtained from the workings will be
paraded and the shares will jump.”
* * * »
Golden Bar, Coolgardie, has at last had one
more crushing—266 tons for 1470 z. Good enough, per-
haps, if it can keep the mill running at that.
* * * *
A big “ jump ” will be tried during this month
of a lavishly-equipped English G.M. in the Omeo district.
The machinery (almost unused) is alone worth over £6OOO.


r,
d
ORIENT
CHEAPEST AND BEST
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s-
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
/Oppo i£e\
L G.P.O. )
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
“ COKTO ” ftOTHSCH! LD
CIGARS,
MADE OP THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO - Cd. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations.
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
SOCIETY
[?]lestin
COGMAG
<( The kind of man who is a local big gun
out back ” might have been seen by observing
the hayseedy-looking strangers who attended the
recent municipal conference in Sydney. When
Publius Virginias What’s-his-name said he would
rather be first man in a small village than second
man in Rome, he could never have seen a “ colo-
nial back-blocks Mayor. Once a ball was given
in honor of a visiting premier. The Mayor’s wife
thought she should open festivities by dancing
the “ first set ” with the illustrious guest, and as
he did not ask her, she asked him. He replied
that he would be very happy to do so, but he had
never learned the art. The lady was so astonished
that she called out across the room to her husband
in an agonised voice, which filled the building
from floor to ceiling—“My God, O’Brien!
PARKES CAN’T DARNCE ! ”
* « * • *
It is a curious fact that the Cornstalk, who
is supposed to be specially addicted to the bush and
the horse, doesn’t go West if he can help it. If a
line is drawn across the map of N.S.W. north and
south from Angledool to somewhere about Albury,
it will be found that the Cornstalk forms by far
the biggest half of the population to the east.
Over all the thinly-peopled West, the land of
sheep and drought and dusty plains, he averages
(or did at the time of last census) from two-fifths
of the population in some districts down to one-
seventh in others. Even at Bourke and Cobar he
forms only about one-third of the people, and in
some western districts he is even less numerous
than the Englishman Evidently the N.S.W.
citizen doesn’t believe in hard graft out where the
d.imper grows.
GEORGE AND MARIO MAJERONI.
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
, tbe “ benefit ” which Australia is ex-
pec ed to derive from the presence of Imperial
Bulletin descrilt? a t i r t lT 11 t- C ? rreSPOnden R 0f THE
simnlv a curse nl B [‘ ga / nSon ther « as
curse and a danger to the community ;
in proof of which he forwards local press-records
or a host of indictments of soldiers for offences
wffh"vli froni att ® mpted murder, rape, robbery
ntkbf; rl L ‘ OWa , r , y - assault ’ d !T\ t 0
aS sto f and sneak-tlnevmg which last
E > V ( lai y Wlth the bero
of militarv IS t 0 , lln P°. r . fc , as ai ? exaalple
If we tL 2 WF l mv, law observance
deserve him ! theßemtlsh soldier here-we’ll
*'* , ,
fSV T not mi f n -
at
t6 H lr f fr ° m w 8 St ? ne 'iv/r The good
Bishop determmed to emulate the Master. No
nwtTr Xn Be w tU u he r, ° h -. The
clergy delighted with such a mission, went to
scour the lanes and alleys of the city, the high-
IT,, and b^" w T’ °hing in all the lame, halt
lawn b ! hn H H °F. lov «jy Y as the tableau on the
lawn . How glorious to view the happiness of the
poor, with this evidence that the common people
were hearing the clergy gladly ! Surely, it is far
better than for the Bishop’s garden-party to com-
pete with the fashionable racecourse-lawn.”
* * » *
Melb. : “ The fact of 30 missionaries hav-
ing left for India last month, besides several
for China, while 11 are on the point of going to
China, making about 45 in all, must be pabulum
for somewhat beyond jokery and sarcasm. Be-
cause, for one thing, it involves a large expendi-
ture, not short of a thousand pounds, in passages,
outfits, and getting to the scene of their labors,
besides more than a thousand pounds here, in
their keep, &c., while training. Quixotry cannot
invent an ‘ Arabian Nights ’ magic carpet to
transport them. No money is asked for on account
of this mission. The promoters trust to George
Muller’s praying hypnotics, spiritual telegraphy
and telepathy, sans wires. They have thus only
just mysteriously received two dabs of <£loo each.
A lady gave a large donation last year, because
she had a son born, and she gave another this year
for a daughter.”
* * * *
Melb.: “A little bone-bag, Miss Faith
Box, is our Australian missionary back from
China, after an absence of several years, during
which she has worked there in big cities, of which
we. do not even know the names. She is filled
with ardor to return, and does so directly in
charge of a batch of neophytes. I notice in her
case and others that whites who live in China get
to look and talk like Chinese. A little brick in
her way, it must be said that, with her hollow
eyes and cheeks, she looks like an opium-eater,
though she never touched the drug in her life. So
I am not over-pleased to see our nice, fresh girls
going. They all get seized with this fever of
fanaticism in exactly the same way, and all talk
exactly alike under the influence.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—“ Let him marry the
girl.” I remember a stipendiary advising this
method of meeting the predicament of a push-
girl charged under “ the Vag.” who said she “ had
a bloke keepin’ ’er.” Bloke sheepishly consented
to matrimony, which was quietly brought to pass
under police supervision. Next day hubby was
awarded three months by the same Court for ruth-
lessly bashing the countenance of his newly-made
spouse, and a week or so later the bride herself
came within the grip of “ the Vag.” once more.
Marriages, of course, are made in Heaven.—T. T)
Journalist; “ ‘ Let him marry the girl.’ I
remember a case in Melb. City Police-court The
complainant was a nice, modest creature. On the
bench offering the usual solution, she said, ‘ I will
never marry the man who deceived me. I only
want him to pay for his child.’ ” Y
* * * *
A very shocking incident occurred during
Vic - Gov - Brassey’s latest Sunbeam trip. The
yacht put into Woody Island (Q.) on a Sunday
afternoon, and the head resident came aboard
with an invitation to a corrobboree which was to
be held that night. H.E. and party landed, eager
“to-ah-witness the-ah-customs of the-ah-
natives,” but, alas ! it was not to be. In the resi-
££ of
x&grz
fand ango in a state of Vild drunk. “Lord and
Lady B. immediately returned to the Sunbeam.”
Diary note: “The-ah-natives were unmistake-
ably intoxicated, and-ah-on a Sunday too ’
* * , i' '
An exceedingly infuriated aboriginal pater-
familias by the name of Samson Barber is Paging
around Cummerunga mission station (Vie )°and
its vicinity. A Hindoo hawker, with a beguiling
eye, ran away with his daughter—also a full-
blooded Australian—the other day and married
her. The happy pair are now honeymooning in
Little Bourke-st., Melb., but the Echuca police
are still doggedly trying to discover them in the
neighborhood of the mission station. By the way,
is there any term invented to describe the racial
status of the progeny of a Hindoo and an
aboriginal ? If not, Austrasians is the word. The
present writer would now like to prophesy that
the Great Poet and Novelist of this Southern Land
■ the writer who will not merely note and describe
its color, but who will breathe and exude it—will
be an Austrasian. And his mother’s name may
possibly be Barber.
* * * *
Mario and George Majeroni, whose name,
not less than the mental and physical characteris-
tics inherited with it, commends them to the
goodwill of Australian playgoers, made their
respective debuts as professional actors in ’93, four
years subsequent to the final appearance (at Melb.
Royal) of their parents, gifted Signor and Signora
Majeroni. Elder son, Mario, having enlisted
under the Brough-Boucicault banner, got his
baptism of praise ’ as the Russian police-officer
in “ The Passport.” George, then a mere youth
of 18, came to the front in the capacity of George
Barnwell, the sinful hero of a very old-fashioned
moral drama. It was an awful task for a strip-
ling to undertake, but he got through with honors.
Since then the Majeroni brothers have acquired
considerable “colonial experience,” and now they
have sailed for foreign parts with the Brough ex-
pedition. As members of the brightest travelling
company ever formed in Australia, they will
get several good chances to distinguish' them-
selves. George Majeroni proposes to return to his
native Melbourne, from India, next June, whereas
brother Signor Mario (a Sardinian by birth) will
proceed to seek his stage fortune in London. The
Bulletin, bidding a sorrowful adieu to the
Brough Company in general, takes this oppor-
tunity to give the Majeronis a pictorial send-off.
Rabbi Abrahams preached a sermon, brist-
ling with commercial and financial similes, to Melb.
Synagogue-goers on Jewish New Year’s Day.
How well he knew what his congregation would
like to hear ! The Gentile idea that the Jew was,
generally speaking, a pawnbroker or money-
lender, or the descendant of such, was, he de-
clared, a mistake. “The Jew had two ancestors.
Certainly one was the money-changer, but the
other was the sage, and while both of these an-
cestors kept books there was a very considerable
difference in the subject matter of their volumes.”
Just so—and in the manner of keeping them.
Zangwill, who should know something of the
matter, says : “ The Jew has always been a duplex
being—‘Jew ’ connotes not only a race but a re-
ligion—which complicates things to such a degree
that the Jewish problem may be said, with almost
mathematical accuracy, to be the Christian pro-
blem squared.” This reads quite prettily pro-
found. At the same time, it seems rather odd
that every third Christian is dodging around try-
ing to find some way of “ squaring ” his Jew.
* * * *
A woman from the country recently went
into St. Francis Xavier’s Cathedral, Adelaide,
and, leaving a bundle near the entrance, ad-
vanced to the Lady Altar to pay her devotions.
When she returned, her property was gone. She
complained to the verger, who said: “ My good
woman, you should never leave anything about in
this cathedral, because Protestants and all sorts
come in here.”
* * * *
At Wanganui (M.L.), the other day, a
fresh, pretty, bright-compiexioned girl of 22
applied at the police-court to have a prohibition-
order issued against herself. She had lately come'
into town with <£ls accumulated wages, and had!
drunk her cheque, with the result that she was oil
the verge of “ the horrors.” The local pressman
remarked regretfully that “she had a beautiful:
face which would do credit to a pure and womanly
girl.” But, then, they run in all shapes—and they
drink in all shapes likewise.
• * • *
Someone suggests that the hares (now-
wasted) destroyed in N.S.W., for the vermin-
scalp reward, be in future sent to the Sydney hos-
pitals, for the use of the patients. If there is one-
dish which, sooner than another, will utterly dis-
gust the man with a sick-bed appetite it is hare
however prepared.
NOT DONE IN THE BEST SOCIETY .
SKEETER : “Yer’l ’ave ter knock off whistlin’ in
the streets, Julie."
J ULIE: “What for, Skeeter? I don’t see no
’arm."
SKEETER: Well, yer see, my people’ll be thinking
yer not a real bydy.”
Archbishop Carr’s treatment of the stone-
masons’ request that he should use his influence to-
get the minimum-wage provision inserted in,
church contracts, looks very like pushing the busi-
ness on to other people’s shoulders. He says he
has no authority out of his own diocese, and that a
committee attends to such matters in his diocese.
The influence which the heads of the Catholic
church have over all their people is too well-known
for anyone to believe that the archbishop has no
power in the matter.
* » * *
At a little town near Auckland (M.L.) the
police lately suspected a local boarding-house of
doing an illicit drink business, and raided the
establishment about 6 a.m. in search of evidence.
The place was searched thoroughly and everybody
interrogated. The lady boarders were all asleep,
but their rooms were invaded, and they had to sit
up in bed holding the bosom of a snow-white gar-
ment together, and give their personal assurance
that no drink was concealed under the bed. In
THE LATEST FLAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She'd a fair young face and an eye serene,
And about her crown, like a halo bright,
W *th much dainty lace and a touch of green,
•And its fleecy feathers so neat and clean,
Spread a hat of straw, quite the sweetest seei
In the stalls that night.
Twas a fairy thing, and it lightly lay
Like a buoyant moth on her golden hair,
But the men behind, in their mannish way,.
ere concerned far more with the foolish play—
It obscured the stage, and in anger they
’Gan to sweat and swear.
But a holy peace on the forehead sat
Of the lady fair—a serene delight—
When the tumult spread, and with queries pat
lhey endeavored to shame her. She knew then that
Every woman had worshipped her darling hat
In the stalls that night.
SILAS SNELL.


JHARPJN 6T 0 N * t" l?
fHOTO OUTFITTERS l
66 KING S 3 SYDNtt
s
1®
wM!i
XJ '' —'
fz/ff/fat / FftoM.~*
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
XPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms FREE.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Uns.irinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free In/ post throughout
A antral in.
Patterns and Measurement Korins on Application
B. Si SOM3, Brisbane Q'land.
JJOSE’S CELEBRATED
KYE LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy blight, Sore and Inflamed Eyes, Dimness of
Sight, Granulations, &c Recommended by the Lead-
in'; Sydney Oculists. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney. |3F“ Open all
Night—also Sundays and Holidays.
Liverpool apd Lopdop
# (alobc IpStiraoce Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Gumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Es<]. ; and
Eric H. Mack ay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia —
62 Pitt Street, SYDiIEI,
cases where darker suspicions than usual were en-
tertained the lady’s clothes were lifted oft the
chair and violently shaken to see if anything
would fall out.- One or two young lady boarders
who had cataracts of real lace on the front of their
night-dresses didn’t mind so much, but those
whose night-dresses were plain down the front ob-
jected bitterly, and one whose back hair was
hanging on the chair will yet have the heart s-
blood of those policemen.
A three-cornered fight for Adelaide mayor-
alty is probable this year between Reid, a wealthy
timber-merchant, Aid. Ware, brewer, and ex-
Mayor Shaw, who has made much money in the
West. Tucker, of Queen Margaret notoriety,
probably stands down this year, to cool a bit,
after his recent mining adventures.
* * * *
“ P.A.” to The Bulletin :
Have just had a good look at the hideous effigy in Hyde
Park (Sydney) labelled W. B. Dailey, and wondered why,
if the alleged artist couldn’t idealise the subject (how
grandly Boehm and Woolner have idealised Queen Vic-
toria and her husband in the statues near by !), Dailey s
grand head and shoulders should not have been carved
alone and placed on a pedestal, instead of introducing the
big binjy and atrocious frock-coat which makes the figure
look like a baby elephant on its hind legs, wrapped in a
horse-blanket. Imagine Premier Turner with his soft hat
and monkey whiskers, or Reid with bell-topper and eye-
glass frozen in cold marble, to be the scoff of humorists a
century hence ! Let Reid look to it, now that he is in
power, and pass a law making it punishable with 14 years’
hard labor down a wet shaft for any alleged artist or
sculptor to depict any part of him but his face and head.
Because a man has a bad tailor or a big appetite that is
no reason why evidences of these misfortunes should be
handedtoposterity. Posterity can spare the wrinkledfrock-
coat and binjy as well as it could the sight of the great
man eating oysters, hushing the baby, or putting on his
trousers.
Forms of great men oft remind us
That their cuisine must be prime ;
That they must —here salt tears blind us—
Feed their faces all the time.
What though cares of State may vex us ?
What though sounds war’s rolling drum,
We can grow a solar plexus
Sixty inches round the “ turn.”
• * * *
When the smellful prophet, Worthington,
left Hobart for Christchurch (M.L.), he told a big
audience that he only returned to M.L. ‘'on the
urgent request of friends there.” Apparently the
invitation was a practical joke, judging by the way
he was hustled with dead cats at Christchurch.
This advt. appeared in Hobart Mercury the
Saturday after receipt of the news of the prophet’s
“ rocky ” time. (The “ students ” are his Hobart
disciples):—
Students of truth.
SCHOOLROOM, MURRAY-ST.
Mr. W. SMITH will conduct Service TO-MORROW,
7 p.m.
Subject: Treatment of Jesus repeated (Recent
scene at Christchurch)—“ For which of these works
■do ye stone me?” “Father forgive them—they
know not what they do.”
* * * •
Melb. : “Be debate in church assembly
*on reduction of marriage fees. I will never forget
hearing the venerable Rev. Dr. Bromby bring
forward the same proposal there. It was on the
■eve of his marriage with a lady of 18 years—he
was then 75. The suppressed titter did not dis-
compose the doctor a bit in performing a stern
•duty.”
* * * »
A first offender, found guilty of stealing
goods to the value of 4s. lid. wherewith to buy
bread for his hungry family, was sent to gaol for
30 days by the Fitzroy (Vic.) Bench last week.
Necessity knows no justice.
* * * *
Maoriland, by a curious turn of Conser-
vatism, still sticks to the system by which a
woman can get a divorce for adultery only.
Drunkenness, starvation and habitual jump-
ing on his partner with hob-nailed boots are
regarded by Maoriland law as sinful pro-
ceedings, but they don’t entitle the starved
and jumped-upon female to her liberty. As a
natural consequence, Maoriland had only 20
divorces in 1894 (no later figures are available)
while N.S.W., with less than double the popula-
tion, had 369 ! The Maoriland lady has to stick
to her husband, even though she has two black
eyes and her chest-bone caved in. What does the
enfranchised Maorilandress think of it? The
Bulletin is curious to know.
* * » *
The early accounts of the boy sentenced
to death at Maitland by senior Justice Simpson
conflicted on the point of age. The conflict covered
the space between 14 and 16. However, the S.M.
Herald, ignoring the conflict, described him as a
“ boy of sixteen.” That brought him quite close
to the standard for execution established by the
old masters, and so vigorously endorsed by the
lamented Judge Windeyer. The first recorded N.S.
Wales execution was-that of a youth of 17 ; the four
hanged Mount Rennie youths were of the average
age of 18. The present Maitland case is a very
bad one ; the young fiend most cruelly and deli-
berately outraged a child of eight. What to do
with such a boy is a tough problem.
* ♦ * *
Is the shaven-lip brigade losing its hold
upon womankind? Sydney D.T. advt. :
mWO Ladies require 2 unfurnished Rooms, full board,
-L quiet family, handy Redfern, religious tendencies
a disqualification. Apply, stating terms and full in-
formation. COMFORT, G.P.O.
* * * *
Bishop Melbourne Goe’s pet Jubil e
scheme to raise £25,000 is a dismal failure. But
he must be hardened to disappointment by this
time. Why doesn’t he resign his present situation
and become private chaplain to the C-overnor ? As
Brassey’s spiritual adviser-in-waiting Coe would
give general satisfaction. Providence intended
those two exalted personages to revel in each
other’s awful society.
ON A RED-NOSED USURER.
The usurer they went to seek
Before his money mart
Stood, like a vulture, fat and sleek,
That late had dug its bloody beak
Deep in a human heart !
S.S.
* » * *
One of the hardest things that ever hap-
pened to the Church occurred lately in a dry-
blowing district of Westralia. It was a very
far-out, lost, God - forsaken settlement. The
pioneer preacher got there per camel, and held
service in an impromptu structure of galvanised-
iron and bagging open at both ends. Even a
preacher was a pleasing novelty there, and a good
many dry-blowers attended. When the service
was over the dinner-plate was handed around, and
a decent collection was taken up—a few silver
coins, one note contributed by the wife of the
man who kept the grog-shanty, and a, moderate
sum in gold-dust and specks. Then, just as the
plate had finished its round, a willy-willy blew
furiously in at one end of the tabernacle and out
at the other, and inside two seconds the gold-dust
and the specks and the note and the threepences
had blown away and only the coppers remained.
They were the only part of the collection which
had ballast enough to stand the pressure.
* * * *
Yet another lurid Brisbane “ sassiety ”
scandal. Surely a plague among the Leper-
landresses ?
* * * *
Devil’s Own Re the monopoly-system in
N.S.W. Equity Court. Some time ago Dr. Sly
appeared before Justice Manning and “ wondered
if the practice was the same in that court as in
the other.” Quoth Manning : “ Yes, the practice
is the same, as every practitioner in this court
knows.”
■fa ifc * *
Melb. : “New
Crimean shirts tic-
ke 11 e d two for
eighteenpence.
How made ?
* •
The Isle of Wight (Eng.) Observer, of
7th Aug. last, records the marriage of Miss
Eleanor Wood, only daughter of Theodore Wood,
journalist, of Brisbane (Q.), with Bernard Searle,
of Hildenborough, Kent, second son of Rev.
W. G. Searle, of Cambridge (Eng.). The local
paper describes the bride’s parents as “ of St.
Wilfred’s, Ryde,” and mentions that she was led
to the altar by an uncle (owing to the unavoidable
absence of her father abroad). “ Abroad ”is Isle-
of-Wightical for Queensland. The bride was born
at Waitemata sugar-plantation, near Maryborough
(Q.), when the Bohemian Theodore pere was a
gilded, bloated planter. What a dramatic life-
story might be printed of the fillings-in of the
present leavings-out!
Ships with bachelor captains usually have
“standing-room only” hung outside the ladies’
cabin each trip. On one Sydney boat a persistent
lady-passenger took her seat at the skipper’s
right hand remarking, “ You see, captain,
I’m coming with you again! ” “ Yes, miss,”
he groaned, “ but next time, for Heaven’s
sake, give another ship a chance ! ” By
the way, it is not true, as has lately
been printed, that the reason why
no captain of an ocean-liner is
allowed to take his wife to sea with
him is the fear that, in the event
of disaster, he would look after his
wife instead of looking after the
ship. That’s not it at all. The
real reason, as explained long ago
by the managing director of one
of the big mail-steamer co’s, is that
“ no ship can afford to carry two
captains.”
* * * *
Rev. Rouse—orating at Baptist
Annual Assembly in Sydney — asserted that,
as the Hindu woman who becomes a Baptist
is thereby cut off from her family, it is doubt-
ful whether, in these circumstances, converts
should be baptised at all. In other words, the
alleged divine necessity of baptism to salvation
is a patent-reversible contrivance as all such
dogmas are. A dogma must either reverse on
occasions—or bust.
» * * *
A badly-planned elopement, out back,
missed fire through a coach not coming up to
time. The flying pair left the usual note, stating
their intentions and begging forgiveness, but,
when an irate parent reached the vanishing point,
instead of seeing a handkerchief waving adieu
from a cloud of dust in the distance, he found
Marcus impotently shaking his fist at fate, and
Mercia, in tears, sitting on a band-box. Another
one, which ended queerly in the merry maid’s re-
turn, next day, to the parent stem, escorted by
papa, started such a wagging of tongues that now
“ a marriage has been arranged ” between the cul-
prits.
♦ * * *
The Sydney police are having the body of
a recently-deceased barmaid exhumed.
* * » *
An Australian detective got a nasty shock
lately, likewise some information. In order to
watch for a suspect, he got permission to secrete
himself in a suburban post and telegraph office,
about six miles from his home. When he had been
there about an hour, a lady
called and asked for a letter
for Miss Blank. She got
one, and seemed much dis-
turbed by its contents;
also, she forthwith wrote
out a wire, which the d. had
the felicity of perusing
afterwards. It was tlied.’s
better half, and
his face was a
study.
The very steepest tales that are told in the
courts are those in connection with criminal
assault cases. As an instance, at a Riverina town
a few days ago, a blushing little thing of not quite
14 related that she was at Junee station with her
step-mother, when a railway-guard led her into an
empty carriage and there assaulted her. She got
out and rejoined her step-mother, who, appa-
rently, hadn't noticed her absence, and she made
no mention of the assault. Some months after-
wards the matter insisted on coming to light, and
then the railway-guard was duly dragged up and
identified as the offender by the velvet collar on
his mackintosh. The jury acquitted him, so it
practically found by its verdict that the blushing
little thing had committed gross perjury in her
capacity as a Crown witness—but nothing seems
to have happened. The average Judge worries a
great deal about the frequency of perjury among
accused persons giving evidence on their own
behalf, but the exceeding frequency of perjury
among Crown witnesses is seldom mentioned.
* * * *
Queensland’s imported alien is a source of
endless trouble—partly from his tendency to riot
in crime, partly from his penchant for contracting
tuberculosis and occupying the hospitals, partly
HIS OBVIOUS IGNORANCE.
ARTIST (proudly): “No, madam, I never had a
lesson in my life.”
SHE (after inspecting work): “Dear, dear; WHAT
a pity! ”
from an inclination developed of late to go cranky.
According to Dr. Scholes, of Woogaroo, the
demented Asiatic is vastly on the increase—some-
thing like 91 patients of that breed being under
the doctor’s care, of whom 55 are Chinese. A
cranky Chow is about the most taciturn man op
earth, and the most felo-de-seful.
“ When the parson, necessarily, buys a
cheap hat or coat he makes implacable enemies in
his congregation.”— One.
Mr. S. H. Wintle, F.L.S. (Lond.), to The
Bulletin :
Ed. Bulletin. Sir,—ln your issue of 2nd inst. is a
paragraph referring to my candidature to represent the
city of Richmond (Vic.) in Parliament at the general
election. In that paragraph there is so much that is
untrue that, in common justice and fair play, I request
you to allow me to make the following corrections. In
the first place you say (I quote verbatim) —“ The joy of
the Melbourne election seems to centre mostly round
Wintle. . . . Wintle describes himself as a geologist."
That I certainly do, after being before the world as swh
for the last 35 years, seeing that I am better known in
Europe and America (through the published results of
my labors) than lam in Australia. “ Even the chairman,
doesn’t take him seriously.” That, sir, is perfectly true,
as it was my misfortune to have as a chairman a practical
joker, and one who is imbued with no small amount of
the larrikin element; while, under the pretence of real
sincerity, he did his very best to make a laughing-stock
of me. This pattern of a chairman is a young unmarried
man—a clerk in'a leading legal firm of Melbourne whose
name is Daniel Kerr (it should be spelt differently).
It is quite true that this latest up-to-date chairman
said I was induced to come forward as a protest airainst
the new law providing for the analysis of manure.
I can only say that I never heard of such a
law, and consequently I could not introduce it
in my political programme. The idiotic questions that
were put to me, and which you record, came from the
larrikin element, who are in favor of my opponents. As
an old public speaker on questions of political economy,
I was fully prepared for such interruption. But, sir, allow
me to say that you are in error when you state that the
black-pudding (which came from a practical-joking
butcher, a staunch supporter of one of my opponents),
upon it being presented to me “I flung it into the midst
of my supporters.” The chairman held it up, but it
never came into my hands. I merely smiled at if , not
even the sickly smile of the heathen Chinee. The tenor
of your paragraph is calculated to injure me in the eyes
of my relations (many of whom occupy a very high social
position in Sydney) and friends. Through a very severe
affection of the ‘ lungs, intensified by open-air night-
speaking, I have, through the advice of my medical ad-
viser, been compelled to retire frbm the contest, to my
own great disappointment and that of hundreds of my
supporters. But, sir, I can boast of the feat of success-
fully addressing the greatest political meeting that was
ever held in Victoria—viz., 4000 people—which blocked
the tram-cars. That is a feat of political oratory of which
lam honestly proud. According to natural law, it is not
likely I will be spared to contest another general election.
—Thanking you in anticipation, I am, &c.
Evidently a genial soul, far too good for politics.
—Ed. B.
I'm Praise of Rain
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
JWn& lift* Ik&r
1 %&& sm <n>fipeffge®*?
fr©tnn>
o
\ Ate |p<56p<$> Tdf])<a>©T3]) {frying)
Jvy ccfi®wop®
MM “iH])Ss,TIDk W)fi TfA4»J f®Tf°
k > s wh’ofe la>®»lty ,
fcmr
" ::: z7'- y • <0>c )
Steele Greg.
GENIUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was soft-eyed and hearted, a dreamer
Of wordless, sweet, mystical dreams ;
But his soul was asleep and his singing—
The meaningless music of streams.
I knew him so first. I, a woman,
Unlovely and lonely, but strong.
Then his eyes looked in mine and his silence
Leapt forth into passionate sonar.
Men listened, enchanted, and murmured,
“ A god has come down from above ! ”
They worshipped and whispered, “ ’Tis Genius.’’
But the laughing gods knew it was Love.
Sydney, Sept. 4, ’97.
AMBROSE PRATT.


A Word
to Business Men
Gent’s Calf Boots-
-17,6 21/- 23/6 25/- 23 6
Tan— 19,6 22,6 25/- 28,6
Callaghan's Xace Boots for business wear
are the hest
and the most economical of their kind.
We have all the desirable shapes in tan or black. We are con-
tinually opening' fresh stock, so that our Boots are always
New and Nice.
The “made to order ” appearance> of Callaghan Boots makes them favorites
with business men.
Callaghan & Son,
396 Gboroh Street, Stditit.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers*
Oazette” and “Sailing List’* to
THOS. COOK & SON.
THE DARK NIGHT.
The dark night of sorrow, suffering, and terror has
come to many a man and woman in our midst, and hope
has almost fled from the troubled and anxious heart.
The shadows and small clouds, or, in other words, the
symptoms of disease that were noticed and felt some time
ago were disregarded, and the sufferers now find them-
selves completely overwhelmed and are calling for succour
and release.
To the disease-burdened we would say despair not.
You may renew life and establish a condition of health
that will cause your friends amazement and wonder.
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Fills will do the good work for
you. They restore lost vigor and vitality, give new, fresh
blood, brace up the nerves, and build up flesh and
muscle.
Gould’s Pills are no new and untried remedy—they have
been tried and tested for years, and have proved
triumphant in the most obstinate cases in Europe and
America. They have saved life after all other medicines
failed, and have the approval of the best medical men in
America and England.
If the shadows of disease are hovering over you, if you
are not as bright, energetic, and strong as you were some
weeks ago, a few doses of Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills
will tone up your whole system, cleanse the blood, correct
indigestion, sharpen the appetite, and give you a vim and
vigor that you will thoroughly appreciate.
By all means give Gould’s Pills a fair and honest trial at
this season, and you will be compelled to sing their
praises as thousands of others have done. Get the
genuine Gould’9, and don’t accept vile imitations
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are an undoubted speciflo
for indigestion, liver trouble, sour stomach, constipation
piles, face pimples, debility, female weakness, &c. &<•.'
obtainable from chemists and storekeepers, or the* Aufr
tralian branch of E. A. Gould, Sons, and Co., 19 Mao-
quarie-plaee, Sydney. Price, one bottle for 2s 6d or
half-dozen for 14s. 3d. (postage paid) on receipt of ■tamne
or post-order.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
r __ Sydney, October 12,1897.
Mr Dear Mtkk—
Mrs. Spalding 1 , wife of the Resident Magistrate
on Norfolk Island, has been the prey of inter-
viewers all the time she has been in Sydney on her
just-terminated visit. Mrs. Spalding says that
the islanders, half-caste descendants of the Bounty
mutineers, are nearly white, and a fine-looking
race, but too spready about the figures and feet—
descendants of boot-and-corset-wearing forbears
inust have these supports or else both morally and
physically they become wobbly. So a moral-
pocket-handkerchief-and-flannel-weskit movement
has been initiated with marked success among the
ladies, who now trade eggs and garden produce
for calico and boots at Govt. House. Mrs. Spald-
ing has gathered some of the young girls into a
sewing-class and taught them the mysteries of
cutting-out.” There has been so much inter-
marrying among the sparse Pitcairn population
that the families adopt, for distinction, double-
barrelled surnames. The Fletcher-Nobbses, the
Ross-Christians, the Lindsay-Buffetts sound like
the tag of a social par. in a daily, but the posses-
sors of these stylish hyphens are guileless islanders
with but one brief garment apiece. Mrs.
Spalding has returned to Norfolk Island accom-
by her step-daughter, Mrs. Taylor and her
children, who intend to summer in that delight-
ful climate.
The clairvoyant business is flourishing, especi-
ally among lady exponents. Daughters of boom-
wrecked professional men, anxious to earn a more
or less honest brown, might do worse than hang
out their shingles as “ meejums.” One girl—still
on the right side of 27 —is retiring from a prosper-
ous going concern, having made a modest pile.
Her methods are simple. She has large, soulful
eyes, a pretty profile, and sense enough not to per-
oxide ; at public meetings she fills her room at
easy rates—something in silver in the plate on
entering. Private seances come higher, but at
them inquirers get special revelations pier head
from Uncle Henry or little Willie in spiritland.
After a hymn, orthodox in tone, and a long
general address about “earth planes,” &c., the
operator works through her audience in a dim
religious light.. On crowded nights a still younger
sister, not yet in long frocks and hair up, stage-
assists her. She takes the patient’s hand in her
own right-hand, rests her left on his—or her—
shoulder, and whispers nothings for a minute
or two. Men “ subjects ” seem to like the treat-
ment most. It doesn’t look hard to do. I wonder
if the profesh. is overcrowded.
The prizes and trophies won.atStrathfield tennis,
tournament were handed out at the courts on
Saturday afternoon by Mrs. G. H. Reid, in the
presence of many interested, in the club games of
tennis and bowls. Mrs. R., attired in black-and-
white and a vast and feathery hat, distributed the
silver-ware, and the speaking fell chiefly to Mr.
Cowper, one of the bowling members, and to the
Premier. Mr. Cowper thanked Premier Reid for
attending and showing that he still took an inter-
est in tennis,.“although too old to play the game.”'
In replying whereto; the ever-ready Premier ob-
served very, distinctly that, although he might be
too old to,play tennis, he wasn’t yet old enough to
play bowls. Then everybody looked hard at the.
previous, speaker.
A young and haughty pianist who hires a room,
at one of the city s leading music palaces, was.
scandalised to, see that an adjacent sound-proof
torture-chamber had, been let to a foreign couple
who derjve their principal income from playing on.
stringed-instruments, in the streets. He com-
plained to thp proprietor of the rooms that the
status of the musical profesh. was suffering by
this intrusion, and consequently the Dagoes had!
tp quit. Soon, after the pianist was asked by a-
letter dated, from, near the “Rocks,” to call at-
that address and, meet an intending pupil.
Arrayed, in, tall hat and street-sweeping coat, lie’
cabbed, it to the house, and was shown into a room,
where sat a, large musician and his large wife. The
latter locked the door and put the key in her
pocket. Then the huge foreigner suddenly
reached out and thumped the young musician,,
who is the smallest man in the profession, on the.
head, remarking : “ Zees ees to pay you for having
me chucked out of Blank’s.” After a painful in-
terval, the wrecked chord-crasher got into his cab'
again adorned behind the ear with a large bump,
which hasn’t quite subsided yet.
The wheeziness of the newly-arrived tenor is.
accounted for partly by his long spell of:
voyaging, which found him sea-sick all the time-
and hasn’t let him sufficiently recover yet to get,
his voice into working order. When the Amy,
Shenvin Co. left by boat for Newcastle on Satur-
day the prudent “robusto” decided to train it,,
lest his last remaining notes should go overboard.
It was indisposition likewise which prevented',
intended shipboard rehearsals of concerted pieces-
among the members, so that a wearied public has.
had to take a substitute, “The Minstrel Boy”'
and “No, Sir,” at every concert.
An informal meeting took place on the verandafii
of St. Vincent’s Hospital oil Wednesday after-
noon last. Several ladies met the authorities to.
hand over the proceeds of this year’s ball. Mrs..
Penny presented the cheque for and the rev.,
mother stood tea all round. Some nuns keep sur-
prisingly young ; the head of the Hospice is a.
brisk, chatty old lady who has been doing hospital;
work for forty years ; at one time she did all the-
dispensing for St. V.’s Hospital. And she doesn’t,
look more than fifty now.
The first evening shi voo at the Society of Artists”
rooms took place on Saturday, and was a fairly-
successful entertainment, except in the way of;
noise. Everything was so hushed and silent, and!
the guests seemed to start away in surprise whem
they met each other around the many angles and!
corners. As a perpetual game of peep-bo it was a.
great scheme. The Lewellyn sisters warbled-
Mrs. Mertel and an unnamed young person re-
lated, Miss Jamieson played, and Dr. Roth and!
another inserted their heads in wire dish-covers,
and fenced in their socks. A reciter down on the.
printed programme for a “ humorous sketch ”
didn’t appear, but two or three oddities acted the
part instead. Artistically-classical drapery on
soulful damsels is always to the fore at a gathering
of picture-makers. One 9lim artist who had neg-
lected the “ evening-dress ” regulation tried to
conoeal himself behind a vase all the evening. It
is intended to have many of these parties during
the course of the show at reduced rates.
A sensation of the near future will be a divorce-
case in which a well-known musical composer will
figure. Rumor speaks of more than one co-
respondent.
Several recent little suburban money-raising
festivals have been almost wrecked at the start by
the non-arrival of thecelebrity specially advertised
to grace the opening. A crowd of godly folk,
who were waiting in a Waverley hall for the
Cardinal to bless their nascent bazaar, began to
get impatient as the hours flew by and the pro-
mised prelate didn’t arrive. It was discovered
per ’phone that he was then at the Premier’s
charity conference, and the sale had to get itself
under weigh without a sacerdotal shove. Also, a
dim little moonlight revel at Glebe Point in the
interests of the Consumptive Homes was blighted
by the non-arrival of Mayor Carey on Friday
night. The garden-party, held in private grounds,
struggled bravely on for two consecutive nights.
It consisted chiefly of brass band and fairy lights.
Singers appeared on a faintly-lit balcony and sang
at intervals out into the night, and the audience
on the garden-walks cricked their necks badly in
gazing up at them. A few “ gipsies ” tied their
heads up in red handkerchiefs, but biz. was slack.
The latest sartorial craze for bright, tight, trans-
parent sleeves on low-cut gowns has been exempli-
fied on the stage and platform lately. Addie
Conyers, in “A Bunch of Keys,” sports a pair of
vivid rose-pink arms, and looks like an advt. of a
patent dye-soap ; and her hat blushes rosily to
match, and has a large-size raven perched in front
and a bunch of ribbon, giving a snappy list to
port. And her figure is as good to look upon as in
the old Gaiety days. Fanny Liddiard’s features
are concealed in a red poke-bonnet and a sneer.
All the ’Murkan soubrettes I have ever seen are
extravagant above and economical below, and
Lottie Moore follows that fashion —wears a three-
decker bonnet and an abbreviated skirt. One
evening, a d.c. lady, hung about with so much
metal that she jangled at every move, rang an in-
voluntary echo on her bangle-bells to the hotel-
bells of the stage, and by-sitters stared round in
wonderment at the fairy peal.
The slump in the earnings of blind street-musi-
cians, caused by an exaggerated report of their
takings, was disclosed at a meeting of those
afflicted street-artists. Most of the speakers re-
ported that ill per week was much above the
average. The meeting, as reported in the papers,
was heart-rending reading. One man deprived of
sight by a sewer-explosion was looking forward to
“the streets ” when his mates and charity gave
out. What a grim outlook after a life of hard
work ! The streets are brought more and more
into the mind of the stony-broke folk of every
grade as the best available field for talent. One
well-known woman, with a voice and a difficulty
in making both ends meet, contemplates raising
that voice from behind an all-disguising veil, and
passing round the hat afterwards for an open-air
collection.
Some glittering gold and silver medals have
been a draw in a George-street music-shop window
lately. The diplomas are to be competed for at
exams, instituted by the associated boards of two
important London musical colleges, which will
begin in Sydney on Thursday next. Besides the
local trial, the competition is open to all
Australians under the guidance of Mr. Lee
Williams. After the judging His Ex. will
distribute the prizes. The whole affair is
conducted with a flourish and much ink-spilling.
Experts are beginning now to ponder seriously on
the worth of the multitudes of musical degrees
open for attainment—many of them quite arbit-
rary. It will become hard to miss having some
kind of a diploma soon ; the man who can pick
out “Benches in the Park ” with one finger will
expect a framed-and-glazed card certifying his
attainment.
The Manly fair and flower show was a cheerful
function with the advantages of suitable weather
and free coaches to the grounds. People scrambled
into the drags waiting near the jetty with all the
alacrity of bogus capitalists in the dead-and-
gone times of land-sales and free champagne.
Although the bazaar-boom is ragjng at present,
every show seems to have its support. Gov.
Hampden remarked the other day that, personally,
he always liked to see a collection of pretty women,
well-dressed and full of animation ; and that was
the secret of much liazaar enthusiasm and philan-
thropic zeal. That method does appear to scoop
the pool effectually. So much so that a distin-
guished visitah to last week’s fSte conveniently
mislaid her purse before stall-holders had time to
fall upon her.
The eternal fitness of things ! Sydney’s most
fashionable cook-shop, recently established under
(ahem!) vice-regal patronage/shares an entrance
with a chemist’s shop. Bane and antidote—pastry
and pills 1
The troubles of an N.SAV. lawyer’s home were
laid bare in the divorce court, recently, when the
petitioning husband’s suit was dismissed and the
wife’s cross appeal o be relieved from her matri-
monial bonds allowed with costs against the hus-
band—who isn t a novice in matrimonial law-
suits, having figured as the very unsuccessful
defendant {.£ LOGO damages) in a breach of promise
case, long, long ago.
The favorite women’s preacher among the R.C.
clergy is Rev. Father O’Farrell, who has been
giving his admirers a treat at St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral lately. His reverence is one of the show
preachers of Australia, and was imported from
Victoria at great expense to preach to the Aus-
trian royalties in Sydney. He has the fluency
of his native Erin, and those in high places nod
complacent approval of his tactful gift of saying
the right thing. The popular cleric seems to be
the Australasian Father O’Flynn. Pious old
ladies of his flock dub him “the rale gintleman ” ;
he is borrowed on every possible occasion by other
provinces when money is to be coaxed for mission
purposes ; and when the clergy retire into “ re-
treat ’’ occasionally his reverence is again there to
pour oil on the waters.
Our recent visitor, Miss Fanny Wentworth,
was sought after socially, and during her stay
brightened many an afternoon-tea swilling. I
heard a wily diplomatist at the Victoria Club one
day use her name to clear his passage to the re-
freshments. He announced carelessly at the door
that “ Miss W. was going to play up-stairs.” Im-
mediately cups were clattered on the table, there
was a rush for the music-room, and the artful man
drank his scalding beverage in peace. At a
swagger suburban “ Kaffeeclatsch,” the other day,
she was the chief attraction, and was interesting for
her original opinions of European celebrities whom
we only read of. Yvette Guilbert’s vogue she
considers “nothing but cheek and long black
gowns.” She imitates Yvette singing an English
song, of which language the Parisian idol doesn’t
know two words. “ London audiences don’t under-
stand the audacity of her songs, which make the
Parisians themselves sit up.” Fanny Wentworth’s
parody of Letty Lind’s “ Tom Tit ” song is capital
for those who have seen and heard the original.
She tells that she gave her burlesque of burlesque
at a London party one day before the Gaiety Girls’
author, Owen Hall, “and he wasn’t a bit offended.”
Owen Hall—real name Davis—is a member of a
clever Hebrew family. One sister is Mrs. Aria,
who makes a mighty income—for a woman —as a
fashion-writer. She’s “ Virginia,” and “ Nita,”
and several aliases; another sister is “ Frank
Danby,” who wrote a hair-raising novel and quar-
relled noisily in print with her one-time master,
George Moore.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Isn’t Bridget entitled to a fair allowance of
breakages whilst on the domestic job? At
Prahran Court, the other day, a girl sued her ex-
mistress for a florin deducted from her three-
shill ings-a-week in consideration of a smashed
tea-pot. The court ruled that the odd shilling
was a quittance in full, and the girl went sadly
away to bemoan her alleged “carelessness.” It
read like a hard case. The smashingof any brittle
utensil always ranks as carelessness where the gal
is concerned, but when Missus drops a plate or
brushes a bit of Dresden off the mantelpiece with
her best Sunday sleeve the calamity happens by
act of God, and the loss is debited to unavoidable
household exes. Perhaps the new Parliament will
legislate for the slave of the kitchen with a Maxi-
mum Breakage Bill, permitting her to work
destruction on a sliding scale. The smaller the
wage the larger the gal’s measure of protection
from ordinary smash-claims.
“ The proprietress of a fashionable ladies’club
somewhere in Australia lately gave a large‘at-
home ’ to advertise the institution, and one of the
members, who was invited, politely called on her
hostess. She was invited to have a cup of tea,
and on leaving was reminded, by the proprietress,
‘ You haven’t paid for your tea. One shilling,
please.’ And yet this clever manager wonders
why she is not popular, and the concern does not
flourish !
“ The women mobbed the Hambourg brothers
after their last concert in Melbourne. They
rushed round to the artists’ room, and overloaded
the poor lads with affectionate farewells, until
Jakoff, sick of the gush, turned to his brother
and said, ‘Let us get out of this.’ Then they
made a desperate dash through the adoring
females and bolted. There could not be more
unresponsive youths to shower affection upon than
the Hainbourgs. Their manners are uncouth, and
they are unable to talk about anything except
music. All their talent goes to their fingers and
their memories.
“ Bible-leaguers still champ triumphantly at the
memory of their Town Hall mass meeting. Lots of
listeners and few opponents brave enough (in view
of packed audience) to say ‘ Boh ’ to a par-
son. Two plucky exceptions were a wild Irish-
woman in the gallery, and on the ground-floor a
lone little he-interjector with the puggiest nose
extant. You can guess how the lorn couple were
shepherded, what with vigilance committees, raw-
boned divinity-students and similar guardians of
the church’s vineyard. Each time the old lady up
above volunteered an anti-Orange remark, a stout
deacon near at hand rose ponderously in his place
and shook a fat forefinger at his erring sister,
doing his best, at the same time, to look
grieved rather than angry. As for the human bull-
terrier down below, whenever he suggested that
the speakers were frightened of the referendum or
otherwise offered unwelcome criticism, shocked
neighbors promptly passed a whisper to the
nearest policeman to keep an eye on him. Mean-
time on the platform ‘ those good men, the clergy-
men,’ uttered anything but ‘words of peace.’
Kind old Bishop Goe, who gets grumbled at
because he puts on no airs himself and asks none
from his clergy, was more or less inoffensive. But
fierce little Dr. Rentoul, regular fighting Paddy
that he is, shouted, waved his arms, jeered at a
parson who criticised the league’s programme,
and, from the back of the hall, looked as if be were
hoo-rooshing his fellow-countrywoman in the bal-
cony to come down and tread on the tail of his
coat. It wasn’t her fault, either, that she didn’t
accept the invitation. Prof. Harper, too, ran
amuck of local politicians. Indeed, the Presby-
terians were the champion fighters of the night.
But, of course, they get so much practice when-
ever their Assembly meets.
“On Wednesday (Oct. 6), the Jewish Day of
Atonement, the faithful, debarred from even a
drop of water, went about as usual, sympatheti-
cally asking co-religionists ‘ How are you fasting,
Mr. I. ?’ or replying, in answer to seasonable in-
quiries, ‘Oh, I’m fasting very weak, Mrs. Cohen.’
At the Synagogue, the men have the worst of it.
They must sit and listen while the Rabbi intones
in Hebrew a vocal exercise which rather recalls
‘ King Billy’s ’ performance when he corrobborees
to order in the back-yard for a coveted ‘ tikpenny.’
Then there are responses to chime in with now and
again, and the more devout worshippers wear
white caps instead of belltoppers, and throw
brown towels over their shoulders by way of sack-
cloth. _ But the women, who don’t count for
much in Jewish religious matters, talk, talk, talk,
in an Upper Chamber and pretty well ignore the
service. Indeed, they have as good a time as the
choirs of up-country Christian churches, and we
all know how they carry on—giggle, pass round
peppermints,and read Sunday-school library books
inside their Bibles. Such brilliant hats as the
daughters of the Chosen wear, and how they com-
miserate those of their married acquaintances who
have no children ! In the middle of loud lamenta-
tions over the dull state of the Jewish marriage-
market, and praise or blame of the rabbi for his
proselytising tendencies, Leah or Rachel turns
suddenly upon her equally talkative neighbors
and rates them soundly for disturbing the wor-
shippers at their prayers.
“ The management of the little Hospital for
Women (Melb.), which owes its early success to
an unassuming group of lady-doctors, seems to
have been captured by a loquacious committee,
composed largely of shining lights from the local
Women’s Club. The new club is not a flourishing
concern, anyway, and seeing that the recent hos-
pital collection (in Jubilee shillings) amounted to
about .£3OOO, a desire to preserve this goodly sum
from the risk of bad management has lately found
expression in gentle shrieks for a reconstructed
committee. There is a pretty general complaint
that Drs. Constance and Clara Stone, notwith-
standing their valuable services in promoting the
hospital and its shilling fund, are now elbowed
aside by self-assertive colleagues.
“ A new departure in the independence of the
At a recent Melb. Suburban Spinsters’
Ball, the bandmaster sent for the lady-secretary,
instead of timing up at a given signal from the
steward. The lady-sec. appeared in some pertur-
bation to learn the cause of the delay. ‘Madam,’
burst forth the wild-eyed fiddler, ‘do you think
for an instant I am going to ruin my reputation
by leading in a three-strong band to that crowd ?
Listen to the buzzing. I simply refuse to play.’
The unhappy hireling wailed for fully 15 minutes
to the immoveable spinster, till at length he
yielded to the force of circumstances on the pro-
viso that the name of his band should remain a
secret, the advt. to be sacrificed ‘ for the honor of
his name.’ ”
“For the first time in its unnecessary career,
the Austral Salon was used for tying the nuptial
knot, last week, when Miss Agnes Macmillan took
to herself Mr. John Jackson, in holy matrimony.
“As usual, there is much grumbling as to the
system on which the cards of invitation to the
Vice-regal ball in Cup-week have been sent out.
Not more than one girl in a family is invited, and,
in some cases, the sons of a house have received
cards and the womenkind are completely over-
looked. A dearth of dancing-men has always
marked the Brassey hops up to now, and perhaps
a wild effort to equalise the sexes is thus being
made. Most girls are chortling over the fact that
the affair is to be fancy-dress. Last season’s
garments, turned and twisted and liberally
besprinkled with inexpensive spangles and
sequins adroitly manoeuvred, will make a fair
show at the ‘rag fair,’ and violet-powder and
court-plaster will help out the effect of a faked
‘Lady Teazle’ costume very charmingly. The
men, for a change, will be the expensively-clad
ones at this dance. A fancy costume for a man
cannot be ‘ faked ’ —he must lay out large sums
on it, and then is usually rewarded by looking
like a burlesque of the character he wishes to
represent.
“ A Melbourne mother whose daughter goes to
a young ladies’college where Bible-reading is re-
ligiously enforced, has impounded a remarkable
piece of evidence of the sound moral effect of such
readings. It is a School Bible, with all the ‘objec-
tionable ’ passages carefully marked and indexed
on the fly-leaf. A brother of Radical proclivities
threatens to produce this volume at one of the
meetings held to demand the reading of Scripture-
lessons in the State-schools.
“I know of at least one Vic. M.L.A. whose
wife would benefit by his defeat at the coming
election. The patriot in question is gloomy old
G., the member for . He regards himself
with great seriousness, does G., and oft in the
stilly night he arouses his lawful partner from
slumber that she may harken to a ten-line speech
which he has been composing between the blan-
kets, and tell him whether it sounds forcible. The
dutiful spouse makes no protest at the time, but
she mentions her grievance to her lady friends,
and whenever she hears of any bachelor politician
Eaying addresses to an unsuspecting girl she
eaves a deep-drawn sigh and says, ‘ Poor thing 1 ’
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
At Port Augusta, S.A., last week, Strick-
land Gough Kingston, solicitor, elder and only
brother of Premier Kingston, died by his own
hand. As brainy as his forceful and distinguished
brother, he simply threw away all his chances.
He was champion athlete of his day, and brightest
boy of his school, but possessed more than his
share of the family eccentricity—for instance, he
■once freakfully fired a pistol at a cabman, and got
into severe trouble over it. The sad event has
evoked the deepest sympathy among all classes for
Premier Kingston, whose depression on visiting
the scene of death was most painful to behold.


• •
Kuppers Elberfelcl Lager.
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
PfrotograpbiC Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 2 Is.
SPOOLS OP FILM for 12 EXPOSURES, 1 6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIXE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHIN, Aqknt, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
G. Republican Dibbs was 63 years old on
Oct. 12.
Unless the well-advertised Kernel Lasset-
tah gets a title war between England and Aus-
tralia will probably eventuate at an early date.
South Australia has two Privy Councillors,
and it so happens that one learned his profession
from the other —Kingston having served his
articles in Way’s office.
A N.S.W. ex-Minister of the Crown,
whose iron-grey hairs were last week an object of
admiration, has suddenly appeared on the Block
with locks as black as a rs en’s wing.
Petone, a suburb of Wellington (M.L.),
built on the site of Britannia, the original Wel-
lington township, has just elected a woman to its
Borough Council at the top of the poll.
Mr. E. J. BRADY, a “Bulletin ” bard.
Photo., Ideal Portrait Co.
This is a fairly-satisfactory presentment of
E. J. Brady, whose swinging verses have often
brought a whiff of the sea to far-back Bulletin
readers. Brady is a native of N.S.W., of Irish
descent, in point of age verging on the thirties.
He shipped to America and back as a lad ; was a
Sydney wharf-clerk fora while, and in fraternising
with many a rolling mariner picked up his vast
vocabulary of fo’c’s’le lingo; by degrees drifted
into journalism, and by degrees is drifting into
literature. Already he has made at least a small
mark, and, if fortune favors, he may make a big one.
G. D. Clark, the N.S.W. Cold-Tea boss,
and F. Bevill, the N.S.W. grog secretary, have
both taken to side-shows. Does each regard his
ancient kingdom as passing away? Does each,
with the mind’s eye, see the municipalisation or
nationalisation of grogshops, and, as a consequence,
the extinction of ranting teetotalisin and private
red-nosed whisky-vending ?
No such thing as luck 1 Three workers at
Mort’s Dock fought for the Eight-Hour principle.
One, Jacob Garrard, is now Minister for Educa-
tion ; Angus Cameron is dead ; a third was bound
over on Eight-Hour Day, at Parramatta Police-
court, to keep the peace towards the superintend-
ent of the Destitute Asylum wherein he is spend-
ing the evening of his days
Trenwith appeared before his constituents
in full Convention fig—expansive shirt front bil-
lowing above low-cut vest, cummerbund with
heavy gold chain, ring on finger, bell-topper shiny
as a bald head in mosquito-time. The Tribune of
the People gets fat, not to say oily, but the voters
forgive his effervescence in remembering his good,
hard work in the cause of Labor.
Bush Scribe : “ What became of Douglas
Jerrold’s brother ? He used to tramp round
everywhere, and would turn up, A la Rip Van
Winkle, in a blue shirt, with a stick six feet
long, corresponding somewhat to his hair and
beard. 1 Want a job. What can you do V ‘Edit,
sub-edit, report, read, compose, canvass. Nothing
to-day ? Thanks. Got a bit o’ cold steak ?’ ”
Ro. Sladen's Mrs. Watson “poem,” a cor-
respondent writes : —A greater than Sladen has
commemorated the event on Mrs. Watson’s monu
ment in Cooktown. The inscription is unimport-
ant until the full beauty of the last two lines
bursts on you—
Her last fond entiy showed a mother’s care,
And then near dead with thirst.
John Davis, Mayor.
Mr. George Tovvson, the oldest attorney
out West, died last week, aged Bfi. He was a
native of Bath, England, and settled in Orange,
N.S.W., in the early sixties, in partnership with
Mr. George Colquhoun, the present N.S.W.
Crown Solicitor. He tilled many offices, includ-
ing those of Town Clerk, Returning Officer,
Coroner, and was the “ Mr. Tulkinghorn ” of the
district.
The widow of the late Gov. Thurston, of
Fiji, is now in Sydney in fairly comfortable cir-
cumstances. In addition to £l5O a year pension
from the British Treasury, Fiji Parliament has
granted her £5O a year for each of the four
juvenile Thurstons. The late High Commissioner
of the Pacific died very poor; had he chosen to
“dabble,” he could perhaps have dishonorably en-
riched himself.
Duncan Gillies, who has been travelling
on the Scottish ticket all his political life, is a
Northumbrian, like his late respected brother-
blatherskite, J. B. Patterson. If the boys want
to get Duncan’s hair off on polling-day they should
learn the old song, “Cam’ye from Newcastle?”
and roar it outside his committee-rooms. It’s the
only song that was ever known to reach Dunk’s
heart, unpleasantly or otherwise.
The soul of Hoolan, M.L.A., was recently
rent at the thought “that a rebel Irishman should
migrate to Australia, join the police, and spend
his life running-in loyal Englishmen ! ”
Mrs. M‘Eachern, one of those who. in the
very early days, crossed the River Murray in a
boat made of bullock-hides—the only kind of boat
then in use—died in that quarter a week ago,
aged 87.
A relative of a recently-executed Austra-
lian remarked to a friend, when he heard that the
last hope of a reprieve was gone : “ Well, it carn’t
be helped. Anyhow, Jimmy ’ll die like a toff.”
Which Jimmy accordingly did.
Mrs. M. A. Smith, of Kerr-street, Fitzroy,
claims to be the oldest surviving Victorian
colonist. She was born at sea, and crossed over
to Port Phillip in the Blossom in 1837 ; her father
was the first brick-maker in the settlement.
The Mayor of Sleepy Hollow (alias Nelson,
M.L.) went to Wellington to officially greet
Governor Ranfurly. He wired back to the town-
clerk : “ Have seen the Governor. Bind him inte-
resting and animated.” Sounds like a description
of a flea.
Judge Hartley will be 54 and editor Bony-
thon, of Adelaide, will be 49 on Oct. 15 ; wicket-
keeper Jarvis (Adelaide) will be 37 and H. J.
Wrixon (Melbourne) will be 58 on Oct. 18. Sarah
Bernhardt (of everywhere) will be 53 and Premier
Kingston 47 on Oct. 22.
Melb. Weekly Times publishes a set of
portraits of contemporary Australian poets and
novelists. The choice is queer. The editor stars
E. B. Loughran as a poet, but apparently has not
heard of Brunton Stephens ; sticks in the “ mug ”
of Guy Boothby, but is ignorant of either Rolf
Boldrewood or Louis Becke.
Four years ago, N.S.W. Supreme-Court
Judges’ pension-list stood at .£7900 annually,
spread over Stephen, Manning, Fawcett, and
Deffell. Now it is a bare £lB2o—pocketed by
Foster. Stephen and Manning between them
drew about £55,000 as pension.
Alfred Deakin, accused of Atheism by an
interjector at one of his Essendon meetings,
blurted out; “ That is a lie ! I was once a Sunday-
school teacher.” We shouldn’t be surprised if
Alfred got into trouble after this. Probably his
name should be spelt “ Deacon.”
David Syme, by agents in direct personal
communication with himself, pulled strings at
every election in Vic. this time. He has attained
a dictatorship unknown in any other country of
the world —and, as he passes down Swanston-
street, no one turns to look at him, for he is quite
unknown to the people he governs.
Quaint New Woman advt. in Otago Daily
Times (M.L.)
ETHEL R. BENJAMIN,
Barrister and Solicitor,
■\Y7ill be pleased to receive clients at her offices,
'' Albert Buildings, Princes-street, Dunedin
Old politician Henry Smith Fish died of
cancer the very day Maoriland Parliament opened,
so some dreadful things which he meant to say
about his old enemy, Minister John M'Kenzie, were
lost. Fish was more or less in politics for 30 years;
he had brains, and some Democratic instincts,
and a bitter gift of making enemies. Ever since
John M‘Kenzie aimed that famous pickle-bottle
at him, Fish “ laid for ” him with the patience of
Job. Then just when John had put both his
bluchers into it over the Bushy Park transaction,
and there was a fine opening for Fish to over-
whelm his enemy with verbal dead-cat, death
came in the way.
POINTS OF VIEW.
CAPTIVE : “ But my father's a bank manager!”
BRIGAND SPOKESMAN: “is that all? W’y, ’is
father's a footballer, but we ain't proud—
we’ll let you 'arc a go at ’im. ”
The moral of poor Mr. Lily Langtry’s
mental breakdown and incarceration in a lunatic
asylum, is not, as one Sydney paper puts it,
“Don’t marry a pretty woman.” The moral is,
“Don’t let your pretty wife get to know the
Prince of Wales —or any other Royalty.”
WHERE THE TROUBLE GAME IN.
FIRST JOHNNY: “ You don’t seem to like dunein[?].”
SECOND JOHNNY: “ We'l, dontcherknow, I can get on well enough by
myself, but the music and the girl always put me out ,
dontcherknow!”
Curious how, in the early numbers of the
Sydney Convention debates, Ministers and ex-
Ministers who are not knights are named, at the
commencement of their speeches, as plain “ Mr.’ ;
but, in the later numbers, we have “ The Hon.
Mr. Deakin,” “The Hon. I. A. Isaacs,” “The
Hon. J. W. Holder,” and so on. Why this grovel ?
And why say “ The Right Hon. Sir George
Turner,” and “The Right Hon. G. H. Reid ” at
the beginning of speeches ? In the British Han-
sard, it is plain “ Mr. Gladstone” and “Mr.
Balfour.”
An analysis of Prof. Marshall Hall’s
“ Book of Canticles ” shows that the amatory
musician mentions kissing 16 times. The varieties
of kissing described in the verses are numerous.
There is the inebriated kiss—“ Within thine arms,
drunk with thy breat ’, touching me with thy
lips.” Then follows, “Here where thy white,
warm arms hold me close prest, kissing the veined
curves of thy rich breast.” Also the poppied kiss
—“ Then with thy lips, thy poppied lips—nay,
lips than poppies rosier, more full of balm—O kiss
me, kiss me close, aye closer yet.” Likewise the
hysterical kiss —“ There is madness in thy lips’
warm kiss.” The last mention of kisses in the
volume is “ We’ll kiss no more.” Just about time
he did leave off.
Old Saul Samuel,
appointed N. S. W.
Agent - General in
1880, is to leave office
in the latter part of
this year. The
veteran first came to
the front in politics
as Treasurer in Fors-
ter’s Mini s t ry for
four months in 1859-
GO. He had another
spell as Treasurer
under Covvper for 2 k
months in ’65, and
again under Robertson for two years
in ’6B-70. Then there was a great fall,
and after being three times Treasurer
he had three spells at the tail-end of as
many different Ministries as Postmas-
ter-General—first for two years under
Parkes ; then for five months under
Parkes ; and lastly for 18 months, also
under Parkes. When a politician gets
down from Treasurer to P.-M.-G.-ship,
it is obvious that his day in politics is
nearly over, and Saul Samuel wisely
took the Agent-General and got out.
Card. Moran and satellities attri-
bute the Divine Favor shown to Queen
Victoria in re herlong-seatedness to the
Almighty’s approval of R.C. emancipa-
tion in Bull-land. Humph ! The C.
of R. praises its Joss for noticing Victoria so
long because she is Head of the Church by Law
Established. The Nonconformists find in the
Long Reign an indication that God approves of
the freedom granted to them. The Hebrews say
that Jehovah thinks a lot of Rothschild—the real
Power behind the Throne. This idolatrous paper
respectfully fears that Providence has a Down on
Tummy.
Mrs. Perkins, who lately died at Bowen-
fels (N.S.W.), was the mother of 19 children, 16
of whom still live. Her grandchildren numbered
103, of whom 91 live. And she leaves 27 living
great grandchildren.
Bishop Tyrrell,
over whose New-
castle diocesan pro-
perty N.S. Wales
Equity Court has
been lately occu-
pied, was one of
the first batch of
bishops consecra-
ted in W estminster
Abbey for Austra-
lian service. The
trio were Short,
Perry and Tyrrell.
Till the present
time each has had
two successors:
Short —Kennion and Har-
mer ; Perry Moorhouse
and Goe; and Tyrrell—
Pearson and Stanton.
W. J. T. Clarke once
gave evidence, in Melb.
Supreme Court, that he was
quite distressed to know
wliat to do with .£60,000,
in the bank. A slip of
paper was handed up to
him, from the barristers’
table: “Messrs. Ireland,
Aspinall, Michie, Fellows,
Dawson, and Billing would
be happy to relieve Mr.
Clarke’s distress, to the ex-
tent of =l*lo,ooo a piece.”
Duffy was given up by
the Melb. doctors m 1859,
and his death was reported
in the Leg. Assembly. Dys-
entery was the trouble. He
writes that his mind was
entirely gone. He mixed
up politics with the last
novel he read, and could
not disentangle them. “ I
felt every night as if an
avalanche of ice was poured
into my abdomen.” He
could not move, or even
lift a finger. How these
queasy-wheezers knock out
the strong ! He lived to
marry and have children by two more wives, the
last a hearty young lady, 40 years his junior, but
she has pre-deceased him.
Re nationality of W. B. Dailey’s father,
The Bulletin is authentically informed that an
examination of the late R. B. Dailey’s papers has
conclusively shown that the elder Dailey was born
May, 1804, in Dorsetshire and in the Anglican
Church, that he afterwards became R.C., and that
W.B.’s mother was a native of Cork. This should
clinch the matter.
Apropos the miserable haggle over the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners’ salaries, the
biggest Australian income from personal exertion
is that of John Howell, general manager of the
Smelting Co. of Australia and consulting local
engineer to various English and other mining cor-
porations. From the Smelting Co. alone Mr.
Howell gets £lO,OOO a year, and his fees from
other companies are certainly not less than .£15,000
a year.
Handsome Premier Braddon’s personality
impresses itself on his subordinates in a marked
mannah—nearly every civil servant in Tasmaniah
unconsciously imitates the ducal drawl of the
chief., During the Premier’s Jubilee absence Sir
Fysh’s cheerful wail somewhat corrupted the
purity of the departmental tones, but with the
return of the boss to the Isle of Dreams the
hau-haughty vernacular of Miss Braddon’s weary
heroes was promptly reinstated as the correct
language in hawficial circles.
The oldest resident of Molong (N.S.W.)
is Mr. Sam. Beadle, of the Shades, who has lived
in the neighborhood since July, 1834—63 ye.irs
ago. There was then but one house in the locality,
an old slab dwelling only pulled down a few years
ago. This was the residenceof Andrew Kerr, father
of Kerr, M.L.C., who managed parson Mars-
den’s estate, now known as Vale Head, where
Mr. Betts, a grandson of the parson, resides.
The house in which Mr. Betts lives was once
a pub., and was kept by a brother of Cobden, the
corn-law reformer. Poor Cobden occupies an un-
marked grave in the old cemetery on the banks of
the river Molong, close to the town.
The. late Judge Windeyer, despite (lie
toughness of his expression, was a hysterical im-
pressionist as regards women. He was absolutely
no judge of faces. The hard-faced, thin-lipped
Xantippe who shed crocodile-tears in the witness-
box while she told a tissue of glaring lies had
always a better chance of securing his sympathies
than the patient woman who bore herself bravely
and didn’t snuffle. Once, a flashy female fury, with
virago written on every line of her cruel face, and
a stuffed vulture in her hat, and a leer in her eye,
applied for a divorce with a hideous tale of the
outrages committed on her by a small, crushed-
looking husband whom she could have knocked
out in one round. And Windeyer shed tears over
her, and granted her divorce, with su >h tremendous
alimony that the crushed little iru u now owes
more than he can ever pay, even it he sells his
share of the Kingdom of Heaven to raise the
money.
H. : “ I have gleaned from Winter, Doyle,
and Deary, his intimates, something in regard to
Cavan Duffy’s habits. He said to Sam Winter:
‘Never, as a bus'ness man, try to snatch a mid-
day dinner, but have a leisurely six o’clock one,
taking as long as you like.' This was about the
only regimen he practised, for, weakling as he was,
he set the doctors at defiance. A bad sleeper, he
would read till three or four in the morning after
an exciting parliamentary debate, which had fol-
lowed a hard day’s work in the Lands office.
Strictly sober, he would yet inflame his tissues
with spirits, and mentions in his autobiog. how he
drank a brandy, the glass filled up with gin,
thinking it water. Yet he was associated with
stalwart men, most nervous about their health
and so long have they been dead that he can
write about them with all the malice of Lord
Campbell tickling up the shades of Lyndhurst
and Brougham in his ‘ Lives of the Chancellors.’ ”


Soft CaoVaS Shifts
Made to Measure.
Post tree 30 - per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE ]}HOTHEItS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
“T WO GOOD xmisras ”
. . Madb in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pu e Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
For Soups, Fish, Chops. Steaks, etc., HOLBROOK’S SAUCE is the most DELICIOUS. Ihe
CHEAPEST, and has the LARGEST SALE of any Sauce in the World. HOLBROOK’S
PICKLES are selected ENGLISH Vegetables, prepared in PURE MALT Vinegar, and can be had
in Onions, Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow from all first-class Crocers.
Lgent for New South Wales: ... Mr. Jambs 0. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydnky.
igents for Victoria: ... ... Messrs. Wm. Peterson & Co., Mklbournb.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the new Vegetable. Anti-Rat,
PHYTOLINE
RE<> isr EKED.
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Oases.
It is the only safe cure for CORPULENCY. It also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taker
according to directions. Males and females have lost from 15 to 20 poundsla month and kept in splendid health.
Stout people who pant and grow red in the face when walking up stairs, up inclines, or at tempt to run, get rapid relief.
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a course of this remedy.
PHYTOLINE j
PHYTOLINE |
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing the fatly tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy and light.
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entirely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
can be obtained from all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, ?><., 55., and 125.,
in t.ahlot. orlinoid form The largest bottles or boxes arp p<m»l to «iv of thp small size
Aboriginalities .
Christianity, Joss and thirst are mingled
in a recent issue of Croydon (N.Q.) Mining News.
One advt. calls for tenders for the erection of a
R.C. presbytery. Another invites tenders for a
new Wesleyan church. Then the two following
appear:—
The new Joss House will be opened on Sunday next,
Ist Aug. The public are cordially invited to attend.
Visitors must not touch anything in the Joss House, and
bad language is strictly prohibited.
We, the undersigned publicans of True Blue and Station
Creek, have determined that on and after Ist August all
spirits, viz., brandy, whisky, schnapps, gin, and rum,
shall be charged for at the rate of one shilling per drink.
All the other drinks at the former prices.
Consider the N.Q. thirst, and the N.Q. adjective,
and then ponder over the grotesqueness of the
situation when the Bananalander, with his tongue
hanging out from drought, is invited to come and
see Joss, and at the same time is prohibited from
remarking that it is a blanky fine Joss, and that
it is blanky hot, and that he has got a thirst that
is just like blank. If he isn’t allowed to say that
it is a blanky fine Joss, what can he say? It
wouldn’t be polite to go without saying some-
thing, and there is practically nothing that can be
said up there without blanky.
• * * *
Not long ago Q. Govt., with intent to
beneficently soothe the last days of “a decaying
race,” divided the province into two districts, and
gave the miserable aboriginals in the northern
district into the charge of Parry-Okeden, while
the miserable remnant of aboriginals in the
southern district wei-e placed under Meston’s con-
trol. It’s just the billet Meston has been craving
for all his life —and zeal! and theories ! and
results! The Govt, is getting quite alarmed.
First thing Meston did was to stop supplies of
opium and rum. Second thing, to collect his
miserable remnants into spacious reserves from
which whites are warned off (at Maryborough
they were nullah-nullahed off!) and give ’em
limited rations and unlimited fishing - tackle.
Third thing—and this is what has frightened the
Govt. —to become an aboriginal matrimonial
agency, and provide lively young gins for
spirited young bucks. Consequence is, not
only are the blacks getting quite fat and
stalwart, but the birth-rate shows a tre-
mendous increase. The blacks under Meston’s
control aren’t “ a decaying race ” any longer ; and
the Govt, is beginning to wonder if beneficence
hasn’t put its foot in it. For Meston is quite
proud of his work, and takes a sort of paternal
interest in every fresh case of twins, and redoubles
his zeal to find spirited young gins for lively young
bucks. And when he reports that “males being
in the majority at Double Island, I have recently
drafted thither 12 gins from a distant tribe, in
order to equalise matters, and anticipate the hap-
piest results,” Govt, shakes its head ominously.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Re rabbits climbing trees
and netting-fences. On a Darling station where
I was, the manager built a stack of hay, and
THE WORST OF ALL CRIMES.—A.D. 1900.
THE BENCH: “ You are charged with owning a racing-pony. How
do you plead?"
“Guilty, your Honor.”
HIS WORSHIP : “Seven years’ hard—take him away.”
netted it round with 3ft. bin. netting about 4ft.
from the stack. Some time afterwards, having
occasion to visit the stack, I saw numbers of
rabbits outside, and when they caught sight of
me they all climbed the netting, apparently
making two leaps of it, and hid themselves in the
stack. On examination I found the lower part of
the stack riddled with burrows. On reporting the
matter others went to see the stack, and also saw
the rabbits making for home over the netting,
As to their climbing
trees, I can’t say
much, but think a
good many of such
statements over-
drawn. However, I
believe the rabbit,
more than any other
animal, can adapt
himself to his sur-
roundings, and mould
his habits so as to
sui t hi s circumstances.
I, and many others,
have seen rabbits,
singly and in num-
bers, swimming the
Darling when it has
been running a
banker. How would
a Scotch gamekeeper
swallow that state-
ment ? In the same
way I think that
“ X.Z.” looks upon
the statement re net-
ting - climbing, etc.,
and yet it is well-
known in Australia
that rabbits take
readily to the water.
I believe that in
years to come the
Australian rabbit will
have so altered his
appearance and form
to suit his altered cir-
cumstances that he
will be an animal
totally different from
his British ances-
tors. — Balmalcolm.
* • *
Dear B. Few
know to what an ex-
tent inter-marriage is
carried on in N.S.W.
country districts; it
is possible this in-
breeding may bear
upon the much-discussed physical decadence of
Australians. As far as town-bred boys are con-
cerned it may be presumed that the causes which
produce the “ Arab ” and “ Gamin ” of London
and Paris are also responsible for our weedy larri-
kin and hollow-chested clerk. But with climate,
food, occupation and environment practically un-
changed there is no apparent reason why the
Cornstalk—tall and wiry—should become extinct,
or at least “ devolute.” You lately quoted a case
where four brothers married four sisters. I know
an instance where two families of eight—four boys
and four girls—made an even swap, and the whole
16 intermarried. The horrible cases of incest
that recently revolted the country are surely
little worse than the cohabitation of the
descendants of such a mixed crowd as this.
In a school I called at the other day, 23 out of 25
scholars present answered
to the same name, and
I can recall sevei'al coun-
try schools the pupils at
which were all related.
The cause is obvious.
Two families, perhaps
connected, settle down ;
the children grow up, take
up selections, and then
—propinquity being the
all-important facto r—
intermarry until the re-
lationship becomes an
Egyptian puzzle. Occa-
sionally one of the boys—
the “ lad ” of the family
—marries the station
governess, or the pro-
visional school - teacher
finds it advisable to marry
one of the girls, but, as
a r 'le, they wed their
con is. The axiom laid
down in the “Guide to
Canvassing”—“lngratiate
yourself with a possible
client by abusing his
neighbors,” doesn’t work
in the bush, for the
chances are the man you
are speaking of as a
“ scab ” or “cattle-duffer ”
is a blood-relation of your
auditor. I move that
cousinly-marriages be
made a capital offence,
and that no man in the
bush be permitted to take
% wife from within 20 miles
of his residence. — Ponte.
* * •
Scarem lacked will-
power. Five years in suc-
cession he had drawn his
annual cheque from
Dumpum Downs, intend-
ing to go to Brisbane;
but somehow he always
pulled up at Catcliem s
shanty, and stayed there.
So did his cheque. This
Xmas Scarem resolved to
alter. He marched boldly
past the inevitable shanty.
“ Hey, Scarem,” called out old Catehem, “ where
to now?” “To Brisbane. No more of your blue-
devils for me.” “ Come and have a drink,” said
Catehem. “Soft tack,” replied Scarem. The
publican poured out a lemonade and laughed
heartily. Scarem drank and departed. Half-a-
mile along the road he met a poor unfortunate
who had broken his leg and rudely spliced it up
with bark—a station-hand seeking work. “How
did this happen ? ” inquired Scarem, compassion-
THE DOG THAT WAS DRUNK.
G ENT: “ What have you done with the other pup you offered for sale ?”
DEADBEAT: “We drank that—(hic)—beautiful pup, sir—(hic)—try in’
to keep this’n till to-morrow !”
ately. “My horse shied and threw me,” said the
station-hand. “I’ll go to the shanty and get help
for you,” said Scarem. The fallen man laughed,
but Scarem took it for joy. “ A man on the road
with his leg broken,” said Scarem, out of breath,
to the publican, “ and lam quite upset; give me
a nip of rum.” A bottle and glass were left on
the counter, while the landlord prepared a
stretcher. Down the road the hawk and pigeon
went, carried the injured man back to the shanty,
and placed him on the bar floor. “ Have another
drink, Scarem,” said Catcliem, while he poured
some down the injured man’s throat. Then the
shanty-keeper played a concertina, while the
bogus injured man untied the bark splints and
danced a hornpipe on the floor. Scarem never
saw Brisbane.
♦ * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Re religious instruction
in N.S.W. public schools. Outside the very few
centres where clergymen attend to impart it,
teachers regard it as a subject foi which so many
marks may be obtained. The majority of the
pupils who have passed through my hands got the
whole of their religious training from me, and it
is much the same with all country teachers. Now,
I was never very strong in theology, but, having
ordinary skill as a raconteur, I got off a lot of early
Biblical stories, adapted them to the slight recep-
tive faculties of my flock, and, until I came to
Sydney, always got a fair mark. That my chil-
dren acquired Scriptural knowledge, if not in Scrip-
tural language, will be seen from the following ex-
cerpts from exercise-books :
Esau was out kangarooing one day and came home
starved, but couldn’t find anything to eat. So he sold his
birthright to Jacob for a bit of tucker.
Joseph’s brother sold him because he was a sneaking
tell-tale ; and he went to Potiphar’s house, and Mrs.
Potiphar wanted him to make love to her, and Joseph
said he wouldn’t, so she told her husband Joseph was a
rude man, and he was put in gaol.
Fancy explaining to a class of precocious and
enquiring youngsters the facts of this case !
So Moses went to Pharaoh and said, “You let them
people go,” and Pharaoh said “ I won’t,” and Moses said,
“Well, God’ll make you,” and Pharaoh said “What
God?” and Moses said, “My God,” and Pharaoh said,
“ What rot! ”
When I was«shifted to Sydney I got several hints
that the pet fad of the Inspector was Scripture,
but I reckoned I was pretty well up in the subject
by this time. The first question staggered me.
“ Who can enumerate in proper sequence the
places visited by St. Paul during his second jour-
ney to Rome ? ” The class looked at me, but I
was gazing admiringly on the man who knew that
Paul did make a second journey. “ Humph !
Who can state the calling of the twelve disciples?”
“ Humph ! Who can name the seven churches ? ”
Ah ! that was better—several hands up. “ Well ? ”
“ Please, the Church of England, Roman Catholic,
Presbyt . ” “ That will do, my boy, you don’t
seem to have had the New Testament. Now,
who can tell me the significance of Belshazzar’s
dream as interpreted by Daniel ? No one ! Well,
who can quote any references made in the Old
Testament to the Advent? Humph! Well, in
how many days was the world made?” Every
hand up! “Six!” “Quite right. That will
do.” I got “ Indifferent.”—P.
* * * *
Bogan Billy, the lately notorious aborigi-
nal, when before the local P.M. was asked if he
wished to say anything. Whereupon he turned to
the arresting constable and said, “Pleethman,
where my schnapps ? ”
“It was the Day of Judgment. Among all
the thousands of women from earth, one was
found fit to enter Heaven. As she was about to
pass through the gates, Satan, who was standing
by, winked. ‘No,’ said the woman, ‘I had rather
be Queen of Hell ’ —and off she went with Satan. ”
—F.C.
The possibilities of Boothism are wonder-
ful. A N.S.W. man used the Harmy organisation
to trace out his wife in India, and has obtained
evidence which promises him a divorce.
A Paris correspondent of The Bulletin
translates from Le Temps :
A cheap and effective method of preserving- butter for
exportation has at last been discovered. A colorless and
odorless antiseptic, called ervsoline, in the proportion ol
5 parts to 1000 of water, is made thoroughly to permeate
the butter, which is then, with a little more of the fluid,
hermetically sealed up in iron cylinders. In this way it
will remain good for years, requiring only to be washed
when taken out. This simple plan should do away with
the heavy expense of the refrigerating appliances now in
use.
J. Platt-Betts, one of the world’s cycling
record-breakers, is a peachy-cheeked young Lon-
doner—one whom all the Australian old maids
would fairly eat, had he not brought his wife
with him to shoo away undesirable company. He
stands sft. sin. high ; measures round the
unexpanded and 42in. round the expanded chest.
He is 23 years old, and has been married three
years ; at the altar, he weighed 9st. ; to-day, he
weighs list. And, as he has done all his record-
breaking since marriage, he is one of the very few
athletes who do not curse their marriage as their
downfall. Mrs. Platt-Betts, indeed, is a marvel-
lous little woman ; she takes genuine and active
interest in her husband’s work and welfare ; she
understands tracks, cycles, and pacing as well as
he does; and she trains her man as a scientist
might—diets him, nurses him, and, if neces-
sary, humors him ; altogether, sends him up to
the scratch with a ton of confidence and 30
miles of sprint. It is Mrs. Platt-Betts to whom
the better half of Platt - Betts’ r< cords belong.
She is a good cyclist also; and many
Sydney women - cyclists are hereby solemnly
advised to watch and copy her ; for she does not
sit upon her wheel as a fat hen sits upon eggs.
Platt-Betts has plenty to say apart from “ biz ” in
favor of cycling ; though he does not burst into
hysterics over it. But he collectedly and sensibly
says that he has seen it change many a weak or
ailing man or woman into a strong or healthy one.
Platt-Betts believes in the French school regard-
ing training and diet; he does five miles in the
morning and five in the evening on his wheel ;
and he “eats and drinks any thing within reason”:
J. PLATT-BETTS, a champion English cyclist.
Photo., C. F. Treble, Brixton, S.W.
but he does not bow down to the French school’s
bloomers. “ French bloomers are merely another
name for closed combinations, and the gay Parisi-
enne would look much better if she kept her petti-
coats and skirts on. However, although lam
married, I know little about ladies’ clothing—ex-
cept paying for it.” He wished to be excused con-
cerning Bilmartin’s much-proposed match with
him.


FRANZ JOSEF .
PUiSENTBR
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free 1 or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
That ingenious little aid to secret tele-
graphy, the “Ampliphone, '’ laid aside in ’BB-9
when the dynamo began to supersede the battery
in large offices, has found a new and more im-
portant use, as a superior substitute for the stetho-
scope. The sounds made plainly audible are :
blood-circulation, respiratory action, movement of
digestive organs, sounds made by movement of
joints, muscles, bones, capillary circulation, and
other sounds in eye, ear, bladder, stomach, and
intestines. That the pulse can now be plainly
heard is of some importance ; all this in conjunc-
tion with the Rontgen ray, and “phosphorescent
light ” for the translumination of our “ innards,”
gives some faint idea how medical science moves.
Cross Examination
COULD NOT WEAKEN SUCH TESTIMONY.
The following statement is one of great interest
to our citizens. Mr. John Blade, Miner, Omeo,
Gippsland testifies as follows : “I had a very bad
attaok of indigestion, brought on by drinking
excessively hard, brackish water in hot weather.
I got so bad I could not retain liquid or solid
nourishment, and was seized with fits of nausea
and retohing nearly* every hour, although nothing
but foam resulted. I was so giddy at times that I
could hardly walk, and could not sleep at night.
Suffering, and in this terrible condition for a fort-
night, I purchased remedies from the local chemist
but got little or no relief. I then tried Warner’s
‘ Safe ’ Cure. I was so bad I had all I could do to
keep the first dose down, and managed by walking
to and fro for half an hour. After the second
dose I was able to retain a cup of weak tea. That
night I had several hours’ good sleep. I con-
tinued, and was completely cured.” This kind of
evidence cannot be weakened by cross-examination.
Wabneb’s Safe Cube is a Specific fob Lives
and Kidney Disease.*
STRUCK GOLD.
Get a packet of Ogden’s Guinea Gold and you
have struck a pure and unadulterated Cigarette.
Train-travelling is still full of incident in
parts of Westralia. The mineralised water used
on the Murchison line eats into the joints of the
engine-tubes; so, when a heavy gradient is
reached, the loco, has a habit of resolutely stick -
ing-up, whereupon the passengers get out and
shove. At latest the contractors had “ordered
fresh engines from the Govt., which ought to last
until the department takes over the line in
January.”
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTOASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
%
Lae
DU
AFT€R
months of waiting we have at last received some shipments of the famous DU NLOP Cycles,
consisting of Racing Models only, but we are promised consignments of Roadsters by an
early boat.
There is certainly no other cycle that has attained a world-wide reputation such as the
Cunlop Cycle has secured in the few months it has been before the public.
The manufacturers of the Dunlop Cycles did not leave anything to chance when setting
out their plans. The ruling idea from the start was, “We must build the best bicycle ever
made.” To do that it was necessary to secure the most skilful designers, J/est machinery, able
mechanics, and reliable material. Having command of ample capital, there was no hitch m
these respects, and the result is that the public is constantly being astonished to hear ot
more wonderful records made on
“PUNLOP” CYCLES
WITH DUNLOP TYRES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
393 Georoe Street,
SYDNEY;
139-141 Elizabeth
Street,
MELBOURNE ;
Rdndlk Street,
ADELAIDE;
Hay Street,
PERTH;
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE ;
Christchurch,
Dunedin,
Charters Towers,
Warrnambool, &c
321 1111X8 m ONE HOUR
Had never been accomplished on any style of bicycle till J. W.
STOCKS, mounted on a “ DUNLOP ” CYCLE, accomplished
the stupendous feat of riding 32 miles 448 yards within the 60 min.,
on the Crystal Palace track, London, which
. . . IS WORLD’S RECORD! . . .
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stumps
(of any province) accompany.
E.M.J.: If a man hangs out three golden balls
and lends money on property, he’s only a pawnbroker.
If he takes an office and lends money on property, he s
called a financier. Society doesn’t receive three-ballmen,
but it loves financiers G.R.W.: Judging from the style
of your questions, your matter would be valueless..
Ohasmore : You wrote it “to kill time ’ and you have
almost killed us. .. Menlo : The average artists is a hard
life. There are in all Australia about 10 men who get a
good living by painting, or by black-and-white, or
by combining the two; certainly not more than five
get a really decent living by painting alone ; and most
assuredly there are not in Australasia two men who make
over (say) £BOO a year by brush alone. Most artists have
to teach as well as to paint M.J.: Bad French—and had
English ..Ha ! Then : Some good ideas R. J. Bulien .
Nearly a page of Macaulay-and-water! Reminiscent
Maori veteran fast becoming first-class nuisance K-. J.
N. Gillie: No; shouldn’t advise you to try again.
Rhymes impossible ; metre unfortunately only too pos-
sible W.A.A. (T.) : Blue too brilliant M.M. (W.A.) .
One gaudy verse—
Deep below in the vault of blazes
That’s where the experts lie!
Deep in the brimstone’s sulphurous hazes
That’s where the experts lie 1
and, even now that they’ve struck damnation,
They swear ’tis a rich gold-girt formation,
And would have all hell on the speculation ;
That’s where the experts lie !
E.L.: “ Cleopatra,” good motive. Will reconsider, If
condensed and useless preliminary discussion cut
L. Len. : The Bulletin injunction, “ Lay to your book,
is allied to St. Paul’s “ I magnify mine office, also to
Talleyrand’s “Above all.no zeal.” In the J a Jtter point,
take the business men whose hobbies bolt with them, es-
pecially those ruined by music. A doctor, to succeed
profession all v, should never let himself be known except
as a doctor.' It is mistaken professional policy for him
even to sing a song in public. Just look round and see
how this theory squares with actual results G.R. (J.j:
Good character sketch, but too much dialect and feeble
ending . W.I. (Hobart): Both hopelessly out of Bulletin
orbit"... E. King: Rhymed rheumatics Crow (S.A.):
Razor poem edgeless C.A.J.T.: “Osaka,” trivial,
“ Distiches,” chopped-up prose Scriptor : Elegant, but
too slight, and metre cripply Akatarawa : Rule that
man who deliberately labels himself “ poet” doesn t know
poetrv from pumpkins may have exceptions—but you re
not one of ’em ! H.C.R. : Street-urchin pathos worked
to death E. King :“Do it well, if done at all! You
haven’t taken your own advice. Too yum-yummy for
type, anvhow W.J.L. : Thanks; will make par .
J.M. (Ch.) : Tired little screed gently laid to rest....E.R.F.:
“Ballade” got its “envoy” on the spot. Leml :
“ Parted ” ; not from W.P.8., at all events M. Murphy :
Yarn —like its heroine —“ a poor little thing.”..
N. : In short, Duffy and O’Shanassy were two Irish lions
that started to roar on Australia’s sunny shore, and the
second was bound to vote the first a bore, like Hancock
and Trenwith Kybosh (B.): Sketch idea a veteran.
Glad to have information Ebo : The Majeroms would,
no doubt, laugh at the idea of going to Italy. For one
thing, the younger brother (George) would be promptly
cast into military service C.D.S. : Paul story so very
old that it makes one suspect the originality of the others.
Fly yarn unprintable, anyhow T.E.D. : Not up.
Mounie W. : “Magee” only promising E.M.F. :
Of no public interest Jim Smith: Thanks Zad :
Will print “EternalF.” Henry Monck: Mostly b1ue.....
Amicus : Thanks C.A.: “ The water was rotten ’is al-
lowable. Coleridge, in “ The Ancient Mariner, has it—
“ The very sea did rot.” Jep : The Bulletin absolutely
loathes the man who encloses an addressed envelope on
which he has labeled himself “ Smith, Esq.” Never did
this paper receive anything worth publishing (except as
an amusing sample of cast-iron cheek) from Smith, Esq.
W.S.R. : Must confess that we like your own ideas
best. J. Hooper: (I) The Bulletin had not the per-
Messrs. DIXSON & SON’S “ YANKEE DOODLE” Exhibit in the EIGHT-HOUR PROCESSION.
sonal acquaintance of the late Judge Windejer, but
founded its criticisms solely and wholly on what it ob-
served or heard on reliable evidence, of the .Judges
official actions. (2) The late Judge never once sat in any
“ libel case in which The Bulletin was interested —save
one appeal, in which he dissented (in this paper s favor)
from the majority of the Full Court. (3) The Bulletin
never “ rejoiced in the death of the honest and manly
Judire ” —its position is merely one of sorrow that Judge
Windeyer ever officially lived Rouseabout (Welling-
ton): Good The Keeper: Magnificent front Bmdyi:
Thanks. F.L.P.: “Reason of It” for illustration
Tam. : The Bulletin is quite used to that sort of thing—
J.P. (H.) : It must have arisen through oversight.....
E.O. : But, after all, you can’t improve the old Benjamin
Franklin property-qualification argument: A man owned
an ass, and, therefore, had a vote. The ass died, and the
man lost his vote. Therefore, it was the ass, not the man,
that really owned the vote J.R. '■ Do you guarantee
originality of those suggestions? Austral: His
Sentence” conventionally worded and prolix ...Long
>Un : “Swaggy” rambles too much. Deaf-adder s t&n-
-“ claw ” not connected with any poison-apparatus A.
Conway : Good vein of material, but handling not quite
successful H.A. : Wait until The Bulletin has seen
one of the “ villains” you mention in a round of vil-
lainies E.: Considering the number of empty-headed
blatherskites who are taken seriously by the daily organs
of their precious political “ parties,” it should be permis-
sible for The Bulletin to give a little flippant free advt.
to Randolph Bedford. Every mention of a public man is
a “ puff,” and isn’t R.B. a more remarkable personality
than the average bidder for press-notices? ....C.A. . John
Haynes suffers from a fixed delusion that all N.b.W.
criminals come from Victoria.
One exhibit in the procession on Eight-
Hour Day which drew forth a continual chorus of
applause was Messrs. Dixson and Son’s excellent
representation of their famous brand of tobacco,
Yankee Doodle. Mounted on a splendid four-horse
trolly was the representation of the famous Ameri-
can picture, “ Yankee Doodle, or the Spirit of
1776.” The hoary-headed, grim-visaged old war-
rior, supported' on either side by his younger, but
none the less determined, comrades ; the realistic
dismounted cannon ; and, amongst the debris, the
fallen soldier faintly waving his cap, with the
sedate “Uncle Sam” calmly driving the show,
made up what was really a high-class and striking
tableau. It was rendered all the more in keep-
ing by the thrilling notes of the fife and drums
playing, with the apparent energy of desperate
men, the well-known tune, “Yankee Doodle.”*
A record. An Ohio child became totally
blind at seven months old. Later, when being
educated at a school for the blind, he had a bad
fall, and thereby lost both hearing and speech,
but regained his sight. Then, having been trans-
ferred to a deaf-mute school, he eventually re-
gained his hearing completely, but developed
epilepsy, which has finally sent him to an insane
asylum. Authority, John Hopkins Hospital
Bulletin, a most sober sheet of the highest rank.


■/V*,/
> " Vv/i |*) / 4 W C *>y*[, U "
Si V *
■
■: . , n _. -
- yV “ ‘ L/C !■) G. pfifricfY'
' iV l\sA £T* /
1-In the Spring the back-blocks poet
through the bush his pathway takes,
Looking out for bushy subjects—
Likewise looking out for snakes.
POETRY OF SPRING.
2 -In the Spring a young man’s fancy
Lightly turns to thoughts of love—
Heavy father—license—parson—
Wedding journey—see above.
In the Spring a dreamy langour
Takes possession of the soul;
Poets say “that tired feeling”
Sounds more candid on the whole.
1-.In the weather-prophet
Gainst protracted drought forewarns-
But the wise ones of the people
Pin their faith to " papa’s corns.”
5.—In the Spring a politician
Hears from men at Goshen Flat
That a bridge is really wanted.
Vote for him, he’ll see to that.


Mr. Deakin.—l challenge you to brine
forward a single line in the “Age” or any
other paper to .that effect. I was a Sunday-
school teacher myself. (Loud boohoos’ and ‘
J&ghtecJ-
Gjl' SAo/~ Aft/
CRUISE OF THE SUNBEAM.
\\ C - j -j^e
T*« heen
o°°
ccn^ rte f'.
G/K ee
2a«yt- """
Wr ‘n
inV^
cfri ct *
hi *
■TWS HUMAN FOOT. — R&&LTR
LECTURE. .
Bi\ Kent Hnghfes saidj ' <£^-2
The. importance of the foot m Vile iiii'nalt
wm verjr great indeed.
fie ik ‘
d r 1 »^ r
e d> t 0 ■ „ io^ e id*'
■tr‘ f
While off Frazer's Island, Mr. Purvis, th®
officer in charge of the aboriginal 6ettl®*
raent there, boarded the vessel, and
arranged for a party to go ashore and wit-,
ness a blackfellows corroooree. During his I
absence, however, the blacks broke into the.
■tore, and made away with three gallons of-
spirits. When Mr. Purvis returned, accom-
panied by a party from the Sunbeam, he
found his charges in a state of rebellion,
and tfye whole of the spirits consumed. The
party, seeing the state of affairs, at once
returned to the Sunbeam..
<4*
JeP i''
-
, r te^ 1 e t lO, Ae** 0 i p «S
, !>**',
f te( L lt^ rn \ Lor ' >^ ,rjr i't P F '
r?>‘ V**' vr', / .
* 4 e ;d'°-
<4
/ A X
' Y xY
v'/VV* ,s*y
\r W t#
/ L° -I*
> e
■ ' The Turner programme', "eB-'lf
was enunciated at St. Kiida,
have taken eewy bit of fight ont of the!
segregated atoms who bare hitherto done
duty as au Opposition. Indeed many of
these are promising that if elected they
will actually ait behind the Government
and give it a generous support.
. It is not a defeat
ithnh Jooor ; it is a wholesale stampede of
one of the combatant parties, in advan£
from sheet cowardice.
- /7££-
yfisftGE
Ct+e <3 ll so Sot A mlS&ii/’e- amc? so
Of7?XZ /onS Vo /6/e<zse~, vAotf V/~
Ae JnsV' Zsv-e// //( V^ctrtc/
VA/s A/hcV /o~
e/ecVo/~s m
'7*6mer.— "/ 1 i<vu mo f e s u/»/iov£*'
f Zi#e Vh/S buicZ J*X a *Vc rx e_ 7770.71 /'
MELBOURNIANA.


Particulars of changes of address, etc., in
suburban districts to the end of October, for
“ Sands’Sydney and Suburban Directory 1898”
(now in course of compilation) may be sent to the
compiler, 374 George-street., to that date.
In a single year Melb. Board of Works
has spent -£(>000 in lawyers’ fees. Any corpora-
tion not ridden by a Fitz Gibbon and a horde of
aitchless suburban councillors would have got a
smart lawyer and a whole staff of law-clerks all to
itself for half the sum. But the Board is
generosity itself, except where the wages of some
poor devil of a clerk or draftsman are concerned.
Then it waxes wrath at “ reckless prodigality ”
and “ wanton extravagance.”
From Croydon (N.Q.). Just passed in his
checks here, a well-known old identity who had a
large stock of queer yarns—one to the effect that
when a man was about to be planted in Norman-
ton cemetery the grave was found too short and
too narrow for the coffin, which, as it was near
nightfall, the mourners hoisted into a tree and
left there till morning. Now the strange thing is
that, when our facetious friend himself came to be
buried, his grave turned out also to be too short
and too narrow for the “casket.” Poetical
justice ?
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Barmaid-benefits are a growing form of
tax upon the resources of boozy benedicts who n in
a general way, wouldn’t “shout’’ sixpen’orth of
hair-pins for the old woman, smole she never so
sweetly. At Hobart the other week, a Hebe, not
long over from Melb., was about to return to the
mainland, and 40 customers seized, or were
dragged into, the opportunity to subscribe 2s. 6d.
apiece towards a “ purse of sovereigns ” for
the departing vision. With the purse came a
beautiful address, printed on satin, to the effect
that the sovs. were a “souvenir” of Miss
Blank’s visit to Tasmania. Also, the 40 names of
the half-crown subscribers, including a couple of
boss policemen and a legislator or two, were ap-
pended to the testimonial, which ought to se_ ve
tiie young lady as a fine card of introduction to
her next billet.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
, AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
‘To MESSRS. FISHER & 00.
“ Gentlemen,-
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS 1
. . KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia aB a oyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have'been well illus-
trated m some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it.—Yours, &a,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Oyclist."
FISHER’S TOINTIC
—IS THE—
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
Co.'’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros. ;
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. 11. FitTLDiNG & Co :
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Fauldins & Co. S
VICTORIA, Messrs. Fblton, Grimwadr & 00.
&
CSi
Melbourne fortune-tellers have their call-
ing declared illegal, and are fined, because, accord*
ing to P.M. Panton, it is ridiculous for them to
say that they can tell anybody’s future. In face
of which common-sense ruling a general arrest of
the local clergy may be hourly expected.
“SAMITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous.
Does Not Stain Linen.
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &0.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Ladies. - can and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. ROWLEY k CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
Prospectus.
PROSPECTUS
—OF THS —
WHITE STAR GOLD MINING
COMPAKTY,
County of Croajingolovg, District of Orbost.
To be Registered as a No-Liability Company.
CAPITAL -£12,500, in 25,000 Shares of 10s. ea.
WHEREOF
6000 Contributing Shares are now offered to the public,
at 2s. 6d. each, and
6000 Shares, paid-up to 55., and 14,000 Contributing Shares
will be issued to the Proprietors in full considera-
tion for the property and work done.
Out of the proceeds of the Shares offered to the public,
the sum of JE625 clear will be placed to credit.
DIRECTORS *
To be Elected First Meeting of Shareholders.
BROKERS : WALLEN & WOODS, 55 Queen Street.
LEGAL MANAGER (pro tem.) :
R. GILPIN, 99 Queen street, Melbourne.
THIS Company is being formed to acquire the
property known as the White Star Mine, at
Ellery Creek, Gippsland, consisting of Crown lands
Lease of 30 acres, and is reported on by O. A. L.
Whitelaw, Assistant Geological Surveyor to the
Government of Victoria, under date of the 21sfc
June, 1897, as follows :
“ White Star, N. 42° E., dip westerly. Two
reefs cut here. The ‘ upper ’ reef, a solid, well-
defined body of stone about three feet in thickness,
prospects from 10 to 30 d wts. ‘ Lower ’ reef about
40ft. below ‘upper’reef. Width of lode not de-
termined on account of a considerable admixture
of slate, but appears to vary between one and
three feet. The chute of gold in this reef has
been proved for 150 ft. ; equals lOdwt. per ton. At
the last trench south, stone was cut showing gold
freely, a chute of 10ft. being equal to lOoz. per
ton. This claim is splendidly situated for working;
450 ft. of backs can be obtained by a tunnel from
creek level, the fall of the hill averaging one in
three.”
To the Proprietors of the White Star
Mine.
Melbourne, 29th September, 1897.
Acting upon your instructions, I beg to report having
examined the property known as the White Star, of 30
acres, Crown lands, situate at Ellery Creek, Eastern
Gippsland. Ellery Creek is situated about 40 miles from
Orbost, and about four miles from the main Orbost-
Bendoc road.
A good dray road is nearly completed, on which the
Government and Shire Council of Orbost have spent
about EllOO. v
The additional four miles of road from the main road to
the proposed site of the township of Ellery is now being 1
surveyed, and will be completed within the next three
months.
No difficulty whatever will be experienced in the transit
of machinery and stores ; vessels run regularly from Mel-
bourne to Mario, about five miles from Orbost, thence bv
road to the Mine.
The White Star lease is situated upon a spur dividing
Ellery Creek from the Broadribb River. The country
rock is a soft schistose slate, underlaying west. On this
property there are two bodies of solid stone lying between
well-defined walls.
The lower one, about 450 ft. above Creek level, is from
lft. to 2ft. 6in. in thickness ; stone solid and well defined;
gold plainly visible. Gold is evenly disseminated through
the stone ; every piece crushed gave a good prospect.
Several trials were made on stone without any gold
being visible, and in every case good prospects were
obtained. The stone is heavily stained with oxide of iron,
due to the oxidation of the mineral.
The upper reef is a solid, well-defined body of stone,
ranging from 6ft. to 7ft. in width, gold bearing features
similar to lower reef. Gold was not visible in the stone,
but upon crushing very good prospects were obtained.
This lode has been cut by trenches in five separate places
along the line, all showing fair prospects of gold.
During my visit I walked over the line of reef for one
and a-half miles, the lodes being opened at both ends, and
the cap exposed in several different places, all showing
gold, and I was informed that similar features exist for a
distance of five miles north.
The Mine is admirably situated for cheap working. A
tunnel from creek level (allowing for elevation for battery
site) will give about 460 ft. of backs.
At present a tunnel about 70ft. will give about 100 ft of
backs, and will be a good guide for future operations.
An unlimited supply of water for all motive power oan
be obtained from Ellery Creek. With a race about two
miles in length, an elevation of 250 ft. can be obtained ;
this race can be cut for about 4s. per chain. The Govern-
ment have decided to erect a battery on Ellery Creek, and
it is daily expected to arrive. This will prove beyond
doubt the golden lodes in this vicinity.
Taking into consideration the facilities that exist for
cheap mining, the kindly nature of the country rock, and
the continuance of the line of lode to such a length, I
have no hesitation in saying you have one of the most
valuable properties in Eastern Gippsland.
ROBERT SHARP, Mining Manager, Ballarat.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
r
* i *»*-* *
PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP
Gold, Silver, [ead Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SU , LP ? URIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakehohe, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and [Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Cash Settlement on ayveement of A ssays •
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
WasbiOgtoi) H.SoCll Bt Co., m’&p.s.,
THE PITT STREET DRUGGISTS,
Hold a Large and Varied STOCK of GOODS in General,
and DKUGS in particular.
Do You Doubt It?
You need not. We run no one-horse show ; it is the LARGEST
RETAIL DRUGGIST STORE ON TERRA EIRMA.
Of course, you believe us!
Yes ! we are not jesting-. But our business is run upon solid lines, at a
large outlay. WE ASK FOR SUPPORT.
Inquire of Tour Grocer for
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, at 6d. per tin. Take no other,
and do not be persuaded that any other brand equals ours. It is
not in the same running.
SPARTAN TONIC, the invigorator of the age, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
YAALA, for INDIGESTION. 2/- per bottle.
SOAPS, SPONGES, PERFUMES, &c.
Prescriptions Faithfully Compounded. Correspondence Invited.
158, 160, and 268 Sydney;
Clxuroli-street, Farramatta.
AND AT
Every Variety of
TEA !
AND EACH OE UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
KF SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH, la
C<)CCCCOOf
Your Attention l
Most Important l
"■•REMINGTON
TYPEWRITER
OUTNUMBERS AS 3 TO 1
THE COMBINED FORCES
OF COMPETITION.
IT KEEPS PACE
with every discovery in Typewriting machines, and
combines every known improvement up to date.
The Proprietors purchase and patent every important idea in connection with
Typewriting machines, and the NEW NO, 7 is protected by
SEYENTY-SIX DIFFERENT PATENTS.
I 9 all Speed Contests
the REMINGTON has oome out “top." - Why? Because it is so easy
to manipulate, the mechanism being more simple than on any other Type-
writer, and more especially because the Key Board of the REMINGTON
has only 2 6 Keys to do the same work that other Typewriting machines
require 52 (!) to perform.
STOTT & HO ARE, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
BY ROYAL WARRANT of ARRomTMBWTT to “ THE QXJBBW."
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE
»
Schweppe
ii
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
SCHWEPPE
9)
SODAWATER, &o.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, OLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.


SPECIAL NOTICE
The NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
£6 15 0
7 15 0
8 15
11 0
Noth Opr Special Price List :
2 Spring Sulkies, Stick Seat
3 „ Sulkies, Solid Seat, including Silver
Dash Rail and Lamps ... _
3 Spring Stick Sulkies, including Silver Dash
Rail, Splashboards and Lamps
Bent-Shaft Sulkies, with Lamps ... •••
Any of the above sulkies painted or varnished, and
trimmed in best rubber duck.
Double-seated Buggies, including Lamps ... £2l
Abbott Tray Buggies; trimmed in real leather
throughout, as illustrated 25
Ladies’ Park Phaetons, including Hood and
Lamps 26 10
NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE CO
Brown Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
0 0
0 0
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOB
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
s
ECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
‘ fl Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
J)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Eveiy RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d , 55., os., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
MeGEE, Hairdresser, &0., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
PS
Sf' pisnu^s
«0
M
SPECIAL"
rJlj.
ft*;
•i! NB !.
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Laphenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
B
H
B
OWAKD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from 6d.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
B
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
B
fl
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
21s., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
B
M
B
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and «ilv«Mr: oaah, &o. Qn»«n-Rt., Wnnlahra.
1207
ggjSSWE
124
372
1208
403
126
mm
mtxr
mm® ffi
A
125
127
078
57
56
&
<>
%
B 2
—THE—
Australian
Needle wood
Pipe Co,, Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc Coole°t Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
(jCtrw)
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
AVSTRALIAX
N EEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the a,bove address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
* 56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
fIKW ZEALAND-
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington,
A. Beaver &Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christohurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street*
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelon
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane,
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
.©»
VICTORIA. AMP TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31, 1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Compelitions-
-3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “ Premier ”
Bicycles ... value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers » Is. „
Cloth Bound Books » £lOO
.SEN
Tnls TOP PORTION
1
CHTJOAP.7
rso,
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to • BURGESS BROS.j HOBART.
j, McKenzie^ & co M launceston.
ICARS
FR
DROP 3? IN THESLOT egse=
NOT ;
bSsayjK?^Ts§s?sf??!i^rita!J2ss«irttreEJi
tirnummni ni u i»; ii;nii> 11 i I m
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney. -
Plum
XHf Pi
THB
Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general publio. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather oase, 21s.
’ \ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies , Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Cellular
Athletic
Shirts.
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling,
Boating, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/- and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
. . Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies* and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New
Address:
73 & 75 King Street,
(near York Street), Sydney.
T> RRARtU to OO . Sola kgonlM lor Now South Wol,
m
Medical.
v Rheumatism, Lumbago,
** Sciatica, &c.,
can be COMPLETELY CURED bt
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melboubni
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace: —
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Fitzroy -
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain any relief from others,
was completely cured by me 15 months ago, and
has kept in better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
was cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs. Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
Acknowledgments.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago and double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried doctors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
I was very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief from the first
supply of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
— Heleg Exstrom, McCracken’s City "Brewery,
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Dear Sir,—l wish to thank you most sincerely
for having cured me of Sciatica, having suffered
most acute pain for a long time, but, under your
Remedy, I am glad to say that I have completely
recovered. It is now 17 months since I saw you,
and I have not had the slightest return of the
pain—one week’s treatment haying quite cured
me. If reference to me will assist any sufferer to
try your antidote, I shall be glad at any time to
tell them what it has done for me.—Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. T. Hughes, 29 Stirling Street, Kew,
19th August, 1897.”
“ Dear Sir,—ln grateful testimony to your skill
for having cured me of a very painful attack of
Rheumatism. I suffered great pain, having the
joints swollen. After a short while under your
treatment, I completely recovered. It is now over
three years ago since I was cured, and I have kept
well, being 64 years of age. I consider your anti-
dote the marvel of the age for suffering humanity.
—Yours very truly, Professor W. T. Lamont, Ven-
triloquist and Entretenir, 4 Condell-street, Fitz-
roy, opposite Town Hall, 23rd August, 1897.
Mrs. Laura Sunderland, 80 Bell-street, Fitz-
roy :—Rheumatic Fever, six months in bed, 12
months on crutches, joints stiffened and useless.
After six weeks’ use of antidote joints completely
cured. Can do all household duties, and has not
used either crutch or stick now for over 12
months.
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick :—Rheumatism 10 years, years
I on crutches, and for two years had not walked at
' all ; all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless ; life made miserable ; case pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Under
my remedy, contractions come out. Can walk
without aid of crutch or stick; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. I
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any colony, ill.* _
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).
TA-TTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Blade, Bed. & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
| To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool-marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide.
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
p€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
rp O LADIES OP ALL AGE S.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Rockhampton.—l have tried Orange Lily, and have
found it to be all that is said of it. If it were not for
your remedies I could not get about. Ido all my work
for six now, and am quite strong.— Mrs. E ——.
u The Last of Six.”
PRIOF. Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is known too well,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy/ 4 takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
you get it.
Granuma beats all other meals for Torridqe.
NCW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Assets - - - - £38.513,664-,
PURELY MUTUAL.
The Chief Offices for the Department of Australasia
HAVE BEEN REMOVED
—FROM —
BOND STREET CHAMBERS
—TO —
i 7’6 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY <* CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
ZW" Sales Held at the A uction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-s't
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE
t
THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Adelaide Quiz “ There is hardly one
S' ff, n amon K our politicians. They are
nearly all followers of women,”
Rumored that Mr. J. B. Reymond, mem-
Sd nf ( t ShbUrnha . m A^- S - W -> will at the
k# preaent Parliament. It is understood
‘ h * , before retiring Mr. Reymond will make his
maiden speech.
“ Would you accept a portfolio if it were
offered you?” asked an elector, innocently, at one
of Duncan Gillies’ Toorak meetings. In reply
Duncan merely licked his lips in a feline way.
lne meeting howled with delight.
The distrust of lawyers is growing. Arm-
strong, M.L.A., proposed the other day to declare
solicitors and barristers ineligible for membership
of the proposed Land Court (Q.). And two-fifths
ot the House present voted with him.
One of the very humorous points of the
vm. general elections is barrister Colrtfiam who
stands for Geelong as a supporter of the Turner
Government. Three years ago Coldham was the
man chosen to fight Turner at St. Kilda.
the fiscal issue.” The only subiect
in the front rank of N.S.W. politics in the Parlia-
mentary discussion of which the fiscal question
carries no influence is Local Option. The divi-
°“ Minister Cook’s proposals, the other
night, defied party classification. The Premier
and leader of the Opposition sat together. So did
M'Jwfc"*"' Affle,sk ™ d B 1“ 1 ’
NO PLEASING HER.
“The Melb. W.C.T.U. is again instigating the prosecution of tobacconists who
expose ‘ unseemly ’ pictures in their windows.”— News item.
THE TOBACCONIST : “ You weren’t satisfied with the ordinary cigarette
advertisement; what’s the matter with these?”
MRS. W.C.T.U.: “ The others were unclean; these are ungodly!”
Jack Hamilton, M.P. (Q.) : “The abori-
gines have been decimated by disease, opium and
the bullet. When a race has been decimated
three times there remain 729 out of every original
thousand? Not much bull’s-eye scoring about
that lot. Lxpurgate “decimated,”
Queensland police-superannuation fund is
about stone-broke, and so they keep the patri-
archal cop m the force till he dies of old age to
economise pensions. Four old grandfathers, aged
between 60 and 70, still dodder along the weary
bate, and 16 more are on the verge of 60.
Political happenings should teach at least
one Australian Premier that it is not wise, from a
personal point of view, to become a temporary
absentee even in order to Jubilate. The “unjust
steward always makes himself right with the
tenants at his boss’s expense.
au F Y Higgins for coming Vic. Premier.
Absolutely and resolutely radical. Turner risks
tne fate of Shiels, who swept the polls, but was
ousted by Patterson. The Argus says Trenwith
or Higgins will lead the new Opposition. Hum-ins
Sundf” and * hurricane attack on the Leg.
J. W. M‘Cay, seeking re-election for Cas-
mLT'xt • ViC 'k 18 a “ on S the most brilliant of
Melb. University students—and a democrat. He
was first elected on the death of Patterson. By
his industry and intelligence he achieved a good
fe e oii tl Mitfr. bly ' “ d *
Joseph Harris, Conservative candidate for
South Yarra, on the stump : “Thrift should be
recognised, and a man should be allowed a second
vote for property in another constituency. If one
had a pound or two in his pocket he naturally felt
tramn b - etter than , a loafer > a beggar, or a
cramp. bo he is—a pound or two better.
* s 80rne hope that Levien, of odor-
ous Mildura memory, will this year be banished
troin Vic. Parliament. He was opposed at last
elections by R. A. Crouch, and only saved himself
by 12 votes. This time Levien’s bacon should be
cooked m earnest. Crouch is a native of Ballarat
and a thorough-going Radical, in spite of having
been educated as an attorney.
Thirteen Victorian members were re-
elected without any contest, and as eight were
Ministerialists, including Premier Turner, Attor-
ney-General Isaacs, Chief-Secretary Peacock, and
Assistant P.M.G. Outtrim, the scrimmage began
well for the Government. Little Johnny Isaacs
was also returned unopposed as a compliment to
his big brother, the Attorney-General, and ex-
Premier Shiels came hesitating back among the
riu- -did that truly awful Pat person, Pursey
Chirnside. Peacock had the brightest streak of
luck in the crowd ; not only was he unopposed, but
his nominaticn-paper was signed by every elector
m his constituency who could write and wasn’t
absent or sick or drunk or in gaol.
The JNT.S.W. Govern'
ment has a scheme on
hand for extending the
Condobolin line to Euaba-
long and Hillston—not be-
cause it will pay, for the
extension is expected to
barely cover working-ex-
penses and to leave the
interest a dead loss, but
because it will attract trade
to Sydney that now goes
to Melbourne. Hillston
is, roughly speaking, 500
miles from Sydney with a
huge mountain range to
cross, and 320 from Melb.
over an almost absolute
level, which is the reason
why the proposed railway
to Sydney won’t pay.
N.S.W.,in fact,is to stand
a loss of about £lO,OOO a
year in order to drag the
traffic nearly twice as far
as it need go, and no one
will benefit except a few
Sydney merchants. The
provincial railway system
mostly consists in carrying
goods twice as far as they
need go, at a heavy loss,
in order to aggravate the
other fellow who wanted
to carry them half the
distance without any pro-
fit.
Deegan, of Vic. Li-
censed Victuallers’ Asso-
ciation, and Vale, of Vic.
Cold Tea Alliance, have
been crossing swords in
the press. Deegan’s re-
mark that during the past
five years only 400 odd
lunatics appeared on the
province’s statistics as
haying gone mad through
drink, elicited from Vale
a weird whoop that this
admission alone was
enough to warrant the ex-
tinction of the cursed der-
rink. Also, that if but one
lunatic had been due to
this cause, the der-rink
should be promptly shut
up. Next day Deegan
pointed out that more Vic-
torians went mad through
religion than through li-
(luor ' aiJ d asked if this didn’t prove that religion
should be abolished. The dead silence of Yale has
since been audible all over the province.
What a hell-on-earth of Cabinet-wrangle
awaits Premier Nelson’s return to Queensland !
Acting-Premier Tozer looks ten years older since
the beginning of the year—no man can work for
ever as he does, and he has had more than his
share of private trouble. Then Tozer burns the
candle at both ends ; he spends the day talking to
T om > ar *d Harry, and takes his papers home
with him at night—which is foolish.
A W.A. correspon-
dent complains that,
though there are now in
that province hundreds
of starving clerks from
other parts of Australia,
the Forrest-gang has re-
recently imported from
England 13 clerks for
the Rail way Department.
That trip ’Ome, again !
Chorus of ministers
in Bananaland : “ We are
all perfectly willing to
have the affairs of the
Q. N. B. investigated.”
Second chorus : “ But we
want all disclosures post-
poned a few months
longer.” .... Eoxton,
Minister for Lands : “ I
am opposed to the whole-
sale alienation of Crown
Lands.” Foxton (again):
“ But I must do it this
time. ” What a gang!
The 1527th new as-
pect of Horace Tozer on
the Federation question
is that he is not going to
submit the Common-
wealth Bill to Q. Parlia-
ment . after all. Tozer’s
idea is that, if Queens-
land sends delegates to
the third Convention,
and the draft constitu-
tion is fixed up, there
should then be another
adjournment to let the
slow province discuss it
and suggestamendments,
End after that a fourth
Convention to consider
the suggested amend-
ments. But the other
provinces will probably
have decided by then
that Tozer is not in earn-
est, and never was, and
will see the tortuous
Horace dashed first.
Tozer’s policy seems a
long streak of dreary
April fooling.
Pilcher, Q.C., was detailed in the first
«PPn^ C fl b T th t gCnial N.S.W. Law Office to pro-
The TJhn Luck, j l . ow sinkers charged with assault.
Am Af7 m n n ,ers b ? vm £ asked how it was that
t Jv ney " GeQe ? l ha £ one out of his way to
authirV 18 remo^ seless Tory for such a task/ the
authorities turned round and substituted Heydon,
rrom whips to scorpions.
The very weak feature in Premier Turner’s
election programme is his half-promise to reduce
A Un * n the wiped out it
is the duty of every Victorian Premier to hang on
a,nd f«J po ® Sl . ble source of revenue with his hands
nsb/nff an i d T th - r S o far onl y -£66,000 has been
S? g 6 5 f £2 ’700,000, so the present is
a lovely time for reducing taxation.
The Argus is glad to find that “the
whh le eh GoVernmen - t has lar S el y P ut itself in touch
WhL P c ° m “ umt y ?n the present occasion.”
When Premier George is thoroughly in touch with
the community that reads the Argus, he will be
sitting on the edge of his political grave, and one
Torv y ° aP i lP °-n blS j bt ? ck from the hand of the
Tory journal will send him to his doom.
If Jesus Christ lived in Victoria,” says
barnster Higgins “He would have but one vote,
because. He had not where to lay His head,’ but
Judas Iscariot would have had two, one for man-
nriSnn?w e ” f °T ‘i 1 ® If’V 1 , he bou ff ht w ith the
p ce of blood. Judas didn t buy any land, as it
Smder e pl StlU lr thlS - ?* Scri P ture lesson which
SoT-paAr Clt mlght P “‘ m hiS
rpb ®. valuable law (which owes its exist-
fAr tb hlefly i Vlc ; Labor-member Prendergast)
bAA h u reßll i atl ° n ° f - th ® re g'stry-ofHce person has
just chewed up a victim. He allegedly offered
employment to two bakers at “ scab ” wages on
condition that they swore they were getting the
minimum wage. Whereupon the law refused his
wZTaln? oL”“ struok 0,1 lhe 1011 iu ' [ “ if h «
Matt. Battersby, Esq., M.L.A., who has
been playing the role of Shocking Example of O
Assembly was formally suspended for the tail-
end of a sitting last week. Matt, is a Tozerphil-
poodler, and therefore “ suspended ” for a few
minutes only When Labor-members were to be
gagged, the Ministerial argument always was that
there could be no suspension under seven days
When however, it is a case of bad whisky in a
faithful Nose of the Party-“ Veil, you see, vrients
vlias vrients und votes vhas votes.”
S.S. . Alfred Deakin was a democrat,
also a small, metal Joss ; now Alfred is no louver
a democrat, and the tin-god is knocked off its
pedestal. Deakin, vide his electioneering ad-
dresses, wants to have State-schools opened with
prayer, and is anxious to see the school-books
kttered with slabs of gospel selected from the
Protestant and Douay versions, to please all
parties. Is Deakin fool enough to believe this
would satisfy the creed-mongers, or is it merely a
bl ■°f blutf t 0 catch tbe v °tes of the shallow-
minden ? ”
“A HEATHEN APPEAL
FITZWALKER: (of the Stranded Star Variety Co.): “ Give ms a show,
miser. We’ve struck blanky bad 'biz.' We'll do a ‘turn’ and
gag a farce with your Samoan bloke for 'alf a quid and drinks.”
The Victorian military Commandant, Sir
wtotU- has stron & views re the idiocy of the
JN.o. Yv. volunteering for Indian fighting. He
thinks volunteers are always a (blanky) nuisance
when there is any man-sticking going on. Ama-
teur butchers, he thinks, should confine their atten-
tion to abattoirs, and leave the wholesale depart-
ment to Tommy Atkins. Time enough for volun-
teers to dabble in gore and glory when they have
to, says Sir Smith, who has “ been there” himself.
The, pay of the Victorian M.L.A., which
was temporarily reduced by the Patterson Govern-
V 270, and by the Turner Government to
t. ve ml in next Parliament to the old figure
oi A. 500. The reduction in Ministerial salaries,
however, is a permanent affair. Premier Shiels
drew =B2OOO a year; Patterson drew =81(500 ;
burner struggles through with =Bl4OO, and the
other members of the Ministry get only ,£lOOO
each. J
In May, June, and August of this year
more males reached Melbourne from Westralia
than left Melbourne for the West. As the arrivals
and departures recorded at Melbourne include
those of all the eastern provinces, this looks as if
the busted pilgrims were beginning to come back
in real earnest. The West, like many other
places, is just beginning to turn out gold in real
earnest when the gold-boom is as dead as Abel of
U-enesis.
N. : “To show what Australian Loyalty
was. On the night of the O’Farrell Clontarf
business. Fred. Lyster, W. S.’s brother, was in a
.Ballarat, r > aru h as an American, cut a harmless
joke on the Queen. An uproar ensued. He did
not dare to appear again on the stage there. The
report spread to Melb., and the newspapers cir-
culated it all over Victoria. Fred, never recovered
the odium. It was even faintly remembered
against him when he returned to Australia, after a
lapse of years.”
Writing just before Vic. elections, thus a
correspondent:—
The Tory crowd in Vic. believe much to depend on the
loss or gain of Toorak election by Gillies. The young
legal Conservative JBryant is in the field with energy,
abihty, honesty, courage—and antediluvian politics. A
aeputation of Victoria’s most prominent Tories waited on
him in his chambers. This deputation, for once, hardly
bore out Gladstone’s only epigram : “A deputation is a
» J lmltltude . signifying many hut not meaning
much However, it did not achieve much. It begged!
prayed, and expostulated with the young man. Pro-
mised him endless support for any other constituency.
Ottered to bless him with its latest breath. Bryant stood
out against them, and they retired in the white heat of
odage. The deputation,included Zeal, Simon Fraser,
federal Convention delegates and Ms.L.C., James Ser-
vice, the one-time Chartist, now M.L.C., and Balfour, the
teetotal and pious land-boomer, also M.L.C. Bryant is a
bright and brave young man, but his politics are abomin-
able.. Innumerable Fat Men are threatening to “ ruin
him in his profession ’’—all because he opposes the biggest
fraud of Vic. polities. This Toorak election is a bitter,
three-cornered duel between Gillies, Bryant, and Lewis,
dimes and Bryant are respectively at the dirtv and clean
ends of Conservatism. The Argus tears her‘hair about
the two. Lewis is the “ accredited Liberal ” backed up
by the Age, the Protectionists, and the teetotallers.


m
HEART « HAND
m
BRAND
&
JOHN HUNTER
AT ALL HIS
ESTABLISHMENTS
*>''
THE LADIES'
FAVOURITE
- ■.V *>• .. . - - -
. ■ s' c.->* •v'?- ■ ,i . i* r y •
FASHIONABLE IN STYLE
ELEGANT IN SHAPE
EXCELLENT IN WEAR
AND IN FRQNT.OF ALL ,
EUROPEAN OR AMERICAN
goods at LOW DOWN PRIDE
EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace ..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
<tnd also at his Branches in the City, Suburbs and
Colony.
& A NOVELTY! V*
f
* ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
( Three in elegant ease
\ Outvie every effort for the production of /
n natural perfumes. II
S, _p —— _
• i Obtainable of Chemists, Jr
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
THE TELEPHONE ON SHEEP-STATIONS.
The whole economy of pastoral life in Australia has
undergone a signal change since the introduction by
Messrs. H. H. Kingsbury and Co., the eminent Sydney
electricians, of the Hunnings Telephone and switchboard.
Every department of a sheep-station, as large as an Eng-
lish county, may now be placed in telephonic inter-com-
niunieatio'n at a comparatively trifling cost. The slow,
money-wasting method of the past disappears as soon as
the Hunnings Telephone puts in an appearance ; and
squatters who neglect to take advantage of the instru-
ment show themselves to be non-progressive survivals of
an antediluvian age. The Hunnings Telephone may also
be used in business houses, suites of offices, and gentle-
men’s mansions. Messrs. H. 11. Kingsbury and Co., whose
address is 54 Margaret Street, Sydney, are the largest
suppliers of telephones, electric traction, and electric
lighting plant in Australasia, and are contractors for
electrical supplies to the Governments of New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Westralia,
Tasmania, and New Zealand.*
\OASByS
'AHOO
Tub Only Rrliablh Rkmrdy
fob
INDIGESTION,
Liver and Kidney Complaints.
NUMEROUS CURES
in Sydney and in the Country have been strictly in-
vestigated by the Press and proved genuine.
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
Post Free from
Loasby’s “Wahoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
n*
m
VioIiDS-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
A£ito HarpS.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
tyotitb HarnjoijicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordeops & Cooc^rtiijaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
(SCiitarS & tyaodoliQes.
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStofyS & PolypbooS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Bai)d lQStrCifi?€9t£ of all kiO^S
By the best makers —Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
Hj
■ •VI C T Q
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS,
V
i/m/tell
gSTAB LI SHED iq s 3
338 George-street, Sydney
9/10
Of the cracks who
score on
; Duniqp Tyres
¥
\ V '
m
, te': ; ' h* s )^y-s% f ;> *
rri "xV*
a#
l@j
r i x:
•XV
r 1
3-T.RONGKST on
are those who use
these tyres in con-
junction with the
Westwood Rim,
which has now well
established its claim
as being the leading
rim
FOR
SPEED
AND
RELIABILITY.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. LTD.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at
Swanston-st., Melbourne ;
Franklin-st., Adelaide ;
King-si., Perth ;
Litchfield-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Capt. Tindall, in the 8.1. and Q.A. Co.,
has been transferred from Brisbane (Q.) to Mel-
bourne. At his farewell wine-ing, Capt.. Wallace
advised him : “ Now, just keep up the Brisbane
reputation in Melbourne. Don’t wear a top hat,
and don’t, for any sake, abandon strong language.”
“ My blanky oath ! ”
N. : “ Mr. Fitchett’s ‘Battle of Minden,’
in a recent Cornhill, is a good specimen of hia
unique cleverness in galvanising battles —cinema- |
tographing them, as it were, out of books —and he
is only beaten when Forbes writes at first hand,
Forbes being nowhere beside the parson op the
battleground of books. Even Kinglake is nob
quite so good ; neither can Gibbon, Macaulay,
Froude, or Napier compare with Fitchett in the
mere spectacular accessories of fight. Of course
it is only the meretricious part, not the aspect
which would commend itself to Moltke or Wolse-
ley. In short, Fitchett is top-dog at tinselly
jingo. Taking Wellington over the Pyrenees, -
Fitchett, to my mind, eclipsed Thiers, and all the
writers, for theatrical effect. The art in which he
excels is a secondary but powerful ingredient of
Carlyle’s ‘French Revolution.’”
The Victorian Bible-reading advocates,
who are yelping at the current pending election,
may be interested in the following details of the
licking received by their noisy fellow-cranks in
S. A. in March, 1896. Altogether 90,853 electors
voted, a large number of whom were women and,
theoretically at least, more likely to vote on the
side of the parson, 51,842 voted for the continu-
ance of the present S.A. system of secular educa-
tion ; 17,855 opposed it. 19,299 voted for religious
tuition during school horn's, 34,951 against, or a
majority against dogma of 15,652. Again, 13,428
voted for Govt, subsidies to denominational
schools, 42,002 against, or a majority of 28,574
against. The biggest whaling any party ever
received in S.A. on an issue placed plainly and
directly before the electors.
Premier Reid sat down hard on the pro-
posed N.S.W. contingent for India, and if there
is any merit in 18 stone of live meat _ properly
applied the scheme may now be considered as
dead. Reid blighted it in one act by the intima-
tion that there would be no official countenance,
no salary, no big vote for expenses, no wine and
cigars and tinned turkey, and that the Ministry
will turn its blind eye upon the movement
generally. Anyone wanting to fight will have to
get to India and back at his own expense, and pay
for his own wooden leg, and will not be publicly
reviewed by Sunday Brunker on his return. And
that probably finishes it.
Item from a report of a W. A. health officer:
The total number of births for Cue for the years 1896-
1896 are illegitimate, and the total number for Geraldton
for the same period are also illegitimate.
What! not one honest loaf of bread to all that
AT THE SCRIPTURE LEAGUE MEETING.
In bygone years when saintly men
Desired to change the sinners’ lives,
They roped them up in public ; then
They split their ears with holy knives.
That custom old with us remains,
For when the pious man appears
To drive into unwilling brains
His theories grim—he splits our ears.
About the first Melbourne baker fined for
paying less than the minimum-wage was a member
of the board by which the minimum-wage was
fixed. This fine example of commercial morality
has since been sacked by Minister Peacock, who
seemed surprised at the circumstance. If Peacock
would find out quietly how many members of that
and other boards are systematically bursting-up
their own minimum-wage, he would probably be a
good deal more surprised.
There is a sea of trouble in Melb. among
the members of the White-workers’ Board and j
other people. White-workers are the pallid she-
''slaves who make feminine lingerie and things
with insertion and frills in them, and the Board
was the thing appointed under the new Victorian
Factories Act to fix minimum wages for the
white-workers. It consisted of five representa-
tives of the workers, five of the employers, and
barrister Maxwell as chairman, with a casting-
vote and a commission to haul the opposing fac-
tions off each other if it came to a free fight, and
to make the party on top apologise and hand back
the ear. The five representatives of the employers
were quite satisfied with the present minimum
wage of about 7s. 6d. a week. The other five
proposed 16s. Chairman Maxwell suggested a
compromise at 14s. Thereupon Cook, a local
Trades’ Hall personage, implied that Maxwell
was a bloated oppressor. Maxwell blazed up over
this, and at a public meeting shortly afterwards he
said hair-raising things about Cook for two solid
hours. Then Cook, at another meeting, pointed
out for two and a-quarter hours that Maxwell was
a born hog and wasn’t fit to be in his own com-
pany. After that the white-workers took a hand
themselves, and three nice girls of the profession
called a meeting on their own. One of them went
off to Gippsland to get married at the last moment
and left the movement in the lurch, but the other
two were there, and there was a large feniinine
audience. Then the principal mover in the
matter, a plump and pleasing white-worker, arose
and backed up Maxwell, and called Cook all the
things Maxwell had forgotten to call him. Two
ladies in the hall supported Cook and were re-
peatedly warned that they would be cast out
on their Sunday hats if they didn’t behave.
The oratress of the evening, amid wild cries
of “get yer ’air cut,” simply squashed Cook.
“ Listen,” she said with bitter emphasis,
“I’ll tell you what Mr. Cook said. Mr. Cook
said to us, ‘Mr. Peacock, the Chief Secretary, is
an old friend of mine, and I’ve only to arsk him
and he’ll upset this Board.’ That’s what Mr.
Cook said. Listen! Mr. Cook said, ‘Mr. Har-
rison Ord, Chief Inspector of Factories, ’ll do
anything I arsk.’ That’s what Mr. Cook said.
Listen ! Mr. Cook said, ‘ Look here, girls,
Syme ’ll do anything for me ; so, if you don’t do
what I want yer ter, I’ll get the Hage on ter yer.’
That’s what Mr. Cook said.” At this stage a
lydy, who had been constantly remarking in a
hard-baked tone “ It’s a lie! It’s a lie!” remarked
it one# more, and then rushed, the platform with
her bro Hy. One guilelfess young thing in a short
frock rose just here to address the meeting, but
being told to go to bed, fell back without saying a
word. Next there was a general rush to eject the
lady with the umbrella, and the gas went out, and
the meeting surged wildly to the door and dis-
persed. The minimum wage was about the only
thing that wasn’t mentioned once all the evening.
Alves’ patent Fuel Economiser and Smoke
Destroyer was tried in Sydney last Friday before
many business men, engineers, press representa-
tives and others. The trial was a perfect success.
The N.S.W. Fuel Economising Company Ltd. is
being formed for acquiring and taking over the
rights of the invention in N.S.W., and the co.’s
prospectus is set out in another part of this paper.
As the invention saves from 10 to 25 per cent, of
fuel and reduces the smoke to a minimum, the
prospects of the company are very favorable.
Veteran-Exhibitioner Jales Joubert is back
again in Sydney— “ having escaped from all the
finny tribe,” as he pathetically puts it. The old
man is now bound West, to Forrestland, where
another Ex. is carpeted unless Premier Reid
retains the profundity of his tremendous experi-
ence to represent N.S.W. at Paris in 1000.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CAST I j 1011 E AGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch 262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
aluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Hank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability ..
1.919.500 0 0
1,191,934 0 0
1.949.500 0 0
Total 6,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackrllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies In Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on theirbehalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other hanks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879,
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Publications-
TNIAMOND SONG BOOK.
600 SONGS, WORDS, and MUSIC, complete,
the greatest collection of song-s ever bound together
between the covers of one book. National Songs of Every
Country, including War, Patriotic, Comic, Sentimental, &
Other Songs. Many old-time favorites long since out of
print, and cannot be had elsewlieree. Complete list of
the songs for a stamp. This wonderful book will be sent
(post paid) throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d., from
ANGLO AM. PUB. CO.,
Agents wanted. Box 1163 G.P.0., Sydney.
LTENRY PARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “11 Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
forsmall orchestra, 2-.-. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Struct, MELBOURNE.
"Friends no Longer.” so b n o urnl ju^'
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUBf
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
'll cacli, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Faxton & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, ItIELKOIIItNE.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
JT AVINO PURCHASED TWO EDVCA-
TIONAU Ulli RA RIKS, numbering 4840 vols.,
containing the best editions, also keys to Mathematics
and Classics used in all Universities, Colleges and Schools,
attention is drawn to Teachers that they can procure any
book at nearly half-price —namely, a ss. book for 2s. 6d.,
posted 35., and so on in proportion ; also, 515 Novels
(Colonial Library) by the best authors. Cost °s. 6d. My
orice, 1/6. Posted. R. W. SKINNER
. . The Noted Second-Hand Bookseller . .
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
WANTED Complete Files Bulletin— lBB4,
1886. Apply, A. 8., Bulletin Office.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. ' .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company 's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Hlients, 31st December, 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in oharge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital.. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,702,522 17 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 47,477 2 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors; W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Mil!an, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
mHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
* (Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. ... 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THF.—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000
pAIDUP £2,074, SOI I Os.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 nishopsr/ ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with asrency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
® t/\
Corppaoy
United Australian
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital... £500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, eto. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Speoial Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mininir
Stocks. *
Our INVESTORS' GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
ree on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 16, 2 p.m.
L' ura, Saturday, Ociober 23, 2 p.m.
Hubbuek, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 6 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PJRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
EsPERANCE Bay
Leura, Saturday, October 23, 2 p.ra.
Hubbuck, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GER\LDTON
Hnbbuck, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 5 p.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE i
MARYBOROUGH V
ROCKHAMPTON \
Tyrian, Saturday, October 16, 2 p.m.
Konnowarra, Tuesday, Oct. 19, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 28, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 16, 2 p.m.
■-Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 23, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 5 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CIIKItKNT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
t ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
THE . .
Universal Land & Deposit Bank
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874,
37 Victoria No. 19.)
Registered Office: 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
William Newcombe, Esq. (Chairman); Ernest A. Bonney,
Esq., L.S. ; E. C. V. Brouoiiton, Esq., J.P.
TO INVESTORS.—Debentures issued at 3 and 5 years’
currency. Interest, 6 per cent, and 7 per cent, respec-
tively, payable quarterly or half-yearly. Fixed deposits
to limited amounts —12 months, 5 per cent. ; two years
5J per cent.
This Company did not suspend payment or re-construct
in any way during the building society smash of 11-91, or
the bank panic of 1893. The Company buys and sells
land on easy terms, and the success that has attended its
operations is proof that there is scope for a well-managed
concern, and security for investors.
Ernest C. V. Broughton,
Managing Director.
GILFILLAN & MCQREERY,
Amyers, Metallurgists,
“‘““iKS* *"“* & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cvanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of* Ores
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processed
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores 8
WALLEN & WOODS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
(Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. M^lbo6ri)^.
DICKSON &, BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidoe,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
St QUERN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties
London Agent— B. R. HARRIS, Montague ’ House
64 Gresham-street, London E.C. ’
Shipping,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
For London.
Steamer.
•Oceana
••China
•Victoria
•Valetta
•Australia
Commander.
6603 E. Stewart
8000 M. de Horne
6527 E. Crewe
5023 C. Gadd
70001. Reeves
• Calling at Marseilles. ' »*
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia, - ■
Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Co’s [ine
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAI LWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney) Tues-
day, October 19,
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, October 30.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, October 19.
S.S. Innamincka(froin Melb.)
Saturday, October 30.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
October 16.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY .
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Amur, Tuesday, Octo*
ber 19.
jßest <& Cheapest jßoute to Goldfields,
G. S. YUILL AND CO., J.td., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURlvETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALI A—Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamer was built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare—London, £47 ss. ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown.
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents,
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


Eg
Jldims’s Hotel and |l|arble gar
ANB
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
()•
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
Hotel and Caf4 have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728. WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
WHITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depot, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of tho world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as .compared with-buying them from dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra.
long and plated. All
ba.BS wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilasfcus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
n the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. Tho price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, I^o XfJ l \° rB °*
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALL & CO. LTD., 404 Oeorge
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
SHAKE THE BOTTLE !
HUNTER’S KURANDA
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
PURITY
PAPAIN
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
.in
this
New Sauce,
it being
A Purely Fruit
and
-Vegetable
Condiment.
Medical Annual, 1897.
Page 203. “In the treatment of dyspepsia
dependent upon deficient secretion of the
gastric juice, Stewart ‘ Philadelphia Poly-
clinic,’ July, ’96) speaks strongly in favor
of Papain given in a liquid form. The
results obtained from this artificial digestive
are far more favorable than those which
accrue from the employment of pepsine and
hydrochloric acid.”
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
ATTENTION! DYSPEPTICS.
Indigestion is at the root of more than half of our present day bodily ailments,
accentuated as it is, by the almost universal habit of stomach drugging. Simply
stated, these distressing symptoms and their consequent evils are directly due to the
inability to properly digest the food consumed. No amount of medication can aid this
most vital and important function. The proprietors of HUNTER’S PAW-PAW
FRUIT SAUCE, knowing that their Piquant Relish contains a large proportion
of PAPAIN (the most active digestive ferment known to Medical Science), claim
that DYSPECTIC TORTURES are entirely BANISHED by using their sauce
at meal times, besides which, its palatableness greatly enhances the enjoyments of
the table.
Manufactured only at Hunter’s Steam Preserving Works,
CAIRNS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Hunters
Paw- Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from all the leading WHOLESALE GROCERS ;
ALSO AT THE
Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Pitt-street, Sydney,
AND SHORTLY FROM ALL THE LEADING RETAIL GROCERS.
ZRO-i^X)
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
:!32
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Lo c o m oti ves,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRiS ROPES, &0., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE" OIL ENGINE
OLD
p
p
K
H sms
AGENT for the following
Poker Machos
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES.
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH
Alb °’ SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
—AND —
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MANILA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
m" Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEKET, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d a> & 1/- each
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Tam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the m f f^ c^4 s v r econi
implicitly followed. I'lie proprietors entertain the greates 1 confidence in article, a-nd cam<icon
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ol a good Custard. Givtita t < .
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. EW.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY


Packets
TPI
v™*%^LIEARS
<sa\'V
P(/ALir <
m PVR£M
Ld /ld
/ffonu/acrurkd by JM&
’ <• ifyF''
PayemeZ:,
m
Is.
Pii.es axd How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Dep6t for Australasia,
257 Georgo-street, Sydney.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other it
“Ellis’ Kin "-street Coffee failure,’’ situated 6(
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
rtf*
o^°
RED BIRD.
T'filj
Tfi
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—64 King St., Stdnet.
Agents and
Depots
EVERYWHERE.
Agents and I
Depots I
Everywhere.
Tim RED BIRD is a wise selection—can be trotted
heat after heat, and is never known to break. The
poorer the purchaser of a Red Bird,' the richer he will
be in its possession. It’s a cycle which “Never
requires repairs."
RED BIRD CYCLES have a past.
It takes years of expensive experimenting, ingen-
uity, and experience to perfect anv one thinir.
We have manufactured RED BIRD cvoles for the
past 20 years, and it must be a very foolish person
who could expect to obtain from a concern of limited
experience cycles which will compare with the match-
less, inuch-talked-about RED BIRD.
A Question of Price. — The best price to pay for a
cycle is the price of the Best Cycle. “ That RED
BIRD is the best.” They are ridden by the better
class of cyclists, who must have the best. Examine
their little oil-bath bearings and other fine points
and you will understand why it is better to pay for
quality than pay for repairs.
Most cycle-dealers push the sale of that particular
brand of cycle on which there is the largest margin
of profit. RED BIRD CYCLES are not sold, as other
wheels are, through several dealers and commission
agents, but are sold direct by the makers, who have a
reputation to lose. We have a reputation of 20 years’
standing, and you get the benefit of our experience.
Rbd Bird Quality. —When you consider the excel-
lence of material, absolute accuracy in workmanship,
and perfect detail and rigid inspection, combined
with many novel ideas, no freaks, and the general
worth of a cycle, you will not mind the small differ-
ence in cost over wheels of doubtful value.
The RED BIRD is such a wheel —not the cheapest,
but the best. Manufactured and guaranteed by the
OOOLD BICYCLE CO.
On, Yes I —There are other wheels —black wheels
and cheap wheels, tin wheels and pot-metal wheels.
But if you pay a little more money you get the cele-
brated Red Bird wheel.
Their crimson finish is beautiful, and they never
require repairs.
Educated Cyclists know the value of a good
machine. That’s why they pay the difference in
price between the RED BIRD and other cycles.
They cost more at first, but they know that first
cost is last cost.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
• . 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
Caulfield Guineas Day was remarkable for a
racing coincidence. Four events were won by horses
that had run into second place on the previous Saturday
at Flemington—viz., Coil, Ouyen, Cocos and Paul Pry.
The fact that two of these cases showed a reversal of
“ form ” was not a remarkable coincidence, however. In
Australian horse-race performances there is nothing so
surprising as consistency.
At Flemington (Oct. 2nd) Key beat Coil over
ten furlongs at a difference of 291 b. Last Saturday the
little mare and the big horse raced again on exactly the
same terms over a course one furlong shorter than
before, which, considering that Key goes tearing along in
front, from the start, should have been a one furlong
point in her favor. Coil failed to quite catch her at
Flemington, but at Caulfield he caught her and won by
ten lengths. Punters who backed Coil when he didn’t
travel fast enough to overhaul Key must ascribe their loss
to injudicious jockeyship, The Bulletin supposes.
Joeke3 T ship nowadays is the principal glorious uncer-
tainty of the turf. Boys ride wisely, or not too well, as
the case may be.
Water-colour and Paul Pry ran a mile race, at
Flemington (Oct. 2nd), and the little mare, receiving 191 b.
from her male antagonist, caught him after passing the
distance-post, and won easily. On Saturday, they ran
another mile race. The difference in weight was only 41b.
less than before, but this time Paul Pry, again leading at
the distance-post, didn’t get nearly caught by Water-
colour. She finished sixth. Which of these two “ forms”
shall the public take as a guide to the relative chances of
Paul Pry and Water-colour for the Caulfield Cup? Echo
answers, Which ? The present writer will take the
Flemington running, and thereon ‘‘tip’’ W.C. as a likely
winner next Saturday.
Aurum appeared to donkey-lick his Caulfield
Guineas opposition, and probably he will take the V.R.O.
Derby without trouble. He hasn’t grown much since six
months ago, but he looks every inch a brother to Auraria,
who likewise carried more quality than quantity. Aurum
certainly has the outward signs of a cracked fore-hoof, i.e.,
it was bound round with bees-waxed thread on Saturday,
but the crack—if there is one—didn’t seem to trouble the
colt after his race. The St. Albans’ stab'e never throws
away a chance of lending impressiveness to an unimport-
ant trouble, anyhow. Amberite on his Caulfield Stokes
running behind Coil and Key, cannot beat Aurum for the
Derby, and Fleet Admiral will doubtless be unripe for
the struggle, although the handsome South Australian is
coming on again nicely.
One indirect objection to Aurum is the poor
“form” of his fancied stable-companions in handicap-
races. Manfred has several times cut-up very badly when
backed, likewise Majestic, a hot favorite for the Toorak
Handicap, ran “nowhere” all the way. Yet Majestic
must have been sticking pretty closely to Aurum in their
gallops at home.
Cocoa, own brother to Coil, won the Debutant
Stakes as readily as the betting predicted. Vigorous,
meeting him on 91b. better terms, and getting an advan-
tage in the start, had beaten him on the previous Satur-
day, hut this time Vigorous made a bad commencement
and finished only fourth. Of the two Abercorn colts,
Cocos looks to be the master at present, and, in the
Maribyrnong Plate, they should beat everything they
have met up to now.
The Caulfield Stakes was the first race run
under the new rule that requires all horses to be ridden
out for a situation. Therefore, unless the new rule was
laughed to scorn by jockeys in general, neither Ayrshire,
The Chevalier, Wait-a-Bit,' Trent, Toreador, nor Amberite
can have much chance for the Cup, seeing that none of
them ever appeared near the front whilst the supposed
struggle for places was in progress. True, they none of
them appeared to be bustled after the race, with the ex-
ception of Wait-a-Bit. This much-fancied horse is tucked
up and out of sorts, to the writer’s way of thinking. Cer-
tainly not as big and happy-looking as when he ran
second and third for the Newmarket Handicap and Aus-
tralian Cup, or when he won at Flemington five weeks
ago. Wait-a-Bit may come back to his old self before
Melbourne Cup-day, but the writer is “ off ” him. He has
done lots of work for the Cup, and perhaps hard work
doesn’t agree with his liver.
Once again we have the old, old story that
Dreamland has been “got right at last” by his hopeful
trainer James Scobie. The tale-tellers are very emphatic,
even more so than usual. Always a “picture,” Dream-
land is just now the prettiest picture in Australian horse-
flesh. The Bulletin will say, under protest, that, Soobie’s
perennial failure is more likely to win the Caulfield Cup
than to stay the two miles at Flemington next month.
Coil, seemingly in the pink of condition, should
have had a great chance for the Caulfield Cup, but was
scratched on Saturday afternoon. Among other recent
public performers there are not more than eight worth
serious consideration on paper—say, Mischief, Devon,
Parthenopoeus, Trent, Key, Amberite, Dreamland (or
Metford) and Watercolour. Rosella is tipped by the
touts, and The Bulletin will bunch her with the eight
chances aforesaid. All things considered, Watercolour
at a long price seems about the most reasonable tempta-
tion that any one-horse punter could yield to. She is
only a pony, but the same remark applied to her mother,
Cerise and Blue, who would have been good goods for
this year’s Caulfield Cup with 7st. in the saddle.
* * * *
FOR THE ’97 CAULFIELD CUP.
Three little words all Existence express—
Each human being with truth says “ I am ” ;
We were bidden to be, and a few of us bless
That original mandate, while many say “ D—n 1 ”
Baptised, married, buried ; from the Light to the Night
Each stage of the journey is known as a rite.
And Am, be and rite, while expressing Life’s trip,
If joined in one word give a Caulfield Cup tip.
H.O.
* * * *
Con: “If the Vio. elections give any tip for
Caulfield Cup, it is Turner and Key.”
* * * •
Last year Rosella won the Moondah Handicap
at Caulfield and Straightfire ran second. A few weeks
later Straightfire won the August Handicap at Fleming-
ton, and two months afterwards ran second in the Caul-
field Cup. This year, Rosella won the Moondah Handicap
and Trent ran second. Subsequently, Trent won the
August Handicap. Will history repeat itself and Trent
finish second in Caulfield Cup ’
* * » •
Melb. Age and its weekly satellite, the Leader
(humorous name !) hold a barefaced brief for the V.A.T.O.
stewards. David Syme’s horse-reporters have always
been truckled to by the Caulfield management, and nowa-
days, since the opposition Aliens and Australasias
said nasty things re the leaning of the stewards towards
jockey Jimmy Hayes, the mutual affection between the
racing club and the newspaper office seems warmer than
ever.
* • • •
The scratching of Reka for the two Cups dis-
poses of a vague rumor that the brother of Portsea was
likely to put in some handsome deeds, as well as a hand-
some appearance, this spring.
• • • •
The size of Positano’s chance for Melb. Cup
depends entirely upon bis doubtful leg. If the leg will
carry the St. Simon horse through a fair amount of hard
work this month he should start a favorite —even first
favorite—for the Cup, and run a great race.
* * • •
It counts as an unfavorable sign for Trent and
Dreamland that somebody has “dreamt” they won the
double—Caulfield and Melb. Cups. These extensively-
advertised dreams almost invariably get their free advt.
from I key Mo, and you never find Ikey troubling to call
public attention to his own particular fancies. lie talk 3
only about the “dream” ’orses that he wants to lay a
bit hextra against.
* * * ¥
Melb.: “ Demise—Ringmaster, that is to say,
metallieian Harry Lyons. Nobody could believe that his
age was 73, as given in the obituary advt. Truly they
don't all die young. It is such a healthy occupation that
they are apt to be beautiful for ever. Lyons had been in
the biz ever since the year one, beginning with Hobson,
and Coker, and so on toGovder, the Thompson-Solomons,
and on to Joseph and Oxenham, with the rest of the
battledore-shuttlecockers.”
* » * •
Though Carbine’s mother died a week or two
ago Australia is not in mourning.
* * * *
At Rosehill on Saturday the public made it
warm for Ikey Mo. Josephine was favorite for the Gran-
ville Stakes, but she failed to get a “ drum,” and Mr. H.
V. Foy’s imported mare, Countess Aberdeen, well-backed
at Bto 1, made an easy win from Record. Ditto, a 2-to-l
favorite, won the Jumpers’ Flat race; and the Jeweller
gelding, Town Clock, ran up to form by winning the
Sprinters’ Handicap. Mr. “Black Bill” must have
thought luck had changed at last when he won the Rose-
hill October Handicap with Gaulus, and the Welter Mile
with The Grafter, both starting red-hot. favorites. Essex
again finished in front of Gloriosa for the Nursery Stakes,
and, if it occurs much oftener, Mr. Long will be feeling a
taste of what Progress’s owner must have felt when he
ran such a hat-full of seconds to Grand Flaneur.
* * * #
Gray, the starting-machine man, was formerly a
bank-clerk in Sydney. His apparatus, though a failure at
first, is likely to prove a success in Bull-land.
* * • *
No one knew better than the late Paddy Slavin
—if he really is the late - that he had his master in Peter
Jackson. The oft-mentioned rough-up between the pair
arose through Jackson so telling Slavin, whereupon Slavin
said nasty things to the son of Ham, and in the ensuing
scrap, Jackson got heavily onto Slavin without a return.
People used to say Jackson could not hit hard. When he
met unlucky Mick Dooley the latter made really a good
showing until Jackson struck him on the jaw. There
was no grabbing the spot ala Corbett. Doolev fell dead
as a log, and the blow on the left jaw had bulged out the
cheek-bone on the opposite side. Pressure was brought
on the displaced bones to force them back in their place,
and for long afterwards poor old Mick’s phiz was lop-
sided. What an unlucky fellow Mick Dooley was, to be
sure 1 Too heavy for the middleweights and too light for
the heavyweights, he faced such a terrihle three as Jack-
son, Slavin, and Joe Goddard. With Slavin it was any-
one’s fight for a long time ; and with Goddard, in Sydney,
only a glutton like the Barrier Boy would have withstood
the punishment Dooley meted out until his strength left
him and brute force pulled Goddard through. In
Melbourne Dooley beat Goddard fair and square, but
Goddard’s seconds were either too clever or Dooley’s not
clever enough. Joe, when knocked down, was not
counted out when lOsec. had expired and he was still on
the floor, but corners being called his iron constitution
pulled him round, and he roughed Mick out.
* * • *
It was like old times to see Messrs. Larry Foley
and Duncan Anderson put in four rounds at Sydney last
week. It is 24 years since the writer first saw the pair
set-to, and it must be confessed they are both wonderfully
well-preserved men. Mr. Anderson was of yore a really
good man, and, like latter-day amateur champion Seale
was ever ready to box with all-comers, amateur or nro
* • * «
“Platt-Betts will confine his cycling in Aus-
tralia to record attempts and time trials.” Australians
are a long-suffering people. Who really cares a rap to
see Platt-Betts, or any other man, race Time, the De-
stroyer—cavort round and round a ring behind relays of
multicycles? Human interest only comes into the game
when Platt-Betts races Bihnartin, who is understood to be
metaphorically thirsting for his blood.
* * * *
Platt-Betts’ refusal to ride in matches seems to
prove that he is not sure of himself within himself. He
says, “ In an hour I could run four or five pacing-teams
to death ” ; and he also says, “ I am not going to race
Martin.” In other words, he is all right when he has a
quad to draw him along and do the worrying for him.
lie possesses as serviceable a heart and body as any
athlete could desire, but he lacks brains. Compared with
Martin, he is the cyclist who does not know. If he did
know, he would be ready for an unpaced five or ten miles
go with plugger Bill, so as to get at the plugger’s bank-
money.
There are, always have been, and will be,
athletes brilliant against time and failures against men.
The presence of an opponent discounts some men. Platt-
Betts affords a good instance. He can establish a mile
record unpaced alone ; but when he met Stocks in a time
competition mile he was beaten. Yet this mile was con-
sidered the surest thing in the world for Platt-Betts, just
as the hour was for Stocks. And Stocks won both—the
hour with ease. Platt-Betts could burst 16 pacers up, but
he couldn’t burst up one opponent.
Platt-Betts’ record-breaking attempts in Aus-
tralia will not draw the crowd. The crowd does not want
to see a human machine plugging on its own behind a
quad. Human interest centres in contest—dog eat dog is
what the crowd wants to see. Now, if Platt-Betts rode
an unpaced five-mile match against Bilmartin, and the
latter wriggled his wheel by accident and brought
Platt-Betts down with kersmash on the asphalt, the
crowd would go home satisfied in every crevice of its
innards. But if Platt-Betts hung on to a quad and
cracked the record the crowd would merely say, “ Tm 1
w’y, ’e ain’t game to race old Buck.”
• • * •
A Sydney evening paper has been trying to
raise “ bad blood ” over the recent three-rounds panto-
mime between Larry Foley and George Seale at Sydney
Gymnasium, by seeking to convey the impression that
they were “ all out.” The pair were ever past-masters in
the art of “kidding,” and the writer of the article in
question must have been out of his element, or he would
have known that the fierce looks and make-believe rallies
were part of a performance gone through by the pair any
time during the past 15 years.
* • • *
A prominent racing cyclist, whom Australians
have almost come to regard as of themselves, was
informed that another recently-arrived star of the same
craft had brought his wife with him. “ I guess that’s aw
right,” murmured the acclimatised one, with that childish
smile that has endeared him to all. “ I wish he’d ’a
brought two.”
A ponderous cable in the morning papers tells
us that Mr. R. M. Hawker, of Adelaide, “ who has been
so successful with the gun in England and on the contin-
ent, has gone to Somaliland, in Africa, to shoot big game.
Indeed 1 Mr. Haw’ker comes from Adelaide, and his
cousins and aunts are interested in him. The Adelaide
papers subscribe to the cable-combine, and have to be
propitiated with local news ; hence Hawker is inflicted on
Eastern Australia’s breakfast-table.
* * » •
Melb. bike firms which have failed to sell their
machines are now hiring them out. A new machine was
lately borrowed from a Little Collins-street firm. The
rider successfully steered his rented mount fully 6yds.
away from the shop, and then collided with a cart. Re-
sult—lBs. worth of smash. Six yards at 3s. per yard!
An expensive trip.
George Giffen is showing all his old form with
the bat in Adelaide club-cricket.
• * * *
All last year’s prominent Australian cricketers,
with the exception of McKibbin, have combined to de-
mand a lump sum of £145 each to play in the five test-
matches against Stoddart’s team. They propose to pay
their own expenses out of this, which means alittle under
£3O a match, or, say, £3 a week clear, a not unreasonable
figure considering that the promoting association stands
to'”Tnake an even bigger profit than it did from the last
team. George Giffen is apparently the ringleader of this
cricket “ combine.”
* * * *
Ernest Jones, playing for North Adelaide
against West Torrens, on Oct. 2, took six wickets for one
run ! Yeteran “ Atfie ” Jarvis made four, and there were
three byes in the West Torrens’ total of 10 all out.
* * » *
S.A. Govt, intends to claim damages from the
advertising firm behind Coleman, the cyclist who recently
cut the telegraph-wires to bring assistance.
* * * »
The Athletic News (Lon.) has published some
plain, hard facts re the “ selection and financial arrange-
ments of Australian cricket teams to England, and Eng-
lish teams to Australia.” The summing-up of the case is
fair, therefore fairly rough upon the sporting character of
Australian cricket in its international bearings—“ For an
Australian team to visit England, the Australians select
the men ind take the oof, for an English team to visit
Australia, the Australians practically select the men and
likewise take the oof.” As regards the business terms oil
which “ Our Bovs ” go ’Ome, the only possible objection is
not of their making. They demand a clear half of thegate-
money, as professionals, and would, presumably, be satis-
fied to rank as such for the time being if Hinglish amateur-
ism were quite genuine in all cases, although, under any
circumstances, they might kick against the social law that
. woidd require them to enter upon an English cricket-field
through a gateway other than the entrance reserved for
Mr. W. G. Grace and his brother “non-professionals.”
If, as the Athletic News reminds them, the local pros.
“ demur to coming out at the paid-players’ gate when the
other (Australian) fellows emerge, superior-like, from the
amateur entrance,” they are not responsible for the class-
distinction. They merely put themselves on the same
cricketing level with Grace and co. and leave English pros,
to take the other gate and demur. Their troubles !
The control, or partial control, of Stoddart’s
team selection by the Australian club-managers is quite
another matter. Sport plays second fiddle to Greed-
club Greed, it is true, and, therefore, not without a sport-
ing excuse, but Greed all the same. Stoddart is not in-
vited to bring out the best-procurable All-England
Eleven. He is desired to .engage a strong, attractive
team, including as many nev) men as will pass muster,
and as few professionals as are absolutely necessary to
ensure respectable bowling results—in short, the least ex-
pensive first-class team he can engage. Each member of
the last Australian Eleven in England netted more than
£630. The English pros, visiting Australia with Stoddart
are offered a £3OO fee; one or two of them may
be able to get better terms. In the selection
of amateurs the preference is given to men
who ask for nothing more than bare expenses, and
the amateur like Phillipson who “ shouts ” his own trip
is most welcome of all. Stoddart’s English Elevens are
constructed on financial principles for the particular
benefit of an Australian management that absorbs the
profits of the tour. Years ago Shaw and Shrewsbury
brought teams to Australia on the Our Bovs in. England
system. They were sneered at as gate-money makers,
and were finally knocked out. of time by the action of our
cricket authorities in importing an opposition show.
* * • *
Vic. Govt, is concerned about the great destruc-
tion of quail down South, and, casting about for a method
of further preserving the birds, is generously assisted
with an idea fathered by “ Gundagai ” Purves, Q.C.—i.r.,
the imposition of a substantial gun-tax. “This would
prevent shooting to a certain extent by that class of men
and youths by whom the handling of a gun is a danger to
themselves and to others, and who exercise no discretion
in the choice of birds.” “Gundagi” and his churns of
the gun-clubs could easily pay a substantial gun-tax ; the
average common or garden sport who takes a holiday
with a fowling-piece now and again could not. So that
the crowd should he taxed out of the field in order to give
swell gunners a monopoly of quail.
* * * *
The ingratitude of man ! Boor old Sneaker,
the gallant steeplechaser, sold to a cabman for two
guineas.
* * * •
The late Mr. " Jem ” Meenan, a Sydney publio-
school teacher, and very clever sparrer, used to relate
that in passing through Bathurst one day he was asked
to set to with the local school-teacher. Meenan put the
gloves on, and was struck with the finished style in which
the local handled himself, his foot-work and defence
being really splendid. It made James careful, and after
a deal of sparring he determined to chance it and got
home heavily on his opponent’s “ boko." Local clapped hu
glove to his face and yelled that his nose was smashed,
whereupon Meenan, in disgust, asked him if he had neve*
been hit before. “The first time I was ever hit in my
life,” was the response. “ Then, where the deuce did you
learn your boxing?” brought the reply, that he had
picked it all up from Donnelly 's book on the noble art of
self-defence, practising his hit, stop, and get away in
front of a looking-glass !
• • * •
Megson, on his Beeston-Humber, won the first
heat and final of the International Scratch Mile at Ade-
laide last Saturday.
* * * *
The Austral Cyole Agency have chosen an op-
portune time to advertise their Dunlop cycles. It was on
a Dunlop that Stocks beat Platt-Betts.
* • » »
A few years back, an Australian pug, who has
since earned a big name in America, was slowly fighting
his way up the ladder of merit at different city halls, and,
on the afternoons preceding his big encounters, it was a
pathetic sight to see his old gray-haired mother led by
her lovin’ son to one of the locai churches. Arrived at
the gate, the proud pugilist would lean against the fence
and spit geometrical figures on the footpath, while the
small boys of the neighborhood would gather around and
gaze admiringly on the great man. Meanwhile, the poor
old lad.v inside would be praying aloud, “ Oh God, make
Patsy win de foight. Glory be to God,” & ■., &c. At last,
when she arose from her knees, she would emerge from
the fane with a heavenly glory lighting up her wrinkled
old face, and, as she kissed her boy prior to catching the
nearest tram, she would whisper in his ear, “ Patsy, me
darlint, don’t spare the cow.” And Patsy did not spare
him, with the result that, he left for Yankeeland with a
long list of Australian successes, to which he has mate-
r ally added on the other side. Which is another remark-
able instance of the efficacy of prayer, and one which
needs embalming in the Sunday-school literature of suc-
ceeding generations. Here, indeed, is a story worthy of
Screamer Peacock’s School Paper.
* * • *
Politics in sport. Wheels within wheels. The
local M.P., though he may be a quiet-going nonsuch, who
would sooner wiend his own clothes than gamble a copper,
has to patronise every local movement. Becomes a
patron or president of the local race-club. Goes guaran-
tor for overdraft. Helps the club to drift into debt.
Then us* s his voting-power, as member, to get Govt, to
help him to help club out of debt. E.g., Bundaberg (Q.).
W. H. B. O’Connell is member for Musgrave, the district
of which Bundaberg is part. O’Connell runs acandle-and-
all-sorts store there. He is trustee and guarantor, as above
instanced. Trustees now ask Govt, to help, through a
bill, to sell part of the land (reserved for all the public)
to pay off debts. Gocd show’ all round. Glassey, leader
of Labor-Opposition, is M.P. for the town itself. Cabinet
Minister Dickson is a director of the bank whose overdraft
is to be paid. Providence thus inclines all hearts Bunda-
berg-wards.
• « • •
Most of the outgoing generation of Maoriland
amateur athletes were for some time stranded as pro-
fessionals. When the inevitable slump came there was a
general effort, to creep back to the cosy lilywhite nest.
Some of the finest athletes in Maoriland have wasted the
best years of their lives in struggling for reinstatement;
but these were notoriously the men w’ho hadn’t money or
family influence to back up their claims.
* * * *
Ranjitsinjhi threatens to fetch his Hambourg
brother.
* • • •
The veriscope, which can’t lie, shows a dreadful
waste of empty benches to see Fitzsimmons and Corbett
fight.
* * * *
Bill Martin’s wisdom in cycling matters is shown
by his selection of Maorilander Forbes to win the Brassard
championship at the L.V.VV. meeting.
* • * *
No truer indication of the awful slump in the
Yankee cycle-trade can found than the reduction in
size of some well-known cycling papers from (say) 100 to
60 pages or less.


OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
6RCVILLC
BKYCL€S.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4^in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
<sircVilie TGrgcr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(Ijolf American High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREFL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
MACK lAN
HENLEY
GRIM LEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD; also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STCRLIH6 CYCLCS.
rpHE Ladies’ STERLING is so graceful that
it is distinct from all others, and is acknow-
ledged to be the easiest running machine
built. Which accounts for the fact that more
Ladies’ StcrliQS&
were SOLD in AUSTRALIA LAST YEAR
than ALL OTHER makes combined.
STERLING DEPOT:
75 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR (Registered)
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladies, Gentlemen, & Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
and Treatise
on the-
Human Foot,
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNREGIS-
TERED
IMITATORS.
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel
CO, round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and
width of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper,
and running a lead-pencil round the heel and toes. Cut
the outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with
the other measurements, stating what size you generally
take, what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps
a pet corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All
these little matters attended to. If you have a long, thin
foot, or a short, thick one, with very high instep, send to
ELLIS’S, where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor,
with a view of introducing his new and simple system into
the country districts where practical bootmaking is un-
known, has decided to supply his patrons at the LOWEST
DASH PRICE.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
Thousands of Unsolicited Testimonials.
“Never had anything on my feet so comfortable.”—
N. S. Norris, Postmaster, Muttaburra, Q.
“ It is a pleasure to wear your boots.” — Jas. Halse,
‘Molton,” Millie, Narrabri, N.S.W.
“ Your boots are simply splendid.”—(Miss) A. C. Porter,
Bega, N.S.W.
“Your shoes fit well, and give satisfaction.”—J. L.
Thompson, Agricultural College, Richmond, N.S.W.
Try the New “ Combination ” Bicycle Shoe
Strap and Buckle, Post Free, 15s. 6d.
Half-Guinea Balmoral,
FOR STRONG WEAR.
STOUT CALF, LEATHER LINED.
Post
FREE,
anywhere,
10s. 6d.
Toe Caps,
Is.
Extra.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
ieven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is). Note the Address :
T. E. ELLIS,
THE INTERCOLONIAL ROOT COSTUME
MANUFACTORY,
83 G-eorfife-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by tha Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an 1 |Mprp|B| 1
Duplicate parts always in stock. uvirtniHL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F- MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
TlX© A.CME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“DOWKJDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the Direction of ti)e Messrs. MacMahon.
HUGE SUCCESS !
Crowding this Spacious Theatre Nightly—of the Stirring
Military Play
“AT DUTY’S CALL.”
The Queen’s Jubilee Pictures, taken by Royal Command,
are also presented with this great drama, and nightly
EVOKE UNBOUNDED ENTHUSIASM. The Startling
Prices prevail—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Nicholson’s.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
MELBOURNE RACES,
1897.
BY the Ordinary Mail Train, leaving Sydney
for Melbourne at 9 p.tn.—HOLIDAY EX-
CURSION TICKETS to Melbourne will be issued
at Sydney, from Monday, 25th October, to Friday,
sth November, inclusive, available for return
within six months from date of issue by Mail
Train leaving Alburv at 2.45 p.m.
FARES :
First-class Return, £5; Second-class Return, £3lss.
These Tickets will not be available for return by
Express Train, except by payment of the difference
between the Ordinary and Holiday Excursion
Rates, viz.: 21s. Gd. First-class, and lGs. Second-
class.
At all other Stations, Holiday Excursion Tickets
will be issued from Monday, 25th October, to Fri-
day, sth November, inclusive, available for return
for six months, at the local Holiday Excursion
Rate to Albury, plus the Excursion Fare Albury
to Melbourne, viz.: 425. Bd. First, and 255. 9d.
Second-class.
On the Southern Line, in cases where the two
local Fares (viz., to Albury and thence to Mel-
bourne) amount to more than the through rate
from Sydney to Melbourne, the Sydney rate only,
viz., .£5 First Class, and .£3 15s. Second Class will
be charged.
On the Western Line, passengers will be charged
the Holiday Excursion Rate (via Blayney) to
Albury, and the Local Excursion Fare, Albury to
Melbourne (as shown above) added ; but when the
passengers from the Western Line travel via
Sydney, Holiday Excursion Fare to Sydney, plus
the Holiday Excursion Fare, Sydney to Mel-
bourne, wili be charged.
On the Northern Line, passengers will be
charged the Local Holiday Excursion Fare to
Sydney, and must re-book at the latter Station.
By Ordinary Express and Special Fast
Express Trains.— Fares from Sydney to Mel-
bourne: £G Is. Gd. First, and £4 11s. Second, avail-
able for return by any train within six months
from date of issue.
In addition to the Regular Express Train leav-
ing Sydney daily (Saturdays excepted) at 7.15
p.m., due Melbourne 12.30 noon next day, and
Mail Train leaving Sydney daily (Saturdays ex-
cepted) at 9.0 p.m., due Melbourne 10.52 p.m.
next day, A SPECIAL FAST EXPRESS
TRAIN, composed of SLEEPING CARS only,
will leave Sydney for Melbourne at 7.50 p.m. on
THURSDAY, 28th OCTOBER; 'the Ordinary
Express Train leaving Sydney at 7.15 p.m. will
also run on SUNDAY, 31st OCTOBER, 1897, as
under: —
A SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION
TRAIN will leave Sydney for Melbourne
at 9.20 a.m. on FRIDAY, 29th October,
due Melbourne 6.20 a.m. next morning'.
Return Fares: First Class, £3 10s. ; Second
Class, £2 10s. Available for return by Mail
Train leaving Melbourne at 6.15 a,m. on any day
(Sundays excepted) up to Friday, 26th November,
1897, inclusive.
TICKETS can be obtained at the Central Book-
ing Office, George-street, Sydney, or at the Book-
ing Office, Red fern Station, and passengers are
requested to purchase their tickets by THURS-
DAY, 28th OCTOBER, at latest.
Further particulars from all Stationmasters, also
Handbills and Posters.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
Amusements.
TO-NIGHT
KTCKERS
SHYEKS
RUNAWAYS
WAIUGALS
NERVOUS
HORSES
TO-NIGHT
and
EVERY
NIGHT.
Exhibition buildino.
(Prince Alfred Park), SYDNEY.
To-Night and Every Evening- at 8.
LAST FEW NIGHTS OF
Prof. Norton B. Smith,
Emperor of ail Horse Educators.
Wild, Vicious and Nervous Horses
bandied free at eac-h exhibition.
Prices —3s, 2s, Is ; Children half-price.
NAT. BEHRENS, Manager.
■pHI’ATKE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under Management of E. G. Cooke and G. M. Welty.
CONTINUED SUCCESS!
—OF—
The Marvellous Veriscope Reproduction
OF THE
FITZSIMMONS- CORBETT
Great International Boxing Contest for the Championship
of the World.
8®” IT IS THE SENSATION OF AUSTRALASIA.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, 16th OCTOBER.
MA66IC MOOR€
IN THE EXCELLENT COMEDY DRAMA,
JAQUELINA.
Supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Alec. Anderson, Agent. Percy Ward, Bus. Manager.
JJTJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, 16th OCTOBER (Caulfield Cup Night).
Dramatic Medley.
By Barbara and Olive Sisley.
Tragedy. Corpedy. Farce-
Assisted by Mr. GLADSTONE WRIGHT.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
JSRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVENING, at 8. MATINEES, WEDNESDAY, at 2 p.m.
The Romantic, Military, Spectacular Drama,
“A. Royal Divorce.”
Written by the late W. G. WILLS, Esq.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box plan at. Menzies and Allan’s
Music Warehouse. Day tickets at Bentwitch's.
FRANK TNORNTON.
O 3XT TOUR.
ADELAIDE, BROKEN HILL, Eto.
EIGHT WEEKS.
Amusements,
gALON CINEMATOGRAPH E,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE NEW ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A POSITIVE SENSATION.
OVER TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND ' VISITORS
TO DATE.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 a.m. Onward.
J. MAC MAHON.
TH EAT It B It OYA L, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING I
Derrick’s Great Eccentric Comedy,
“OOKTFXTSXO KT.”
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
As MORTIMER MUMPLEFORD, Esq.
Supported by his Powerful Dramatic Company,
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box plan at Elvy & Co’s,
George-street-. M. MARCUS, Acting Manager.
ER MAJESTY’S TH BATHE,
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS 1
The Musical Comedy,
“Tbc Maid.”
SATURDAY,Oct. 16, Six Nights—“ The Gay Parisienne.*
Plan, Nicholson’s. ZW PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and la.
ALA C E THEAT It E, SYDNEL
Sole Lessee and Managing Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Most Popular Entertainment in Australia,
CHAS. H. HOYT'S Masterpiece in Musical Comedy,
“A BUNCH OF KEYS.”
Including such artists as George Lauri, Marietta Nash,
Addie Conyers, Lottie Moore, Fanny Liddiard, Willie
Freear, and many others.
Prices—3s., 25., & Is. Plan at Paling & Co., George-sfc.
NextMatinee Performance, Saturday, at 3.
1 V O L I THEA T K E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Re-appearance of the AVO LOS—3 in a New Acb
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. CHAS. DILLON Miss DOLLY ELCON
TOM WOOTWELL. FRANK LEON.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
rp HE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Managing Director —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
The HAYTOES. The SELBINIS-8.
The Queen’s Jubilee Cinematograph Pictures
POPE & SAYLES. J. W. WINTON. ALLEN & HART.
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON, .
and the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, & 6d. Plan at Allen’s, Collins-street.
Matinee Peiformances every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m.
Latest Novelties >0 Pianjood RiOgS-
Quality, Finish, & Durability Guaranteed.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-,50/-, 60/-
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
18c. La Farisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1' Fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
18c. Gipsy.
3 Fine Diamonds, £2 55.,
£3, £4.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, tl 155.,
£2 55., £3.
POST FREE.
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £5,
£7 10s.
(8 CT
18c. Buckle.
1 Fine Diamond, £2.
1 Fine Sapphire, Rub}' or
Opal, £1 15s.
18c. Band.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100'-. Ruby or Sapphire,
30/-, 45 -, 60/-. Opal or
Pearl, 25;-, 40/-, 50/-.
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s., £5
£7 10s.
Send Size of Finger by a Piece of Wire or a Hole in Cardboard.
WE HAVE 1000 OTHER DESIGNS OF RINGS IN STOCK.
vz*
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Under the Distinguished Patronage
of His Excellency Viscount Hampden.
LEAGUE OP N.S.W. WHEELMEN.
CNAMPIONSNIP MEETING
AGRICULTURAL GROUND, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, 30th OCTOBER, and SATURDAY, 6th NOVEMBER, 1897.
£5OO PRIZES £5OO isa Sydney Wheel Race, 2 Mile Handicap, value £3OO
Race Committee—W. E. Corben, T. H. Barkell, Fred. Hawley. Single Fare to Competitors travelling by rail.
PROGRAM M E.
The Race Committee reserve the right to alter the programme, or to postpone the meeting in the event of up
favorable weather or other causes.
First Day—Saturday, October 30, 1897.
Event.
League Cup
Sydney Wheel Race
Paced Race (2 heats)
Australian Championship
(Open by invitation to Inter-
national and Intercolonial
Competitors).
Multicycle Handicap...
Distance.
J-mile
2 miles
5 miles
1 mile
3 miles
Paced Race (1 heat) ... 6 miles
llampden Plate ... 1 mile
Final Sydney Wheel Race 2 miles
Paced Race (Final)
Scratch Race ... ... 10 miles
Final Handicap ... 3 miles
ENTRIES FOR ALL EVENTS CLOSE SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1897.
No Entries will he received under any circumstances unless accompanied by Entry Fee. No exception will b«
made to this rule in the case of international or intercolonial visitors.
. . Do not leave your Entry till Last Minute . .
For further particulars and conditions see Race Bills. All communications to he addressed to
FRED. HAWLEY, Secretary, Wynyard Lane, SYDNEY.
RELIEF
from
COUGH
vvr
l
:
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Couyh.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN St Co., London. Price I*. lid. and 2«. 9d.


Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient
Consumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It has long
been the most popular and successful
anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere approved and
recommended by the Faculty. It
soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays
coughing, and induces repose. As a
family emergency medicine, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral takes the lead. For
the relief and cure of croup, whoop-
ing-cough, sore throat, and all the
pulmonary troubles to which the
young are so liable, it is invaluable.
No household is quite secure without
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
prepared by
Dr. «T. O. Ayer & Co.,
LOWELL, MASS., TT. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name—Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral— is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
rumms
® AW - planer-knife
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
The Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
. The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
B3XTGHNTEERS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE:
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OF Vim IOTEREST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “ WORDS OF
WISDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Thousands have been
PERMANENTLY CURED after trying all
other means. If you have been humbugged and
disappointed, write to-day for the Book and 5000
testimonial letters, posted FREE, SEALED and
WITHOUT MARKS.
Address—
DR. IRVING CO.,
Corner HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Auckland (M.L.) Star advt.
anted, board and lodging', near Franklin Road ;
no comfort; no piano; only food and bedroom.
Elderly, Star Office.
Once, in Vic. Leg. Assembly, Aspinall
referred to Diocletian. An East Melb. member,
much ashamed of having been a beef-dealer,
ejaculated “Who’s he?” Aspinall: “A Roman
butcher.”
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in-
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
Edward Ellis, of Sydney Sunday Times
fame, is now attached to the staff of Glare’s
Weekly and the Sun»ay Chronicle, Perth
(W.A.). He had made a success of the local
Sportsman, when, for some unknown reason, the
proprietors decided to drop it—a thing they have
regretted ever since. He then succeeded Rhys-
Jones on the Mining J ournal —now overshadowed
by the hyacmthine locks of the wild, wide-hatted
Vosper.
A carrier-pigeon post between Great
Barrier Island and Auckland City, distance about
60 miles, is being arranged for by the M.L. Govt.
Apropos , The Bulletin believes that there is a
good income to be made by the first man who
establishes a carrier-pigeon post in Sydney and
Melbourne in connection with the shipping. No
coasting steamer should leave port without a
basket full of homers.
to The Bulletin, — Be your
par., of Sept. 11, about Ernest Giles : the explorer
has suffered through his modesty all his life, and
only got the R.G.S. gold medal long after he had
earned it. Giles (still far from 70 years) is a fair
scholar, well-read, abounding in technical know-
ledge, and is well-qualified for the employment
which, as you say, ought to have been found for
him long ere now.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Only 11 Convention speeches in Sydney
occupy each 10 pages or more of Hansard ; of the
11 Reid was responsible for two, Isaacs two, Bar-
ton two, and Turner, Symon, Higgins, Deakin,
and Wise one each. Turner’s speech on the
financial difficulty was the longest—l 9 pages. It
occupied just two minutes less than an hour and
a-half in delivery. Deakin’s 101, pages occupied
55 minutes ; so on that reckoning (the official
count), Turner’s speed was the fastest by a long
way. In point of length, Barton came next to
Turner, then Symon, and then Higgins. Of the
non-premiers, excluding Barton, Symon was, of
all the Convention delegates at the Sydney meet-
ing, oftenest on his feet; he is credited with
38 speeches. Higgins, who got a reputation
for talkativeness (chiefly because what he had to
say was not popular with the Convention),
spoke, other than by way of interjections, 24
times. The Westralians at the Federal Conven-
tion were the men of few words. Hassell, Briggs,
Crowder, and Henning did not make a single
speech ; Venn spoke for two minutes, declaring
that he couldn’t see why deadlocks should be pro-
vided against. Even Leake, leader of what
Opposition there is in Westralia, spoke only three
times ; and James’s contributions were equally
unimportant. Of the men whose names were
most familiar among the Federal Conventioners
Brunker and Peacock were the most silent. Pea-
cock spoke only once, and then very briefly and
inconclusively. But he was an indefatigable
interjector and teller.
“ I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (under cover)
t o any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Trice, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
m
Ike Result .
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
Medical.
Peafoess
and HEAD
NOISES
Relived
Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Believe all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for hook- -Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Msssrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd. , Hobart.
Positively the Best Dressing
gSjjBSM*
u
\t
c
GW
~£
O
eT-
FOR
PRESERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
'Toilet Une.
“HARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and T urning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackvvorth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
>f “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
he hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
nony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2 6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
WS/fl
Contains more digestible nourishment than the finest Beef
Tea. For Breakfast, Luncheon, or Supper, it is unequalled.
XHE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING) & HEALTHFUL BE YE RAGE.
NTSE
fTra.de Mark)
uM
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “liANCST” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
• LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHEN & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co,, f IVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
r Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.
Drug Co. N C ewca?tle-b D C^i°en e &Co C0 '’ Th ® Austra ’ :ia ”
inicRoBERTSon s mm eum-
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works:
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
VmnBBHBmHHBEBjii
the most delicious sauce in the world.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2> eacli.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales;
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and UVERI’OOI, STREETS, SVI>NI<;v.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


EHEHIRIR, ZE^^_SSHVEXJSSE3>T
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 G-BORG-E STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tl)€ ALFALINC NCRBAL R€M€PI€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
eourse of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Hetr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCRHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R*ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
/ have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. t-UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. t-EKER, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Butt <n writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herhalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To HKRR ea* MUSBEN.
I am pleased to inform you tliat your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. N ERVIN.
Important.
advice
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus -PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady's Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, 1 shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rbeumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rabsmussen,
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Mist
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rabsmussen. 9/3/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Partes Range, Southern Cross, W.A
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.— Yourv
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Hbrr Rabsmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra.
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rabsmussen. January 9, 1897
Dear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that th«
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors —all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who donU's this tes'i
monial. The following address will always finu me. Vuura
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALE ALINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED.
BWO GOLD
awisaff
m
an®
i
ALFA LINE PILLS:
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125.. posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BROOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes 6s. and 125., Posted; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
Juxuiiant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flaiulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liv-r
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders A haimless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets- An instant cm*
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a d übt
without its equal, and may he relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
~ 3 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hipi
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HFRR will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HEBR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All ITER d RA'SMUSSEN’S
HEM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be eriven FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his H ad Office or ‘ ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne —150 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide —154 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers —Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Koval Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Fremantle—Henry-street, next corner of Hay-street.


One voluble spokeswoman at the Mel-
bourne Whiteworkers' meeting proved to be
refreshingly unconscious of certain equivoques
which tickled a good many lewd ears among the
audience. At all her little mistakes there was a
roar of masculine laughter, but the oratress didn’t
notice where the improper jokes came in. White-
workers don't get their minds very dirty in busi-
ness, perhaps.
On Sept. 30th the “Fee Fed Federalists,”
as the ten S. A. delegates are called, voluntarily
ceased to draw their daily £2 25., having to that
date received <£42o each from their bleeding
country. They agree not to fall upon the
enfeebled Treasury again until the meeting of the
third Convention in Melb. in January. Generous,
for, by the strict reading of the Act, they could
have pocketed about .£2OO a-piece more if con-
science and public opinion had not deterred them.
It is election-time in Victoria, which, of
course, accounted for the appearance of the sub-
joined letter in Melbourne Herald last week:—
A DISCLAIMER.
To the Editor of the Herald.
Sir, —I wish to correct a statement that appeared iif
your Herald to-night. Mr. Hume Cook did not invite
me to have a drink. It was one of his committeemen.
Trusting you will insert this in justice to Mr. Cook.—l
am. &c., GEORGE ATTVVOOD.
28th September.
The common idea that the Chow is a poor,
spineless sort of mortal almost devoid of physical
courage is a terrible blunder. Any doctor who
has handled John will tell you that he bears suf-
fering with a grim stoicism few Europeans can
hope to emulate. It transpired in connection with
the suicide of See Chong at Bundaberg in the
prison cell, that that determined Celestial was so
suspended that his feet almost touched the ground;
in fact, by just straightening his legs, See Chong
could have saved himself. However, he preferred
to keep them doubled up and choke on gradually.
R. E. O’Connor, when N.S.W. Minister
for Justice, defended the practice of allowing
prisoners, prematurely released from gaol, to slip
out among the community without the herald of a
Gazette notice, on the ground that the system
enabled the ex-prisoner to escape gossipy observa-
tion. But what does he or his successor say to
the other gaol-practice of granting to discharged
prisoners free railway - passes, identifiable by
guards and fellow - passengers as discharged pri-
soners’ orders ?
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
. . Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
O. FOX, Proprietor.
Pert!) City, WeStralia.
In olden days Sydney land sold for a song'. I have a
PERTH FREEHOLD for 220 Shillings; payable
1/3 per week. Plan, &c., J. O. COX, Terry Street,
BALMAIN, N.S.W.
Pubicatlons.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English &'Colonial Celebrities
tTvoli (NO. 4.>
- MUSIC -
XM EDITION. ALBUM.
NOW READY.
30 POPULAR SONGS and PIECES for One Shilling.
(All Music and Booksellers.)
The last of six: tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
We undertake to GIVE a Silver Watch
of magnificent value, Lady’s or Gentle-
man’s, to every reader of this paper. Our
list price for this watch is 50s. ; but, as
stated above, to readers of this paper
who carry out the conditions below,
We Charge Absolutely Nothing.
We are constantly receiving testimonials express-
ing delight and satisfaction at the value we give.
THE ONLY CONDITIONS
we impose are, that you should send us the correct read
ing of the following Rebus, enclosing stamped addressed
envelope for reply. And that if correct you will purchase
one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains.
REBUS:
A S.L.D S*LV*R W*T*H
I G««N .F I GO.SS
R.G.T & B«Y A CH**N.
Address : The Manager, The English Watch
& Jewellery Co., No. 9 (2 Floor), Post Office.
Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney; and 33 and 35 Old
Exchange, Adelaide; or Courier Vestibule, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
Prospectus of tlxe
New South Wales Fuel Economising Company, Limited.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE “COMPANIES ACT, 1874.” ,
CAPITAL - - £ 32,000, IN 32,000 SHARES OF EACH.
16,000 Shares are offered to the Public at £1 each, payable as follows, viz. : 6s. on application, and ss. on allotment. Balance by calls not exceeding 2s. 6d. each, at intervals
of not less than one month.
16,000 Shares, fully paid up, are retained by the Vendors in part payment for the whole of the New South Wales Patent Rights.
One half of the amount derived from the sale of the above 16,000 Shares offered to the public will be placed to the credit of the company, and the Balance, together with the
16,000 Shares above mentioned, will be retained by the vendors in full payment for the Patent Rights.
P ROVISIONAL DIRECTORS JAMES GRICE, Esq., Melbourne ;A. G. FRIEND, Esq., Sydney ;A. T. HARVEY, Esq., Sydney ; JOHN KEEP, Esq., Sydney ; WILLTAM KIDDLE, Esq.,
Walbundrie, N.S. W. ;F. A. M'EVOY, Esq., Melbourne; Dr. J. R. M. ROBERTSON, Sydney ;C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, Esq., Sydney ;J. G. THOMPSON, Esq., Sydney ; Hon. E. VICKERY,
M.L.C., Sydney ; G. B. VICKERY, Esq., Sydney ; Hon. JOHN A. WALLACE, M.L.C., Melbourne ; Hon. J. WINTER-IRVING, M.L.C., Melbourne ; R. S. WHITING, Esq., Melbourne;
S. M. WILSON, Esq., Melbourne. BANKERS : THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES. BROKERS : Messrs. T. J. THOMPSON & SONS, Eldon-Chambers, 92 Pitt-street, Sydney.
This Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring and taking over the Letters Patent
relating to the economy of fuel as applied to Locomotives, Stationary and Marine Engines, Gas Stoves,
Gas Lights, Kerosene Stoves, Kerosene Lamps, Grates, etc., granted to Mr. John Alves for the Colony
of New South Wales, and to bring the invention prominently before the fuel-consuming portion of the
public.
The only contract entered into is between Ebenezer Vickery and Charles Carlisle Taylor for and
on behalf of the New South Wales Fuel Economising Syndicate, and James Robert Miller Robertson
as Trustee for the New South Wales Fuel Economising Company, Limited, and dated the 30th day of
September, 1897.
A Copy of the Contract abovementioned, and of the Memorandum of Association of the Company,
may be inspected at the office of the Company, Commercial Chambers, Bond-street, Sydney.
The smoke nuisance from Steamers, Locomotive and Stationary Furnaces, which has always been
a source of great trouble and annoyance, can now be entirely removed through the perfect combustion
caused by the Alves Patent, and thereby will result in a large saving in the consumption of fuel.
There are many thousands of Steam Boilers in operation, and when the benefits of the Alves
Patent become known it will necessarily be universally adopted.
It is intended to sell the Apparatus to customers on such terms as will yield a good profit to Share-
holders ; but the great source of profit and income will arise from a royalty to be charged to each
customer based upon the saving in consumption of fuel effected by the use of the invention, and these
are estimated to return Dividends fully up to 20 per cent, per annum.
The Company will not at present start works of their own, but will contract with existing engineer-
ing firms for the manufacture and application of the Apparatus as required. For the present the Com-
'or the
pany will confine its operations to obtaining orders for the Apparatus and collecting the royalties.
LOCOMOTIVE FITTED WITH APPLIANCE.
SOME OF THE ADVANTAGES CLAIMED
for the Invention are-
WHEN USED ON LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES.
1. A perfect Spark Arrester from the CHIMNEY or FUNNEL of a Locomotive, as the fuel, wood or
coal, is perfectly consumed in the furnace or firebox.
2. A perfect Spark Arrester from the ASHPAN, as its doors are always closed while at work, and
only open when being cleaned out.
3. The doors are kept closed while the engine is running or at rest, the air required for combustion
being taken from around the chimney, or any portion of the flues.
4. No stalactites form on roof of firebox (which is injurious to the plates), through using a softer and
steady supply of hot air.
5. Preserving the boiler tubes from scouring, as no clinker dust passes through them.
fi. An equally steady and even fire over the whole surface of the fire grating, the ashpan doors being
closed while at work; the pan acts as a reservoir of hot air to the fuel, with equal pressure at
all parts.
f. The air is heated by waste heat taken from the chimneys, flues, and ashpan, thus preventing the
extraction of heat from the fire, and as fresh coal and cold air require to be heated to a tempera-
ture of 1200 degrees before the gas is expelled from the coal, it shows that if 1001 b. at a tem-
perature of 50 degrees is put on the fire, 23,000 units of heat will be absorbed to heat the coal or
wood and air, so that if the air is previously heated by waste heat a great saving of fuel occurs.
8. Preserving the firebox and tubes by lessening their expansion and contraction by a steadier tem-
perature.
9. By passing two-thirds of the hot air through the fire-bars and fuel irto the firebox and one-third
through the air-bridge into the smoky flame, thus supplying 1(5 of oxygen to 6 of carbon (instead
of, in the ordinary way, Bof oxygen to 6 of carbon), the former giving 14,500 units of heat,
while the latter, 8 of oxygen to 6 of carbon, gives out 4400 units of heat.
10. Preservation of the Canvas Covers on roof of railway carriages from burning by sparks, and the
varnished sides from scouring by escaping grit from the funnel, preventing clinkers from falling
on to the decks of bridges and burning same ; and from the funnel of threshing machines in the
harvest field.
11. The foregoing applies to marine and all other kinds of furnaces, gas and oil stoves, gas lights, kero-
sene lamps, and stoves of all descriptions, while immense saving should be effected.
MARINE AND STATIONARY ENGINES.
Marine and other furnaces being more of a natural draught, the air and gases pass through the
flues slower ; therefore they are made larger to supply the air required for combustion, but the prin-
ciple for combustion is the same as for a locomotive engine.
In marine engines, a second funnel is placed around the smoke-stack to supply the furnaces with
hot air. The air, on entering the second funnel at the top, becomes heated as it descends to the fur-
naces from the heated smoke-stack and the flues leading from the furnaces to the smoke-stack, so that,
on entering the furnaces, the air being highly heated (by waste heat), the oxygen of same unites more
freely with the carbon and hydrogen of the fuel, and tne igniting temperature being thus kept up, the
gases are properly consumed, resulting in a very great saving of fuel, prevention of the boilers and
furnaces from contraction and expansion, prevention of smoke and soot on the decks. A third flue or
funnel is placed round the hot-air flue, ending below the upper deck. This is for the purpose of venti-
lation, and causing a circulation of air, whereby the stokehole, &c., are thoroughly ventilated. The
air thus removed from the stokehole being partly heated, on reaching the top, the heated air from it is
drawn into the descending hot-air flue, thus giving off its heat to the furnaces as well as ventilating
the stokehole.
It will be of great benefit to MINING COMPANIES, where the consumption of fuel is of im-
portance, when the cost of fuel and its carriage is taken into account. Every mine throughout the
colony should be fitted up with this invention, as a saving of from 10 per cent, to 20 per cent, can be
made where wood or coal is consumed.
Sydney, Ist October, 1897.
Applications for Shares can be made to the Brokers or to the Secretary, at the Offices of the
Company—COMMERCIAL CHAMBERS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY. ,
The system is described in the following terms : '
A second chimney or funnel is placed around the existing one, and the air is brought down from
between the two at the top, and carried along Hues which are placed on the parts of the engine giving
out the most heat to the furnace. When this is done one of the most important parts of the invention
is brought into use ; that is, the distributing of the heated air in the furnace. By means of a patent
air-bridge two-thirds of the air passes into the fire from below the fire-bars, and one-third is carried
along and brought on top of the fire. The result is that the gases and smoke, which in the usual cold-
air system belch forth from the funnel, are now completely consumed, like a lighted match being
placed to a gas-jet. As soon as the intensely heated air gets into the furnace the flames turn to a blue
white, instead of a reddish yellow, as is now the case.
Another important feature of the patent is that it acts as a very effective spark-arrester! It, of
course, applies to all kinds of stationary engines as well as locomotives. With stationary and marine
engines it is claimed that a saving of 25 per cent, is obtained.
The patent is applied to marine engines in the following manner : The cold air enters a second
funnel at the top, and becomes heated as it descends to the furnaces from the heated smoke-stack, and
the flues leading from the furnace to the smoke-stack, so that, on entering the furnaces, the air being
highly heated (by waste heat), the oxygen unites more freely with the carbon and hydrogen of the
fuel, and the igniting temperature being thus kept up the gases are properly consumed.
The heat resulting from the stopping up of the ordinary methods of ventilation has also been
overcome, so that European labor can comfortably do the firing. A third funnel or flue is placed
around the hot-air flue ending below the upper deck, causing a circulation of the air, whereby the
stokeholes, &c., are ventilated. The air thus removed from the stokehole being partly heated, on
reaching the top, is drawn into the descending hot-air flue, thus giving off its heat to the furnaces as
well as ventilating the stokehole.
The principle of the patent can be applied to kerosene-lamps, gas-stoves, and gas-jets, so that,
whilst saving the consumption of either gas or oil, greater heat or light is obtained.
It is calculated by Mr. Alves that where wood is consumed a still further saving of 10 per cent, is
gained.
ATTENTION IS DRAWN TO THE FOLLOWING REPORTS OF WELL-KNOWN FIRMS
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
THE STRAND ELECTRIC LIGHTING COMPANY, Limited,
56 The Strand, Sydney, 30th August, 1897.
THE N.S.W. FUEL ECONOMISING SYNDICATE, George-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—lt affords me the greatest pleasure to testify that the Alves’ Patent Fuel Economiser
and Smoke Destroyer, which you have attached to our boilers, has given every satisfaction, and is
undoubtedly all you claimed it to be, both as regards saving coal and consuming smoke.
My engineers and firemen are loud in their praises, and I have little doubt but that it will be
used universally directly its good qualities become more generally known.
(Signed) Yours truly, ARTHUR H. MAC ARTHUR.
JAMES O. CALLENDER, Consulting Electrical Engineer,
Equitable Buildings, George-street, Sydney, August 30th 1897.
THE N.S.W. FUEL ECONOMISING SYNDICATE, George-street. Sydney,
Gentlemen,—The Alves’Patent Fuel Economiser and Smoke Destroyer recently installed by you,
under my supervision, at the Strand Electric Lighting Co.’s works, has now been in use for about two
weeks, and lam pleased to report that it has given most complete satisfaction. The heavy smoke
from the chimney, which has always been a source of great annoyance to the surrounding buildings,
has been entirely overcome, in spite of the fact that only small and very dirty coal is used for
and in addition, a considerable saving in fuel has resulted. It is somewhat too soon to say exactly
what this saving amounts to, but judging by a trial run, during the whole of last week, it will amount
to about three tons per week, or about 12 per cent, on the week’s consumption.
In conclusion, I wish to congratulate you on the extremely satisfactory results obtained.
Yours truly, (Signed) JAS. O. CALLENDER.
PLUMMER AND OWEN, Wholesale Ironmongers, 422 George-street, and 1 Royal Lane.
Sydney, September 2nd, 1897.
TO THE N.S.W. FUEL SYNDICATE—
I have much pleasure in testifying to the absence of the nuisance of the smoke from Electric
Lighting Company’s boilers since they have been fitted with Alves’ Patent Smoke Destroyer. Pre-
viously the smoke and small ashes were a source of trouble to me and the surrounding buildings
although every precaution had been used to prevent this nuisance by the Company ’
JAMES PLUMMER.
, . Camden Buildings, 418 George-st., September 3, ’97.
1 have much pleasure in testifying that, so far as I can see at present, the Alves’ Patent Smoke
Destroyer has entirely stopped the smoke and soot which has been a source of great annoyance to me
in connection with the above buildings, the same being in the vicinity of the electric lighting plants.
Now that this plant has been so successfully treated, there are a number of others within a short
distance which should adopt this apparatus.
Having suffered so much from this smoke nuisance, it is needless for me to express the satisfaction
I feel at the smoke being done away with in this particular instance. Wishing your Comrianv all the
success it deserves, —Believe me, yours faithfully, W. CHADWICK. y
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FUEL SYNDICATE, Camden Buildings, George-street.
DRUMMOYNE FERRY CO., Erskine-street, Sydney 2/9/’97
THE N.S.W. SMOKE CONSUMING AND FUEL ECONOMISING SYNDICATE.
Gentlemen,—l have very great pleasure in informing you that my steamer “ Birkenhead ” which
has been fitted with Alves’Patent Smoke Consumer and Fuel Economiser, is working very satisfactorily
Previous to my steamer being fitted with the patent it was very difficult to keep full pressure of
steam on her (using small coals); in fact, it could only be kept by hard firing and constant use of blast
in funnel. Now we find she steams with the greatest of ease and very little smoke; in fact I believe
when my firemen get properly used to working the fires there will be no smoke at all.
On a special trial yesterday, running her fora given time with Alves’ Patent, also a corresponding
time without the patent, the pressure of steam and revolutions of engines being kept uniform in both
instances, the coals being carefully measured, my engineer reports a saving of 25 per cent by using
Alves' Patent. J K
This is an enormous saving ; but I suppose this may be accounted for by the difficulty in steaming
her without the patent. Also, there is sure to be a variation of effects on the various boilers it will be
applied to.
I am so thoroughly satisfied with the result, as far as I have seen it myself, that I shall take tin-
earliest opportunity of getting my other steamers fitted with the patent.
(Signed) Yours truly, JAMES FOOTE


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Have received ex Duke of Sutherland,
Polynesien, Hawke’s Bay, and other
steamers, a further
133 3PA.CKA.G-EIS X3B
making 655 Bales and Cases of New
Goods to hand this season.
Newest Fabrics and Bates" S*tyles and
Novelties in all departments.
Finest Assortment and Lowest Prices
in Queensland.
Inspection and Comparison Invited.
Samples, Price Lists, and Fashion Plates
post free on application.
FINNCY, ISLES & CO.
I
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
sunplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
KELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
-:S AN«» WKJHARKKS
To <3ac Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English f lubbed Hair, inaiarge
variety of shades ; also. Turned Hair from 16 to
21 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
< roquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White .St raight and < Top Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brnshware and
Perfumety, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fiinges made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CBAIG <sc AITKEN,
NBW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
080 A <*B3 Gtttrge Street, Sydney.
' Si^NEl^acmms
■ T© & ac co .
>
df&S
|bl
&
c
s
o
0
p
to
fc;
E
>
O
*3E
lit
m
o
o
s*3
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “You are liable to a fine for smoking
here .”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy ? You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
X Prick Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
An Australian in London to The Bul-
letin : —
I always thought bushranging had died out until I
came here and attempted to insert an advertisement in
niv home papers, when I found Ben Hall, Morgan, Power,
and the Kelly Gang cased in ironclad impudence doing
business, or anyone that came along, as advertisement-
agents. To explain : I wished to have one insertion of a
“ Missing Friend ” advt. of 30 words put in Tub Bulletin,
Australasian, Town and Country, and Queknslandkr,
and after much abstruse calculation I was told by two of
the leading colonial advt.-agents that the charges would
be 11s. each for the first two papers, and 10s. each for the
second two. I declined to “ bail-up,” however, but what
a fine encouragement such an extortion is to the British
public to utilise the advertising columns of our papers !
In the little A.N.A. journal Phil. Fargher,
of the recent Yie. rifle-team, gives his impressions
of Glasgow :—
On Sunday morning, Sloane and I took a walk through
some of the lower quarters of the city, including the Gal-
lowgate and the Saltmarket, with a view of studying the
inhabitants of those places at short range. The sights
that we saw opened our eyes somewhat. The big tene-
ment houses, five and six storeys high, had slovenly men,
women and children looking out of nearly every window
The filthy streets and closes swarmed with dirty, coarse’
looking, and, in many instances, drunken people of both
sexes; many of the women with battered, bloated
features; some of them, barefooted and barearmed,
sitting on the kerb with their feet in the gutter. Young
and old alike were repulsive-looking. Nearly all the
women wore a dirty shawl, and all were bareheaded.
There is nothing in Melbourne or Sydney that will com-
pare in any way with what we saw, for these people have
reached a much lower stage of brutality than anything in
Australia.
Private Fargher made one great mistake; he
should have spent Saturday night in the Salt-
market or down Gallowgate, or out in the grimy
wilds of St. Rollox. Saturday is the night when
the local barefooted lady gets that black eye
which she suns on the kerbstone next morning.
In a big Glasgow tenement house out East the
early husband often gets home and wallops his
wife by 4 in the afternoon, and after that there is
generally some woman being smacked every hour
up till 2 a.m. About 10 or 11 p.m. the industry
is going very strong. The present writer hung
out once in a four-storey tenement house on the
Garngad-road. There were twelve families in it,
and about seven of them had a Saturday night
riot regularly. One recently-married pair lived
on an upper storey, and the bridegroom used to
come home on Saturday full of joy and whisky,
and throw a few small items of crockery out of
the window —it wasn’t good to stand in the back-
yard on Saturday afternoons by reason of crockery
—and howl in broad Scotch, and when he had
worked himself up he generally bruised his
bride with anything that came handy, and locked
her out. The bride, aged about 23, took things
very much as a matter of course. On one occa-
sion, however, he arrived rather later and rather
drunker than usual, and found his bride in bed.
He lifted her out of bed and fired her out without
any ceremony beyond breaking a chair. Pro-
bably he gave her an unusually violent shunt as
she went out, for she flew across the landing and
went down the stairs head-first. The writer was
coming up, and the first he knew of the disturb-
ance was through a perfectly strange lady in one
garment falling on him. Then they went down
together and arrived on the next landing in an
alarmed heap. Probably the writer’s presence
saved her from being killed ; he was a gaunt young
person in these days, but still he was a better sur-
face to fall upon than the steps. The bride was a
lady by instinct, anyhow; she held down her soli-
tary garment with both hands, and offered the
most graceful apology the case admitted of. Then
she went back quite philosophically to take any-
thing that might turn up, and the bridegroom
promptly landed her a powerful slap on the cheek
for being out at that hour gallivanting with a
strange man. The present scribe was the strange
man alluded to.
A Boon to Sufferers.— A well-known stock- j
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
Dr. Beinwald (Semaine Medicale) avers
that, in cases of obstinate bleeding in patients
given to nose-bleed and over-much bleeding from
insignificant wounds, the application of a little
healthy blood from another person to a bleeding
spot will stop the hemorrhage right away. Sound
blood will clot easily; the thin blood of “bleeders”
will not. Hence the idea.
GO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis. -
FredL Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
A BOON to SYDNEY.
6)
I
1
V/E
b
FOUR
2X1 *
W?
Hies
o
BY TH*
Centennial insect powder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Aak your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung Sc Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MEG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Miles
w
-FOR-
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
fi
"PAKRoT
’ c5 tS MATijAS v
\voUNbc
<006*5 (OLPS If
[Beware of
/MITATI°AtS
MELBOURNE.
sanest?
FREEv^
Mwtches-Clocks-JEvVELLERY-BiRTriDAT*
Wedding z CHristepIiiJg Presents
H'-Nev/MAAI- 1755177-ELIZABETH
OPPOSITE C:RQ.— -
MELBOURNE.
Whitehead’s
Tf.lephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts 1
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Wasbington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
—goclalla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
| —god alia TBacon.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
“1-gocla.lla. Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN shear wmT"
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYIINEY. '
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Ontfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS& BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE^
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at it*
wonderful influence. Sufferers from an3 r form of bron-
chitis, distressing 1 cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading In the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending ifc
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. fid. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution, —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWNC-
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing- demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address * -
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dear Sib, —Please inform your readers that I
have been cured by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send to those suffer-
ing, as I did, the means of cure. I do this for
humanity sake. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOGG, Exhibition-street, Mel-
bourne, Vic.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at IS7 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NenfoOS Weakness . - -
AND
Ccrebro-Spii?al Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
most successful in the hands oi
Patients not feeling able to properly describf
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist then?
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention this paper when writing .]


Great Care
for
•Rheumatism. Anaemia.
Undoubted Remedy for Influ-
enza and its Attendant Evils.
“Influenza,” said Mr. Tate, of Ithioa Cottage,
Illawarra-road, Marrickville, to a reporter, was
the malady with which I had to struggle. D
course, I didn’t want to neglectfmy work, so I went
in just as usual, but I didn’t feel just as usual
not by a long bit. Prior to this I had never ex-
perienced sickness at any time in my life. I m
naturally strong and stalwart. But after,thirty
years’ immunity from trouble influenza & rI PP e< |
me, and it gripped me pretty tight. Without
warning I suddenly became ill. I always
had a first-class appetite; it left me alto-
gether. Positively I could eat nothing at
all. Heavy headaches attacked me, and they
continued to increase in violence; _ a spasm
shot across my chest and an overpowering weight
oppressed me there ;.I felt a sickening contraction
of the skin and an ominous gathering of phlegma-
tic matter that choked free respiration ; my whole
chest, once firm and sound, became sore, tender,
and irritable; I found myself unable to sleep,
whilst on top of all these strange and unaccount-
able sensations came a sharp and persistent
cough that sucked up all my strength and stirred
the phlegm, but failed to move it. Dull, heavy,
listless, faint and aching, I went to work, and got
through somehow. How I got through and how
I felt afterwards, you can imagine. I—can re-
member ! ’’
PINK
“Take a dozen boxes of Dr. 'Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People,” said a friend, “ and you’ll
be saved.” . . .mu
“It was kindly said and kindly meant, ihe
pills had been spoken highly of before, and I took
his advice, with the result that I am well now, and
well I intend to continue.
‘After a few boxes had been taken I was,
honestly, cured. I
kept on taking them a
little longer, just to
make doubly sure, but
there was no neces-
sity. I was absolutely
cured, felt tip-top, and
had bade farewell to
influenza and its _ ills.
Yes,” he said, deliber-
atingly, “the marvel
had been quicker than
ever I nad antici-
pated.”
“ How did you take
them ? ”
“ Oh, just according
to directions.”
r
“ And you’re sure that all your ailments disap-
peered ?
“Yes,” was the good-humored reply. “I’m
dead certain of that. Influenza, headaches, sleep-
lessness, want of appetite, listlessness, racking
cough, chest pains, weakness phlegm aU dis-
appeared as if under a magician’s wand. I was
as right, as fresh, as healthy, and as high-spirited
as I ever was in my life.” _ .
“Of course,” he added, conscientiously, its
only a fair thing that I should tell you this after
the benefits I’ve received. My case, may not have
been as severe as some, but it certainly gave my-
self and family the greatest anxiety, as my cure
gave them the greatest surprise and pleasure. I
give you these particulars exactly as they occurred,
without exaggeration and with truth in every
detail. Nor do I wish it to be exaggerated. In-
deed, there is no necessity ; the cure was a good
one, and speaks for itself. More or better, I can-
not say. ”
Remarkable Cure.
» BRIGHT’S DISEASE CURED.
(From the Walcha Witness.)
A few days ago a representative went out to
Winterbourne to interview Mr. Walsh in refer-
ence to his remarkable cure. We found Mr.
Walsh at home, a typical selector, with a growing
family.
“Is it a fact,” we asked, “ that you have been
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills ? ”
“It is,” he replied. “ I was in great pain for
a long time, but I can now do any amount
of hard work with the greatest of ease. I first
felt-the pain after being thrown from a horse, and
was laid up for eight months. I tried almost
everything without doing and good.”
“Arid what is your object in giving an unso-
licited testimonial? ”
“ Simply that others may derive benefit by the
same means. For a long time I was in such
frightful agony that I could do nothing. I had to
crawl to a log to get on my horse. I could not
hold myself upright. I saw different doctors.
Locomotor Ataxia
(said to be Incurable)
Yields To It.
A Blessing to Suffering Humanity
DR. WILLIAMS’
One told me that my spine had been injured, and
that I should have to undergo an operation. An-
other said that I had Brights disease. After
a time I saw the Pink Pills advertised. I
tried to get a box, but no one kept them in
Walcha, so I sent direct to Sydney for the
first two boxes. After taking the first box
I obtained relief, and have used five boxes m all.
Life is now a pleasure. I can mount my horse
with ease, raise heavy logs, and feel as well as
ever. I have recommended the pills to other
sufferers, with good results. While taking the
pills I followed the directions given on each box.
Many people I know have taken them without
adhering to the instructions, and have obtained
/A
no relief- All the rubbing in the world did me no
good ; but after taking the pills I was convinced
that the complaint was caused by the state of my
blood. I can now run up and down the Jails
with the best of the hands on the station. The
men on the station know the "pain I suffered, and
the expense I was put to ; but I now feel as well
as ever.”
“You certainly look well,” the reporter re-
marked. , ~
“ Yes, thanks to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.”
Her appetite is
one day °now than she used to in a week, and
he*'" 1 '” 8 £
covery She declares the pills are invaluable. In
fact she feels she cannot praise the medicine suf
ficie’ntly, and feels compelled all^% P £ers
tion of her cure, in the hope that other sunerers
may obtain the sswne relief.
Rheumatism and Neuralgia.
(From the National Advocate, Bathurst.)
For many years Mr. J. H. Potter, of Wiagdon,
a small rural settlement on the outskirts of
Bathurst, has been subject to severe attacks of
Rheumatism and Neuralgia. Believing the his-
tory of his maladies and recovery would interest
our readers, we despatched to his residence a re
porter, who successfully solicited the following
details :
“ Well! ” began Mr. Potter, “ I must tell you
that in my younger days I did a good deal of camp-
ing out: I continually got wet through, and some-
times put on damp clothes. As a consequence, I
contracted Rheumatism, and, later on Neuralgia
in the head. I became a perfect martyr to these
trying ills, which kept me company for • many
years; they affected my appetite, rest, and temper
to such a degree that I hardly ate or slept at all,
and was irritable with everything and everybody.
The pains about my eyes were agonising. 1 was
in Bathurst at the time the last show was held,
and had a fearful time of it. I tried all sorts of
remedies, but got no relief. ”
“ Did you consult a doctor ? ”
“ Yes; I consulted one in Melbourne, one of
the most prominent there, but he could do nothing
for me ; he said I had all sorts of complaints, and
wanted to perform a similar operation on me to
that he had lately achieved in another case, viz.,
that of piercing the bone of the affected part, but
this I declined, and left him, deciding rather to
endure my pains than submit to it.
“ What did you do then ? ”
“Just about this time I read in the Sunday
Times some accounts of cures brought about by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and then
and there made up my mind to see what they
would do for me. I bought a box; when I had
finished that I seemed a different man, the third
Following is the sworn testimony of Mr.
Walsh *—— ,
Sir,—l have been a sufferer for 22 years with a
bad back, and very often could not lace my boots,
and would have to go on my knees to gather any-
thing from the ground. At times I was completely
useless, and suffered considerable pain when I
moved about, and lost the use of my legs. I tried
every remedy and various doctors, even Ghinese,
but without any benefit. I then saw your adver-
tisement about Pink Pills, and resolved to R}
them a trial. After using the first box 1 telt
considerably improved, and went on using them,
with the result that I am now cured, have no
pains in the back, and I feel as young as I did 2o
years ago ; in fact, I never felt better than 1 do
now, and consider your pills a most valuable
DENIS WALSH.
Signed and declared before me, this 30th day ot
January, 1897. —JAMES N. B. WATTS,
Mayor, Walcha.
Consumption Cured.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS SCORE A
VICTORY.
A LIFE OF MISERY BECOMES A PLEA-
SURE.
(From the York’s Peninsula Advertiser.)
Miss Emily Allen, of Kadina, S.A., who is now
enjoying the best of health, informed a represen-
tative of this paper—the Y.P.A.—that she was
taken ill some seven years ago, when she was 13.
Her friends told her she was going into a decline,
and the doctors who attended her called it con-
sumption.
She said she had taken a large number of patent
medicines at the recommendation of friends, but
with no good results. She had also been under
the doctor’s care. Their treatment sometimes re-
lieved her for a while, but with no lasting benefit.
She was continually getting worse, till her life
became a burden and a misery, and she often
wished it over. Her appetite was very poor, and
she was utterly unable to take any breakfast.
Some six months ago a friend from Broken Hill
advised her very strongly to try Dr. Williams
Pink Pills. They could not be obtained in
Kadina, so she sent to the Hill for a box—as a
kind of forlorn hope, but willing in her misery to
try anything. Before the first box was taken the
appetite had so improved that she could take her
breakfasts with relish and satisfaction, and a
general improvement was manifest. The awful
feeling of misery was much relieved. A further
supply of Pink Pills was then obtained through a
local druggist, and in all six boxes were taken, the
last some four months ago. She nows feels
thoroughly restored, and can fully enjoy her life.
box worked wonders, and I felt grand. I reckon
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are a
splendid remedy. I can now eat heartily and
sleep well.”
“ You hold a high opinion of their value, then?”
“Of course, I do. They do what is claimed for
them, and'l can strongly recommend them to all
sufferers. My wife knows what they did to me,
and consequently thinks as much of them as I do.
If I went to a friend’s house for tea, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People went with me, and
directly, the meal was over I took the prescribed
number. My friends used to laugh at me, but I
didn’t mind. I told them the laugh would be on
my side soon ; and so it is. They know it, too.”
Mr. Potter does not present the appearance of a
man who has endured so much suffering. He is
the picture of health, and has the best of spirits ;
his business (bee-farming), which was necessarily
sadly neglected during his illness, is also thriving.
And these desirable changes he attributes to the
marvellous efficacy of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People.
Suffered for Many Years from
Gravel.
NOW CURED.
(From the Mackay Standard.)
Having heard that Mrs. Mau had materially
benefited from the use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
A
L
for Pale People, we sent a reporter to inquire into
the matter, when she gave the following interest-
ing particulars:—
“ For the last five or six years I have been a
sufferer from gravel. We have spent pounds on
doctors’ medicines, for in my agony I was glad to
try almost anything that was reoommendea me in
Successful Everywhere.
Removes Influenza’s
after Evil Effects,
the hope of being cured. Yes, I tried almost ai,
the so-callad cures I could hear of, but not until
about last March have I enjoyed anything like
good health. At times I was utterly prostrate
and useless, not even able to do the smallest bit of
work about the house. The pain I-suffered at
times was intense. Again and again my husband
brought from town different remedies he had
heard recommended, but, like the previous ones,
they did no good. I was advised to take a sea trip
to the south, but that did not bring the improve-
ment I hoped for, and I returned as bad as ever,
and had to lay up every now and again. I never
like to give in, but at times I had to. The pain I
suffered was fearful, and I would have given any-
thing to be rid of my ailment.”
“ How did you come to hear of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, Mrs. Mau ? ” _
“ Well, someone passing along the road last
March threw a little pamphlet over the fence into
the garden, and one of the children picked it up
and brought it to me. At that time I despaired
of ever being better, and with doubt in my mind
I read the little book through that evening. I
saw there were statements of cases like mine, so I
concluded that if these pills had cured others they
might cure me. My husband was going into town
next day, so I got him to get some. When he
came home that evening I remember we read the
directions over and over again ; then I took my
first dose of the pills. In a few days, long before
I had finished the first box, I felt relief. The
pain I had suffered so long ceased, and I began to
PALE
hope that I could be cured. I kept on with the
pills, and now i feel like a new woman. I can go
about my work in the house, in the yard, or in the
garden as well as ever I could in my life. Pink
Pills certainly cured me.”
“ Did you continue the pills long, Mrs. Mau?”
“Up to the present I have taken four boxes ;
in fact, I got; the fifth box months ago, and have
only taken a few out of it.”
“Now, Mrs. Mau, can you conscientiously re-
commend the pills, and would I be at liberty to
use your opinion publicly?”
“Certainly I can,” she replied, “and you can
state that no medicine that I have ever taken has
done me any lasting good, except Pink Pills.
Others may find other medicines do them good,
but I stick to the pills ; they are my medicine. I
had no guarantee they would do me good, but I
can now guarantee they have done me good. I
don’t want any other medicines, as I don’t know
anything to equal them.”
Pale and Sallow Girls.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth ?
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow, or
greenish complexions, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks and an early death if proper treat -
ment is not promptly resorted to and persisted in
until the impoverished blood is enriched, and the
functions of life become regular. Upon parents
rests a great responsibility at the time their
daughters are budding into womanhood. If your
daughter is pale, complains of weakness, is tired
out,” upon the slightest exertion; if she is
EOPLE
troubled with headache or backache, pain in the
side, if her temper is fitful and her appetite poor,
she is in a condition of extreme peril, a fit subject
for the development of that most dreaded of all
diseases—consumption. If you notice any of the
above symptoms, lose' no time in procuring Hr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the patient
to develop properly and regularly; the will en-
rich the blood, and restore health s roses to the
cheeks ; bright eyes and lightness of step will
surely follow their use, and all danger of consump-
tion and premature death will be averted. Wise
and prudent mothers will insist upon their daugh-
ters taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills upon the
approach of the period of puberty, and thus avoid
all chances of disease or early decay.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured numerous
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxia, spinal disease,
rheujnatism and sciatica ; also of diseases arising
from impoverished and vitiated humors of the
blood, which cause scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels, and lungs,
ansemia, pale and sallow complexion, general mus-
cular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,
all forms of female weakness, and hysteria, lhese
pills are not a purgative. They are genuine only
with the full name, Dr. Williams Pink Pills for
Pale People, and are sold by chemists and by Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who will
forward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or post-
order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 15s. 3d.
They are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.
Blood
• •
. . Builder,
Nerve Tonic.


John Warren, M.L.C., a long-headed,
practical, old S.A. farmer, has, after inspection,
put his sons on a 5000-acre agricultural block in
the Katanning" district, W.A.
Out-of-the-way Thargomindah has had
electric-lighting and a household water-supply for
about two years. The water comes from an
artesian bore, and the dynamo supplying the
electric-light is worked by water-power from the
bore. A contractor first had the electric-light in
a small way, but he was glad to give it up to the
local council, which does the business satisfactorily
and remuneratively. Brisbane, the metropolis,
sticks yet to street lamps, and, though it has a
water-supply, a household sewerage system is only
half-known.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal_ direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Spripg BOds BGrst
MARK FOY’S.
A RIOT OF LOVELINESS.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OXJTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Aga uts: Menar». VIHGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN ; ami DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
The
PUREST
WOLFE’S]
.SCHNAPPS,
by tyz.
iCAb
FRO/A
J\LL
h\ OT^LS
AND
SPIRIT .
“The Lord’s Way.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.Heavy smoke, blurring moon and stars to hazy
red, drifted lip from the fires that had started in
the distant ti-tree scrub. The north wind, in fit-
ful gusts, swept dust and dry leaves before it,
rattled dismally among skeleton branches and
fired scrub, and moaned among clumps of wild
cherry and she-oak.
A woman sat at the door of a roughly-built slab
hut. Inside, on a stretcher bed, lay a, man. His
breathing was faint and irregular, his eyes half-
closed. How and again the woman turned her
head to look at him, and the light from the kero-
sene-lamp fell on her face. She was about 50, her
thin lips tightly set, her sunken eyes dull and
hopeless. Outside was the incessant chirping of
crickets, the patter of grasshoppers on the dried
grass, and the occasional “ womp, womp ! ” of
frogs in the wattle-shaded dam.
The man stirred uneasily, and the woman was
on her feet in an instant to give him milk from a
cup. “ It is possible he will pull through, if you
are careful," the doctor had said. There were
quick, light steps outside, and a girl of 19 or 20
entered.
“ How is he, mother ? ” she asked, in a whisper.
For answer the woman shook her head, then
added, “ The doctor says he may get right if I am
careful.”
The girl’s lips set like her mother’s, but in her
eyes was wild rebellion. “ Why should he get
better ; what’s the use of him ? There, let me say
what I feel to-night,” as the mother raised her
hand in feeble protest, murmuring “ It is not for
us to judge. It is tne Lord —let Him do what
seemeth Him right.”
“ I wish I was good, like you ; but I’m not. I’ve
got some of his nature in me. There are things
that throb in my heart all day ; I can no more
help them than I can help breathing.”
“ Honor thy father and— ”
“ I can’t; oh, I can’t 1 ” Her voice was low, but
vibrated with passion. “Hasn’t he kicked and
beaten us, starved us, abused us ! If he gets right
the old hell of a life begins again. What is there
to honor in cruelty and terror?”
“ Ellen, Ellen, you must be more patient, and
remember — ”
“Patient, mother! What a mockery! Why
isn’t there a commandment —‘ Honor thy sons and
thy daughters, that they may grow up to bless
thee?”’
The man stirred uneasily—possibly even in his
unconscious state the fierce hate of his daughter
had some magnetic effect. He opened his eyes and
looked vacantly towards her.
She*went on in low hurried tones. “Think of
all the miserable years ! My first remembrances
are of you cowering away from his blows, and of
myself a little terrified youngster hiding my head
and sobbing miserably. You’ve cried twenty
times for every once you’ve laughed all these
years. Think of the debt, disgrace, misery ; the
long nights -and dragging days ! Think of the
poor wee baby that never .”
“ For God’s sake, Ellen, the man’s your father.”
“I know it. Perhaps God will judge me the
less hardly in that He gave me such a father. He
killed you, this father of mine, before you’d been
married a week—you told me so yourself. Mother,
Su poor mother ! and now you have to nurse him
ck to life, and to the old hell.”
Tears were running down the woman s cheeks.
“May God forgive you, Ellen.”
“ Whether He forgives or not, He must under-
stand, He must know what we’ve gone through.
We’ve never complained to neighbours, no one
has even guessed at the true state of things.
We’ve borne it somehow, but it has hardened my
heart and broken yours. There, I’ll say no more.
A sob choked her voice, and, laying her arms on
the table, she rested her head on them.
“ It is the Lord’s way. He chastens whom He
loves.” The woman’s voice trembled and broke.
The girl looked up, tears were running down
her cheeks. “ I’m a beast, I only make things
worse. I’ll go away to bed. You can call me if
I’m wanted.”
The wind dropped ; clumsy beetles and great
soft moths flew in towards the light. The woman
sat with drowsy eyes conscious of neither hope
nor fear. But in the morning, when the parched
earth, that for so many days had known neither
coolness nor dew, was quivering under the fierce
sun, she timidly opened the door of her daughter’s
room. “ Ellen,” she said, “ your father is better,
and asking for you.”
The girl rose hastily, the habit of instant
obedience stronger than any other. “ All right,”
she answered hastily, “ tell him I won’t be a
second.” And, as she hurried into her clothes,
she realised in a dull, hopeless fashion that the
old burden must be carried farther, and that
rebellion was worse than useless. Self-command
and silent fortitude were so habitual they had
become innate, and she felt ashamed of what she
now termed her childish outburst of the night
before. “People have got to bear things,” she
murmured doggedly, “and the back is fitted to
the burden.”
WOLF.
Ramie or rhea, the cultivation whereof the
cables say Mr. Max Rown comes to Australia to
promote, was largely relied upon by the New
Australians in Paraguay. They got the seed, but
there has been a significant silence as to the
result.
Mr. A. Martin, of Wanganui, M.L., is in
Australia with the view of disposing of the work-
ing rights of his recently-patented method of
giving bas-relief effect to photographs. The pro-
cess, extremely simple and effective, should mean
a big thing in the hands of the right men.
Several country newspapers wrote lately
to a Sydney agency, asking for Christmas supple-
ments made up of matter already used. Stereo’d
matter which did duty two years ago will go on
the travel this year again. The general burthen
is: “Uhe blokes here won’t know, and we can’t
run to anything dear.”
Some years ago Dr. Roth, then science
master at Brisbane Grammar School, was recom-
mended to try tropical air and went inland from
Norman ton, N. Q. He took to studying aboriginals
and their ways, and the result is a volume on
what Dr. Roth calls ethnopomology, now being
printed at Govt. Printing Office, Brisbane. Some
very fair judges say the book will give the com-
pletest account of certain tribal customs, such as
Sturt’s “ terrible rite,” that has ever been made
public.
The Bush for the Spoil.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ DADdyin’.’’ ,
The other three ohildren found nothing remark-
able in this statement of their elder brother, and
went on playing in the dirt with their bits of
broken china. .
Life and death were meaningless words m their
ears. With the speaker, it was different. He
knew when the white hen died, and
buried it, that it “never came up any more.
Dad wouldn’t either, he thought.
“When him dead, me have him gun an’him
axe, an’ all his tools.” The others stopped play-
ing, and looked up open-mouthed. To them, Dad
was the Great Unchangeable, who bullied “ mum ”
when the dinner wasn’t ready, and beat them, and
“made fings.” Then the biggest of the three
said, emphatically, “Dad not let you.”
“Me tell you me will; me not chop the wood,
me do what me like. Dad dyin’; me hear mum
say so.”
Outside, the sun beat down on the little cottage,
and the fowls stood open-mouthed in the scrub
shade, and the children played in the dust.
Inside, the dying man moaned fitfully as his
life passed. The dray-wheels had gone over him,
and, as one of his mates put it, “’e ’adn’t a
possible.”
• • • •
“ Dad dead. Now me have the gun, an’ the
saw, an’ everything. George can have the old
tin-dish ;it no good—it got a hole. Damn dad;
me cut no more wood.”
A woman came sobbing to the door, and the
fowls rushed up in expectation of a feed; but
returned, disappointed, to the shade. Two of the
children played on in the sun with their bits of
broken china; .but George had already gone in
search of his share of the plunder.
Most things are comparative.
Upper Derwent, Tas.
W.A.A.
Tommy Dodd.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thb Bon Dieu looked down on Kilwarden and
wondered what he would do.
Kilwarden sat at his instrument, listening to
Bickerton’s private message as it came tapping
through the wires. It ran “ You remember
Dodd batched with us Kawai-street now here
Godforsaken fix sacked from Octopus Bank last
March cheeking manager left Maoriland £5O
in hand—idiot put up swell hotel —pretty bar-
maid —stony broke—sleeps in parks—came out to
station last Sunday only half-dressed, poor devil.
Bickerton, an operator in the Eastern Extension
Company, was stationed at La Perouse.
Kilwarden was in the M.L. Telegraph service.
He had lately been married, and had used up all
his cash in making a home. But he borrowed
£2O from the local Inspector of Telegraphs, a man
with a large family, and wired it over the water
with the message—“ Send Dodd along.”
Dodd came.
He was effusive. “Dear old man, I can t ex-
press my thanks for your great kindness in my
trouble. It has been awful. I never dreamt I
could endure such miseries.”
“That’s all right,” said Kilwarden. “Forget
’em*
“ But what am Ito do now? ” said Dodd. “ I
can’t live on my friends. I’ll do anything.”
Kilwarden had a newly-acquired brother-in-law
—an inspector in the Kangaroo Bank. Kilwarden
and his wife plied that inspector on behalf of the
well-deserving Dodd, and soon a telegram came :
“Please tell Dodd if can comply requirements
regarding sureties may be able to take nim mode-
s&l^ry*
Kilwarden fixed up the sureties with a guarantee
society, and the inspector’s next message was:
“ Tell Dodd see local manager and show him my
telegram.” .
So Dodd was received into the bosom of the
Kangaroo Bank at a moderate salary and
shovelled sovereigns across its broad mahogany
counters. And Kilwarden paid back the in-
spector’s <£2o.
But, well-a-day, it happened that Kilwarden
sat with another communication in front of him—
a letter this time —and pondered.
“I am in great trouble,” it ran. “I must get
<£4o somehow. You have proved a good friend to
me. I ask you to assist me just once again. I can
see my way to repay you by instalments of <£2
per month. I write this reluctantly. If l ean t
obtain the money within a month I am ruined.
Yours sincerely, Tommy Dodd.”
Kilwarden tapped his instrument: If it s
tailor’s bills, go to manager explain; if cards,
ditto; if petticoats, ditto ; if shortage in till, God
help you.” '
And the Bon Dieu looked down and laughed.
He, too, had had dealings with the Tommy Dodd
sort of man. He sympathised with Kilwarden.
M.L.
A. A. GRACE.
Brisbane (Q ) Y.M.C.A. had to pawn part
of its furniture, last year, m order to pay its way.
There is still hope, then ever. or LeperUad.
When Snuffle can t make ends meet on its own
it i» & good sign.


Are you blessed with
Boys ?
IF SO,
Our Suitable Suits
a Strong at Knee and Stout
at Elbow, to fit 8 to 12 years,
HALF-GUINEA,
are well worth seeing at
Hordern Bros., Pitt-street ( Only)
(Economy is Nature’s first law).
P.S. <sc N,B,—We have also School Suits at a Crown (55.).
LY GOL
The ©
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
Win
Mi
X
WWI
KEPUBUOUE
FRANCAISk
| A.* F.PEARS
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
At Mount Magdala.
The New Penitent and the Mother Superior.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Welcome, sister. . . . And now, pray tell
The name of the man by whom you fell.
It was no man, but a strong attraction
That lured me on to a “ gay ” girl’s life ;
Fuller it seemed of fire and action
Than the humdrum sphere of mother and wife.
I could not bear to be yoked and mated;
Protection I scorned ; control I hated ;
I did not fall, but I rose—was fated
For freedom, pleasure, and noble strife !
Poor, darkened soul; and yet, your speech
Shows that you would not learn, but teach.
O ! I had plenty of education —
Religious, moral, and all the rest;
A Christian home, respectable station ;
Heredity, fair ; environment, best.
Not through ignorance, want or terror
I followed what you call sin and error;
The strong temptation—the fascination —
That drew me was Nature’s own behest.
Repent you not of the evil done
To all pure women beneath the sun ?
Nay, good lady, reverse your sentence;
Of grief, regret, and remorse I’m free!
Talk to them —bid them seek repentance
For wrongs and injuries heaped on me !
My vice it was made their virtue surer ;
My impurity made them purer.
Daughters and mothers! your husbands and
brothers
Made me a scapegoat—and what you see !
Repent, dear sister, I say again,
Of all the ill you have wrought on men.
I never tempted ; ’twas they that sought me,
Bought my embraces and hired my charms ;
Foulness of body and mind they brought me,
The vilest speech, the most shameful harms.
I sent them away like souls new-shriven,
White as the snow by the soft breeze driven ;
I bore their Hell, while they went to the Heaven
Of chastest love, in their pure ones’ arms !
Say at least you are grateful, dear,
For the home which friends provide you here.
Nay ; ’tis Society has turned grateful,
Rewarding one who has served it well !
For years the world was my foe most hateful,
Spurning and mocking the one that “ fell.”
Now that the world has at last relented,
I shall forgive it and live contented ;
And they who sinned, having now repented,
I pray may be saved from the Christian’s Hell !
Prayer from you/ . . . 0 / sister dear,
Pray for yourself with heart sincere l
I have nought to pray for. The path of Duty
I followed ever, at God’s high call;
My love, my service, my fleshly beauty
Were not for me, nor for one, but all!
The curse of many, I gladly bore it;
The scorn of the prudes, I bowed before it,
My work is done—should I now deplore it,
Then might I weep o’er my woeful fall!
Sinful sister, blaspheme not God !
Do penance, and kiss the chastening rod 1
Blasphemy ! Surely ’tis you, good mother.
Who now blaspheme, when you talk of Sin —
You who have lived, like many another,
Nor known that “Virtue is hard to win.”
Have you faced the world and lived unspotted ?
And if my life’s sheet has been blurred and blotted,
My pardon hastens; for, “whom God chastens”
Enough of talk I Let our work begin !
Maoriland.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
Bushed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is it possible for anyone who has never been
“ bushed ” to understand the awful significance
of the term? Every Australian, at least, knows
what “ lost in the bush ” means, but one who has
never experienced the reality cannot fully com-
prehend the horror of the sensations—sensations,
toe, such as are probably felt in no other situation
that life provides.
You start away in the morning, rifle in hand,
bound for Scrub Paddock, to see if you can
possibly get a dingo or two on foot. The sky is
so cloudy that the sun is invisible. “ Mind you
don’t get bushed ! ” laughs someone as you are
setting out. You scorn the very idea.
Leaving the homestead, you straightway plunge
into a dense scrub, and your mind is soon wholly
occupied in the look-out for dingoes. You sneak
slowly along—here dodging a drooping bough ;
there walking round a fallen tree to avoid crack-
ing the sticks; now stepping stealthily aside to
see what is moving, where a wallaby is feeding—
about a few yards ahead; then quickly crawling
up behind a large log on the chance of seeing
something on the other side ; anon closely examin-
ing the ground for tracks ; then,"straightening up
and standing still, you listen intently.
After this has gone on for an hour or two you
suddenly make up your mind to set straight out
for some place where the game generally runs.
Pausing half a minute, you mentally take your
bearings and set out in what ought to be a bee-
line for some favorite spot. After another hour’s
hard walking, you begin to fancy you should be
nearing your destination. Dodging about here
and there, you look for a clue ; then, deciding you
know the direction, away you go.
Gradually your pace slackens, till at length you
stop, and begin to laugh at your stupidity in not
being able to find, off-hand, the place you are
looking for. Again you start, and again stop,
puzzled. After repeating this a few times you
begin to find that you are really “slewed,” as
bushmen express it.
Seating yourself on a log, you make a vow that
you’ll find the place or die, and you inwardly
remark, “ Anyone would take me for a new-
chum ! ” Away you go again, and, after about 20
minutes’ walk, you begin to think the case hope-
less. Persevering, you walk this way and that;
hastening, slowing down, pausing and starting
again, till at last you decide to give it up and
strike straight for home.
To your surprise, home has got astray, but,
deciding as to your whereabouts, after a slight
mental reckoning, you set out. You have gone a
mile or two, and are just beginning to doubt your-
self, when the sun bursts out. At once, you dis-
cover it to be shining in the wrong quarter of the
sky. Stopping short, you begin to wonder which
is wrong—the sun or yourself ; then, pulling your-
self together, decide it must be you, and start in a
fresh direction.
The sun disappears. This time you are a bit
dubious of your course, and wish the sun would
re-appear. After a time it bursts out afresh.
Again it is in the wrong direction. You begin to
doubt its ability to go straight, but decide to
adjust your track by it just once more. Again it
disappears. This time you begin to get really
mixed, and when the sun shows again, probably
after having crossed the meridian, you swear posi-
tively that it has gone astray,. and, weary of
retracing your steps, keep straight ahead. It
vanishes again. You begin to get tired, and the
•scrub appears to be getting darker.
A horrible desire to run seizes you, and you
begin to quicken your jiace. Faster! faster ! till
something seems to whisper to you, and you find
yourself at a jog. Suddenly, with an angry ex-
.clamation, you slow down. Again the desire to
run seizes you; but this time you are prepared,
and, setting your head down, slog on at a good,
swinging walk. A space of time passes mysteri-
ously, and yon find yourself running. With a
wild, uncertain laugh, you stop dead. At the
sound of your laughter three or four dingoes break
cover. You take no notice, but walk on.
Suddenly you stop again and listen. All around
are the familiar voices of well-known birds and
the thud of startled wallabies. Somehow these
sounds seem strange and weird, as though they
contained some mysterious meaning. A wild fear
and feeling of loneliness gather at your heart.
You fire off your rifle in hope of some reply. The
only response is the rush of innumerable walla-
bies, the flutter of birds, a glimpse of a flying
dingo, and a few ringing echoes. You stand and
listen.
Just as the last sounds die away a white-eyed
crow rests on a tall tree above you. You take
aim and miss him. He flies away croaking mourn-
fully. Another passes overhead. You take a
wild, flying shot. The noise of the report startles
you and the rumbling echoes impart a thrill of
horror. Again you start on—this time wildly and
heedlessly. The next thing you remember is
finding that darkness is falling, and that you are
muttering to yourself. You check yourself
savagely and keep on walking.
Darkness falls, and you are still moving, till,
sickened by despair and the eeriness of the dense
scrub, you light a fire. You think you will go on
again after awhile, but, somehow, the fire seems
friendly. You cannot leave it. You gaze at the
glow, and your thoughts become concentrated.
You call to mind all the tales of people found dead
in the bush, and glance at your rifle, as it leans
against the butt of a tree, reflecting the firelight.
The problems of life and death begin to bother
you. All less thoughts die out, and you sneer
miserably at the trivialities of ordinary life. You
begin to doze and dream.
Suddenly you start to your feet. What was it ?
Only the howl of a dingo, attracted by the fire.
You get up, grasp your rifle, and, reseating your-
self, lay it across your knees. Soon they gather
round in the darkness, and begin a mournful
chorus. At last, one draws within the circle of
light; you raise your rifle, and it is gone.
Gradually, they close in again. You see the glit-
tering of a pair of eyes, and aim fair between the
lights. They disappear. You do not know
whether you nit or missed, and do not seem much
to care.
Somehow or other the night passes, and, just as
the stars begin to pale, you fall asleep. Awaken-
ing with a start, you find it daylight, and shudder
over the misery and slow, weary horror of the
past night, The clouds have all cleared off, and
you wait eagerly for the sun to rise. Gradually
the streaks of light across the sky grow deeper m
color, and at last the friendly old orb appears.
You gaze steadily for a moment, then, grasping
your rifle, jump to your feet and set out straight
for home. As you pass through a clump of scrub
thicker than ordinary three dingoes start away.
You take aim, fire, and bring one down With
the ghost of a smile on your face, you take his
scalp and travel on.
A little further and you strike a waterhole.
Washing off the marks of the night’s restlessness,
you carefully tidy yourself up. When you sight
home you find everyone just setting out to look
for you. Firing a shot to let them know you are
coming, you appear with a smiling face, holding
the scalp in a conspicuous position.
“ Hulloa ! ” everyone exclaims. “What hap-
pened ? Did you get bushed?” “Bushed!”
You mock at the very idea ; for the fear of loneli-
ness is removed, and the contact of fellow-men
has already aroused the innate pettiness of human
nature. “What kept you, then?” “I was
watching a dingo bitch that had pups somewhere
till it got dark, and then decided to wait and see
if I could find them in the morning. It hap-
pened, though, I shot her in the dark as they were
sneaking round the fire, or I’d have got those
pups or been there yet, one or other.”
A shadow of doubt crosses most of the faces
present, but you are bound for the breakfast-table
and do not stop to argue. Somehow, for three
or four nights afterwards, you do not sleep so
soundly as usual.
N.S.W.
W. M. FLEMING.
Lady Somerset has resigned from the
W.C.T.17. because she has been unwillingly con-
vinced that the O.D. Act provisions are impera-
tively necessary in India. The statistics of special
disease amongst the military are horrifying. The
“ secret of England’s greatness ” doesn’t seem to
get much of a show, after all!
A child fell off the pier into the sea at
South Melbourne, and whilst the poor, terrified
mother was wailing and calling for assistance from
heaven and earth, a frowsy young man edged up
to her. “ What’ll yer give us, mum, if I pull ’er
out?” he asked hoarsely. The frantic woman
offered him all the world and the gratitude of a
life-time, but the young man was more business-
like. “Will yer give us five bob?” he asked.
“ Yes, yes, oh ! yes. Anything—be quick ! ”
“ Ten bob ? ” “ Yes, yes ! Quick ! ” The young
man leisurely removed a tattered coat, but stopped
at that, and snorted with truly terrible disgust:
“Well, I’m busted if they ain’t gone an’ pulled ’er
out with a ’ook! ” And then he cursed the rescuers
with soulful emphasis for “ takin’ the bloomin’
bread outer a poor man’s blanky mouth.”


A WELL-KNOWN CYCLIST
Regains Health and Strength by the Use of the Great
Blood-Purifier and Tonic, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. He
Sends his Portrait, and Writes as Follows:
p
r
f.
m
■M
Gentlemen : Being a racing cyclist and consequently haring to
go through a severe bodily test in way of training I was, after a long term
of constant practice, entirely run down, and had decided to abandon the
track for awhile, but having heard a great deal as to the blood-purifying
and strengthening qualities of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I determined to give
it a trial. I am glad to say that I have been greatly benefited by the
medicine, so much so that I am again able to go on the bicycle track,
and can recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to anyone suffering from loss of
strength and weakness of the system.
Yours respectfully,
Frank Watts, Sydney, New So. Wales, Dec. 29,1896.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
_ ->nn, e .Blood-Purifier.
See that the name— Ayeb’i Sarsaparilla—i» on the wrap-
per, and blown in the glass of each bottle. Acoept no other.
Leading Hotels.
EMPIRE -E- HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
Centrally Situated.
Terms:
■ M
From 10s. per Day, and
•£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Pjbaoook, Manager.
Visitors to -
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
City. 1< irst-olass Board and Residence per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
TXT’S SOTEL
and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY (late of YVestralia) desires to inform his
mends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines, Good accommodation for travellers
“ E ULLETIN ” PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
Til K TjAS I. 01 SIX, by Ernest Eavenc: price
1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
QPPOSJTB O.KQ.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E STOYE, .. ’
Manashr. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
BOOM*
OB BOAKD
at orrio*.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL. om>ogit« or
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
Flinders-st., Townsville. ’
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he ig still conducting the TATTFR
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville. k AilEK '
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travellmg Digger, on account of its central position
being opposite the wharves -and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATirr? k, lt
little wine for thy stomach’* sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy r. 23. ln
AT
Lyoijs’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST
RAILWAY STATION). *
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
S
F°r, a “ d , Nervou « Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
ine-s „ w’ Rulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
“?L° f £ L ® S of 11 A PPetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis-
WILL GIVE RELIEF ItT TWENTY MINUTEs' Se "sf“°™' f . THE FIRST DOSE
"° n ° BOX ° f theSe PUI8 ’ “ nd they will be ackncTwledgeiTto A
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
Oiey act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of annetite* and
are^fafte’ l,t adm e im :C rf*h U fu C>P H ® al T h tbe Whole Physical Energy of the human friuL. These
Nervous ’ andDebillfatod UTT »“a > S f SOciety ’ and one of the besfc guarantees to the
4™i“ pfSeouS?,“iStuST * P '“‘ ‘ hl L “ r ‘ , '“ 0/ PatM
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, Si. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is l p d, and 2s 9d each.
ROOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dk. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complet ■ edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, p..-t free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by D ■ Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1,6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
AbbeMourbt’s Sin ; The Soil; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post, free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Root, post, free, Is 3d.
romance of A Fair Girl's Bathroom, price, Is
8d ; post free. Merkie England, by post 61.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
28 ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Pioture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Hbptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; pest, 4s.
Marriage A* It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle dh Mai piN, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wilt Widow, post 2s.
Snxual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Amativenbss, by O. S. Fowler, post free 8d
Maria Monk, Is Gd ; p.-st, ]s 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou s Harem, post free Is Cd
The Does and tiie Fleas, 2s 6d ; posted 2s lOd.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, f»y Gustave Droz, posted 2s
The Works «>f Rab lais, faithfully translated from
the French, unexpurnated, 422 pages. Full-pace illus-
trations by Gustave Doni. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One's Self, posted Is Gd.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid s art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
'!?£ a V t,ie tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer's
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post. Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
H*w to Dance, new work, Is, post fr<
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book
16 PARK STREET,
Depot,
SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Bt “PRICE WARUNG.”
*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ _
I’R I Cl? Is. ... per Post, Is. 3d.
AFTER SERVICE.
HE: “Did you like the new pulpit, railing?”
She : “Not exactly ; it woke me up twice 1 ”


EPPS’S
&EATEFDL—COMFOKTOTJ
COCOA
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not Jeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
/ L<=>
-THE-'
Ballet
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic li f e
Post Free X/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 013, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ABE—
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKSI
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORK
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
S
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
83 York Street;, SYDJiTE'S’.
‘‘THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, UVEJbJII-iIIOOXTjE^IsrJSI.
WortbiQgtoQ PGnjpiog Eijgiijc Company.
(Australasian Branch.) SIIUPSOIX BrOtUerS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parti
ies.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN 'l l
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET —THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Lts Everywhere.
WORLD.
H. PATESON, Manager.
SOM€TNm6 QUIT€ 'N€W!!
POT THREADING PIPE.
Wkrau*"
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINARY
STOCK.
THE!
GSTCR PHTERT SD3USTRBEE DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cut off from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - - ALL SINGER SEWING MAO 1 LINKS.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR c ff SIITO h
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES. UlliA_Lll UIIIUII
Batho’s Baking Powdep
v INSOLVENT ESTATE
—OF—
WEADON, THOMAS & 00.,
GUNMAKERS,.
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
i Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price £B, reduced £2 ITs fid each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut. stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snapaotion, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, w 0 li cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5
each, complete.
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 121, reduced £7los ea. complete.
8 Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £6, reduced £2 7s fid each, complete.
1 Wi Chester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced t'4 15s eilch, complete. .
4 Sin'de-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 160yds. Usual price £l5,
reduced £5 6s each. Rifleg very best , quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 16s.
Partridgescan be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s fid per 100 in any size shot All Orders Delivered
Free clrriagf paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
BoQQifygtOQ’S
I RISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chrome)
*» INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling ot the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complain s.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Boi)oii)gtoi)’s Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver. Box
