

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
The Bulletin
Yol. IS.—iSo. 906. i
[Saturday, June 26, lay 7,
Tr; scored at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transnrss ,, on by Post as a bPwsnaner.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
The Standard
Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. <3-. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
TWO SEAS Tobacco,
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
Yj
% f
<RAcx, ArocK>
c> £ x>_
Ci V ° Ct*
i->
V
R* A. HBRVBY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE &. Co.,
85 Pltt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Boston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbbnt & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mature
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elkcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Celle.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wipe & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A Splendid. Lunch for Is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence 10/-per day.
Before vijih'ng fhe o*/ wrirefo fhe Manager fer
«f Tariff, (orrejptndence prpmpfjy attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BXIISBiiL3VrX3.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE
<aros^?QorNotel,
Gresvenor Square,
SYDUTBY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
‘Tjct
■RED BIRD
Bidden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
THE
est
icycle
uilt
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots
(•MELBOURNE.
A ADELAIDE.
I WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
PIONEER
LEATHER
ILTINC
HVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World’s Pair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Dnrability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWiei & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
■v
f
* r .
* , ...
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Ham no Worthless
Imitations.
TEE EDM & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch 16 Carrington-etreet,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
IS?” Poverty Pointersj
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HO33ART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
XL Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Visitors to— - ■ =
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
@f City. First-class Board and Residence ,£1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
Novelty
. . IptrodOcing Co.
A PERFECT PICTURE.— New Method, without
chemicals, lenses, baths, sunlight, or flash - powders.
Carried in vest-pocket ready for instant use day or night.
A beautifully-finished Picture every minute. Complete
Apparatus, with impression slips, One Shilling (post-paid).
13 Impsrial Arcade, SYDNEY.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.


THE RED PAGE.
PUT TO SLEEP.
Back and forth in the rocker,
Lost in a reverie deep,
The mother rocked while trying
To sing the baby to sleep.
The baby began a-crowing,
For silent he couldn’t keep,
Aud after a while the baby
Had crowed his mother to sleep.
B. K. Munkittrick.
CAME away from the Loan Exhibition at Syd-
ney Art Gallery with enhanced respect for
local artists. It is my habitto complain that, for the
most part, these are not artists, but students and
technicalists, destitute of illumination, of inspira-
tion, of intellectual or emotional stimulus. But
among the 670 exhibits which the Sydney Trustees
have borrowed from all quarters of the globe there
is, on the average, no whit more of these desirable
qualities. The conclusion set me wondering
whether, after all, the fault lay at home. In
literature, by many tests and comparisons, I have
fairly satisfied myself that my mind is well hung,
as it were—delicately poised—that it vibrates
easily to a breath of exalted feeling, of natural
pathos, and remains stiff to conventional artifice
and pretty puppet-play. And, every time I heard
Miss Regina Nagel sing ‘Ben Bolt,’ despite the
mawkish words tears came into my eyes and
expansive altruistio yearnings into my brain—
which was by way of being ridiculous, no doubt,
as 1 saw five minutes afterwards. But it argues
some artistic affectability, I think, that for the
life of me I could not see it at the time. Had
Miss Nagel blossomed into a new Joan of Arc,
and led Australian battalions against boodle-politi-
cians and greedy employers of servile labor, I felt
capable of heroic deeds quite foreign to my ordi-
nary character as a rather tame and commonplace
citizen. But she would have had to keep on sing-
ing ‘ Ben Bolt ’ continuously—or with not more
than five-minute intervals.
• * * •
So, if literature could thrill me and exalt me, if
a dozen moments after Miss Nagel opened that
admirable mouth my heart-strings shook like
harp-strings, how was it that (said-to-be) beautiful
combinations of form and color could not move me
as did beautiful combinations of words or sounds ?
Could it be that I was not sufficiently familiar
with the technique of painting ? (For I do not
undervalue technique generally : I delight in the
clear, full, true note, in the subtle meetings and
partings of a well-made harmony, its tantalising
pauses and anticipations and the satisfaction of
the close ; and, while preferring thought plus
phrase to phrase merely or phrase mainly, I re-
ceive keen pleasure from Poe’s
Banners yellow, glorious, golden
On its roof did float and flow,
(This—all this—was in the olden
Time, long ago),
or Verlaine’s
La lune blanohe
Luit dans les bois ;
De chaque branche
Part une voix
Dans la ram£e . .
O bien aimSe 1
or Sohiller’s
O S zarte Sehnsuoht, siiszes H often,
Der ersten Liebe gold’ne Zeit,
Das Auge sieht den Himmel often,
Es sohweigt das Herz in Seligkeit—
where the poetry seems rather breathed from the
mellifluous vowels than uttered by the sentiment
whioh the words carry.)
• » *
But I do appreciate technique in painting—
not only technique whioh is artistic by virtue of
the forceful presentation of a subjective idea, but
also technique which is artistic by virtue of
beautiful presentation of an objective scene—just
as, in the fragments quoted, it is less the con-
tained thought which stirs me than the external
sound, look, flavor of the words themselves. For
example, I get from a photogravure illustration
of ‘ Silence ’ (in Poe’s works, Ingram’s ed., John
Nimmo, 1884, vol. iv.), by F. M6aulle, almost
precisely the impression which Verlaine’s lyric
makes. (It is fairer to quote the other stanzas ;
though a something-hackneyed touch oomes in the
close.)
reflate
—Profonde miroir—
La silhouette
Du saule noir
Oil le vent pleure . . .
R&vons, c’est l'heure.
Un vaste et tendre
Apaisement
Semble descendre
Du firmament
Que l’astre irise . .
C’est l’heure exquise.
The difference is that Mdaulle’s engraving has
thought in it as well as beauty, and leaves a pro-
founder memory. And, if you leave the humanity
out of Verlaine’s poem, I get almost exactly his
artistic effect from Louis Douzette’s picture
* Moonlight ’ (No. 135 in the Sydney Gallery).
That is something like painting—not because of
the technique, but because of the result of the
technique—because, being mere colour on canvas,
it sings music, speaks poetry—in a word, because
it is Art. I might ask local pretty-posers and
dabby-daubers to take a hint from Douzette;
but hints are seeds that never germinate unless
you have the right soil of men to plant them in.
To be an artist, you want not only an artist’s
fingers, but an artist’s brain—which is a very rare
bird in any latitude. And the mischief of it is
that the finger-man can rarely or never see the
difference between his own work and art. * There
is the colouring,’ he says; ‘ there is the drawing ;
there is the composition. If anything, the com-
bination of artistic qualities is more effective in
my picture than in that which you praise, while
damning mine.’ Very likely, Mr. Finger-man,
very likely; but you see your combination is
mechanical ; the other fellow’s is chemical, and his
chemistry is the chemistry of the Soul. It
is just the same in literature, in music. There
are the words, there are the notes, at everyone’s
disposal. But how few can combine them to
satisfy even an ordinary taste? and who, that
has any sense at all of the delicate differences
between impressions, ever combined them to
satisfy his own.
* * . *
And so throughout the field of effort.
Take two flowers, and three bits of lace,
and a scrap of chiffon, and set a whole
workroomful of nimble feminine fingers to
try and transform them into a milliner’s
masterpiece. Likely enough, after hours of
elaboration, the result will be nothing all round —
fashionable dust and ashes, so to speak. Then up
oomes a small person with an Eye—takes the most
promising, but still imperfect result—rends and
tears; replaces; sticks a pin here, a pin there;
gives four pulls, a twist, and a dexterous pat—
and the workroom ohs! with admiration at
three guineas’ worth of fal-lal and frippery— alias
bonnet. Admire the artistic brain of the small
person with the Eye—her fingers were no better
than anybody else’s. N.B. —Deducting a little
male exaggeration, pardonable under the circum-
stances, I have seen this done; and the small
person is a friend of mine. How did she do it ?
By Emu, I don’t know; though with a little
tuition I began to perceive the difference between
the masterpiece and the failure. Then I
understood why a Bond - street milliner
gives ten guineas apiece and more for her
Paris models at the beginning of every season.
And I admired the vast sheep-crowd of women,
in that, not having brains enough to create fasci-
nating headgear for themselves, they yet have
enough to pay through their noses—or their hus-
bands’ noses—for the confection that suits them ;
while most of the dabby-daubers doubtfully see
the difference between their own creations and an
artist’s. But lam aware that here thegeneralisation
is shaky ; for many women obviously do not know
what suits them. Yet the workwomen knew the
difference between my friend’s result and theirs.
* * * •
I should like to know whether the creators of
Paris models are themselves satisfied with them.
For I judge that, the better the artistic brain, the
greater its dissatisfaction with its own products.
I know a man of some3s or so, who in his twenties
used to write very decent verse, but who has not
composed a line for years. Some time ago I asked
why. He explained that his faculty of artistic
appreciation had outstripped his faculty of artistic
creation, so that he was perforce sterile. ‘ Take a
simple case,’ he said, ‘ which applies either in verse
or prose. Say I wish to express the idea, “ Twice
two is four.” Is twice two four ? I have intellec-
tual doubts about it myself: at times I have
seemed on the verge of understanding how twice
two might be three, or five, or any number ; but
the doubts are not strong enough to hinder me
from affirming the idea. Granted the idea’s accu-
racy, what about the grammatical accuracy of the
phrase? Should I say, “ Twice two is four ”? or
“ Twice two are four ” ? With a little hesitation
I decide in favor of “Twioe two is four.”
* * * •
‘ And now comes my real difficulty. The idea
of “Twice two is four” does not present
itself to my mind in either that form-of-
sounds or form-of-letters. Take the sounds first.
The sound of “ twice ” does not represent for me
the idea of “ twice.” As nearly as I can image
and phrase it, 1 want for the idea “twice” a
sound like agur. “Two” and “is” I pass as
sufficient, but for the idea of “four” I want a
sound like fone. So that, to represent the idea
of “twice two is four,” I want something like
“agur two is fone.” But obviously this would
not be understood, so I reluctantly sacrifice my
own sound-conception of the idea to the conven-
tional sound-conception, and write “ twice two is
four.” But now my ear takes up the quarrel—or
rather, that part of my brain which deals with
sounds in se, without reference to implied ideas.
I pass “twioe two” with some difficulty ; but I
cannot endure the hiss-f of “is four.” My ear
wants some combination like “Twice two dalone.”
(There is the same ear-objection to “ agur two ”
and “ is fone.”)
* • • *
‘Well, suppose I do violence to myself
once more, and write down “Twice two is
four.” What a horrible array of meaningless
signs ! how they outrage the eye ! The idea of
“twice two is four” presents itself to my
eye as something like this ’—and he sketched
two strings of sausages hanging from a ceil-
ing, with two sausages in each string,
while from their joined lower - ends hung
a very large hot-cross-bun. ‘But here again,
if I represented my ideas truly, I should
not be understood. And remember that every
word I add to “Twice two is four ” increases my
difficulty in geometrical ratio, since each word
must be considered in relation to its harmony of
sense and sound and sight with all the words pre-
ceding—and you will comprehend how impossible
it is to me to compose a line. On several occa-
sions, by resolutely enduring acute mental agony,
I have got, metaphorically speaking, as far as
“Twice two”—no farther. So, since my intelli-
gence matured, I speak as little as possible, and
write —never 1 ’
Does this read fantastic? In essence it is fact
—fact familiar to every reader whose power or
acquisition and perception is stronger tlian ms
power of creation —that is, whose sensoiy I ” u _
areas have been unduly developed at the cost ot
his motor brain-areas. There is a Sydney artist
who is so learned in theory, so particular in prac-
tice, that it takes him a month to make one
small pen-and-ink drawing. It is usually by no
means a bad drawing, either; but it is so tar
below his ideal of perfection that he has a load on
his mind till he has destroyed it and started a,ll
over again. He has been starting all over again
all his life-time—never gets any forwarder. (*es,
Beau Brummel did tie his cravat right at last
superbly right in the eyes of ordinary people ; but,
depend upon it, it was never right in the eyes ot
Beau Brummel.)
• « * #
Returning to my artistic sheep—and dispensing
with elaboration of the points that (1), after all,
Louis Douzette’s picture doesnot give the highest
artistic result (because Verlaine’s quoted lyric is
poetically inferior to Matthew Arnold 8 Ibe
Buried Life’); and that (2) the similarity of re-
sult attained by Douzette and Verlaine comes
only to a small extent because they are both
treating moonlight subjects —is nearly all due to
the similarity of their minds, which, acted on by
similar causes, have produced similar effects I
drop by a superficial association of ideas to Julian
Ashton’s ‘Moonlight ’ (188), from which one gains
a much better opinion of his talents than from
the expressionless posing Magdalen (93), An
advantage of judging by artistic results, and not
by technique, is that media make no difference
in a comparison—you can mentally put oil by
water-color, or water alongside pastel, and ad-
measure total impressions, just as you can measure
the relative impression made on your palate by
clear Julienne or thick turtle soup. I prefer clear
Julian myself —mingled with moonlight and
poetry, but unmixed with baser models ; and
could accentuate the preference if No. 188 were
in a smaller frame, with a thinner card mount-
ing. There is another moonlight picture close by
—Terry’s ‘North Head ’ (178) —a fine picture with
an arched shape which is ugly anyway, and uglier
in the square frame. Yet another moonlighter —
Goeterick’s ‘Lake ’ (417)—looks good, but is hung
too high to be comprehended. I would like those
three pictures—aud Douzette’s —hung together
(after the frames, &c., of Ashton’s and Terry’s
had been altered) so that I could stand and ‘ draw
the quiet night into my blood.’ And I think I
would then catch something of the same sad-
exultant feeling that I get when Miss Nagel sings
‘Ben Bolt.’
* • • •
Of all the pictures in the Loan collection, those
most Nagelish in effect are two by Conrad Mar-
tens — ‘An Explorer’s Camp ’ (217) and ‘Scene in
Patagonia ’ (229) —the latter for choice. It may
not be Patagonia, but it is poetry. Probably it
isn’t Patagonia—is a shade too warm-brown for
Patagonia, but one can pass a warm-brown Pata-
gonia, and all’s well. A warm-brown Aus-
tralia one cannot pass—Australia isn’t warm-
brown, even in the interior; and on the eastern
coast she is frankly blue and purple, though not
so purple as Minns makes her. (Yes, a generalisa-
tion is possible ; for there is chiefly question of the
quality of the light and the tints of ground and
foliage, water and hills.) Conrad Martens is warm-
brown nearly all the time, and where he is most
warm-brown, as in ‘At Apsley Falls ’ (237) or
‘ Water-wheel, Liverpool Plains ’ (238) he is least
Australian; and where he is least warm-brown, as
in ‘An Explorer’s Camp’ or ‘Old Washpool’
(239) he is most Australian. It looks as if Conrad
had brought from Europe a mind full of warm-
brown autumn tints (you can see them in Copley
Fielding’s ‘ Loch Tay ’ (326) beaming naturally)
and scattered them over this our country regard-
less. Hut he had lucid interspaces, and the clan-
gathering of his work is the Loan collection’s
strong point.
* * * •
O. W. Brierly is a numerous and rather dis-
appointing performer. Two or three of his land-
scapes are pleasant; most are undistinguished
sketches; and he makes no artistic impression. One
realises by comparison with the other hundreds
of unremarkable lan Iscapes -nearly all the Loan
collectors’ tastes seem to have run to landscapes :
figures are few bv comparison- how admirable
Piguenit’s and some of Lister Lister a work really
is :it would shine any where. But I would like
Piguenit to liven up a bit, and try some moving
scenes like Peter Graham’s ‘Rising Mists’ (per-
manent collection 113). P. seems always so
placid : his water hardly ripples, and never a gale
has ruffled his pa ; nt in my recollection. Arthur
Suker paints water-subjects well, and something
in Piguenit’s manner ; but I prefer Piguenit.
There are three foreign figure-pictures in the col-
lection which stand out above the others—not as
Art, but as superb representations of Nature—
Bellei’B ‘ Grandmother ’ (29), and Bechi’s ‘Knit-
ting’ (75) and ‘ltalian Children’ (80). They
please me—particularly the fine old grandmother
(I can see her now) - but do not stir me. ’Cause
why ?—because they are mere objective represen-
tations, destitute of subjective idea. Humanity
is all very well in its way ; but it is the Idea
that salts humanity—the Idea is sublime.
* * * •
Passing the oleographs, and the photographs,
and the portraits, and the pretty-pretlies ; and the
dead fowls hanging on a string (why on earth does
anybody want to paint dead fowls hanging on a
string?); and the flowers (which are uninteresting,
and not so real as Miss Meston’s—though one
hopes Miss Meston won’t stop all the time
at flowers) ; and Arthur Streeton’s remark-
able productions (whioh look as if he had
made a mistake when he stuck the fork in
and taken them out before they were baked); and’
Val Prinsep’s ‘Linen Gatherers’ (with all their
pretty heads bent the same pretty way, as if they
had an Alexandra limp in the neck); and Lan-
delie’s masterly ‘ Algerienne ’; and the copy of
Rossetti’s ‘ Annunciation’ (which gives the cata-
logue a chance to twice mis-spell his name very suc-
cessfully, though it isn’t a patch on the perma-
nent-collection catalogue—which is a terror for
execrable printing and abominable process-repro-
duction) ; and the square chunk of Gloom with
the crooked hole in the middle labelled ‘ Wreck of
the Duncan Dunbar’; and Bernard Evans’s fine
landscape, reminiscent of Sydney Cocks’s recent
‘Showers’; and the pictures too small to make
any impression ; and the pictures which (like the
enormous ‘Outside Paris Fortifications’ in the
permanent collection) would make just as good an
impression if they were reduced to one-sixth the
size; and the rest—passing all these, one
reaches the Old Masters, and gives their
God thanks.
* * * •
How any rightly - constituted person oan
denounce the Old Masters is what puzzles this
particular Quaker. I got more pure enjoy-
ment out of the Old Masters than I ever got
before out of anyone over the age of 26— which
figure is quite personal and arbitrary. They are
really much more amusing than ‘ The Sign of the
Cross.’ The 24 sq. feet of rusty female (fancy
treasuring 24 sq. feet of rusty female when there
are so many fresh females on two nice pink feet
‘syin,’ as A. Ward remarked, ‘to place their
heds agin weskits which kiver honest, manly
harts ’ —and even harts that aren’t honest, as long
as they’re more or less manly !) is good in her
way; and so is the St. Peter who wants some-
body’s maroon pills; and so is the ‘ Morning Hymn
in Paradise,’ with two arms up-stretched, and
two wisps of Eve’s hair (one apiece) wriggling
round to make the garb of Paradise decent in our
purer day ; and so are the wooden women and the
grinning women and the rest ; —these certainly
take well and give pleasure to me. But the gem
of the collection is Wolgemuth’s picture, with
everybody solemn except the subject (who has
an extra joint in his right arm) and the
operating-surgeon looking extra-solemn with a
knife about twenty-nine sizes too big for . . . for
the operation, in fact) —and Job Trotter, Jingle’s
Job Trotter. Sam Weller’s Job Trotter, in the
back-ground with his hat down over his eyes. I
think that, as an example of ‘high art,’Wolge-
muth’s picture is the lowest comedy which I can
at this moment remember.
BALLADE OF THE BUBAL PROSPECTUS
Next year the Keene Observer will
Appear in dress entirely new,
It will be bold and fearless still.
The tariff it will oft review.
A pretty chroino, “ Howdy do ?”
18 x 10, eclipsed by none,
’Twiil give to dangle from a screw.
All kinds of printing neatly done.
The local maw ’twill weekly fill
With local gossip always true.
As, for example, “ Simon Hill
His henhouse lately painted blue.
Mark Quigley's horse has cast a shoe.
Take note, at Music Hall next Mon-
Day night the “ Taming of the Shrew."
All kinds of printing neatly done.
No cabbages can pay a bill;
For gold its course it will pursue !
The wisdom of its old goose-quill
Will be its rival’s bugaboo.
Besides short‘stories, and a few
Sweet poems, and the prankful pun
There’ll be “ Home Notes ” by Aunty Lou
All kinds of printing neatly done.
ENVOI.
On patrons I would this imbue :
It isn’t printed just lor fun.
Terms cash !- to boil the Irish stew.
All kinds of printing neatly done.
B. K. Munkittrick.
George roigrtson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin ; price. In. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin', by Price Wnrunv ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6(1.
MOSI'YN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; price, 2s. 6d. ;
posted, 2s. l(jd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
A. G. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
A N experienced writer and all-round
-A*- author of several books, acquainted with
most of the Art and Technical Schools of Europe,
resident in Ceylon and India, an LL.D. of Dublin,
offers his services to assist an editor on a daily, or
take sole charge of a country paper. Salary not
so much an object.
“ Journalist,” office of Bulletin.
THE record reign
.... CELEBRATIONS!
The decorations and illuminations are now pleasant memories of the past;
still, they served to emphasize what will be a landmark in English history.
A pleasant and most conspicuous feature of the festive scene was the illu-
mination from the business ends of thousands of
CAMEO CIGARETTES.


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN,
Hi
U
Yodog Mo?,
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
. ~ pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Hail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away from
the city and unable to come to his' office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
* FEE % • 127 Redfern Street,
Appropriate Medicine _
by Return Post. REDFERN.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Xl>r.
Sheer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than JR ss.
Harvard R-medy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
ZL PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
of active practice, will now' send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
AddreS3 “MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
iQ 8 RI CORO'S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Ms, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Agents for Australasia—Perry <So Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO URNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
“ABori) PbySiciaij.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to eases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms y'ou know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly' too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any' institution in Australia —female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully'.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but- where £1 is
enclosed a caieful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.Jt.C.S,, Lng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
medical 4
Dr. SPEER,
20 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
ei l rl ? *' gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
AliLj consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHN DURANT
full Directions'
ENCLOSED'
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Tbe (alory of Mao !
STEENGTH AND VITALITY.
Dr. GEO. WALSH,
The MOST SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST in Australia,
may be consulted at his PRIVATE DISPENSARY on all
CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN &
BLOOD DISEASES.
YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED MEN, who by
their own acts of imprudence or folly suffer from lack of
energy, impaired vitality, loss of memory, pains in the
limbs and bowels, sunken eyes, tottering gait, who are
weak, debilitated and unable to perform life’s duties pro-
perly ; imbibe natural nerve force and power by my
Urethral Treatment and without exposing their miseries
to an unsympathising physician, who does not study and
consequently does not understand these cases.
OLD MEN who now find the penalties following their
transgressions, indiscretions or over brain-work, may con-
sult with assurance of speedy relief and a permanent cure.
Blood and Skin Diseases, Kidney, Bladder and Liver
complaints, Heart and Lung troubles treated successfully.
MARRIED MEN and those about to marry, who
dread their weakness or incapacity, or whose blood is
loaded with impurities transmittable to their offspring,
should consult DR. WALSH without delay.
Varicocele easily and quickly cured without operation.
Write for particulars.
“ The Bright Side,” a valuable Illustrated Medical
Work on Brain and Nerve Exhaustion and its Cure by the
only pleasant, safe, and certain method exclusively my
own, sent sealed eight stamps.
Before confiding your case, consult Dr. WALSH,
L.R.C.P & S., et L.M., legally qualified Physician
and Surgeon, registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Australia, and New Zealand, and one who has
made diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs a life-long
study, hence to him the sufferer can look with full and
positive assurance of restoration to health and vigorous
manhood ; call or write for absolute proofs of success.
Consultation by letter or in person free and invited.
Send to-day for the “Bright Side,” it will interest you.
Sent sealed for eight stamps. When immediate treatment
is desired, send complete history of case and £l.
DR. GEO. WALSH,
83 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
*X33M ONE *ONINNl01«
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “cure alls”
specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
Hommopathic Treatment, which is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing
Visror in voiincr and old men. All letters sent sealed. , * v
S Address -Dr. IRVING CO., corner Huntei^and_Bhgh_Stre£ts : _Sydnej^_ M _ M
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrallv-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Eiizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Ruck ift of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, Gr.P.O., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT PIinHOOB.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Eipe Old Age.
TYTEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don't
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the uwiters
only ; otherunse secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particidars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes : —“ I can-
not retrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough oure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies haye acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that X
had to give up work, and 1
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“Gentlemen, —I cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition lor
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
ill!!
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ha FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac.


TATTERSALL’S
w MOf'STER PRIZE LIST.
registered
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
GRAND NATIONAL H. July 3.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
-shares in the above.
Name_
£
Address.
Waterloo Coursing C. July 22 & 23.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
SPRING H. 14th August.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C
Oct. 16.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the afoo,ve.
Name.
£
Address
MELBOURNE
—lOO,OOO at 20; and 100,000 at 5.
NOW OPEN.
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—or THE-
Millbank Estate, Junee, JNT.S.W.
116,000 Shares at £1 Each Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Stares atfl Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
Oth
Empire Hotel, Temora
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel’ including
Assembly Hall, etc. ... ... s
280 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,005
valued at
valued at
8,100
8,000
\
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
valued at
valued at
valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
4,000
4,000
3,550
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Pri™ n
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus'' “° f Homestead >
Tattersall s Second Distribution
—OF—
City ai)d StibOrbai)
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss. Each.
Ist liize. I errace Houses* Glen more
lioad, and large Dwelling-House
Woollahra...
2nd liize. Mouse and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Sliop and two Houses
Cleveland-street
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For f ull Particulars apply for Prospectus.
Value
£8,500
£5,000
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts Soited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “y«mth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
]nthony Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUGH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
( Has a record of nearly 60 years
$ in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
' ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World's Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
Do Dot Hesitate \
BUT Call and See>
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
PURIFIED -
- HEALTHY
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
3VTta.cXa.ixxe> Rodney,
tFHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
A may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
The “Korting Universal”
Boiler - Feed Injector.
MANUFACTURED BY
L. SHUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed Injector in this market,
ft is working in thousands of cases to the very best ad-
vantage. It takes water at a temperature of 150 deg.
Fahr. It is worked entirely by one handle. Send for
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and. General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE LUTE-PLAYER.
(Inspired by Collier’s beautiful picture in N.S.W.
National Art Gallery.)
Who art thou waiting yonder,
With eager watching eyes ?
What half-heard sound, I wonder,
Hath brought thee sweet surmise ?
I wonder what men call thee —
What sweet sonorous name
To match thy radiant beauty ?
What word of olden fame—
Of brave old memories gleaming
From long-dead ages’ lore —
To set the spirit dreaming—
Elaine, or Elinore ?
Thy half-turned head poised lightly
Upon thy curved neck,
Like moonlit snow all whitely
That gleam without a fleck,
Is diademed with roses
Of deep empurpled red,
That on thy cheek’s soft damask
A warmth of color shed.
Thy smitten lute still lingers
Within thy hand ; from strings
Yet quivering from thy fingers
A trembling echo rings.
Ah ! in what bygone ballad
They throbbed harmoniously,
Tuned to thy voice’s cadence
Of dulcet melody ?
Art thou a strange enchantress,
Who, with wild witching airs,
Doth make all men thy bondsmen
That hear thee unawares ?
And is that carven demon
Crouched to thine elbow nigh,
Thy fawning fierce familiar,
Obedient to thine eye ?
Who, swift as the red levin.
Through sea and earth and air
Doth hie to bring thee tidings
Of gallants gay that fare
Where lone thy tower lieth,
’Mid aged, hoary trees ;
With airy, whispering voices
He lures them to thy knees.
Yet who would give them pity
Since thou dost hear their sighs ?
’Twere worth a kingly ransom
To gaze once in thine eyes !
Nay ! thou art but a woman
Like Mother Eve of old ;
Say “ Beauty ” and “ A Woman,”
And all thy spell is told !
Nor hast thou need of other ;
Therein is charm to bind
A thousand hearts in homage.
I wonder did’st thou find,
With all who came a-wooing,
A gallant youth and free
To work thy heart’s undoing,
And, conquered, conquer thee 1
Ah ! surely ’twas his footstep
Upon the oaken stair,
That stayed thy pealing music ;
And thou art waiting there
With wayward lips that smiling
Dissembled to disdain—
Would mask the tender rapture
That beats through every vein.
I would I were that lover,
To hear thy red lips speak
The love he may discover
Betrayed upon thy cheek !
Yet still thy lover lingers
Who lingered ne’er before,
And ever thou art waiting,
And waiting evermore,
With eager lips asunder—
Bright face and rose-crowned hair.
I watch thee, filled with wonder,
And leave thee waiting there !
ZADIG.
THE WHIP OF LOVE.
The whip of Love, if deftly laid
On the heart of man or of saucy maid,
Will cut its mark in a crimson groove—
Oh ! a glorious goad is the whip of Love !
It will drive a man, though all else fail,
When his breath comes short, and his red cheeks
pale;
At his children’s moan he will forward move—
There’s a scorpion-sting in the whip of Love !
Though the miser snarl a defiant curse,
It will cut right in till it rips his purse ;
Not the nine-tailed cat by the hangman wove
Can cut so deep as the whip of Love !
Let the stockman sing of his stockwhip stout,
Or the bullocky boast of his slashing knout,
I could draft from hell to the plains above
A mob of fiends, with the whip of Love !
WAKE.
Australian gum-trees in India lose their
form, and take that of the nati ve trees.
It is printed that, out of 700 or 800 cows
tested for tuberculosis in Maoriland by the Koch
method, between 20 and 30 per cent, were found
diseased!
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
From a Sydney paper. A neat little thing
in apologies : —
x, , of , butcher, do hereby APOLOGISE
J to my WIFE for saying I was not married to her.
(Signed) John , st., .
And right alongside it a female bathed in tears
and repentance humiliates as follows : —
APOLOGY. —I am sincerely SORRY for certain
slanders which I have been guilty of making use
concerning my HUSBAND and also his MOTHER.
(Signed) Mary .
This is indeed a cold world where a lady has to
spend Is. of her hard-earned coin in publicly flop-
ping before her mother-in-law.
I
I’ll Trv It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I‘ricc, lON. (i«l.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-652 Georgc-st , Sydnoy,
Positively the Best Dressing
i®?gpip
->
m
.(
4k
Vs
ss
o
>«r <■ w^>
FOR
PRESERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAKLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Products Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray'.
Unequalled tor Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2 6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE" CO.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
ri T STA N on F ?!,' ,T r is ; P el ! cious wi ‘h BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Eeg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
BcSSoq’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other Maker in the World-
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “ PROTOTYPE ” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms.
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
A.. IF». SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Rubber Manufacturers.
•9
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING COATS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS CAPTO
COATS. OILSKINS. ’ *
RUBBER HOSE.
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &e. BREWERS’ HOKH
SUCTION HOSE, STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, EIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
Every Variety of
IJ JL t JES t
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
«r SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
WHITE; DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depat, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will'effect a saving of 50 per cent, as (compared with-buying them from dealers.
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best-felt, and are rivetted. Tho sounding-board, which is thf
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climatet and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
ba.ss wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.S
Hammer-9hanks ol
acmena wood, with a
of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. .The photos
show the exterior. The
Hansburg Pianos can
bo'had in walnut, or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch r ia elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in tho bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to tho voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-,
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
oolomes, churches, schools, convents, and publi.c institutions. BEAJJ2 & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales


Australia!) MOtdal p r<W jd € i)t Society.
Established 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Lite Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY
YEAR 1
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ,
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ,
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income . ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling-
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office: S V PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night—advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, S3 T dney.
REMEMBER! ■ . .
The Record Watch of the
Record Reign
IS THE RELIABLE
Waterbtiry Watcb-
EOAD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENQINE.
LofydoQ ai>d Helbotirije Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS
Suits— 4ss. to 90s. Trousers— from 12s. 6d. to 25s
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M, BAUMARSHE Manager
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
hisrh, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
VVAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
N. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY K
these have English Dunlop and M. and \V. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
A Revolution in Dentistry .
A COMPLETE set one guinea.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEE'I’H
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE •
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of I amicss
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . •
scale on which they work enables them to employ
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable pro
each individual transaction. Being able to keep t.
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDKESS.
'Dodalla Cheese
1 The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
'Qod.aUa Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
"Dodalla Hams
“■ * In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION". —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
829 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
r-j
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10'- per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS, Boarders, 30/- do £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN - -
AUSTRALIAN
COMPANY
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
S H A R E in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantfle Mutual Tire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896—divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making JE97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp, Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. zeulidzriidgke: & go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Important Announcement by Dixson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers.
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Pric© Hitll©l?'tO TJll”
kIIOWH Here a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Yuelta Abajo).
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-choice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for Bd.!!— win at'first no doubt
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming the great cost'of production, just
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight to be made at a profit. DIXSON
and SONS intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA”
comes as a pleasant surprise to many who, though capable of appreciating a
good Cigar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury.
Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appeal's.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 18.—No. 90G.
SATURDAY," JUNE 26, 1897.
Priob, 6d.
Tuclcfe fcprisoner- £ Say A <■/“'•«
7Ae ctrecLct S'c/tteree <?f 7R7 /<u+j f - _ V"<?£"
, Z ft/icrU) you Cctu S'f'ife/ice /^7C- > /o SzastfPcf) 6u/~//zc <Zc-Z
doesa't~ f'7c feu. a.ncf 7s Sas/>re»>enY -s“ ee'*% /Re
Record /7/um/dafiOftS dn.d do/,<<s Jz y c£u?y
* * U o
, d
*>*/
*v
(ffcosely (Contfotfiei Yo Cocxc/enirie ct Cr/ittinetl, _
Aonr Sefreaf affie/- /nc /Arse Sror</s: ' j ,
Armn. S'cccUet en. ctea/jf ad force del user us
//Yjr /freat? b p/T/edcy- yy //r /Parcos-c/
\ Q Ufa.fa/fa // i4^u
Oat Arhs7ZSSf}‘“ 1 "' e,i
his Coat To/OCcu fits l/ifum Tcl Y.
Mulct*" '*r M c "*ff”"
*,'* t Kindly./'*?*’,? . . >
one of %*S 6 re/ 1
-<fod S’QU'C fife Queen (
LON DON, June ly. —Tne University of
Cambridge to-day conferred the .honorary
degree of Doctor of Laws upon the Hon.
Wilfrid Laurier (Premier of Canada). Sir
George Turner (Premier of Victoria), Mr. R.
J. Seddon (Premier of New-Zealand), Sir
Edward Braddon (Premier of Tasmania),
Sir John. Eorrest (Premier of West Aus-
tralia), Chief Justice Way, of South Aus-
tralia, and Mr. H. Escombe, Attorney-!
General c-f Natal.
The ceremony was an imposing one.
The Public Orator, Mr. J. E. Saudys, in pre-
senting them, eulogised each Premier
separately in a Latin address.
\/? op~ff fffumcny "
//■w- ‘ T*»*»*y" “ " .
p a r. *V—T fro/idc'/- erAi'cn ' s m °f.\
fired of Mis jzAf lee fastness. foucn
jfjlen fou see a fttanop
man ffifi Creases
AiS Yfa.ndi.nq tnfronfi
of Pie bulletin
/nquirind "tvkick is
(f eon ere sf fc°u tnay
evTire Slim ctocoy One op net
mn/estu's fatfecK
yitn fa <■**•
x(omn * <5 ->n S fa
Qaeen' K'S’y*''* 70 !'
from eat.
f\\ F W<s 5fA i t oMfn
; jt«sUu«9 ers
//? f-^ I Q '—'
.5W$ TdiucFap’fmti^j.
2?/<We OnoTTTe/r's fixture from 7Ke SiOe /
MORE JUBILEE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
„ . £10 0
Per Armum ... ••• •••
Half-yearly ... ... ••• n 6 6
Quarterly... ... ... ••• u
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added, where ™T}ired
which you may pay by Post °tf l ™ Order, Postal lo,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
etc., and all Business Communications
to beaddressed to William Macleod, Managing Diiector.
Literary Communications to be addressed. J. * •
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce ortrawsu-tean?/
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, M u*tuition,or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
<Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
lenqth, or, say, S000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable Mb. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
ive are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
i;on i.o., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for’as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
Ss Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal : —The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria , S. Australia ,
Weslralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£1, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £1, with
68. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1J<1 postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
7%e il^krfleZztn.
SATURDAY, JUNE 26, 1897.
Bull’s Reciprocity Treaty.
According to the information which drops in
by cable, the Premiers in London have al-
ready commenced to promise J. Bull about
everything he wants. At time of writing
they hadn’t all arrived, but those who had
reached London were promising with en-
thusiasm. This was before the jubilee
and the distribution of jubilee honors.
The Premiers hadn’t yet been presented
to the Queen, or seen the illumina-
tions, or been banqueted in state; the
gorgeous free board-and-lodging at the Hotel
Cecil, and the flunkeys, and the “Royal
carriages,” and the escort hadn’t had time to
soak in, and Chamberlain’s persuasive eye-
glass hadn’t properly settled upon them.
And, even at that early stage of affairs, all
the available Australian politicians were re-
ported as yearning after commercial treaties
with Britain and the other parts of the Em-
pire, and urgently desiring Chamberlain
to fix up a scheme of reciprocity whereby
Australia’s trade with England could be
“fostered” and “encouraged.” And, as
this desire to foster and encourage trade is
the greatest yearning of J. Bull’s soul, the
plan of a reciprocity treaty will probably be
forthcoming. What kind of a plan it will
be, and what condition the Premiers will be
in when it comes before them, and what will
happen thereafter,, are matters for the future.
* * * *
The two questions on which the British
Government was most particularly anxious
to “confer” with the seven lost grovellers
from Australasia were a defence scheme
whereby this country would do more towards
paying for Britain’s guns and ships and its
Tommy Atkins, and a scheme of commercial
reciprocity whereby it would buy more of
Britain’s exports. It may be assumed at
once, to commence with, that the only reci-
procity any country wants is that by which
the other country will take more goods from
it and pay more money for them. No
country is troubled at all as to from whom
it will buy goods ; there are no restrictive
tariffs on exports, and any country will sell
goods to its worst enemy if its worst enemy
pays for them, and, except as regards a very
few articles in limited supply, every nation
can buy as much of anything as it wants and
more, without any commercial treaties
whatever The trouble lies not in buying
but in selling, and the object of all commer-
cial treaties is to so arrange things that the
other party to the transaction will become a
better customer. Britain’s only possible
object in wanting to establish a reciprocity
system with Australia is to sell more British
goods in Australia, and, considering how
matters stand at present, the enthusiasm of
the Premiers on this subject is rather mis-
placed.
It is a great Freetrade axiom that imports
are paid for by exports, and that, in conse-
quence, foreign-trade can’t possibly be dis-
astrous, or tend to impoverish any country.
The axiom is true —in part. Imports of
goods or money are mostly paid for by exports
of goods or money. If a country has no
foreign debt, it has only to export as much
as it imports to keep solvent ; if it has a
foreign debt, then it must export enough to
pay for its imports and also to pay the inter-
est on its foreign debt, else its debt must
keep increasing, and its ultimate destination
is bankruptcy. If it proposes to reduce its
foreign debt, it must export enough to pay
for its imports, to pay interest on its liabili-
ties, and also to pay off part of the principal.
A country may import more goods than it
exports by borrowing money abroad to pay
for some of the imports, as Australia does ;
or it may pay for part of its imported goods
for a while out of accumulated gold on hand,
as Australia generally does when it isn’t bor-
rowing. Apart from all these reservations, a
country whose imports and exports are about
even may be considered solvent.
* * * *
The plaint of the aggregate Briton is that
his trade with Australia has dropped more
and more until it has become a miserably
one-sided affair. In 1891 the seven provinces
bought £30,000,000 worth of goods from J.
Bull ; in 1894 they only bought £19,000,000
worth. And as J. Bull, in 1894, bought
£30,000,000 worth of goods from Australia,
the trade certainly does appear rather one-
sided. The Briton’s desire for a commercial
treaty is based on his desire to make the trade
more even, and his general attitude is that, if
Australia doesnotbuy more from him it has no
earthly right to expect him to continue so good
a customer. Unluckily, however, Australia
is likely to be a worse customer rather than
a better one. On a rough estimate, it takes
£15,000,000 a year to pay interest on money
borrowed in England and to pay the incomes
of Australian absentees residing in the land
of Bull. Therefore, if this country
doesn’t borrow any more money, and
if J. Bull buys £30,000,000 worth of Aus-
tralian produce per annum, it is only possible
for Australia to buy £15,000,000 worth in
return. The other £15,000,000 worth of
wool, and wheat, and frozen meat, and
sundries go in paying interest, and can’t be
used for the purpose of buying British pro-
duce. Australia only contrives to buy as
much as it does by borrowing part of the
money to pay for it ; when it stops borrow-
ing then it will be a great deal worse a cus-
tomer than it is. There is very little to be
done by diverting the trade done with other
countries to Britain ; the amount which
Australia buys from regions outside the
empire doesn’t amount to anything worth
mentioning, and it consists mostly of goods
which can’t be procured from the great Bull-
land. The proposal to “ foster ” the trade
with England brings up short against the
fact that Australia already takes more goods
from England than it can honestly pay for.
* » * *
Australia already exports everything it can
raise and which it doesn’t want for its own
consumption, and as it exports more in pro-
portion to population than any other country
on earth except Belgium, the prospects of
any improvement in this direction seem to
be nil. If Britain will pay more for the
goods sent, then Australia will, no doubt,
buy more in return—that is to say, if Britain
will give twice as many yards of calico in
exchange for the same amount of frozen
mutton, this country will, doubtless, take
the calico and say nothing about it. But, if
this country buys more calico and other
things without getting more for the frozen
meat, &c., and keeps on doing so perman-
ently, then, in the end, it must stop paying
the interest, or part of the interest, due to
the British creditor. The common British
demand is that as J. Bull admits all Aus-
tralian produce free, save liquor and tobacco
and one or two microscopic sundries, the six
Protectionist provinces should admit British
produce free, or comparatively free, in re-
turn. This looks plausible, but it isn’t. It
is only by Australia sitting down as hard as
possible on goods from Britain and dis-
couraging the British trader all it knows,
while taking all possible advantage of a free
market for its goods in England, that it can
keep its imports from England so far below
its exports to that country that the difference
will cover the interest on its debts. If this
country opened all its ports freely to English
goods the margin would probably disappear
and it would ultimately go broke. If
J. Bull imposed duties on this country’s
produce, in retaliation for the duties levied
on his produce in Australia, and thus par-
tially closed this country’s only big market,
the only possible result would again be that
Australia would ultimately go broke. If
Australia went broke from either cause,
J. Bull would lose his principal and in cies .
Under present conditions he can t but g e
his interest and sell more goods m us
tralia. The situation may seem a hard one
for Bull aforesaid, but all the reciproci y
treaties on earth can’t alter it.
* * * '
There are several ways in which recipro-
city might be tried, though none of them are
likely to lead to any results worth mention-
ing. Australia might give England an
advantage of, say, 10 per cent, either y
adding 10 per cent, to its duties on goods
from outside the empire or by taking the
same amount off its duties on goods from
inside the empire, always provided Britain
gave a similar preference. The only way
could give such a preference would be by
putting 10 per cent, duties on imports from
foreign countries. This might, by shutting
out foreign competitors, create a better
market for Australian produce; in other
words, it might compel Bull to give more
money for the same amount of produce, and
with that money this country might buy
more from him, and thus get more calico for
the same amount of meat, which would be
practically the same as getting the extra
calico gratis. In that case some of the people
who were shut out, as all of them owe
money to Bull, would probably go broke
and stop payment. Everybody owes money
to Bull, more or less, and if Bull stops
taking everybody’s goods in payment of the
interest he must go without the interest.
What Bull complains of is that while he
buys £440,000,000 of goods per annum from
foreigners, these ungrateful people only buy
£290,000,000 worth in return, and whereas
his purchases from abroad are constantly in-
creasing his sales are diminishing. But the
trouble is that all the nations of the world
are more or less mortgaged to Bull, and if
he doesn’t take the interest in goods he can’t
get it at all. Through this tremendous in-
flux of raw material and ready-made
goods, his manufactures are declining and
his agriculture is practically dead ; he can
only resuscitate them by shutting out
part of the influx, and if he does that his
weaker debtors must go broke and stop pay-
ing the interest as aforesaid. J. Bull’s
ports are open to all the world, while all the
world shuts its ports, as far as possible,
against him ; this is only the natural result
of the necessity to sell much to Bull and
buy little from him, so that the difference
will cover the eternal interest bill. The
situation is a curious one, and all the in-
genuity on earth can’t fix up any kind of
reciprocity which seems likely to improve
the situation, so far as Bull is concerned.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Free Justics.
There’s something in an ideal, or an imagi-
nary line, or a steering point, though you may
never get there exactly. And in the pre-
sent chaotic state of the law, anything that will
serve to shape the course of reform, that will
effectually prevent any backward curving of
the stream that is cleansing out the Augean
compost-heaps from the stalls of justice, de-
serves consideration. Herbert Spencer’s well-
argued claim for Free Justice serves this pur-
pose admirably, and the law reformers at
present on the fidget in S.A. and Victoria can
hardly go wrong in insisting, since they cannot
expect complete success, that anything at-
tempted shall be in at least the direction of
Free Justice. There has always been a maxim
in English law to the effect that checks should
be placed on litigation, the result of which has
been that the law has rather encouraged
high-priced justice than otherwise. The ideal
of Free Justice is requisite to fight this deeply-
ingrained prejudice of lawyers and Judges,
apart from its intrinsic merit of being the real
object of all true law-reform. Till it is in the
way of being reached, Law is, in the final result,
a millionaire’s luxury, and Justice a million-
aire’s prostitute. Here’s a hint of a step to-
wards Free Justice. Establish a legal enquiry
office, on a small scale at first, in connection
with every law department in Australia, at
which office anybody could receive any infor-
mation on ordinary legal matters he might re-
quire, and from which lie could procure at about
printing cost all the forms necessary in any
legal proceeding. At present, in Victoria, in
connection with proceedings before justices,
an informal arrangement of this sort
already exists, clerks of courts being sup-
posed to give information to intending liti-
gants about the necessary procedure. Further,
in the same province, legislative provision has
been made for giving advice relating to probate
and supplying forms to the widows of persons
leaving estates under the value of .£5OO. This
particular provision has saved many a poor
family from having to pay its last £2O ready
money to some cormorant. Why cannot the
system be extended? It would cost little or
nothing at the outset, for there are a number
of barristers in every civil service who would
be quite capable of answering the vast majority
of the questions the ordinary litigant wants
answered. The more complicated matters would
have to be dealt with as at present, until the
system developed and funds were available.
But such a system is quite capable of orderly
development into a great State department of
Justice, with its twin staffs, for plaintiff and
defendant respectively, gradually absorbing as
it grew the available legal acumen of the com-
munity, and gradually and innocuously killing
the separate legal profession. This last result
alone would probably be worth the experiment,
for while a Civil Service can be controlled, a
legal profession, wdiich is practically an im-
perium in imperio, which is steeped in the
glamour of precedent, which has the framing
as well as the interpretation of the laws, and
which is out of touch with the community, is a
grave menace to public liberty. The attention
of law-reformers then may well be called to
this idea of a Legal Enquiry Office, gradually
developing into a competent staff of experts,
simplifying the work of Judges as well as
cleaning the pathway of litigants, and finally
resulting in something like an ideal system of
Free Justice.
Three Months.
A few days ago, at Richmond (Melbourne), an
unspeakably brutal ruffian was convicted of
flogging his five-year-old daughter almost to
death and breaking both her arms, and the law,
in an outburst of honest indignation, gave him
three months’ gaol. Almost on the same day
another man, for doing a kindly act by throw-
ing some tobacco over the gaol-wall to a mate
who was “ doing his little bit ” inside, was sent
to prison for a year. The law was quite calm
in this second case ; it didn’t lose its temper
and make dreadful remarks to the prisoner as it
did to the fiend who broke the arms of his little
daughter ; if it had lost its temper in the same
degree the man who threw the tobacco over the
wall would probably have got seven years. In
the case of the man who tortured his child
almost to death, it was a second conviction,
otherwise he would probably have got off with
a month, or been fined 40s. In Sydney, about
the same time, a man who stole a purse
on a tram-car got three years, and a
ruffian who horribly ill - used a child of
years and kicked its head with his
boots, was sentenced by a justly - infuri-
ated legal system to six months in gaol.
This, when set against Judge Gibson’s recent
sentence of 36 months for stealing nine-penny
worth of baking-powder, is a fair example
of the extreme cheapness of humanity as
against the extreme costliness of property-
even baking-powder —in the land of the free
and enlightened Cornstalk. According to the
N.S.W. brand of justice, it is just as awful an
act to embezzle l|d. worth of baking-powder
as to almost murder an infant; according to
the Victorian brand the same crime about
equals fd. worth of baking-powder, and is only
one-quarter as horrible as throwing a chew of
tobacco over the wall to brother Bill in gaol.
Therefore, if some person of misguided sym-
pathies throws tobacco over to the man who is
doing three months for breaking his child’s
arms, he will probably get four times as heavy
a punishment as that person himself. If these
were isolated instances they would merely cast
discredit on a casual, hog-like magistrate ; but
they are a part of the regular system, and it is
the law which is responsible. And as such
sentences as these are distributed every day, in
every Australian city, without arousing any
outbreak of righteous indignation, the final
responsibility rests on a hog-like community.
All over Australasia —in fact, all over Anglo-
Saxondom—the law deliberately recognises that
it is about 10 tim§s more awful to steal
from 6d. to 20s. worth of goods than to habitu-
ally torture a child or a woman almost to
death, or to kick a casual stranger to the
verge of murder—provided the latter crime
isn’t aggravated by taking threepence from the
victim. Anything short of murder, if done in
a casual, off-hand way, with boots or road-
metal or a beer-bottle, means something vary-
ing from 40s. fine to six months’ imprisonment;
though a comparatively mild assault, accom-
panied by the removal of threepence, is worth
at least five years. Moreover, the person who
is convicted for the second or third time of
stealing a few coppers gets a vastly increased
sentence, on the ground of “ previous convic-
tions,” but the individual who is brought up
for his second or third or tenth assault, gets
the same old 40s. or one month, or something
to the same effect. Even the most infuriated
society of old women of either sex never
demands that the brutal-assault person shall be
flogged—unless he aggravates his crime by
taking threepence. If the average sentence
which the average judge passes on the casual
thief is fair and justifiable, then a reasonable
allowance for the two persons mentioned above
would be 50 years’ imprisonment, mostly
“solitary.” The utter inability of the com-
munity to recognise the relative importance of
human life, as set against 9d. worth of baking-
powder, is one of the strangest problems of
civilisation.
Jubilee Drivel.
A quaint Victorian publication is the School
Paper, a record of things in general, which is
issued by the Government for the instruction
of State scholars. In this publication Minister
Peacock, the kookaburra of the Cabinet (who
specially commends this particular number
to the attention of teachers), grovels hard
for his prospective title and disseminates
Godsavethequeen among the rising veneration.
The last two numbers start with the Unnatural
Anthem, and are filled with pious whoop about
Victoria, and pictures of that monarch and all
her relatives, and statements about how she
once gave a copper to a beggar. It all leaves a
vague impression that Victoria personally con-
structed railroads, invented the locomotive and
the telegraph, built steamships, dug tanks,
colonised Australia, made the dirt-road over
the Blue Mountains, and buried the Duke of
Wellington. One particularly beautiful extract
(quoted from something written in a book by
“ Mrs. Tooley ”) :—
Queen Victoria is honored in the Courts of Europe as
no English monarch has been before. It seems, indeed,
that the Continent is rapidly coming under the sphere of
British influence through the alliances made by her child-
ren, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. When
Russian Ministers propose any course of action likely to
upset the peace of Europe and bring England into the
fray, the young Czar and Czarina proudly reply, “ It can-
not be ; we cannot have Grandmamma worried.”
Peacock further states that “ no other monarch
of whom there is a record in history has reigned
so long,” which is rather rough on about eight
deceased kings that are too much decayed to
defend themselves. Probably Peacock didn’t
know any better. The School Paper is mostly
written in a shriek of superlatives, and its
general tenor is that for 60 years the British
nation has been in a constant state of joy be-
cause of something that Victoria was doing.
The nation was “ rejoiced ” to hear of her mar-
riage. She and Albert went on frequent tours,
“to the delight of the people.” “Joy was
expressed on every face ” when she opened the
Exhibition. The popular interest in Wales’s
marriage was “ unbounded,” and the people


“ showed their delight.” At her jubilee “ the re-
joicings were unparalleled in history ” —this is a
specially fine shriek, showing that the kookaburra
man has investigated all history back to the year
1, and knows exactly how glad everybody has
been on every possible occasion. Just here,
Peacock mentions proudly that matches were
recently invented—apparently by Victoria—
so that people have no longer to get a light
with a flint and steel when the baby screams in
the night. It is stated, at least four times,
that the Queen wept, and once that her eyes
were “swollen with tears, but great happiness
was shown in her countenance.” Peacock also
draws attention to the fact that Victoria was
the first British royal person to be vaccinated,
that she was hustled out of bed to hear of her
accession, and hadn’t time to dress herself ; and
that the blessed Anthem is a “ bond between
English-speaking people wherever throughout
the wide world they are to be found ; ” and a
whole article, with a big heading, sets forth
how Victoria once reproved a lady for being
10 minutes late. If this weird collection of
baby-drivel doesn’t bring Peacock a title, then
there is no gratitude in this world.
Thus the cable :
London, June 16.
A meeting of the Royal Colonial Institute was held last
night, at which Sir Edward Braddon, the Premier of Tas-
mania ; Mr. T. J. Byrnes, the Attorney-General of Queens-
land ; and Mr. F. S. Grimwade, M.L.C., Victoria, were
present. . . ~ .
Sir Edward Braddon protested against a double income
tax being imposed on colonists resident in England in re-
spect to their property in the colonies. He asserted that
Great Britain gained only £lBO,OOO annually from the tax,
and that the colonies would prefer a prompt concession
by Great Britain to wresting it from the Imperial Govern-
"'Mr. Byrnes strongly endorsed the remarks of Sir Edward
Braddon.
If Braddon thinks that Australia will inter-
fere on behalf of absentees in London he is quite
wrong—just as wrong as a Tasmanian Tory must
always naturally be. The only people who
worry about the double income-tax are the
absentees, and the Australian politicians and
others who eat at the absentees’ dinner-tables.
Sometime ago the Agents-General were induced
to deputationise the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, but he refused, to The Bulletin’s
great joy. The Bulletin now moves a vote
of thanks to the Chancellor for his action on
that occasion, and hopes he will do it again
some more, whenever the Braddons and the
Byrneses take up the cudgels for Australia’s
enemies—the absentees.
A BUSH municipal magnate, who fee’ll ‘ Scotty
the Wrinkler” in native wine to write for him
an “ appropriate address of congratulation* to
Queen Victoria on the big Jubi.ee, got the
following:
(JONUK VHILATORY ADDRESS OF THE PAUPERS OP THE EM-
PIRE to Her Imperial Majesty on the Attainment
of a Royal Record. . .
Your Majesty,—We, your people, perhaps the majority
of vour people, called your children not only by writers
of 'poetry but on occasions by yourself, tender all we
possess, that is hope, at the foot of your throne and the
doors of your palaces. It has been said and many times
printed that your Majesty is the richest widow in the
world We deplore the widowhood and rejoice in the
riches. And now, in one great army of expectant misery,
we thank you in advance for the release of your accumu-
lated millions, which we know you are about to shower
on us in the Christian manner which your religion and pro-
fession render necessary to the safety of your immortal soul.
That you cannot take your treasure with you does not
render the gift less valuable. That your own palaces at
Cowes and Balmoral are about to be handed over and en-
dowed for the shelter of the poor of England and Scotland
does not diminish the pure, godly feelings which prompt
you so to do. Finally, your Majesty, our Mother, we
pray that the remainder of your earthly life may be
happy and its sequel heavenly, and we guarantee that
your children will never want for food, clothing, and
lodging such as we can never hope to obtain. Amen.
It is announced by cable that Arabi, the
Egyptian, will not be released from his long semi-
imprisonment in Ceylon by way of honoring the
jubilee. Did anyone suppose he would he ;
J. Bull reverences Garibaldi and Kosciusko
and Kossuth— the patriots who fought against
the other fellow. Arabi, the patriot who
fought against the invading Bull, is beyond
forgiveness. Matters have changed so com-
pletely that the Egyptian’s return to his
native land wouldn’t create a ripple. Ihe party
he led is nearly extinct; the order of things
which he knew is as dead as Barabbas. out
even the jubilee makes no difference in the case
of the old man who, years ago, when he was
still comparatively young, held Alexandria
against J. Bull. Probably Victoria’s personal
interference would do something for him, u
the Gracious Queen doesn’t forgive any more
than does Bull in general. Still, worse things
than imprisonment might happen to the ancient
soldier. He might be made a K.C.M.G., for
instance.
“ I NEVER warned a prisoner in my life,” said
detective Roche when barrister Edmunds en-
deavored to corner him over the loquacity of
Butler. Is it not time that Parliament fixed
the principle on which judicial authorities seem
to be so divided? Three or four N.S.W.
Judges hold that it is the duty of the detective,
or other public officer, to warn a prisoner that
any confession he makes may be used at the
trial against him, but as many others hold that
such a warning is unnecessary. In other parts
of Australia the same trouble is met with, and
generally over the whole region of trial by jury
Judges differ as to which is the proper practice
on such occasions. It is just m vital matters o
this kind that each country should fix its owi
criminal processes. Everyone can see the vast
difference that exists between mducnig or sed
ing an accused to confidentially unbosom him
self, and meeting his first incriminatorysyla e
with the official reminder that he taiks at his
peril. The inducement or seduction may con
sist of no overt act or verbal invitation, it
may be merely a real or simulated bonhomie or
camaraderie of behaviour. But if J
follow no fixed rule on the point detectives an
other policemen are left to make heir w
rule Hence it happens that there are pill
who always warn Zl police who never wa n.
Where the practice on so momentous a <tt
so varies Parliament should lay down a law to
guide all.
The KingstoT stm fools
persistently with its scheme mem-
ment every two years of one-half °^ v 3 e
bers of the House of Assembly.
result of this change would be that there would
never be an entirely new Assembly with a fresh
mandate from the people ; the Assembly would
never wholly represent the popular sentiment
of the moment ; and there would never bo a
whole election—only half a one, and as no
party could sweep tlie polls and gain an over-
whelming victory under these circumstances
the public interest in politics would diminish,
and a country that was half-awake would elect
its half-Parliament in a minor key. The idea
of electing the Assembly on the same sleepy
system as the Leg. Council—an institution
which has never yet been quite conscious all at
once, though it has walked in its sleep a good
deal and doesn’t doze nearly so bard as its
Victorian prototype —looks like retrogression
rather than reform.
The British Tory Government has introduced
an Old Age Pensions Bill in the Commons. It
proposes to provide the ancient Briton, aged
over 65 and in low circumstances, with an in-
come of ss. a week, subject to certain cast-iron
regulations about respectability. This, at
least, is a great improvement on the old style of
Bumbleism, and, considering the vast number of
aged poor to be dealt with, it is at least a good
beginning. Ard, coming from the British Tory
party, it is very significant. It is the fashion
among the Fat Men of Austi’alia to weep about
Maoriland as a country “ ruined by Socialistic
legislation.” Yet Britain, under the control of
the old Church and State Party, is beginning to
run it very close in some respects. And what
becomes of the dreary jibe about Maoriland’s
Socialistic policy being the natural and disas-
trous result of government by the Labor-party,
when the Marquis of Salisbury and the Duke
of Devonshire, and Digger Dick Seddon and
boiler-maker Jenkinson are all more or less on
the same road !
“ The jury ought to agree; if there is no agree-
ment the jury has not discharged its duty,”
said the N.S.W. Chief Justice in the recent
Norton libel-case. In the name of all that is
wonderful, wrought the jury to agree ? When
three Judges sit on the Bench to form a Full
Court, they often disagree —probably as often
as not. They dissent about points of law,
which is a matter they are supposed to know
thoroughly ; and if three Judges can’t be of one
mind about their own special subject why
should they arrogantly demand that twelve jury-
men should agree about a subject of which they
have no special knowledge? The Judges dis-
agree about law, morals, politics, religion,
science ; they get their hair cut differently ;
have different modes of amusement; construe
the same Act in a dozen different ways ; give
widely-different sentences for the same offence ;
and some of them believe in ghosts while others
don’t; also, you never see one Judge walking
down street with another Judge. And the
only thing they agree about is that for a jury
to disagree is something awful. And they are
not quite agreed even about that.
Frederick Lagii, of Hawthorn, Melbourne, is
a victim of the local diphtheria scare. He luns
a sausage-factory, and the police pried into the
mysteries of his profession one day last week,
and subsequently said things in court deroga-
tory to the character of Lagh’s bolognas, and
tending to bring his common or kitchen sausage
into disrepute. The police found Lagh s
sausages hanging out to ripen over heaps of
ancient manure in a shed, and other sausages
and implements were associated with manure
in other places. In fact, there appeared to be
tnanureevery where, and here and there were fires
on top of it, smoking large, plump, luscious Ger-
mans. There were also much filth and many stinks
about the coppers and other weapons of trade,
and the place was infested with fatted rats of
great ferocity. On the whole, the inspection of
Lagh’s premises has destroyed confidence in
the local sausage, and made the bologna a by-
word. Perhaps the choicest item in the news-
paper report is the sausage-man’s naive plea.
“ The defendant said he had only recently ar-
rived from Germany, and did not know he had
committed any offence.” What with pestilent
dairies and rotten abattoirs, and stinks, and
stomach - turning etceteras, Melbourne’s food-
supply is so ghastly a thing to think of that
sensitive people will soon have to take their
meals under chloroform.
+
The recent attack by M.L.O. barristers on the
N.S.W. Taxation Commissioners, in connection
with their appointment of Mr. Lockhart as
their solicitor, savors strongly of professional
jealousy. The idea that such an important de-
partment can get all the law it wants for .£350
a year from a common or garden solicitor must
be gall and wormwood to the higher branch of
the profession. On the score of convenience,
economy, and efficiency, probably the Commis-
sioners took a proper step, though they went
about it in an irregular way. All the
big English and Scotch railway com-
panies haye a special solicitor, like the N.S. V .
Railway Solicitor, and the iN.S.W. Lands
Department is always represented by the
same barrister. And them three legal members
of the Council-Attorney-Genera Want, K. L.
O’Connor, and Heydon, all Q.C. s, and all le-
sponsible for this slovenly piece of legislation -
fall foul of the Commissioners for dropping into
the trap laid for them by their legal critics.
There is no want of legal criticism after an Act
is passed—it takes, on an average, seven years
to construe new legislation.
The N.S.W. Registrar-General sends along a
book containing some really cheerful informa-
tion. According to this volume, one child out
of every ten born in Sydney and its suburbs in
1895 was illegitimate, and one child out ot
every twenty in the country districts. The
result is that one out of every fifteen Corn-
stalk infants of the ’95 crop was born out of
wedlock. Seventeen years earlier the propor-
tion was one out of every twenty-five, so ortho-
dox morality is not improving. Light unlawful
mothers were aged 14 ; 38 were years of age ;
68 had passed their sixteenth birthday ; 148
were just over 17, and 220 were just over 8.
Then 230 were between 19 and 20, ana after
that the numbers at each age decline
rapidly, though no less than 117 mothers were
aged between 25 and 26. Further, one un-
married mother gave way to her wild, youthful
indiscretion at the age of 501 so it seems
doubtful where the “age of consent” should
be fixed. Apparently, about 26 is the right
place, though there are grave doubts if even
this is sufficient. Marriages seem to be getting
out of fashion ; in 1886 there were 12 weddings
for every 1000 people in Sydney and suburbs ;
in 1895 there were only 8. Births are also grow-
ing fewer ; in 1886 Sydney had 43 children
born for every 1000 people living; in 1895
there were only 30. Deaths are decreasing
likewise. The net result seems to be that mar-
riages are growing fewer, and births less
numerous, and that through the decrease in
deaths N.S.W. is getting to be much more a
country of old men and old women than it used
to be. In fact, barring the circumstance that
illegitimacy keeps up vigorously, and that in
1895 nearly three times as many unlawful off-
spring were born as in 1886, almost everything
seems to be decreasing. Amid so much solemn
decrease it is almost cheering to note that some-
thing is going ahead.
Editor Bulletin,— Parson Fordyce, “on be-
half of the Council of the N.S.W. Churches,”
keeps on insisting, with an exceeding great
I emphasis, that Cod shall be recognised in the
preamble to the new Federal Constitution. And
on July 4th a big preachment to that text is to
resound from Australian pulpits. Without a
preamble-recognition, duly endorsed by Fordyce
and Co., God will be set at nought and con-
temned ! Christ, whose teachings the Churches
profess to follow, once asked the parsons of the
people, who in preambles did a pretty con-
siderable bit of CoD-recognition, “ Why call ye
me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I
say ? ” By all means let us have God recog-
nised —in the enactment of righteous laws, in
national effort to make it hot for the sweater,
the boodler, and the religious humbug. But
recognition of God in a preamble , with the
boodler, the sweater, and the religious humbug
not vigorously warred against, but (as at pre-
sent) quasi-connived at by the “ Council of the
Churches,” would be calculated to give fresh
point to that tremendous denunciation: —
“ Well hath Esaias prophesied of you, hypo-
crites : This people honored me with their lips,
but their heart is far from me.”—J.S.
It is easy to find a feasible-looking reason for
the unholy faith in the lash so consistently
displayed by a certain Australian Judge. His
Honor was an amateur pugilist in his pre-
judicial days ; a patron of the murderous-look-
ing “Chicken” who smashes his adversary’s
jaw, and administers damnable punishment to
his adversary’s stomach for a 425 purse. His
Honor in his time has provided the inducement
for two broken-nosed beasts to baiter one
another. The lust for personal violence is in
his blood to almost as great an extent probably
as the lust for women is in the blood of the
undisciplined young men whom he turns over
to the dogger. If any reader doubts that that
Judge has encouraged in himself and others the
brutal instincts common to us all, let the
doubter acquaint himself with the class of
“ sport ” that his Honor used to revel in, and
then let the doubter tell The Bulletin whether
any admirer of “Chickens '’ should have con-
trol over a public instrument of torture?
Magistrate Panton, of Melbourne, estimates
that “ not more than one per cent, of the persons
committed to gaol for vagrancy are ‘ deserving,’
in the sense of being free from criminal taint,
and guilty of nothing worse than poverty.”
The estimate seems absurdly low, and, anyway,
Mr. Panton forgot to suggest that criminal
taint in many of these cases may have been
acquired through a long acquaintance with
abject poverty. It is so easy for deserving un-
employed to drift into the outer circle of the
criminal classes. This is a bad world. Mr.
Panton, at his leisure, might prepare an esti-
mate of the percentage of frock-coated agents
and financiers in the Collins-street district who
are undeserving, in the sense of being infected
with land-boom roguishness, and guilty of
something worse than jubilee grovel.
Brisbane (Q.) Courier, which is urging
Queensland to join the Australian Federation
Convention, by means of TozER-selected dele-
gates, said editorially, the other day, that
“perhaps” North Queensland “is the only
division of tropical Australia destined to sustain
in health and prosperity a numerous European
community.” Which appears to be a sly and
cowardly way of hinting to Northern Wes-
tralia and the Northern Territory that Queens-
land will wink at their keeping the back and
side doors of Australia open to the black, brown,
and yellow men. Curiously, too, it was in an
editorial especially glorifying Cairns that this
statement occurred—Cairns, that is under the
heel of the Yellow Man. Cairns gets a large
proportion of iU smuggled-in Chinese from
Port Darwin, per jog-trot overland. Butthere
are worse cooliephiles than the Courier. Theie
are many Kanakaland politicians who jar-
gonise that the Australian Federation must
conserve full “State rights,” and that Queens-
land must have power to employ coolie labor
for its tropical area, or that area will be doomed !
Brisbane Telegraph— some of whose staff seem
kept as near as possible on the level of coolie-
laborers—is naturally the spokesman of that
breed of politicians.
♦
During the 60 years of the record reign, accord-
ing to a contemporary of Her Gracious,
“ morals, in the main, have vastly improved ” ;
the number of convicts has enormously de-
creased ; the treatment of lunatics has become
humane and rational ; the condition of woman
has been greatly ameliorated ; “ drunkenness
has ceased to be good style; the nation lias
become comparatively clean ot mind and body ;
and it would be difficult to find a man or
woman in society who is not connected with
some endeavor to better the condition of
others.” And all this, be it remembered, side-
by-side with the “lamentable decay of the
religious spirit” (Anglican bishop) —the “alarm-
spread of infidelity” (Baptist parson)—the
“rapid growth of the new paganism ” (Catholic
cardinal). What escape is there from the con-
clusion that creed is the curse of practical
religion ?
The Temporary Insanity of a
Nation.
A SLICE OF FUTURE HISTORY.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
“ Towards the middle of 1897, when it became
probable that the Queen-Empress's reign would
exceed in duration even that of her grandfather,
the w T ish suitably to commemorate the occasion—
reasonable enough in itself- became intensified,
through a certain ignobility of the national
character, into a factitious enthusiasm little short
of insanity. The ‘ Record-Reign ' —as, in the
sporting-jai’gon of the time, it came to be called —
exploited, as they had never been exploited before,
the depths of British vulgarity and bad taste.
It presented to the world a display of puerility,
snobbery and servility never paralleled even
in the decadence of that ancient empire with
which it became at this time a literary common-
Elace advantageously to compare tbe British.
hakespeare—even in that age, strange to say, in
some degree appreciated—had, two centuries
before, hit off exactly the madness of the time
with his ‘ Fantastic tricks before high heaven.’
“ The nation, in a word, had intoxicated itself
with a sentiment which it was pleased to call
‘loyalty.’ Dispassionately considered from a
distance of three centuries, it appears to have
been but the joint product of personal ineptitude,
national self-conceit, and despicable reverence for
a distinction which was in this sovereign’s case so
entirely adventitious that it is difficult to note
without a smile, amongst other imbecile conceits,
it was actually proposed to confer upon her the
popular agnomen of ‘Great.’ Even the sugges-
tion to label her ‘Good,’ though less preposter-
ously foolish, had no adequate basis in the fact
that —like thousands of her female subjects—she
had brought up a large family respectably, and
had never committed any breach of the conven-
tional proprieties. For no greater reason than
these, nevertheless, it was with damnable itera-
tion insisted upon that, in the words of her official
panegyrist, she had ‘ worn the white flower of a
blameless life in that fierce light which beats upon
a throne.’
“ That Victoria would, in any case, have suc-
ceeded in conforming to the not very exacting
standai’d of virtue aforesaid, there is no reason to
doubt, but it does not seem to have occurred to
tho eulogist in question—a graceful rhymester
enough—that the completeness of the illumination
he refers to was certainly not favorable to any laxity
of conduct. Further, tho public opinion of the
period was so smugly sanctimonious as to
render perfectly futile the comparisons which
were at the time cheaply and frequently insti-
tuted, as regards ostensible morality, between
Victoria’s court and that of the king who made
the record reign of France. The morals of Louis
XIV. were the morals of his age, and the morals
of Victoria were the morals —real or pretended—
of hers.
“Great, therefore, in no sense of the one word,
and Good only in the negative signification of the
other—Victoria was not even personally, at this
time, of a type to inspire any shadow, of the
chivalrous enthusiasm to which an illogical but
generous instinct has, at times, impelled whole
nations whose female sovereigns had a life-
flower very far indeed from immaculate ‘white-
ness.’ At no time remarkable for personal attrac-
tions or for sweetness of disposition—the Queen
was, when this epidemic of spurious fervor set the
angels a-weeping, of an extremely acerb and
capricious temper, and of a presence, generally,
which could not by any stretch of the imagination
be described as imperial.
“ Nor, when we turn to the events of her long
incumbency, do we find much justification for the
fan fa ronnade thereanent which dominated even
the slavishly personal element of the national
craze. The scientific progress of the 60 years, in-
deed—inconsiderable though it may seem to us —
may pass muster : it was progress, at all events ;
but in matters intellectual, sociological, and indus-
trial, the 60th year was, in many respects, no whit
of an advance upon the first.
“ The Deity was still supposed to be continually
reconsidering His own arrangements, and tinker-
ing in an intermittent and erratic kind of way
with the natural sequence of events, and was still
blasphemously besought to bless to Britain tho
results of her peddling little, wars of Bible and
grab, and ‘ civilisation ’and extermination. The
soldier’s profession was still looked upon as in
some mysterious way more honorable than the
hangman’s, and the hangman himself was still in
frequent requisition for the punishment of murder
on a small scale, and even- in that part of the
present Australian Republic- which appears to have
been then oddly called New South Wales—of
offences due to that sexual form of insanity which
is now dealt with like any other description of
mania. In that corner of what was then the Em-
pire, also, the possibility of curing brutality with
brutality was still so firmly believed in that the
lash was in habitual use as a moral agent !
“In England itself the most wanton and inso-
lent luxury still flourished side-by-side with a
misery and degradation too abject and horrible to
be easily comprehended by us of the 22nd century.
While hundreds of thousands of pounds were
paid, in the aggregate, for the occupancy for
an hour of vantage-points from which to gape at
the tawdry celebration of the fact that a rnoroso
old lady and her swarm of relatives had fattened'
upon the peo le for 60 years—there could have
been collected from the self-same city a hundred
thousand pen-sons who were absolutely striving —
and very often failing—merely to keep body and
soul together! ‘Let us compare this pageant,’
says a writer of the time, ‘ with a triumphal pro-
cession of Old Rome, and in tbe latter we shall
find, behind the victor’s ear, a multitude of
chained and sullen prisoners, destined to slavery
or death. But in the new World's Capital of our
happier age it will be no throng of doomed and
dejected captives who will form the long array,
but glad and loyal representatives of that won-
drous assemblage of free peoples that form the
British Empire.’ No '.—but the doomed and tho
dejected were not far to find. Swarming like
rabbits in the rotten houses of the dark and filthy
courts whereinto neither hope nor the sun ever shed
a ray. Crowded like pig’s litters—men, women,
youths and girls together—into miserable dens
where common decency was impossible and sexual
degradation a certainty. Condemned, amidst the
flaunting abundance of that ‘ happier age,' to such
a hell of existence that only the blind instinct of
self-preservation could have prevented most of
them from removing themselves with their own
hopeless hands from the list of ‘glad and loyal
representatives of the free peoples that form tho
British Empire.’
“ And, that Empire now ! If the cheap enthu-
siasts who maundered forth thus comparisons
with Rome had not cut short the parallel where it
suited them, they might have remembered that
efflorescence heralds always decay. They might
perhaps have understood that in all this pomp and
splendour and luxury and arrogance lurked tin-
beginning of the end, and that the British Empire
—like the Roman, monstrously over-grown -
also like the Roman, about to fall to pieces le
own weight 1 ”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion . Elsie Adair Co.
Her Majesty’s Potter-Bellew Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Opera House “ Maritana.”
Royal “Johanna,”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “My Friend frofn India."
Royal. “ A Life of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “The Grand Duchess.”
Maggie Moore, just returned from the
land of the spread eagle and the huckleberry pie,
Opened her season on Saturday at Sydney Royal.
There was a large audience, and considerable
applause, and much blossom streamed across the
footlights. Nevertheless, “ Johanna ” isn’t a pro-
duction which calls for great enthusiasm. It is a
mixture of the songand-dance show and the four-
aet horror ; a species of giddy frivol, like the “ Trip
to Chinatown ” without the evening-dress or the
glitter, and with a good deal of the humor taken
out and the dead body of a pawnbroker inserted
m its stead. A thread of plot runs through the
song and jump aspect of the play ; in between the
music it keeps trannpiring that everybody is some-
body's long-lost brother or daughter or father ; or
somebody bursts in to 1 tell that the pawnbroker
has been found dead with his head resting on the
unredeemed pledges. Said pawnbroker, it seems,
lent £6 on Johanna when she was a damp, hungry
infant, and dragged her up by hand ; and for ten
years she danced and tore things in TJncle Harrises
premises by day I( and listened to the interest accu-
mulating in the night. Then -by a loud explosion
of circumstances she becomes maid to a lady
whose uncle is mortgaged to Uncle H., and wins
the heart of everybody by breaking dishes all
over the premises. Later on, it transpires that her
new employer is her father, only her mother took
her away in infancy and threw her in the river for
reasons which don’t appear. It is also explained
that all her troubles ancTher father’s troubles and
the anguish of pawnbroker Harris arose through a
baleful clerk who has all his life been writing
letters to everybody with everybody else’s signa-
ture on them, is away just then murder-
ing Harris. Why he wrote the letters is a
mystery, and his purpose in murdering Harris re-
mains in profound gloom. A good deal of horror
arises out of somebody, not defined, having led
away a wife who remains unaccounted for, and
done something with her that is not revealed.
This lady is understood to be buried all over the
drama, and when Uncle Harris thinks of her he
goes mad and writes out cheques at a dreadful
rate.
* * * •
These matters, loosely interspersed with
songs about “Sister Mary Jane’s top-note,” and
other cheerful irrelevancies, are about all there is
of “ Johanna.” Miss Moore plays that stout and
frivolous waif for all she is worth, and sings a
great deal in a voice which was heard on Satur-
day at its best; and Harry Roberts fills another
irresponsible part a great deal better than it
deserves. The giddy mirthfulness of this pair,
the revels they get up on their own, the crockery
wre °k» an d the bright, off-hand manner in
which they pervade things generally, keep
V °hauma ” going. The other people, barring
Miss I itzmaurice Gill, who is always interesting,
and Miss Laura Roberts, are a lugubrious crowd
with forged cheques, and anonymous letters, and
lost wives, and the pawnbroker’s dead body
weighing on their minds. J. P. West and John-
son Weir are the best among these serious-minded
people. The others have tons of woe on their
heads, and come to an end which is not too well-
defined at rather a late hour.
** * *
The Potter-Bellew. farewell season of one
week commences at Her Majesty’s on Saturday
with “Romeoand Juliet.” Tuesday and Wednes-
day are devoted to the “Merchant of Venice,”
and “ Francillon,” a play in which Mrs. Potter ’is
probably better liked and will be more kindly re-
membered than any other, fills in the rest of the
week. Cecil Ward and the other necessary
materials to make up a good company have been
engaged for the occasion. Meanwhile “ The Sign
of the Cross ” moves Melbourne-wards. This play
has been so great a’ success that a second co. is
being formed to take r it around the smaller towns
with Scot Inglis as Marcus Superbus. By way of
an introductory canter the new Marcus was
announced to replace Julius Knight-in the part on
Tuesday night, but' the exigencies of a paper
which has to go to press on Tuesday and is already
considerably disarranged by uncalled-for Jubila-
tion among the staff, make it impossible to say
how the new Roman got on. Nevertheless, this
paper backs Scot- Inglis to make Caesar sit up
brilliantly 1840 years ago, and to scare that pam-
pered party off his purple dais if need be.
** * #
The Brough farewell benefit at the Lyceum
was a great event. “ Dandy Dick ” was the bill
for the occasion, and it was played respectably
though the absence of Dot Boucicault was felt a
good deal, and Cecil Ward’s disappearance left a
great gap in the programme. But the flaring
head of Brough’s policeman was still an oriflamme
m the front of the battle, and with Mrs. Brough
and Titheradge in their old parts nothing very bad
could possibly-happen. The audience was a gor-
geous affair, and the cash receipts are said to have
been something beyond the dreams of avarice ;
and as the committee wisely sat on Dibbs and
kept him down as an ordinary committee-man
and put up Edmund Barton to make the farewell
speech, all was well. Barton’s speech was not
especially brilliant, but it was neat and to the
point, and Brough’s reply was at least moderately
successful, and the patent glass tear of sympathy
was dropped at exactly the right place by every-
body, So the Brough co. disappears, so far as
Sydney is concerned, and as it gets away just in
time to avoid the illuminations its luck was in to
the last.
Edward Farley struck the truly brilliant
idea of putting up “Maritana” for the holiday
week. The absolute freshness of “ Maritana,”
and its dazzling novelty, and the utter impos-
sibility of anyone ever having seen it before, are
so obvious that this amounted to a stroke of
genius. Rickards also jubilated in a plain, or-
dinary way with the Selbinis as his chief attrac-
tion. The Tivoli, however, is so full at ordinary
times that it would be mere irony to put up a
special holiday bill with a view to making it any
fuller. So the Selbinis were only a little madder
than usual on their bikes, and rode around on one
spoke, and the loose-legged comedian was a trifle
looser and more boneless than his ordinary bone-
lessness, to the satisfaction of everybody.
** * *
Miss Elsie Adair’s season was advertised
to commence at Sydney Criterion on Wednesday,
and all the nice things which her case calls for
will be duly set forth in next week’s issue.
** * *
At time of writing, however, most of the
Sydney amusements consisted of “V.R.,” seen
dimly through a drizzle of rain and a breath of
beer. In all the great illuminated city there was
hardly anything in the way of inscriptions except
“ V.R.,” and occasionally “God Bless our Queen.’
A great deal of British flag and transparency, and
miscellaneous illumination, could be seen, but in
the way of legible observation hardly anybody
got beyond “ Y.R.’’ The want of originality and
eloquence, and flow of soul, among the people who
combusted on that occasion was painful to con-
template. The Bulletin had an idea of striking
a different note by illuminating its office-front with
the name of the paper, and a statement that it was
still a Republican organ and that the price was
6d. or £1 a year in advance to subscribers within
N.S.W., and that the Xmas edition would put up
a record, and then breaking off short without any
“V.R.”atall; but, after all, it hardly seemed
worth the trouble. By the time there is another
Record Reign, The Bulletin proprietor will pro-
bably be a duke or au alderman, and a huge plush
flunkey will stand behind him while he edits the
paper in a room with a Turkey carpet on the floor,
and his coronet will habitually repose in the ink-
stand, and then it will be as “V.”as its neigh-
bors, and perhaps more wildly “ R.” than any of
them.
#* * *
“ My Friend from India” seems to have
braced up the Paulton-Stanley season at Melb.
Princess’s, therefore the approaching departure of
the short man and the long lady promises to be a
sorrowful event. Paulton will prowl around in
his yellow gown until Tuesday next (29th), after
which two more revivals of “ Lelamine ” and Lord
Shaftesbury. In the impossible event of Her
Gracious Majesty creating Paulton a jubilee dook
this arrangement might be altered, no doubt,
because a cheerful, farcical comedy with a duke in
the cast would have more charms for society than
the sick opera aforesaid. And “My Friend from
India ”is very cheerful. It tails off considerably
in the last act, but at its weakest moment the
members of George Lauri’s family come forward,
one at a time, and prove the influence of mind
over matter by bouncing their old man into the
belief that he is hopelessly drunk, whereupon the
deluded victim staggers up a flight of steps and
saves the situation.
** * *
“A Life of Pleasure” is still doing its
duty by the Bland Holt exchequer, at Melb.
Royal. The bitter curse of forsaken Norah con-
tinues to descend upon Albert Norman when he
bids her take up Sin as a profession ; likewise
Miss Watson persists in smashing a champagne
glass every evening, and this reckless destruction
of property suggests questions as to whether
the glassware is new goods, or cracked when
it comes to table, and whether the smasher
has to provide her own glass, or pay for it
out of her salary like the average Norah, in
whose domestic life in the kitchen there
is no pleasure worth mentioning. Bland Holt’s
dramas are full of food for conjecture. Where
does he raise the loan of those heathen supers who
drop dead whilst the British Army is firing into
space, and what would happen to the horse and
rider if they were jointly to fall down the chasm,
and why doesn’t Charlie Brown placate his trucu-
lent voice with a jujube ? All these are matters to
ponder over between the acts.
** * *
At Melb. Bijou, last week, the A. A. Opera
Club, under James Ure’s direction, gave a charity
performance (three times) of “The Gondoliers,”
which appeared quite professional by comparison
with rougher amateur treatments of Gilbert and
Sullivan, and yet quite amateurish, in everything
save stage-management, when judged by the
highest W. and M. standard. None of the princi-
pals—who included at least two ex-pros., and
were mostly well-seasoned in their parts—shaped
absolutely feebly, whereas the majority of them
both sang and acted, or acted if they couldn’t sing
in good style. Notable successes were George
Tutton, a mellifluous, nimble tenor, with feet that
have not diminished since he last shone in public •
a promising comedian named Lambcroft as the’
Duke, and Miss S. Broughton, who came along at
the last moment in the grey wig of the Fos-
ter - Mother. A buxom Casilda was per-
haps somewhat less satisfactory than several
others, but she didn’t amount to a matter
for regret. Having said these nice things, The
Bulletin feels no compunction in remarking that
operatic amateurs, as a rule—and this performance
was no exception to the rule—are a pictorial
failure. The men have been cast by Nature in
the bank-clerk mould, and the girls, even the dear
girls, are not more striking than their female
relatives at large. After careful inspection of
sundry commonplace faces and unimportant
figures m The Gondoliers” chorus, a cynic would
be naturally disposed to wonder why an all-ruling
Providence is so apt to scatter stage-fever germs
upon the least suitable kind of virgin soil.
ife
“The Grand Duchess” struggles gamely
at the Alexandra, with justifiable hope of smiting
an unsympathetic public a good, hard knock upon
the jaw. In other words, Howard Vernon is
giving the merits of his show a chance to get
talked about. It has several merits in addition to
Miss Fanny Liddiard, and, if that adorable lead-
ing lady were the only good point in the pro-
ceedings, she would be full value for the audience s
money, anyhow. Miss Liddiard, who is said to
have played the name part a hundred times in
America, puts vivacity, warmth and just enough
of French spice into her work. Howard Vernon
doesn’t fit his tenor character, vocally or otherwise,
but he is always an amusing comedian, whilst
Miss Nellie Young, neat, slim, graceful, and
a pleasant singer, is an admirable Prince Paul.
Now that Florence Young has gone ’Ome,
sister Millie may as well receive credit for being
the brighter artist of the pair. The pantomimic
thirsters for Vernon’s blood get through credit-
ably, and the four maids of honor, who warble a
verse a-piece in the second act, are a particular
success. Harcourt Lee, as the musical head of
the show, is a guarantee of steady improvement
in the orchestra and chorus. Produced at any
other theatre, “The Grand Duchess ” would have
shown a profit for three or four weeks. Industry
and perseverance may possibly reclaim the Alex-
andra swamp for the present company. They will
try “ Rip Van Winkle ” on Saturday, unless busi-
ness has started to flourish in the meantime.
** * *
The Rickards variety programme at Melb.
Opera House is embellished with a special Jubilee
first-part to celebrate the record reign of a Person-
age who shall here be nameless, because she has
received far too much free advertisement already.
The Haytors, Allisons, Bellman and Moore, and
the Pickaninnies are appearing until further
notice, and Philip Newbury’s robust tenor was to
start creating a furore on Monday night. Philip
bursts upon the scene in the character of a Jubilee
firework.
** * *
The Bulletin has previously mentioned
that a Diamond Fete (ye gods !) at Melb. Exhi-
bition Building will commemorate the aforesaid
Person’s tenacious grip of existence. The fete is
to happen on Friday and Saturday. On Satur-
day evening, too, Mrs. Andrews will pinch the
Jubilee’s tail, so to speak, with a Charles Dickens
recital at the Athenteum Hall. Many other enter-
tainments, including a monster procession of
loyalists on bikes, are to express public joy and
gratitude at about the same time. The Waxworks,
for instance, has a pair of giant sisters on view,
and those huge masses of flesh will jubilate, if
possible. What with one thing and another, this
is a terrible week to talk about.
** * *
The Howard Conservatoire of Music an-
nounces a series of four subscription concerts, to
be given at the Elsternwick (Melb.) Hall between
now and December next. The first concert is
fixed for Monday (28th), and by way of attracting
public attention to an excellent musical enterprise,
Governor Brassey, likewise Lady Brassey and
suite, will assemble in the front seats. Governor
8., under the excitement of Shaftesbury’s operatic
outbreaks, seems quite likely to go in for the big
drum, or some other important instrument, at an
early date.
At Poverty Point.
Frank Lincoln, the well-beloved maker of sound-and-
fury cocktails, is at present doing- Maoriland. A new
story of his : —I was entertaining (or thought I was) in
North Carolina one night, when a man in squeaky boots
got up and walked down the hall towards the door. This
annoyed me, and started everybody off laughing, so I
thought I would get even with him. As he reached the
doorway I called out to him : “ You must be the doctor
of this town, that you have to leave in such a hurry?”
“ No,’ he called back, “ I’m the undertaker, and business
is brisk now that you’ve arrived.”
When Charles Godfrey was benefited in Perth, W.A., at
the beginning of the month, on the rising of the curtain
before a full house a doctor’s certificate was read to the
effect that the beneficiary had been stricken with para-
lysis. When poor Godfrey’s “ turn ” arrived he was
seated in a chair, and tried to sing “ Half-past Nine ” but
failed in the attempt.
Rudyard Kipling wrote some lines to foot Burne-Jones’s
picture, “The Vampire,” which beaan
A fool there was, and he made his prayer
(Even as you and I !)
To a rag and a bone and a hank of hair.
We called her the woman who did not care ;
But the fool he called her his lady fair
(Even as you or I!).
A leading London actress, whom the picture vastly re-
sembles, now threatens Burne-Jones with a libel-suit.
“Society” journalism is an amusing romancer as re-
gards stage-struck “heiresses.” Two Melb. girls who
have lately figured in public, the one as a singer, and the
other as a super., in a dramatic co. are credited
with vast private means. As a matter of fact, their
respective incomes are the interest on £lOOO, and a fixed
payment of £lOO per annum. This by way of informa-
tion to any unwary mummer who may meditate the cap-
ture of either prize with a view to retiring on her wealth
By the way, what is even £lOO a year worth to a suscepti-
ble damsel after she has entered a profession where the
average whisperer of soft-nothings is bent on raising a
Two of Howard Vernon’s offspring—a son and a
daughter—are showing in the cotnic opera at Melb
Alexandra They are both very young, and the bov
(Richard Prince) is very promising. Already he fools like
a veteran. His sister (Miss Edith Castles) has a pleasant
little singing voice, but she lacks physique and manner,
and will probably be long in acquiring the “ mannah,”
even after her fragile figure has begun to fill out.
Melbourne nowadays probably contains a larger per-
centage of capable amateur singers and dancers than any
other city in the world. The climate accounts for the
voices, and the rival training schools run by Mrs. Green
and the Misses Hyams are turning out dozens of re-
spectable stage-dancers every year.
Seeing that Brough takes away with him to India
(whence they intend making for England) Harry Plimmer,
the two Majeronis, Ralph Roberts, and Wilfred Shine ;
and seeing that Scot Inglis, J. Cosgrove, and Walter
Baker are (according to their own accounts) all bound
for America, there should be a plentiful dearth of “ju-
venile lead ” in the Sunny South pretty soon.
Shrimp : “The fireman’s business at the theatre is to
fetch in firewater for the ladies.”
“ A Chorus of Forty Vices.”— Playbill comp.
Paderewski has signed for one concert, at London
Queen’s Hall, for a fee of £lOOO. Adelina Patti was also
offered £lOOO for three songs, to be sung at one concert
in the same hall, but had not signified acceptance
Dear Bulletin,—lf you want a creepy sensation, next
time you are near a kinetoscope get the operator to
reverse the photos, and run them through the machine.
Take a man smoking a cigar : watch the ash get from the
ground to his hand ; then watch him smoke the cigar
while all the time it gets bigger and bigger, till, finally, a
complete cigar is returned to his pocket. Or watch a
railway train passing. It steams away all right, the
wheels can be seen to move in the right direction, yet it
ultimately slows down and pulls up at its starting point.
It gave me a sort of “ lost ” feeling, somewhat similar to
what I experienced when I first saw a phonograph, on a
table in a lecture-hall, and heard the diabolical wooden-
box speak- to me.—F.C.
Letter received by an actor in New York:—“Jan. 4,
1897. Mr. Henry Miller, Garden Theatre. —Dear Sir, —You
are probably aware that nowadays it is sensation and not
talent that wins. As you are to make your first stellar
appearance in New York, it is almost necessary that you
do something to attract attention, and I have a scheme to
propose. On Sunday night, 10th January, your house
will be entered by burglars. They will turn the place
upside down, and upon discovery pistol-shots will be
fired. They will escape, leaving blood-stains on the floor.
You will get the credit of fighting single-handed two
desperate robbers. The New York Herald's and other
morning daily police reporters will get the story, and the
whole town will be talking about you. I will furnish the
burglars and take all chances, and will only charge you
one hundred dollars for the scheme. I can refer you to a
dozen managers. I am the author of the runaway scheme
used by ‘ The Sporting Duchess ’ last week, and I got
them the dead horse, which we put in the alley for the
reporters to look at. Address, Empire Press Association,
General Delivery, Post Office.”
“How few of the stage-stricken,’ writes a Bulletin
correspondent, “and especially how few of the stockinged
sex, ever show any humor or originality in their bill-
names. So many Montmorencies and Monlagues and
Capulets crowd the floor, that it is quite a high relief to
find a Miss Ellas Dee playing the apprentice in “ La
Poupbe.” There s a fortune in store for the man who
will calmly adopt the stage-name of John Smith. That
would stick out in a playbill like the shadow of a great
land on a weary rock.
Norfolk : “ Emmett, a good ventriloquist of the show
order, now appears in Melb. with Miss Adair, but I don’t
think we ever had a real one in public, the genuine Val.
Vox. Where I came from, in England, there was one, a
clergyman named Stewart. He stood in a crowd and
made groans come from inside a wall, so that it was
pulled down.”
S.S. : “The five black coons at Rickards’ Melb. show
are deeply interesting ; they are undeniably human docu-
ments. Their singing may' evoke a supercilious snort
from the superior person, and I have been told that their
dancing' is not ‘ art, but ten minutes of these niggers is
as good as all the descriptive stuff about happy planta-
tion life in ‘ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’ These melodies for the
most part were never made, they ‘ just growed,’ and are
wonderfully suggestive of the farm-yard, and the corn-
ticld, and de ole banjo.’ Their dancing, too, has come
down from the slavery days, and is full of the spirit of
American humor, which owes not a little to the nigger.
Really, if the plantation slave had nearly as bad a time of
it as Mrs. Beecher-Stowe would have us believe how
account for these rollicking, fantastical dances and’these
quaint melodies in the blood of the American darkey of
to-day ? ”
Furniss has the latest English affectation: “Ac-tor”
‘ execu-tor,” “direct-or,” “govern-or.”
A fashionable Melb. lady amateur is about to appear as
Komeo, in all the glory of tights, like Blanche Walsh and
her photos, are already out.
“ Tattersail ” Adams invariably “weighs out” at the
pay-box before entering his theatre, the Palace now
under lease to Rickards. Of course, there is no reason
should not do so ; but how many, if in his position
and the necessity for doing so being absent, would follow
in Sydney * Deadheadlslll and wealth seem synonymous
m l ß |w ’n Wa!Bh6 . t 0 , Thr . Bllletin, from London: “I
met Geo. Dean yesterday (not the Curse man, but the
Australian well-known pro.), and he told me that Judge
Wmdeyer bumped him in the street here, and that he felt
inclined to ask His Honor if he knew whom he was jost-
lng. He also informed me that he met Johnny Solomon
late proprietor of Sydney Cri., at Brighton lately who
hnildin 1 ’ we ’V» e ra f business > and contemplated
buildmg a music-hall. Geo. Leitch has lately arrived
i l ® l- ®" , bo l )b ?® Harris is on tour in movinces, playing the
Irish barmaid in‘Duchess of Coolgardie.’” J S 6
Melba s brother, a budding tenor, is studying in Paris
also a < bud(Rng n tenor. aVl^e S WiUiain iimons^
( Poverty Point ’ continued on page 20.)
A Record » . .
W\
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-streefc, Sydney.
The Reigning House for 50 Years.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT s
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - . £48,202,084.
Pubjic attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company p ms
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of colt •
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
protlction 0 ; 011 ' 6 ’ SeCUre lnvestment . and absolute
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income; ‘“'raiment,
FiV ® C ® nt - Debenture furnishes the best and
effective form of investment, indemnity
and fixed annual income to survivors - ty ’
Continuous Instalment Policy so adinsts
payment of the amount insured as to create I
fixed income during the life of the benefSv•
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain i hmS * *
interest on their capital fo? oMife
an income safe beyond peradventure This i j
investment is particularly recommended to
who desire to make Drovis ,m ~i r • to those
and to be free from g
f/z ss
Company’s Building, Martin’sPlad % / ager ' al the
of the Branch Offices- e ' S V dne y> or at any
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
73 S WmS , lirisbane . Queensland,
c'n 0 William Street, Adelaide S A
S Q r - Gkorqe s Terrace, Perth, W.A b ‘ A ‘
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
. Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
talking machine, ’ costing only <£12, will soon be
of the tr Ty^' U r- Ir i:, th ? cour| try. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor 162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.* y J >
THE DIAMOND JUBILEE.
A Htgh-olass Portrait of Her Majesty the
Queen, specially taken for us in England,
will be given to every Sitter at our Studios
during this month of June, as a memento of
the Diamond Jubilee.
We take the opportunity of drawing your
attention to our really High-class Portraiture
at the Most Moderate Prices.
SIX Enamelled Cabinets with
a High-class OPAL or JiJiQ-
MIDE Enlary einent.
Only j 0
Note the Address:
THE ideal PORTRAIT CO.,
480 George Street, Sydney
(opposite Main Entrance to New Markets).


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
According to Coghlan’s newly-published figures,
the slump in N.S.W. property goes on as gaily as ever
The only figures available are the values of land and build-
ings in municipalities, and though the municipally-
governed area is steadily increasing and new buildings
continue to go up more or less, these have declined from
£151,000,000 in 1895—the year when values reached their
maximum—to £127,000,000 in 1897, a fall of £24,000,000
in two years. In Sydney, property reached its highest
total value in 1892, and then began to decline slowly. In
the suburbs it was at its maximum in 1893, after which
the slump set in, though at first very gradually. But
until 1895 the steady rise in the value of country munici-
palities more than counterbalanced the decline of Sydney
and its surroundings, and it was only in 1896 and ’97 that
everything began to go down together with a dismal
crash. The great fall was practically coincident with the
beginning of Freetrade ; since that policy came into vogue
£24,000,000 of cornstalk wealth has evaporated and left
not a trace behind. This doesn’t necessarily prove that
Freetrade caused the evaporation, but it does prove most
conclusively that it didn’t prevent it; and, as the Free-
trade party promised effusively that it was going to restore
prosperity, the result is highly interesting. As regards the
two instalments of the slump, it appears that £15,000,000
disappeared in 1896 and £9,000,000 in 1897. Whether
there will be another big falling off next year time only
can show ; anyhow, the return of prosperity hasn’t begun
yet, and so far the progress is still downwards.
A point on which the Reid Government whooped
especially was that its policy had made a stupendous and
wonderful increase in the shipping trade of N.S.W. Up
to the end of 1896, anyhow, the statement seems to be
a gratuitous fiction. In 1896 the vessels which entered and
left all N.S.W. ports represented 6,189,760 tons—an in-
crease of 329,000 tons on the record for 1895. In four out
of the last ten years a larger increase was shown, so the
improvement is nothing remarkable. Even the ship-
building trade doesn’t seem to hare boomed much ; the
total number of vessels built in N.S.W. in 1896 was 15,
and although this is better than 1894 and ’95, it is far
behind the 1891 record, when 40 vessels were constructed.
• * » •
The Queensland 3 per cent, loan of J>1,500,000
floated in London at £97 Is. 5d., so that, after deducting
expenses, the province will probably get about £95 10s.
Discounts on loans are one of the unconsidered losses of
the borrowing system. In the last nine years Queensland
has sold bonds to the amount of £11,197,134, and they
have realised in cash £10,413,410, so it has made a dead
loss of £783',724 on these transactions.
• • * •
At the end of 1895 Sydney and suburbs were
insured against fire for £59,720,000. Of this £25,500,000
was done with English and other companies from outside
Australasia, and £36,000,000 was done with companies
from outside N.S. Wales.
• * * •
The report of the Maoriland State Life Insur-
ance Department for 1896 is a particularly good one. The
renewaLpremiums are £230,324 against £230,052 last year,
and £219,307 the one before. New premiums and con-
sideration for annuities are £40,395, compared with
£35,980 and £34,897 for two previous years. Interest on
investments (£124,255) is £5OOO more than last year and
£lO,OOO more than the one previous. Among private
offices the A.M.P., Colonial Mutual, Mutual of Victoria,
and City Mutual all showed a decrease this year in their
revenue from interest —in other words the slump struck
their revenues so heavily that despite a large increase in
their invested funds the yield from interest and rents
diminished. The fact that the M.L. Government Depart-
ment shows an increase under this heading is proof that
its securities got through a particularly bad year unin-
jured. (The Mutual Life Association, National Mutual,
and Widows’ Fund are almost the only private offices
which can be quoted as having done likewise.) Out of a
total revenue of £394,984 the sum of £163,097 was added
to the insurance fund, making it £2,591,342 —the second
largest insurance fund in Australasia.
The department has taken many precautions to
keep itself absolutely solid. It writes off £29,500 for
depreciation, and carries £lO,OOO to reserve, which makes
£24,000 available for further depreciation. It also reduces
its assumed future rate of interest at one swoop from £4
to £3 12s. 6d. per cent., which necessitated providing a
reserve of £81,OIK). Out of £2,648,000 worth of assets
“properties acquired by foreclosure” represent only
£29,906, which shows that a remarkably small proportion
of the borrowers have failed to pay up. Also, with an
annual income of £124,000 from interest, only £760 is
overdue and uncollected. As a rule, the smaller the
amount of interest overdue the safer are the securities—
when interest becomes more or less irrecoverable it
generally means that the principal is getting into the
same state ; and no insurance office in Australasia shows
so good a record in this respect as the Maoriland State
Department. The investments yield within a fraction of
5 per cent., and, considering that the Department now
bases it calculations on receiving £3 12s. 6d. per cent.,
this is a sufficiently wide margin. One Australian office,
which last year only earned about 4)4 per cent., bases
its estimates on 4 per cent., and several Ameri-
can institutions earning 4£ or 4| per cent, also base
their calculations on the assumption that interest won’t
fall below 4 per cent., so the Department’s margin is very
liberal. Among the large private offices, so far as The
Bulletin is aware, only the A.M.P. and the Mutual Life
Association have made similar reductions in their esti-
mates. The Department’s expenses for 1896 absorbed
about 14 per cent, of its total income—a shade more
than last year—yet the lowest rate shown by any
office doing business in Australasia, the A.M.P. only ex-
cepted. After making the large reserves already men-
tioned, there remains £444,000 cash surplus for division
which, considering the unusually low premium rates
charged, is a very handsome amount. Altogether, the
Maoriland State Insurance office shows no weak points
anywhere, and its balance-sheet is a remarkably clear and
explicit document, which is so framed as to throw all
possible light on its affairs.
Apropos of insurance matters, two subjects on
which- The Bulletin desires to continue making itself
highly obnoxious are (1) the practice of not showing
separately properties acquired by foreclosure, and (2) that
of not -showing arrears of interest uncollected, as distin-
guished from interest accrued but not due. The first
item is essential to a proper understanding as regards the
safety of the mortgage investments ; when property is
abandoned to the society it generally means that the
owner doesn’t think it worth redeeming, and too much
foreclosed bricks and mortar is a significant feature. The
second is equally essential, for a huge mass of arrears of
interest is an asset that may be worth very little, and the
more arrears the more likelihood that a lot of the invested
money is irrecoverable. Among offices doing business in
Australasia, the A.M.P., Maoriland Government Depart-
ment M utua l Life Association, Australian Widows’ Fund,
and the Mutual of Victoria are honorable exceptions which
supply both these essential items of information. The
Citizens Co. (of Sydney) is explicit on the subject of
interest arrears only. The City Mutual is explicit in the
matter of foreclosed properties only. The National
Mutual, Temperance and General, New York Life,
Equitable of New York, and Colonial Mutual give
whatever upon either point, and
the advisability of a change cannot be too strongly in-
sisted upon. Moreover, there is always the possibility
that just as much arrears of interest will be shown as the
management thinks advisable, and the balance —if it is
too large and awful to be revealed —judiciously hidden
away by lumping it in with the mortgages. One institu-
tion at least is strongly suspected of doing this, and there
are rumors about another one. Under these circum-
stances, it would be a good idea for the institutions which
are above suspicion to state specifically that the in vestments
under various headings in their balance-sheets are the
capital sums only, and that all arrears and all foreclosed
properties appear under their proper headings. This
would at least draw a sharp line between them and any
institutions which dare not make such a statement lest
they should get too close to fraud and misrepresentation,
and go sliding on the thin edge of perjury.
* » * *
The London Bank of Australia, for the half-
year ended 31st December, 1896, shows a loss of £4396,
and dividends are suspended. Last half-year it made a
loss of £231, and for the six months ended December,
1895, it showed a profit of £5673, so in two half-years the
profits have dropped by over £lO,OOO. In other respects
things look moderately prosperous. In the last twelve
months the reconstructed deposits have been reduced
from £3,861,000 to £3,716,000, a reduction of
£145,000. The new deposits have decreased £6000;
the cash and liquid assets have decreased £200,000;
and nothing very remarkable has happened in
any other departments of the business. The £360,000
reserve of the old London Chartered Bank, which
was set aside to cover losses and depreciation, has
now been entirely written off, and no further depreciation
can be provided for out of this source. Also, the new
bank, having paid away most of its profits in 5\ per cent,
dividends to preference shareholders, has no reserve
fund, and the whole accumulation which it has to show
for many years of toil is £lBl2 remaining at the credit of
profit and loss. This isn’t a strong position by any
means, though it is vastly better than that of three or
four other reconstructs.
The second reconstruction scheme has met with
only moderate luck, so far. The London Bank, being
a British concern, had to reconstruct laboriously by
special Act of Parliament, and the House of Lords hacked
its proposed arrangement about remorselessly. As it now
stands, the interest on deposits is still to be 4)£ per cent.,
but if the profits of any half-year are insufficient to meet
this in full the bank may pay any rate down to 3 per
cent., which is the cast-iron minimum. But in that case
the difference between the amount paid and the 4) per
cent, accumulates as a debt due to the depositors, and
until this is cleared off the institution must pay no
dividends, nor is it allowed to put more than £lO,OOO to
reserve fund. The only visible advantage, therefore, is
that the London Bank, if things continue bad, instead of
being called on to pay more than it earns is allowed to
owe more than it earns. The fact that the arrears don’t
accumulate at compound interest is a negative benefit
that is too small to be appreciable. Another trifling
change is that the dates of repayment now run from 1899
to 1917. Altogether the London Bank has got worse terms
than any other reconstructed institution, and unless
interest goes up and the value of property improves, file
only prospect of things being much better seems to lie in
calling up more capital and paying off deposits with the
proceeds.
* * * •
The weary New Oriental Bank liquidation
finally closes about August, and the creditors will get
10s. lid. in the £ all round. The Federal Bank pays
another dividend, making Bs. 6d. in the £ so far, and the
City Bank of Melbourne pays another Is. in August,
making ss. 7d. in the £.
* * * •
The proposed amalgamation of the Perpetual
Executors Co. (Melb.) and the Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. has fallen through at the last moment. The
shareholders of the Perpetual refuse to part with their
hopeless-looking little concern, so the frantic struggle of
five trustee companies to live on business that is only
sufficient for two must continue indefinitely.
* • * *
National Bank of Tasmania shows a profit of
£4012 for the half-year ended 31st May, and, as the usual
5 per cent, dividend absorbs £3991, there is £2l re-
maining. Last half-year the profit was £3534, and, as
the same dividend was declared, the National of Tasmania
paid away £457 more than it earned. The best that has
happened to this institution for a long time is that it
sometimes had a few pounds left after paying its divi-
dends ; at other times it hadn’t. A wiser management
would have cut the div. down to 4 per cent, three years
ago, and kept it there ever since, with a view to
strengthening the reserve. A reserve of £22,500 is a very
weak line of defence in these days of portentous slump.
• * • *
Tasmania is about to receive another lot of
foreign capital, and the latest enterprise is colossal both
in its aims and its possibilities. The Great Northern
Railway of Tasmania (capital, £450,000 in shares, and
£450,000 in debentures) has just been launched in Lon-
don, and, The Bulletin is told, the whole of the stock is
underwritten. The project provides for taking over the
existing line from Emu Bay to Bischoff, and extending
same to Rosebery ; thence one branch will be made to
Mt. Dundas and Zeehan, and another to Mt. Read, Her-
cules, Mt. Tyndal, Mt. Sedgewick to Mt. Lyell. This com-
prehensive system will bring Mt. Lyell, the southern ter-
minus, within 90 miles of splendid harbor accommodation
with deep water (Emu Bay) where material may be trans-
ferred direct from trucks to ship’s slings. But the idea
of starting an enterprise of these dimensions with only
£450,000 capital and a huge dead-weight of borrowed
money (on which interest, during the construction
period, will have to be paid out of capital) looks utterly
hopeless. The M.L. Midland 00. tried exactly the same
game, and collapsed. If the co. really intends railway
building it wants £1,000,000 of its own to start with. The
present capital will hardly keep the London office going
the way J. Bull runs things.
* • • *
About the most notable new feature of the
British B.H. statements, nominally for the half-year to
Dec. 31, ’96, only just now received from London, is
Turquand, Youngs and Co.’s auditor’s report directing
attention to the fact that “ the stock of concentrates at
the mine and in course of realisation has been taken at
the estimated selling price after making allowance for all
charges thereon, whereas, in our opinion, all stocks not
actually sold at the date of closing the accounts should be
taken at cost price.” This policy is not, however,
adopted in connection with any B.H. company. Indeed,
the British “ working account ” is unusually explicit: the
crude ore is “ valued at cost,” and the concentrates are
“estimated to realise” so-and-so. No doubt the line
“estimated surpluses” commonly found in B.H. com-
panies’ statements would permit of almost unlimited
juggling with figures; but up to date none of this appears
to have been actually done. If these leading London
accountants object to what the British has done, what
would they say, though, to the “ estimated sur-
pluses ” line ? All the same, Turquand, Youngs
and Co.’s proposed plan is not any too safe
where such unstable products as silver and lead are
being handled ; for one may be raised which, by a fluctua-
tion in the market, or from some other cause, is worth
at the time the statement is made a good deal less than
cost. Even an accompanying statement of the metal
value of the ore or concentrates on hand would be value-
less as a guide, because for some ore not 50 per cent, of
the metal can be extracted. In fact, if sulphide-mine
directors want to delude the shareholders they can easily
do it—in no industry perhaps more easily ; but up to date
they have probably deluded themselves more than they
have the shareholders.
• * * *
B.H. British directors say, in their half-yearly
report, that the explorations from the Junction North, at
the 550 ft. level, “proved disappointing, the lodes pinching
out as they reached the boundary of Block 16.” Pleasant
reading for those North shareholders who, spite of many
warnings, were induced to hope and expect that they
would get the Junction’s western lode! Of course, the
occurrence in the Junction and Junction North is a mere
bulging pocket; and the chances are that the lode for
some distance on either side has been reduced to pro-
vide material for the bulge.
* » * *
During the British mine’s last half-year, the
mining (including deadwork and filling up) cost 10s. B|d.
per ton of ore, the ore-dressing 4s. 9Jd. (which is more
than it ought to be), and management on the mine s)t>d.
The profit was just over Bs. per ton of ore. But of the
44,707 tons of ore handled, 30,546 tons were carbonates, of
which class very little is unfortunately now being got.
The directors thought, in view of the more constant
running of the mill, that they might be able to declare in
interim div., as well as the first ordinary one of Is., at
the meeting in London on May 12; but the returns
weren’t up.
* * * *
Ashcroft (Sulphide Corporation) claims, apropos
Block 10’s declaration that the co.’s mill is doing as good
sulphide treatment as any, that whereas Block 10’s profit
was 10s. per ton of ore, the profit derivable from the
electrolytio treatment of the same ore would amount to
about 455. He declares this “ from the work done during
the last three months at Cockle Creek.” All the same,
things are not quite right everywhere in connection with
the Ashcroft works and treatment, ami an engineer has
been specially reporting upon the feasibility of producing
a different form of concentrate from the mill on the mine.
But the greatest difficulty that has arisen has been due to
the rapid corrosion of some of the parts at the Cockle
Creek works.
• • • •
Block 10 has made a sale of a big parcel of so-
called tailings to Frankfort-on-Main Works. The material
assays 13oz. silver, 5’75 per cent, lead and 34 per cent,
zinc per ton. The transaction does not mean much of a
lift to the co. financially ; but it is nevertheless import-
ant as a substantial practical beginning in the utilisation
of the zinc in the sulphides (apart, that is, from the Ash-
croft process). Block 10 is, however, better situated, with
regard to these “ tailings,” than any other B.H. mine ex-
cept the Central (the Ashcroft people’s mine); no other
“ tailings ” (really the ore from which 50 per cent, of the
silver, 70 to 80 per cent, of the lead, and 20 per cent, of
the zinc has been taken) are so rich in either silver or
zinc, while, generally speaking, the others contain a little
more lead, which is the zinc-distillers’ curse. Block 10
intends to strive to develop this zino-“ tailings” market
by roughly re-treating the mat erial with a view to elimin-
ating some of the silica and so reducing the bulk.
• • * •
South mine is under one of its periodical clouds.
The ore available for breaking has for some weeks been so
hard that the mill returns have been seriously affected ;
and the faces show but little improvement.
• • * •
The interest now taken in N.S.W. copper-min-
ing has caused the paper-men in the country to give the
subject their best attention. Thus S.M. Herald’s In-
verell correspondent on the Bundarra copper-mine—
“ They have driven sft. into the lode without striking
the hanging-wail. It is peacock ore, and assays 51)4 P er
cent, copper. The ore is improving. Some ore on the
top assays 46 per cent. Some assays have shown 48 per
cent, copper, 250 z. silver and 4dwts. gold.” As Mt. Lyell,
with an average under 4 per cent., is worth much more
than a million, and Cobar, at 4)4, is worth about half a
million, how many millions is this mine worth ? The
S.M.H. should put a lot of its mining news under the
heading “ Wit and Humor.”
• * * •
Mt. David gold-mine, N.S.W., tons for 31oz.
What the object was in sending 3)40z. stone to Sydney at
a cost of at least an oz., while 30 heads of stamps are
going up, is not quite clear. An interim report issued
recently indicates a really good mine somewhat burdened
with debt. The title was long in dispute. That is a good
sign—the titles of most mines worth having in N.S.W.
generally are. Crozier, the prospector, crushed 105 tons
for 2700 z., and sold right out for £lO,OOO. The reef runs
from sft. to 20ft., and if it will average an oz., and the
ore-chutes are any length, then it is a mighty fine mine,
and Crozier is a fool for selling at such a price. The pre-
sent co. is preparing for an output of 1500 tons a month,
and, as usual in the province, the mill is ahead of the mine,
• * * •
Once more — “ Some very rich ore is now being
broken at the Jingera Proprietary mine, near Pambula,
N.S.W., the output being steady and constant and the
owners well satisfied with the results.” But never a line
as to amount, value, or divs.
* * * *
The discovery of native amalgam by Prof.
Modest Maryanski in the Boulder Main Reef, adds another
to the already remarkable features of the Great Boulder
locale. Gold, silver, telluride, native amalgam. What
next ? Bulong is also keeping its end up in rare minerals.
In addition to mustard gold—sure precursor of telluride—
recently exposed at the Great Eastern, what was thought
to be some valueless substance has been proved to be
slugs of pure gold, coated with a mineral somewhat re-
sembling platinum, but as yet unnamed.
• • * •
The chairman of Hannan’s P.D. Co., the Mar-
quis of Tweeddale, in throwing up the sponge, said he was
sorry, especially as the prospects of the co. were at a very
low ebb, but pressing engagements, etc. By the sale, over
a year ago, of two of the leases, the capital expenditure
had been reduced from £400,000 to £352,084. The bring-
ing-out of the water co. had been delayed by the state of
the market, also the sale of leases and the formatiion of
subsidiary cos. What followed showed that possibly the
non-finding of gold by the parent co. may have had some-
thing to do with it. Altogether, they have sunk 6600 ft.,
driven crosscuts and levels 12,000 ft., and they have done an
enormous amount of “ surface scratching.” He explained
that the various ore-bodies, which assayed^so high, had
proved to be “ segregated bunches of ore ” which did not
develop into continuous chutes. And even that went
down with Ass, alias Bull. “ He was not aware that
George Gray was a more expensive manager than others,
and, up to the present moment, they had not seen their
way to dispense with his services.” How pleasant for
Gray, who reported :—“ Am confident our property, at a
greater depth, will disclose valuable ore-bodies ” ! W.A.
Irwin also thinks the policy of sinking will be rewarded
sooner or later. Meanwhile, the co. is sinking in deadly
earnest, for, of a working capital of £150,000, it has left
only £37,000. And yet a year ago this co. had a market-
value of nearly two millions I
• * * »
At the starting of the mills for the associated
group of mines at Hannan’s: W. G. Brookman—“The
field had already turned out something like 12 tons of
gold, but had as yet only been scratched on the surface.”
Still impossible to leave well alone. Only scratched on
the surface ! There is no field in the world that has
received so much prospecting in so short a time as Han-
nan’s. The sinking, costeening, rf and driving, could only
be measured by miles. The Hannan’s Proprietary De-
velopment Co. must have spent on its leases alone up-
wards of £lOO,OOO in prospecting. Other Bull co’s have
prospected themselves into reconstruction. Few have
had the good luck of the Associated—to find two really
good mines in about a dozen. Brookman, no doubt, also
omitted to say that the working of these other leases was
a great tax on the two gold-producers— the Australia and
Australia East.
* • » *
The men at the Lady Loch mine, Coolgardie—
owned by an English co. which started with a few good
crushings—have struck work because their wages, £3llos.
a man, had not been paid. The men of the Forest ging,
belonging to the same co., also threaten to gc out uitless
their wages, now weeks overdue, are paid. The manager
says he can neither understand nor explain the position.
He was “ heartily sick of the whole business, and
thoroughly sympathised with the men.” Perhaps the
shareholders are sick of the whole business. Six months
ago Lady Loch shares were up to £4.
• * • •
Things seem in a bad way at Menzies, W.A.
“ Nearly all the mines have reduced hands. Several keep
on only sufficient men to hold the properties. About 100
men cleared out in ten days. At Niagara, Mt. Malcolm,
and other places out back things are just as bad, and
there are a great many men wandering about Menzies
because they have not the means to get away.”
From Kalgoorlie to The Bulletin :—“ Many
shrewd and cautious mining-men think that all the big
mines are now’ too high, and I am not sure they are not
right. The lodes at the 300 ft. levels ace getting hard and
much smaller, and the public seem to'have lost sight c A
the fact that there is a great difference between mining
and treating a 20ft. lode of easily-crushed and treated
oxidized ore, at 100 ft. and 200 ft. depth, and doing same
with sft. to 6ft. of hard quartz containing a percentage of
telluride and pyrites, from below 200 ft. The fact that the
reefs contain gold and telluride seems to have been enough
for them up to date. The fact is, they want to engineer
another boom, and are making use of any excuse they can
get hold of.”
* * * *
Another Westralian co. which started its career
with a flourish of trumpets will soon be crying a go—the
Austin 00., on the Murchison. Prospectus: “Reef clear
and well-defined, averaging 4ft., and, in addition, there
is Bft. of formation carrying good gold right through it,
averaging two to three ounces to the ton. 5000 oz. dollied
out of one of the claims, which had 8000 tons of rich stone
on it.” Price, £41,000, of which £16,000 was cash. True
battery test, 350 tons for 330 z. In the time absorbed in
publishing this orushing, shares fell from 275. to 10s.
Manager’s valedictory cable—“l regret not having dis-
covered any payable quartz during my term of office.”
Last directors’ report:—“The mine has been thoroughly
exploited, and it is much to be regretted that the work
done has not been productive in the uncovering of pay-
able ore.’'
* * * *
“ The Highland Chief ” (Gippsland), after mop-
ping up a pile, has run up against the reef at 150 ft.
Eleven ozs. per ton, and Sheep Staffion feels much better
already.
* * • •
Brilliant Block haulage for fortnight ending
Bth June, 900 tons; crushed 838 tons for a smelted cake of
5450 z.
Brilliant Central (Stubley’s old Bryan O’Lynn)
shaft down 1740 ft. on a Brilliant-striking mission.
Craven’s Caledonia (Towers), which has been
under a cloud for some time, is looking up again. Lately
struck nine inches of heavily mineralised stone in Vic-
toria reef. Shares hardened accordingly.
Towers scrip-dealers find their occupations gone
during “annual” period. Writing doubles is now the
only means left the “seven-weeks delivery” men—known
as the “ forward brigade”—of raising the wind.
A recent Towers “ Wild Cat ” item was spoilt
by the printer. Re the Victoria No 1 West, it was stated :
“ If a pick had been put in the ground of that mine the
shares would probably be worth £1 apiece.” The par.
should have read “ If a pick hadn’t.”
• • • •
Eastern stone in Kelly’s block (Charters Towers)
improving in quantity and quality. The block is a rich
corner of the Northern gold-field.
* * * *
Brilliant Deep Levels (Towers) still pegging
away, driving for a payable reef in the deepest shaft'in
Queensland. The face at latest advices was as blank as
the faces of the unlucky 'but plucky shareholders —the
Marslands, Dick Tregaskis and others.
• * * *
Fortnightly clean-up from Victoria (C. Towers),
June 7, gave 410 oz. 18dwt-. from 295 tons.
* * * •
The old field of Ravens wood (Q.) turned out
20960 z. during May, from 2040 tons of stone ; 1560 z. of
alluvial also Were got during that month.
* * • *
The Woolgar (N.Q.) is regarded by mining men
in the North as a coming field. So far, it has only been
hen-scratched.
• * « *
Peter Murphy, a well-known N.Q. trainer, is
reported to have struck something better than a double
Peter and party bottomed on rich wash at the Jubilee
lead, Clermont.
* * • •
“Anti-Boom,” a advises caution
with respect to the Hercules. He says that assays of
ore broken in the lower levels don’t exactly sing the
directors’ song ; that the Rich assays lately advertised
came from hatful of ore ; that all assays published
up to now are from picked ore, and that no bulk assays
are to be had. The Hercules has no machinery to speak
of; it has only an elastio and pushing crowd behind it,
and that is why it is a brokers’ mine. To put the show in
shape will cost £BO,OOO, and this (thoug-h the Hercules has
paid its own way to date) means selling part of the mine.
The bulk ore (continues The Bulletin correspondent) will
not go more than 2dwt. to 3dwt. gold (if this), but at least
20 per cent. zinc.
Briseis tin-mine (East Coast, Tas.) shareholders
have paid £135,000 in calls, and are not yet tired. They
still hope to strike the deep lead that paid £27,000 per an-
num in divs. to Krushka Brothers Home Co. adjoining.
Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100 %, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, far cheaper than Drug
Houses. 11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
Ny.Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3 -
Now recognised by al'Prac-
tical Miners as the UKEAi
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crnsbcr ev er put upon the
market.
Fred .. Mi son, Sole Agent,
289 aUasEX-ST.. SYDNEY.
CYANIDE
OF POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
SYDNEY 63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE —RIALTO.
MONEY - ORDERS
ISSUED BY THE
CHEQUE BANK , Ltd.,
ARE CHEAPER than ORDINARY Money
Orders, and are Cashed by 25,000 Banks all
over the World. Apply for Handbooks.
JAS. MALCOLM, Gen. Agent.
135 Pitt-street (near G.P.0.)
STOCK
ONLY
SIR JOHN
Power’s WbiSkey.
Aus. l
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Building’s, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Ross, Ross & Co., financiers, 352 Collins-streefc,
Melbourne, notify that money at very low interest
is now available on C.P. or Freehold Land.
Owners writing to this firm can always rely on
prompt and straightforward business.*
The Simpson Backboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Buckboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can oamp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth — W. B. Gordon & @o.
Geraldton —W. Meadoweroft.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE.
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A.
THE VICTORIA contains 58Sinfrle and Double Bedrooms,
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From 4s. to Bs. per Day.


SOCIETY
Letter received this week from North
Shore, Sydney ,
To the Editor The Bulletin.— Sir,—Very soon (I think
this year) the Queen of England will have reigned for 60
years. As this, I should imagine, must be almost a
record, couldn’t something be done to celebrate the.fact?
I don’t tbink it’s quite fair to let a thing like that pass
without taking any notice of it, but doubtless there are
many who would take the matter up if they knew about
it. It is for this reason that I write. Hoping that an
abler pen than mine will, &c., —I am, sir, &c., J. H. Nap.
• * * *
Scheme for a jubilee celebration at Liver-
pool (N.S.W.), the cheerful town where the
HIS POINT OF VIEW.
PARSON (to Bullocky): “ Why, my good man, do you us such shocking language when
addressing those poor horned beasts?”
BULLOCKY: “ It’s all very fine for you to talk, mister; you've only ONE devil to drive, I’ve got
fourteen ! ”
asylums are, promulgated under the auspices of
Varr.ey Parkes, M.L.A., son of old man Parkes :
It is intended at night to have a torchlight procession
on a large and novel scale. You are all requested to at-
tend and give all the assistance in your power to make the
procession a success. Fifty men on white or grey horses
are required for the procession. If any of you have one
or can obtain one you are respectfully requested to attend
and take part in the procession. It may here be stated
that an affair of this description to celebrate this re-
markable event will probably never in our days again be
witnessed. The procession will be headed by three torch-
bearers and a number of men on white horses four deep.
After them the Foresters, headed by Robin Hood, then
four torch-bearers, then the Foresters in regalia with their
banner, then 100 girls in white marching four deep, the
middle girls carrying ferns and the outside ones flowers,
next 50 men on horseback forming the letter U, inside
the horsemen 25 torch-bearers, inside of these the
Liverpool Band and the Liverpool Cadets four deep.
After them will come a platform carried by 12 men, on
which is erected a throne and canopy, on each side of the
throne will march two Mounted Infantry and also two
persons bearing large fans. On the arrival of the pio-
cession at the park the girls in white will surround the
throne four deep, the Cadets two deep, the torch-bearers
in single, the Foresters four deep and the horsemen in
single file. A speech will be given by the Mayor of Liver-
pool, at which time the Queen will rise and the angels
will leave their places and stand near her. Illuminations
will then take place and bonfires be lit, all the people
singing the National Anthem. All persons desiring to
assist in defraying the expenses of the procession are re-
quested to send subscriptions to the undermentioned
committee.
Consider tbe splendor of it —the ‘ two persons
bearing large fans ; ” the angels who rise when the
Mayor has done speaking; the 50 men on horse-
back forming an I O U ; the outside girls carrying
flowers : and the appeal for coin at the end.
’*• * *
Wagga (N.S.W.) has a rusted and dilapi-
dated cannon lying on the racecourse, and the
municipal councillors decided that it would be a
proper Jubilee celebration to let it off with a bang.
Accordingly, with that independent and self-
reliant spirit which characterises the Australian,
they wired to the Government asking to be sup-
plied with the necessary ammunition and com-
bustibles gratis. They were refused, cm the
ground that the ancient implement couldn t be
trusted, and then another telegram howled along
the wires to Sydney :
Loyalty of Wagga imperilled, forward tubes and ammu-
nition immediately, Captain Sheppard will take charge of
gun, and the Mayor will fire first gun.
Wagga won’t be loyal unless some one “gibs it
tikpen’ ’ for fireworks. In fact, the whole out-
break of loyalty seems to consist in getting some
one to gib it tikpen’ to celebrate with.
* * • •
A bright jubilee suggestion sprang last
week from a Melbourne dealer in machine-oils
and other kinds of grease. His idea was to have
a cinematograph film of the local procession pre-
pared for transmission to the Queen, “ who would
appreciate an offering so up-to-date, and so vividly
exhibiting the loyalty of her subjects m the
colony bearing her name.” A good enough pro-
posal. But wouldn’t it be better to send the loil
man ’Ome, armed with a small tub of liquid fat
wherevvith to anoint the head of the Gracious
Lady whose name adorns the colony in which he
is accumulating grease ?
The oil merchant’s proposal that Melbourne s
Jubilee ‘ loyalty ’ should be einematographed and
sent along to the Queen, raises questions as to
who would be the fittest persons to point the
apparatus at. The Bulletin is in favor of form-
ing the Leg. Councillors in a semi-circle around
Herkomer’s picture of Her Gracious, which might
be borrowed from the Art Gallery and placed upon
a colossal easel. The Military Commandant
(Holled Smith) should stand and blow a cornet
blast on the right hand of the painting, as a signal
for all the property-owners to fall prostrate before
their idol, d la Ko-ko in “The Mikado.” Then
they would arise in irregular order and the picture
might conclude with a vision of them waving their
hats as they walked away.
• * * •
Melb. : “The shilling doctor, duly quali-
fied, now sends a man round canvassing.”
Sandy was sent for
Sunday’s dinner-beer, and,
on coming out of the pub.,
spotted a policeman and
then ran for it. In his
excitement he dodged into
the wrong doorway and was
caught. Sandy was fined
155., and Mrs. Sandy, when
talking over the matter,
says, ‘ ‘ Just fancy 15s. for a
pint o’ beer, and I didna’
get the beer.”
* * *
Vic. : “In Melb. to-
day I met a miner crippled
with rheumatism. He said:
‘Like a fool I have been
working a year for the Melb.
sewerage Board, and here is
what I have got.’ ‘ But
why didn’t you get it in the
mines ? ’ ‘ Because there is
all the difference in the
world between the cold sur-
face water and the warm
deep water. The draughts
in the sewage-shafts were
killing, too.’ ”
* • *
When the Hawke’s
Bay (M.L.) floods subsided,
one washed-out resident re-
turned to his home to find
a dead sheep on the dining-
room table and a flounder
in the bed. Some more of
the joys of going on the
land.
* * *
In a Brisbane (Q.)
breach-of-promise case, the
petitioning lydy, who had
been asked by her “ in-
tended ” to become a R.C.,
deposed : “I wrote that, as
long as I had to earn my
own living, I would not
change, because in Mel-
bourne ” —in which city she
was then located—“ Roman
Catholics are not much in
demand.” Good old cat-
fish ! Keep your eyes on the conger-eel 1
* • * •
Bingara (N.S.W.)—where the diamonds
don’t come from —having been denuded of all sur-
plus cash by a bazaar, steam go-round, and race-
meeting, is jubilating “ wi’ deeficulty.” The move-
ment, as per following advt. from Bingara
Telegraph of 9th inst., is therefore calculated to
harmonise with the prevailing impecuniosity,
utilise a public holiday, fill a long-felt want, and
vindicate the eternal fitness of things :
NOTICE.
rnHE Publio are requested to be at the Cemetery
■*- grounds at 10 o’clock on the 22nd JUNE, to clear
the Cemetery grounds of grass and scrub.
W. E. WEARNE,
Hon. Sec. of the Movement.
* * * •
Judging by Col. Lassetter’s cable, there
has been some trouble with N.S.W. contingent.
The men weren’t ashamed to blackleg on a wharf—
The Bulletin doesn’t know whether the Spanish
unionists were right or wrong, however—but some
of them seem to have grumbled because they are
being put at the tail-end of Queen Vic’s procession
with the sepoys—their proper place as servile
warriors. For an Australian soldier’s business is
to defend Australia, and not be a millinery item
at a British show.
* • * *
IN RECORD YEAR.
List to men, women and children —a clamorous crowd,
Chanting an echoing threnody—poverty-bowed 1
Brow-sweat for bread ! tis in truth a ridiculous thought:
Give soul or heart-blood, and bread that is grudged may
be bought.
Kobar.
» * • *
How can Australia jubilate 1 Just look at
this cable:—
London, June 17. —The market for Australian poultry is
flat. Victorian fowls are selling at 2s. 6d. per pair. There
is no demand for ducks.
No demand for ducks at this of all moments ! Is
that the way to draw closer the silken bonds ?
* * * »
The S. M. Hlrald account of the jubilee
service at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, with
its “ fanfare of trumpets ” at the Governor’s ap-
proach, goes on to say that Hons. Sydney Smith,
Gould and Young were present. O, most hideous
of anticlimaxes ! Trumpets and—Smith !
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —A correspondent sends
this to Labouchere :
As you have sometimes expressed your readiness to be-
stow titles on all who wish for them, it occurs to me that
perhaps you would like to suggest to the general public
that, though they cannot all hope to be Peers, yet there
is nothing to prevent every male child, even of the
humblest parentage, being christened “ Lord,” which is
not an uncommon surname. If this were done, a later
and a happier generation would see countless thousands
of Lords Lord John Smith ” would have ceased to be
a distinctive name; and England’s foes might hereafter
be met by a thin red line composed exclusively of “ Lord
Thomas Atkinses.”
Australians whose democracy does not prevent
them from flying after Imperialistic prefixes might
improve on this idea by baptising their children
“Sir John ” or “ Sir Richard,” or any other com-
pound front name which strikes their fanev
C.R.W.
• • • •
Love at first sight. Tender advertisements
from Sydney D.T. :
"WOULD Young Lady who travelled in Newtown
tram 10.30 Saturday night, and got out at Cod-
i ington-st., who smiled at g'ent. who so openly admired
her, send address or make appointment ? Sincerity.
WALL Lady in Brown Jacket, who caught Crown-
/ , st - tra »! 9-30 last Wednesday, allow Grey Cap
to make acquaintance ? F
* * * •
The drought-blasted state of Riverina is
pictured at a stroke by a resident, who tells that
wh ? n f hl . & , do £ <* ased a » emu the thing of bones
and feathers fell and couldn’t get up again, and
the kangaroos will now let a than come within
20 yards before they begin to shuffle feebly away.
I hey have hardly a jump left. y
* * * *
o Bulletin,— Re your recent “ Jurv-
Building article, a visiting American lawyer
SATURDAY NIGHT .
THE OLD 'UN (after the smoke-concert): “No, m’son; I'fuse to go
home in cab. I’ll take th’ tram —my wife 'll — hic—know
then I’m perfec'ly shober!”
says:—“l have known it take four or five days,
with us, to get a jury together, because every
juror has to be examined on oath, and, even when
accepted, may be challenged at any time before
completion of jury. The involved labor is im-
mense, and the rapidity with which a jury was
obtained in the Butler case was an agreeable sur
prise to me. ” —Quabtok.
N. : “ How these Christians love one
another ! Not a clergyman turned up at such
a distinctively religious occasion as the opening,
by the Salvation Army, of the Melb. Workmen's
Metropole. You see, the opposition sect is more
hated than Jew, Turk, infidel and heretic. And
why? Because of the struggle for the coin. If
Stiggins lias a bite at the financial muffin all the
less for Chadband. The first week's operations of
the Metropole showed a fair demand for beds,
but slack attendance at meals. Dropping in at
six o’clock last evening, the seventh night, I
found only 11 people at tea. This indicates a
financial slump.”
“ALICE: OR, THE MYSTERIES"
(A sketch by Caleb Porter.)
At Collingwood (Melb.) Court recently
Mary Ann, a spinster of 17, sued a youth of IB
for the maintenance of their joint infant. Mary
Ann stated that she had been a servant, but was
now supported by her mother, and was earning
nothing’. Her accomplice, Henry, aged 18, said
he couldn’t support the infant or marry Mary
Ann, because he only earned 6s. a week. The
Bench ordered him to pay 4s. a week, so this
arrangement leaves him 2s. for board and clothes
THE JUBILEE.
Our “statesmen’s” glance
Saw grovel chance
To miss which were a pity ;
They made a splash
With publio cash
And slobbered o’er the city.
Their loyal zeal
They would reveal
If money could display it;
And why be mean
When they can glean
The income-tax to pay it?
The merchants o’er
Each shop and store
Ilung out their decorations,
To keep a line
They cut a shine
With big illuminations.
Most thought the lot
Was utter rot
And waste of coin surprising,
But then the thought
Some comfort brought
That it was advertising.
The plumber chirped
As hard he worked ;
The gas shareholder
chuckled
To see how dight
In robes of light
The mighty city truckled.
They might have thought
It argued naught
But livid lack of gumption,
But sang, I ween,
“ God Save the Queen ”
Who booms the gas eon-
sumption.
ZEF.
A SONG.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
To me, at evening, came
A flicker from the flame
Of first love’s bliss ;
I saw her soft grey eyes—
Times are when old Time dies—
I felt her kiss,
Her clinging kiss : as yet,
All other lips I’ve met—
Their kisses flee.
When the hot mouths are reft
Apart, what is there left
Save memory ?
But hers, ah ! how to tell j
Sheer from her soul it fell,
And seemed to say :
“ Dear heart, go where thou wilt,
Through innocence, through guilt,
My kiss must stay.”
J. JINGLE.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
materials thoroughly shrultk.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS - RIDING PICNICING
OFFICE - BUSH - SPORT
PROMENADE TRAVELLING and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADK Of THIO
finest Havana tobacco-m. Each.
cy <*. CORTO «Me bands, and beuavre of ionlatiom


and boots and revelry, and if he has anything over
he can invest it in 3 per cent, bonds of the State
Land Bank or buy house-property with it. A
foundling-hospital that would take in this sort of
father and ask no questions would fill a great
want. By way of rubbing it in, the Bench, on an
afterthought, ordered the six-bob parent to find
=625 security that the payments to Mary Ann
would be made regularly. Supposing they are
made regularly, what kind of a citizen is a 4s.
infant with a 2s. father likely to be when he
grows up ?
« * * •
From an Arcadia passenger’s letter :
Rpoause we took some Indian passengers on board at
Aden, we were in for a sweet time of it at Malta, where
the people are in such an unholy funk about the plague
that the quarantine suppliers wouldn’t touch our coin"ex-
cept (literally) with the tongs; popping the money imme-
diately into some cleansing concoction and handing over
whatever you bought, also with the tongs, across a board
about Bft. wide. Signing the cross, too, and invoking the
saints (I suppose) over every deal. These rock-scorpions
are still in the Middle Ages !
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, -Why not a statue to W.
J. Clarke? Among ordinary inheritors of wealth
he was Great by virtue of his superior generosity.
Compare Clarke, of Melbourne, with other titled
parvenus, whose chief ambition is to bequeath an
enormous fortune to the next earl, baron, or
baronet, as the case may be. Compare him with
well, there isn’t far to look for another mil-
lionaire son of a grasping father —and say if it is
not advisable to set up his effigy as an example to
Moneybags at large. He was a useful example
during his lifetime. But for W. J. Clarke there
might not have been a Francis Ormond to endow
a college, and otherwise emulate his friend. —
Melbourne.
* * * *
One hundred and eighty-two wreaths sent
to a recent large Melb. funeral were noticed in the
Argus, and “ many others ” were cruelly debarred
from publicity.
The outside doctors are making a big
point of the insanitary condition of Adelaide Hos-
pital, in which institution many nurses are now
down with typhoid. But, by the irony of fate,
one of the chiefs of the medical strikers and his
daughter have been prostrated by the disease,
which was contracted in their own private resi-
dence. It is stated that the deep drainage has
been thrown out of gear by the recent earthquake,
and that the large increase of typhoid is due
thereto.
« * * +
Skating, which faded when the boom
burst, is showing signs of winter revival in Melb.,
but not among the Nicest. Society wants to ride
on wheels, but not on rollers.
CHRISTIAN VIRTUE.
YOUNG SOLOMONS : “ Father, take me to see the Sign of
the Cross.’”
OLD MAN: “ Ach! I vouldn’t spend tuppence on the
play!”
Y. S. : “But, father, they torture the Christians in this
piece.”
O. M. : “ Veil, dot is another matter.”
Memoriam notice from S.M. Herald :
TTVh 7 1895 —* beloved husband of
"I ill, native of , aged 44 years Interred
in select portion of the Church of England Cemetery,
Rookwood, by his widow. ______
The S.A. Govt, is going to attempt to stop
by legislative enactment the publication in the
newspapers of “ women’s salvation and such-like
advts. The clergy have long been trying to im-
press upon their flocks that there is a special merit
in having “children nine and ten,” while they
stigmatise as wicked all attempts to limit the con-
tents of the quiver. Wesleyan ministers, by the
way, receive from the denomination, under the
Children’s Fund, a grant of about .£8 a year for
each youngster until he or she reaches the age of lb.
The financial state of this Fund is always a matter
of Weslevan anxiety.
■** * *
Dear Bulletin, — On the rainy
days of Winter the dirtiest specimens of
dosserdom crowd into the noisome news-
paper-branch of Sydney Public Library,
and convert the place into a dormitory.
Yesterday I wanted to look at a country
paper, but found a ragged Dpmainer
poring intently over the sheet. Six hours
later he was apparently still studying
the same page, and closer inspection
proved him to be asleep. The poor devil
was quite indignant when the attendant
woke him. —T.D.
* * * *
It would be hard to conceive any-
thing more asinine than the proposed
provisions by which the N.S. \\. Phar-
macy Bill would allow of the registra-
tion, as qualified pharmacists, of assist-
ants who have been in the business for
three years, and of persons who have
professed to practise it for two. Suffi-
cient practical qualification might pos
sibly, in either case, have been
but there shouldn’t be any “ po-sibly
in matters of life and death. As well
put every quack of two years standing
on the Medical Register, or license as
a surveyor the man who has carried the
chain for three years.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— A queer yam.
Blackfellows’ weather-predictions—based
chiefly on animal and insect observa-
tion —are generally ahead of our cyclonic
and barometric deductions. But we
white people have as sure a means of
knowledge even within our doors. When
the common domestic cat, in washing
its face, passes its paw behind its ear,
rain is at hand : the oftener the paw goes
behind the ear the heavier the rain to
come. For long I was a scoffing sceptic ;
but six months of close observation
have proved two cats invariably right,
and I now place the cat unhesitatingly
first, the barometer nowhere. Quiz.
» * *
At Dubbo (N.S. W.) the gallows when not
on active service, lies in the cellar of the court-
house among’ the time-expired writs, played-out
ea sa.’s, satisfied distress-warrants, and other
mementoes of by-gone litigation Its position is
exactly below the Judge s bench. Perhaps the
Department of Justice thinks it may in some
occult way harden His Honor s heart, or perhaps
it is only, after all, reckoned tu be a handy thing
to have about the house. It is now erected for
the butchering of Nosey Bob’s latest victim
Moore, the Bourke murderer—who is said to have
•occasionally practised as a hangman himself.
Mongrelia, alias Queensland, contains
about 8000 Chinese, mostly adult males, and only
some 20 or so Chinese wives. Wha’ plicee whitee
sissetah ? My wohd ! And how many slant-eyed
half-castes and quarter-castes are there in Kanaka-
land ?
* » • *
A Brisbane (Q.) penlady, in the Echo, is
shocked at the demoralisation rampant at the
International Exhibition, from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.,
every pitch-dark evening. To save expenses m
illumination, only the basement, where all attend-
ants have tea, is lighted up, and that tea-room
gives the shocked one an idea of a “free-and-easy.”
Also, the bush-house and tea-gardens are left un-
lighted, and are promenaded by “ young people of
both sexes.” At which thought the penlady puts
her hands before her eyes and peers suspiciously
through the interstices between her fingers.
* * • *
A Vic. detective, just returned from Bris-
bane Exhibition, avers that the show is such a
frost in the matter of attendance as to starve out
the criminals who usually attend on such affairs.
He further says that Sydney streets are full of
erstwhile Vin. gaol-birds and confidence men.
* * * *
A Brisbane (Q.) female complainant, in a
breach-of-promise case, declared that she had a
billet of £1 10s. a week, with board and lodging,
and yet wanted to marry a widower with three
children, whose salary was £2 10s. a week \n un-
commercial jury awarded her <£2o damagu.
THE GOD-FEARING MINISTRY.
BILL (at the illuminations) : “Say, Joe, wot are
them letters V R I on that Guv’ment building
for? ”
J OE: “ Very religious inside, I guess !”
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos of this idea for
renaming New South Wales, why not leave it
without a name altogether ? Then it would natu-
rally become Blank, and we should all be Blankies.
As it is, one hears often enough of the Blanky
Government.— lshmael D.
* * * •
Adelaide Register attained its “diamond”
jubilee this month, having started publication on
June 3, 1837.
• * *
Announcement in the window of a Sydney
suburban corpse-catering firm:
<1 has been appointed undertaker to the
Dispensary.”
The little men are poor in fame,
The great man holds his fellows’ eyes ;
The little men are dead in name
As quickly as the Darling dries ;
But when at last the big man dies,
Then little men can advertise.
Not theirs to mourn his perished worth
Or watch him upward to the skies—
They are the offspring of the earth
And in their little ways are wise ;
And so, whene’er a Triton dies,
The minnows rush to advertise.
THE SYRIAN PEDLAR MAN
*»IT W/Vj %
p B ' ^ 7
nr T k 6^ >' Jfcjs* '. 'a
V/ty/J Tl\€ / v \€/'I pA € /
\ I n n a - ; Tlyigyyv before -
-It \Vpp l(\€ vyi |"e of T^e °V€
S kp Twined Tjy pcd]/\F\ / A / °' 'T#
SjT
\Y R£ Tkp
\]T pTo Tjy= pA M|
/d^Ji
ly Ad operJ fffilgSß
/~\b ov,£ t^K 7- , j^isl
j~\ JT jjkpt>A ou s[\^ - '''■—dSS^
y c y ~ I p^W
/3/vjd Nailed iT ’ 'Tpy l7 1.—77
pAQdb e To y^ d
• KyJ\ tf "pd A 5 1 'WS K o_r Jx. /
/\«W r _s'l'd3K e «p
you U
sa Tkou vKaTT - " N °f
&'*&'f
* v fHOTO OUTFITTERS
KING S'JSYDNd,
<!«£
fort
A«.M»
VI"
rf/Jf'M/n / Buy FflOM-f
a p^^ST^ D " S ' , So»S B ® ES£<>H -
Use of Dark Rooms—F RED.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
lations, &c.
Oculists, li
Sydney. By I
R
OSE’S CELEBRATED
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
Recommended 1; the Leading Sydney
.4. HOSE, Chemist, 531 George-street,
>ost, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips:
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice mil be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on Mis.
No liability is undertaken re contributions rolun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany,
Bures. (M.L.): Sorry your photo, couldn’t pos-
sibly be reproduced in an ordinary paper. .Geo. Lindsay :
Cannot even consider, because of its length Patinos:
The clergy have The Bulletin’s sympathy in the matter.
No respectable woman should be called upon to promote
drunkenness in the name of her Gracious Queen. The
better plan were to withhold the beer until the Jubilee
has spent its fury, and then let the urn mployed have a
plain, ordinary drunk on vulgar socialistic principles
G.M., jun. : One a suggestion ; neither good enough as
drawing - Cockaigne : Spurgeon hated Dr. Clifford, as a
Latitudinarian, and directed against him the famous
“ Down Grade” manifesto Walter M. (R.) : Received,
but, oddly enough, not one available.... Doc.: “Had”
that time. But was the drawing similar? .... H.J.W.
(Tas.): Drawing unacceptable ; legend unintelligible
S. Butterworth : Price Warung’s “Tales of the Con-
vict System posted from Bulletin office, Is. 3d. And
his other republished Bulletin stories—from any book-
seller T.L.: Verse no; borak ye 5..... Sydney R. : You
“ are sick of the eut-and-dried legal life,” and desire to
become a journalist. Forbear! Journalism is labor and
sweat, and little else ; for every penny you earn you have
to give an equivalent in brain-force, life-blood ; and the
moment your brain goes, you're done M.E. : The man
who insures a ship lays, say, £lOOO to £2O that the ship
won’t be wrecked. He calls it business, but it is gambling
nevertheless G.H.S. : You want to know if we ll pay
you for a photo, of a leading politician “ asleep on a rock
with a few bottles of gin near him.” Please tell us,
firstly, how many bottles of gin? P.T.F. (C.): Too long
for its unrelieved gloom G.M.D.A. : Thanks
Slasher : Not up A.P. : Not enough novelty or force
for space G.M.L. : Some invention ; wants ease and
reality Velo : Several sheets of nothing-in-particular.
H.T.B. : No humor in twins nowadays ... J. Louisa :
No, thanks Norseman : More philosophy than poetry.
Maisie : She seems to have had all the stale virtues in
the catalogue. Fresh vices make much better copy
Hairpins : Those are the things you shed on the floor,
aren’t they? Peter R. : Large, flat moral ... K.A.
(Tas.): It was answered unusable. “Friendship” also
far too thin for space B.M. : Received W.W. :
“ Satire ” invisible L.A. : Don’t take riddles W.S. :
Don’t strain that valuable intellect over poetry. Why
not breed rabbits? George P. : Too complex Zad :
“L.” all right Maru(B.) : Cin. accepted Harold H.:
Too recondite for this paper A. A. A. : Yes, that lie will
do, but it may have to wait awhile R.T.S.: Yet another
variant of a veteran and ever-recurring Hibernicism
M.B.S. :It was Chaffey Baker who suggested that any
elector failing to vote on two successive occasions, without
good cause, should have his name removed from the roll.
C.T. (Rockhampton) : The National Reformer is the
paper formerly edited by Bradlaugh, which died with him
and was recently resuscitated by his daughters. “National
Reformer, London,” will find it J.R.W. : The point is,
that she wanted a pen, and, being Irish, she asked the
bank-clerk for a “pin.” All the rest of 20 fcp. lines is
mere vanity N.B. : The Bulletin doesn t chronicle
“engagements”—save in very exceptional cases. It has
had too much trouble in climbing down after chronicling
the engagement of more or less obscure persons Landy :
Can’t say ; but, in some parts of the country, very
little ceremony is used in securing a partner for the dance.
The gentleman merely stands in front of a lad} 7 in an awk-
ward attitude, crooks his right elbow 7 , and says “Eh !
E.M.B. : Such isn’t The Bulletin’s experience. Some of
its most valued contributors have been, and are, of that
profession A. 0.8.: Yes, call Martin-place “ Queen-
street.” Call Moore-street “Queen-street,” Call every-
thing “Victoria.” Call the Almighty “Victoria and
call Heaven “London.” Phormi: An unconvincing
yarn—too obviously built-up—H. Brown : 2pp. conun-
drum received. What’s it all about? Edward S.
Sorensen : Address, please Yildiz : feeble sarcasm
over the conscientious Turkish Generals fetching their
harems to Thessaly instead of making them locally, after
the fashion of the English E. : Only the auditorium of
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Melb., is “ finished.” The design
embodies a central spire 350 ft. high, with two front spires
each 250 ft .... J.D. (Tas.): Sorry, but Bulletin does not
deliberately deal in foreign antiquities C. : Ever see a
pensioner without gloves? J.R.P. :It ia understood
Wentworth refused a baronetcy, wanting a peerage
T.W. (Tam.): Both hackneyed. .J.T.M’C. : A bald
calamity, not a story E.G.M. :No meat in the tale of
Daylight’s deceit Commo : Try something on an Aus-
tralian, or, at any rate, a topical, theme. Such sketches
appear in all sorts of papers. We want something which
proclaims aloud its own originality A.K.D. : Vide fore-
going W.T. : Ditto; also the “record ram” pun is
now a mere monstrosity Skit (Peters.) : Don’t remem-
ber “Types.” “Real Life” may possibly do Alo.
(Tas.): Your French is as bad as your cook’s. What is
“ Pate de fois gras?” A.E.G. : Thanks, but no space
for regular correspondence. Cutting reprinted weeks ago
in Australian dailies Widgeree : Wanted, your name
on each slip of MS Loyal Subject: Thanks.. . V.J.E. :
The burden of making it attractive would all fall on the
artist Brusher : Amusing, but needs scrubbing before
publication J.L.I. : You complain that The Bulletin
• ■ criticises trustee and executor co. balance-sheets in the
interest of the shareholders.” How else can they be
criticised? The balance-sheet shows how the share-
holders are getting on ; it doesn’t and can’t show how the
clients are getting on. If it told how 7 much interest was
realised on an average for the clients, how the money was
invested, and what the bad debts were, something might
be said C.E.B. : A very old London Punch joke
M • Coais to Newcastle ! The steeplechasing-bicycle he
was originally written by “M’G.” in The Bulletin ; it has
since travelled round the world, and is now quoted in
Australia as from English cycling papers. . . J.A.8.(8.) :
No thanks . D.W. : “The City of the Plains” to a Corn-
stalk reads “ Bathurst.” To a Queenslander, “ Winton. ’
To a Maorilander, “Christchurch.” A.V. : The
spirit-selling grocer is, in New South Wales, not sup-
posed to sell less than two gallons at a time—
of one kind of liquor, presumably—but the law is
obscure, and the grocer sends two gallons made up of
various kinds of liquor. Hence the publican’s objection.
Carlton : The Australian universities have not the
power of granting honorary degrees, either doctorates of
laws or any others. All they can do is to grant degrees
ad eundum gradum to graduates of other universities as
an act of academic comity “Books” asks : (1) If a man
is arrested through mistaken identity, on a criminal
charge, by a constable, and is discharged from custody,
can he obtain any redress from the Crown ? (2) How long
does a criminal warrant hold good ? No pecuniary re-
dress can be got if the constable had reasonable and prob-
able cause for making the arrest. A criminal warrant
holds good until it is executed H.S.C. : First learn to
spell. Then write poetry to your lost girl M.H.H.
(Newcastle) : Sketches unavailable.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free: or 1/3. Senior,
ohemist, George-street, Sydney.*
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager Beer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
and always insist on
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 22, 1897.
Mr Dear Mteh—
Mad there bepn a prize given for the best-
decorated street during the gas and bunting waste,
Oxford-street would have won it easily. In that
thoroughfare the whole scene of adornment was
consistent, and a string of gay lanterns carried
along from end to end united the Oxonians in a
decorative whole. Elsewhere, ideas were carried
out independently of neighbors, and every artist
who worked his wicked will on the royal features
had his own notion of what Queen Victoria is
like. However, the crown was always there as a
trade-mark of genuineness, and the Princess of
Wales could invariably be known by her curly
bang. On Monday a great excitement for sight-
seers was watching the workmen draping a cold,
stony-fronted bank with miles of innocent-looking
art-muslin. Decorators absorbed every scrap of
red, white and blue muslin weeks ago, and late
purchasers gave famine prices for any tints that
came anywhere near those colors. Barbers were
loyal with little cost—their striped poles and door-
posts are painted the royal hues all the year
round. Many glittering fixings were encores from
ten years ago, furbished up and a little added to.
Of the effigies displayed in shop-windows, Her
waxen and self-working Majesty, in a big boot-
shop, was a most attractive advt. ; another in
Pitt-street attracted shoals of gazers, and was
truer as a portrait.
If the recording-angef ever nods at his work, the
morning papers are all there to jog his memory.
They have got all the names of those loyal wor-
shippers who went to church last Sunday, and
have also noted the women’s “ dainty " dressing.
The Cathedral in George-street had the gaudiest
congregation, but St. Mary’s service was ahead
with ecclesiastical robing—purple and scarlet and
cloth-of-gold were gleaming everywhere. Crowds
of sightseers filled both buildings and the surround-
ing pavements to see the dignitaries arrive and
depart. At the Town Hall gates there was a
Buckingham Palace air about the two haughty
officials who kept the populace out while the car-
riages drove away from the precincts. Mean-
while, a disappointed throng of gaily-dressed
women, clasping prayer-books as a proof that they
meant to go to church, brightened the ground on
the other side of the Cathedral, and so missed the
swagger procession of “miserable sinners ” rolling
down George-street. His Ex., who must feel
pretty lonely now when he goes to church without
his cocked hat, wasn’t quite as gorgeous as he was
at the wedding, but all the military men and
judges were bright in scarlet, except one judiciary,
who wore black-and-gold. A large colonel was
balanced by a small groom in a minute dogcart.
Compared with the glittering scarlet and Mayor’s
gold chain, the Parliamentary black-and-white
was dull. The “ God-fearing ” Ministry acted the
part thoroughly on Sunday—frock-coat, tall hat,
right-hand glove and prayer-book in gloved left
hand, rolled umbrella and wife on right, all look-
ing as good as new. It was a beautifully English-
bourgeois spectacle.
Women turned up in shoals to the Titheradge
matinee, for the departing actor, popular and re-
spected among men, has always been something
of an idol with the sex, and could have been a
much bigger idol had he not coldly turned his
back on adoration and devoted himself to horti-
culture. His farewell, uttered with the co.
grouped round him, was genuinely pathetic and
saddened the general tone; all the co. seemed
depressed, especially Mr. Brough, who leaned his
head against an adjacent prop., the image of
melancholy. J. Knight and Miss Page showed in
an unremarkable playlet, in which the lady wore
a blouse offering suggestions of renovating a last
year’s bodice ; it was fixed up with velvet in
bright green and coral pink. If the tints had
been blue and purple I shouldn’t have recorded
them, but it’s refreshing this week to notice any
hues except the all-prevailing loud tones of glaring
“royal” colors. Among the musical selections,
the complexion of the sopranos who braved the
footlights without the aid of grease-paint was
rather a disastrous item; another unmade-up
soloist did not belie his appearance, for his friends
are raising funds for him on account of his failing
health. After the farewell many of the Nicest
d.c. occupants were refreshed at a fashionable tea-
room by invitation. The Titheradge dinner at
the Athenaeum Club, presided over by Mr.
Barton, Q.C., was largely attended and a great
success ; a man who was present tells me that
Titheradge's reply to the toast of his health was
the very best speech he ever heard from an actor
anywhere.
A “ woman-dinner ” —the first of these up-to-
date soirees recorded in Sydney—was given at the
Ladies’Club last week. The hostesses were mem-
bers of the original coterie out of which the pre-
sent club has emerged, and the guest was the aunt
of the proprietor, lately released from quarantine.
A hitch arose in the arrangements owing to one of
the givers of the feast (a travelled lady with short
hair who rides a bike and has written a book)
having aired in that work some facts in the life of
another member, a sassiety star, but the difficulty
was got over by the caricatured lady leaving her-
slf out of the party. Every detail was arranged
from manly models, minus spirits and smoke, and
the speeches were nervously correct and proper.
The toasts were three : “ The Queen,” “ Our
Guests,” and “ Other Women ; ” the last a suffi-
ciently comprehensive one. Nothing is more un-
like a woman than another woman, and the pro-
poser of the toast, lumping the whole sex together
in a grand universal sisterhood, had tier work cut
out to display an all-embracing goodwill, which
isn’t by any means feminine. The speeches were
short and neat, but not fireworky at all.
A few women in Sydney can rise and emit a
coherent sentence to a roomful of people without
gasping and clutching at the nearest chair-back,
but. even the fluent person who goes beyond re-
marking “ I think the price of tickets should be
two-and-six,” at a Town Hall meeting, looks
strai-ht down her nose and takes herself mighty
seriously. She never elocutes or jests or perorates,
and her vocabulary is limited to the best-worn
words and “I think.” If a woman orator is elo-
quent it is usually on her own, and only, subject
which she drags in everywhere. If some of these
one-topic women thunderers were men we should
call them simply bores.
With the winter comes the spiritualist. At
the house of a Sydney lady, who had a sensa-
sational “drop down” not long since, many
peculiar manifestations and materialisations are
said to occur. The “circle” is a very credulous
one, being composed for the most part of women
seeking the consolation of spiritualism as a balm
for the death of relatives and friends. At one>
gaHiering the spirit of a well-known sportsman
appeared bemoaning the fact that he had ruined
hundreds on this wicked sphere, and asking the
circle to pray for him. As the “ sport ” had no
friends in this pay-for-admission crowd, it was sug-
gested that his spirit ought to leave a cash con-
tribution for prayers in advance. Later on in the-
evening a Chinese spook took possession of a lady
with an Irish brogue. Had the exhortation only
been phonographed, it would make all self-respect-
ing people swear off spiritualism for ever.
Among smart folk, the talk just now is livened
by several little anecdotes about those trouble-
some insects euphemistically termed “Norfolk
Howards.” An ultra - fashionable couple was
deterred from moving into a house lately vacated
by an almost-as-high-toned family, owing to the
presence of the insects. Tongues in the Nicest,
circles wagged over this as proving that the.
departed family had not used yellow soap and
scrubbing-brushes too freely ; but then, that was;
only circumstantial evidence —though sometimes,
as Thoreau says, circumstantial evidence is con-
vincing—as, for instance, when one finds a trout
in the milk-jug. At a most exclusive club, a.
sleeper found himself one night not alone, and,
packing three of the smart insects in a pill-box, he.
sent them to the secretary, with his compliments.
But the haughty sec. got even with him by send-
ing a polite message that the little strangers must,
have been collected and brought to the club by the
grumbler from the house aforesaid. The clubman,
had been a frequent visitor there.
A performer in a certain recent operatic trouble
down East was the possessor of a quaint pair of
legs. Amateurs’ legs are always impossible, but
these were even worse than usual. Their owner
had evidently never worn tights before, and in that
comic-opera garb her limbs looked like a capital
D, for one was straight and the other curly. Her
husband on the first night sat in the d.c. gazing at
the stage with a pained expression. The full
horror of those limbs had never dawned on him
before.
The University amateurs struggled with “Ran-
dall’s Thumb” at the Standard Theatre last
Thursday evening. From the beginning the audi-
ence looked prepared for the worst, and the per-
formers’ worst showed a high degree of badness
all through. The prompter worked hard to make
the piece go, and carried the whole of the last act
on his shoulders. Owing to the fatal amateur
craving for wigs, most of the eo. were apparently
suffering from swelled head, and there was a want
of expression in their hair. One of the female
parts was taken by a youth who dressed and
looked naturally, and was only unconvincing when
he remarked “ Horace ! ” in a deep bass. Miss.
White, who played an old maid, saved most of the
situations she was in, and had an original way of
turning her hair grey by binding white chiffon
round it under her hat.
A new soprano, Miss Ridley, had a vocal trial
trip in Paling’s mirrored hall on Saturday after-
noon, and pleased a score or so of musical critics
whom she had invited to hear her. She warbled
in a clear, well-cultivated voice, with a method
made in Germany, and showed to most advantage
in her oratorio selection.
The Tempe ball is billed this year for 7th July.
An energetic committee, with Mrs. A. Cape and
Mrs. E. Simpson as hon. treasurers and Mrs.
Kirkwood Colley and Miss Jennings as hon. secs.,
is working it up, and announces as extra attrac-
tions the usual fancy sets and a military bicycle
ride by ladies and gentlemen for the amusement of
gallery onlookers.
The Baby Show, which began on Monday after-
noon, consisted of about 100 exhibits, a loud piano
to drown the wails of the same, an interested
crowd of critical women with one or two discon-
certed men inspecting the entries, and a general
atmosphere of feeding-bottles and new flannel.
Some of the penned-up exhibits were remarkably
well-grown for their months ; one bloated darling
labelled three months looked at least a year old.
The veterans of the crowd were elderly infants of
two ; a sturdy pair of twins in tartan'frocks were
among the lively features of the show, while many
cherubs slumbered in a soothing-syrupy way. One
little chap with orange-brown eyes and pure
golden hair was the beauty, but they were nearly
all such fine children that, comparing them with
the surrounding grown-ups, one wondered what
becomes of all the pretty babies.
The Brough benefit at the Lyceum on Monday
was made the most of by a society audience, with
whom the co.’s popularity has always been strong.
The d.c. was crowded, and dressy and brightened
with Gov’t’ouse uniforms and diamonds, and much
fuss and feathers on cloaks. It was a strangely
silent audience, though-they all seemed to feel
that it was a “good-bye,” and were for once sub-
dued below chatter - level. The album full of
artists’ sketches, which was handed to Mr. and
Mrs. Brough by Mr. Barton at the end of “ Dandy
Dick,” has two or three pages containing solely
the names of the plays in which they have acted
when here —a long list. The sketches are charm-
ing reminiscences of the ’arbor from many points
of view, the Cri., and other personal associations.
After the album-and-cheque presentation, Miss
Temple was given an opal ring, which surprised
her into a grateful little speech. A small invited
crowd went behind after, where, amid the ruins of
St. Marvel’s Deanery, a cloth was laid, and repre-
sentatives of art, journalism, music, the theatre
and sassiety joined in drinking good-bye and good-
luck to the Brough co.
At the wedding of Acting - Premier Tozer’s
daughter in Brisbane lately, everything was done
in the most top-lofty style. Govt. House was in-
vited, but failed to arrive in time, and “dearly
beloved ” started without His or Her Ex. When
the party did come in a prayer was proceeding, and
the distinguished arrivals clattered to their seats
so noisily that the officiating clergyman paused
until they reached their places, and then resumed
the service.
The Protectionists of Redfern held a “ social ”
in the Oddfellows’ Temple last Friday night. The
cards were issued by the lady protectionists, and
responded to by about 300 guests, including
several M’sL.A. and their families. Dancing was
kept up to a string band with much enthusiasm
till 2 a.m. _ The next light fantastio Protectionist
toes to trip in the good cause will belong to
Waterloo and Belmore. The lady president
Mrs. Graham, and sec. Mrs. Gray, were elabo-
rately gowned. Among the dresses, black was
first favorite.
Fashion scribes in writing up the costumes of 60
years should note that the philosophy of female
dress has been the gradual recognition that women
have legs. In the Queen’s childish days, even
babyish limbs were concealed by “ pantalettes ” or
“ trouserettes,” as witness the hideous little sample
garments now on show in David Jones’s window
—the shape of the nether limb was ungazed upon
at any age. Look at the ballet-girls in antique
picture papers, with full bunching skirts, and never
a kick indicated beyond an angle of 45deg. Also re-
call illustrations of riding-habits in the early fifties,
the skirt concealed everything—even the clutching
power of the right knee on the pommel was
shrouded in voluminous mystery, and flowing
yards of strong cloth billowed round the rider and
snatched at danger from every hedge and tree.
How much more workmanlike are the short skirts
and frankly-shown, natty riding-boots of to-day.
Crinoline was created in a spasm of prudery to
hide all form, but was attacked and killed by
caricature. An age that has travelled from crino-
line to cycling-dress can’t surely be accused of
retrogression sartorially.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Diamond Jubilee Loan Collection of pic-
tures was opened on Saturday night at the
National Gallery by H.E., backed up by Lady
B. (in black moire antique), Mrs. Freeman Thomas
(in blue brocade), and his fragile-looking staff of
aides. In his most pronounced House of Commons
mannah His Ex. droned on for half an hour
about all things relevant and irrelevant, which had
happened anywhere on earth during the last 60
years, while the assembled guests frankly turned
their backs on the speaker, and the women criticised
one another in tones so loud that the vice-regal
voice sounded through the chattering like some
one rolling heavy furniture in the basement. The
night was wet, and the company consequently
shabby ; wet shoes and skirts made watery traces
along the polished floors, and straightened fringes
drooped over faces, giving to those who were not
wise enough to wear toupees a haggard and de-
jected air. One woman in an iridescent snaky-
looking gown of the new glass material gained the
proud eminence of being the smartest frocked
woman in the crowd.
“Undoubtedly the ‘sensation’ picture in the
show is Longstaff’s portrait of Miss Fink, though
Millais’ picture of little Cecil Webb had its group
of admirers all night. A collection of early por-
traits of Her Gracious and ‘ dear Albert ’ is so like
a collection of Leech’s and Cruikshank’s carica-
tures that it is quite impossible to take them seri-
ously. Vic., in side curls and a crinoline (wherein
the painter has painfully inserted the then fashion-
able * startled-fawn ’ expression), and Albert, with
cast-iron legs and an insignificant German face,
may bear out Winterhalter’s whole ideas of the
dignity of royalty, but it needed a Cruikshank to
do that era full justice. ‘At Osborne,’ too, shows
the Queen in her widowhood—on horseback in
something very like a crinoline and a hideous coal-
scuttle bonnet; the Princess Somebody’s wedding
points out that in those days her ma wore a turban
and looked like the old lady who played whist
with Pickwick at Bath, and that H.M. stuck her
hair full of assorted roses. It would seem that
V.R. has never been a good subject for artistic
portraiture, or that the paint-slingers of the early
Victorian era bore that much-pictured lady a
distinct grudge ; if “Albert the Good” wasn’t hen-
pecked then his portraitists libelled his expression
every time.
“ Matthew Davies forwarded a cheque for .£l4O
to the promoters of the Melb. free-dinner fund.
Part of the milk in the cocoanut, by the way, is
that M.H.D. will be a candidate at the general
election—will seek to oust the saintly Gray from
Prahran.
“ A few weeks previous to the death of a wealthy
and prominent Victorian, than whom there never
lived a better-natured man, his wife received a
letter recommending somebody’s Inebriate Re-
treat as a suitable place for the cure of her hus-
band. The lady sent a courteous reply to the
effect that her husband’s ‘ intemperance ’ was a
popular delusion. She might have stated, in
good, round terms, that a well-conducted man of
his age, who was never incapable of putting his
hand in his pocket to help somebody else, didn’t
need curing, anyway. Also, she might have been
excused if she had sent the biggest groom out of
her stable to wallop her thick-skinned correspon-
dent into a sense of common decency.
The cablegrams which so copiously chronicle
the doings of the Australian swashbucklers in
London have so far failed to give any information
on a subject highly interesting to every loyal sub-
ject of Her Majesty in Australia. Sad to relate,
when the Vic. Mounted Rifles left Port Mel-
bourne and were safely at sea, the horrible truth
was revealed that someone had blundered, for not
one of the heroes had another pair of trousers but
that in which he stood. There was no chance of
getting them sent to Adelaide, for the skipper of
the boat pleaded that the signal code didn’t pro-
vide for a request for pants, and thus any hope of
importuning a passing lighthouse was dashed to
pieces. The result was that the glorified country
yokels had to complete the voyage in those same
pants, and as they are bound to be pretty well
worn by this time, their country wants to know
whether they are escorting their Queen in their
pyjamas, or whether they have been attached to a
Highland regiment, or what ?
“ ‘ The Australasian invasion has begun ’
writes a London correspondent of mine
Perfumed with cheap tobacco and ship whisky’
they rush ashore from every steamer hungry
shake , a lordB k and, or anything else of
note and see the Queen. There was a glare
m Oxford-street the night after the Austral
arrived, which made the electric-lights go out
thinking sunrise had come, turned out the
Clerkenwell fire-brigade and dazed the eyes of
the hansom horses behind their blinkers. It was
merely Tom O’Brien, of Melbourne, irradiant ir-
ridescent, in full facial bloom, owning the street as
he walked, and acknowledging the salutes of tv, o
surrounding buildings witnthe right-ear-approauh*
mg tilt of his ebony-enamelled Lincoln P and B
There are many of them in the Strand Regent-st
thi ' bl ' 05 "‘ , “ ;
by laundrying. Although they put a s-lnss nn
collars, and a high light, unbehefd before in those
primitive parts, on shirt-bosoms, and their charges
are not more than half those usually exacted hv
laundresses on the fields, each of the three
tnous maidens manages to scoop a ‘ tenner ’ ner
week. Two daughters of an English colonel are
also amassing com ,n a rather novel way They
have opened a restaurant in Kalgoorlie where thev
serve a gorgeous seven o’clock dinner for which
the pnce is certainly stiff, but the table isekW
ately d©cked with fairy licrhN oiii™ i j
glasses, &c, with a serviette-*’ noveltv m
West—for each diner. The pirls 7 ln the
gantly attired in the evening g ßarb oiN^T 68 ’*® 16 '
sit down to dinner with them custom er« at i on ’
tain them with polite conversation d enter ’
pSo™Guildfo°J^ W A %7» .S.M* took
20th May, was a very auhHff •° f ®?^ land on
the bride and bridegroom the offiei n^°° ne bufc
and wituewe.
Afterwards ‘ Henri ’ and his bride spent a few
days honeymooning in i erth.
“ I lately had achat with a pretty girl at the
florist’s. She says that, as a rule, a successful
actress is more profitable to the trade than a big
funeral, because even if the former does not mean
big orders she lasts longer, and pays better in the
long run. She estimated that her firm had cleared
close upon £3OO out of one swell funeral, but that
was a record. The best kind of actress for busi-
ness is a young and pretty burlesque artiste with
no known male accompaniment. Indeed, it would
pay the florists to subsidise the theatres to pro-
duce Grace regularly ; but, according to
the contemptuous Flora, the trade is dreadfully
lacking in intelligent enterprise, the whole of its
brain-power being devoted to the task of getting
half-a-guinea for a shilling’s-worth of carnations
and chrysanthemums.
“ Another word or two on a well-worn subject.
When the medical doctresses of Victoria found
that the (staff’s) door of the only women’s hospi-
tal in the province was, to all intents and pur-
poses, labelled ‘Gentlemen only/ they naturally
determined to make a little h-heaven of their
own.’ The new Melb. institution, which is now
staggering under the title of Queen Victoria
Memorial Hospital for Women/ was really in
existence some months ago. It treats both
women and children, and is officered entirely by
women ; and considering that both the other insti-
tutions devoted to the same purpose are con-
stantly flying the signal ‘ full inside,’ the jubilee
undertaking vvill probably have plenty of oppor-
tunity to get into debt.
“ But, because the Women’s Hospital, Carlton,
had a long monopoly of the particular feminine
ailments it caters for, the idea of a vigorous rival
in the field seems to have ruffled the flounces of
its matronly committee. At a meeting, lately,
the angry ones declared that most of the cash
collected by canvassers for the Q.V.M.H. had
come from a long-suffering public under the mis-
apprehension that it was going towards the old
original refuge. This statement was promptly
challenged, and all the ensuing correspondence
tends to show that the first kitten was mewing on
the wrong roof. However, the controversy is
equally unfortunate for both objects,
Yours affectionately, Cleo.
After all, the Melbourne illuminations
were a somewhat prodigious display of Jubilee
grovel. _ The City Fathers, ill-famed for their
callous indifference to local charities, can be held
responsible for a lot of sinful expenditure in loyal
gas, outside of their own municipal waste of the
ratepayers’ coin. As soon as it became known
that the Corporation intended to indulge in a
Jubilee frenzy the madness spread. Menzies’
Hotel threw away .£250 upon its elaborate design ;
James Service, the Scotchman, had a £lOO flare-
up ; and all sorts of buildings at the unfrequented
end of the town gave sad illustrations of the fierce
light that beats upon a throne. The rival lighting
go’s reap the profits, and the loss will fall in-
directly upon the employes of the firms that love
Our Gracious Queen.
One of Australia’s most excited sons just
now is J. W. Fleming, of Brunswick (Melb.).
This jubilant person claims to be the “first white
native of the colony that bears our Sovereign
Lady’s name, ” and he is understood to spend much
of his time in composing letters to the Queen.
Her Nibs—or somebody else who amounts to the
same thing—is guilty of an occasional reply to her
loyal Fleming, and in consideration of his being
the first white native, &c., she has posted him a
sprig of heather cut by her own royal hand, and a
photo, of her own royal self as she appears in her
royal donkey-cart. The effect of all this royal
condescension upon Fleming had been quite
shocking up to last week. Its effect at time of
writing is probably awful in the extreme. The
jubilee condition of a native who, during his term
as Mayor of Brunswick, purchased a steam-roller
for the borough and christened it “ The Countess
of Hopetoun,” is bound to be awful. The Bulle-
tin expects to hear that Fleming exploded, along
with the other crackers, on the night of 22nd.
The death of N.S.W. Railway-Commis-
sioner Eddy removes a man whom one grudges
to the Shades. The bitterest and most pro-
minent of his antagonists have also their ig-
®pble uses, but if a score of such were swept into
the dustheap every morning the community would
never miss them. It is a disheartening feature of
human economy that the loftiest natures are also
the most delicate. Their unselfish forethought,
their concentration or exaltation, their devotion
to duty, are obtained at the cost of tension which
makes their bodies an easy prey to disease; while
coarse-grained, thick-headed types sleep eight
hours without a tremor, eat and drink noisily all
day, and roar like bulls at stump-demonstrations,
to end in the odor of a mean respectability at
ninety or so. E. M. G. Eddy was a man in a
on—rehabie, honorable, able. The reformed
iM.b.vy. railway system is his work; and he
reaped the reformer’s harvest of animosity and
slander. He has given for the public good his
brain and time, which were paid for; and his life,
which was not paid for. It is a keen grief that
such a man should die hardly past his prime.
A RARE
OPPORTUNITY
for lady visitors from the country to
acquaint themselves with all the most
fashionable novelties in Dress Fabrics,
Cashmeres, Millinery, etc., is afforded
by the display made by us specially for
their benefit. We solicit a visit.
W. T. WATERS «{' CO.,
Lacies' Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
In Time of Jubilee!
He died, the Son of Man,
And He was crucified;
Upon the Cross He died
To save from Sin’s dread ban
All who, since Earth began,
Lived, fainted, fought, and died !
The Son is dead and gone ;
Now, Man is crucified !
S TEELE GRRY
WANOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
The Manager, 27th May, 1897.
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney.
of^^- F ° r H*? 6 " y ears 1 endured the miseries
of Indigestion and Liver Complaint. I suffered con-
an a d n nnfit r slck , hea ; iacl ? e - and always felt tired out
a nd unfit for work. I tried numerous remedies but
LOAsIy’S o “W h A e wnA” e - ond ® rful cures Claimed for
® WAHOO induced me to give it a trial
with the result that lam completely cured. Many of
my fnends are now taking “ WAHOO,” and speak as
highly of it as I do.-Yours truly, P
CHARLES HONES.
WAHOO!
Price 2/6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasb/s " Waboo" Mtg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.


Personal Items.
Bryan O’Loghlen will be 69 on June 27
. A brother , of M-• Ralli, the Greek Premier,
is m business m Adelaide (S. A.).
., Q; Meteorologist Wragge has re-christened
the Almighty— the Infinite Dynamo.”
“My hon friend, the member for ’Av
ff r '5rj ht0n ' _HaI ‘ FRED Hedden, Hem Pee
The death of Henry Ayers takes away the
last ex-President of S.A. Leg. Council. There
is now no ex-Speaker living, Mr. George Hawker
having been the last.
Lay up for yourselves treasures in Heaven
where you will never be driven to suicide by a
Mor “ Kfl “ tiono ”
EXACTLY.
SHE: “I do not approve of second marriages, bat
[?]f I should marry again it would be a man of
tome means.”
HE: “ I see — sufficient means to justify the end !”
At last week’s Parliamentary cooey in
Brisbane (Q.), Ex. Lamington extended his vice
royal hand to Bully Palmer, but Bully “ wasn't
looking.” “ The hand o’ Douglas is his own ” ?
Oddly enough, one brand of tobacco, which
has for many months been on the market, has on
its tin-tag the name, “Butler and Bosher, makers.”
Apropos, was it the tin-tag of this tobacco that
Butler cut his throat with ?
Surcingle: “‘Augur’ Chapman’s famous
run in all shapes’ was uttered at St.
Albans, when, on the eve of the Melb. Cup won
by Don Juan, a party of sportsmen down there
agreed that he was a carthorse.”
When Dr. William Macky, brother of
Presbyterian parson Dill Macky, started practice
as a sawbones in Sydney, someone wrote on the
door of the manse —“ Body and soul saved with
skill by Dr. Dill and his brother Bill.”
John Plumper Hoolan, the digger in his
natural buff, is known to the Croydon boys, but
Hoolan, M.P., with a boiled shirt and a nosegay
in the top buttonhole of his coat, is a sight reserved
for Brisbane in general, and the ’Ouse in parti-
cular.
Critchett Walker, N.S.W. Principal
Under-Sec., will be 56 on June 28. He ought to
have been born at Parramatta, but the event took
place on the steamer Arabian near the Cape of
Good Hope. He joined the N.S.W. civil service
41 years ago.
The only Australians who received the
title of G.C.M.G. were Alfred Stephen and
Henry Parkes of N.S. Wales, and Thomas Elder
and Henry Ayers, of S.A. All are now dead, the
two last having passed away during the second
quarter of this year.
In London, Judge Windeyer has read a
paper on “Technical Education in N.S.W. ’ It
probably contained a reference to the historical
six-barreled Mount Rennie gallows, constructed
by a local firm, on whom a Sydney daily paper
said it “ reflected great credit.”
At the opening of Q. Parliament, every
M.L.C. present, except Pat Perkins, wore the
regulation evening suit, white choker and white
gloves. Pat attended in his walking clobber, and
nobody was horrified. Councillors are mostly
more snore and clothes than legislation.
Henry Ayers, the recently-deceased S.A.
politician, obtained his knighthood owing to the
accident that he was Premier of the Ministry
whioh was in office when the transcontinental
telegraph-line was completed, despite the fact that
he was one of the strongest opponents of the
scheme.
In reserving certain law points raised by
Butler’s counsel, Chief Justice Darley said he
would get the Full Court to consider them on
the following Monday—thus publicly assuming
that prisoner would be convicted by the jury
then absent from court! Isn’t this just about the
record judicial faux pas ?
Another Australian vice-regal story. This
particular Ex., a golf enthusiast, had been playing
nis first game at the local links, and, when the
time arrived for tipping the “ caddies,” he asked
one of the company what was regarded there as a
fair tip. On being told that 6d. was quite enough,
but that they usually got Is., he calmly turned
round to his friend and asked him for change of
“ a shullin.”
. hangman (who is paid “ by the
piece ) was up the other day on a £4 judgment-
summons. He said he couldn’t pay, as “ business ”
nad been very slack, but fortunately, owing to
. stm:ral recent good verdicts,” he would soon be
in a position to cash-up if the Court would kindly
g!ve him time. The Court suspended the warrant,
and then visited the nearest furnace to unfreeze
i s gore and take the icicles out of its backbone.
Dear Bulletin, —Your “illegitimate trum-
peter yarn recalls the forgotten legend of a
young comp, who “set-up” Dan oPConnell0 P Connell as
M-ating about “ the b y hand of oppression ! ”
*< sir,” he explained to the irate boss,
that—er— bloody ’ full would be too strong
language for our columns.” To which the other,
y es, and if I were to call you ‘ bloody fool ’ it
would be strong language, but, by the Lord, it
would be gospel truth ! ” — Gard.
The condemned man Butler would have
exercised a lawful right had he declined to plead
while ABtley Cooper and members of Government
House party occupied seats on the judgment
bench. An accused person is legally entitled to a
Bench constituted of proper law officials only, just
as he is entitled to a jury consisting solely of the
12 men who pronounce upon his case. What if
the jury foreman invited half-a-dozen respected
grocers and tailors to share the jury-box with his
11 associates ?
Dear Bulletin, — As something of a be-
liever in David Syme, I don’t imply blame in the
following (possible) secret history of recent occur-
rences. “By sending rifle-team to England, I
show publio spirit, score with the ‘silken-bonds ’
people, and make offer of a title reasonably cer-
tain. Then, by refusing said title, show more
public spirit, score again with the Democratic
crowd, vindicate the Symic Tradition, and lose
nothing that I value a tinker’s damn ! ” David
the Wily is quite capable of seeing thus far ahead
of his nose !—A.M.
“ Waihoa ” to The Bulletin :
Re Henry Lawson’s appointment as master of a native
school in Hawke’s Bay. There is here a boundless field
opened for Lawson’s genius, to wit, the introduction of
the Maori into literature. As far as my reading goes, this
has never yet been done, with the single exception of
Manning’s glorious book, “ Old New Zealand.” Indeed,
it seems to be as difficult to get the Maori into fiction as
to keep the wattle out of Australian poetry. It has often
been attempted, but the product has seldom risen much
above “ Deadwood Dick ” style, with Maori names sub-
stituted for Indian, or feeble variations on the worn-out
Hinemoa theme. It is strance that the finest savage race
on earth should be so intractable on paper. The material
is here ; if Lawson can supply the workmanship the world
should hear of the result.
TEAT TELLURIDE AGAIN.
BARMAID: “ Money, please.”
SPECULATOR : “ Well, I’m blowed [?]f [?]lluride hasn’t got
into my pocket and hunted all the sovereigns out.”
Sculptor Bertram Mackennal is due in
Melbourne for the Cup. By the way, his jubilee
statuette of Her Gracious represents Victoria as
a beautiful sylph of 18. Mackennal is an artist —
and artful.
Vic. : “Jos. Symes is in very bad health,
and the cruellest cut of all is his physical inability
to respond to an invitation by the Melb. Demo-
cratic Club for a jubilee lecture on the Queen. I
am not aware of his circumstances, but if an ap-
peal were necessary perhaps even his enemies
would heap a few coals this cold snap.”
FLANNIGAN’S MAJORITY.
COUNTRY DOGBERRY (decidua case in favor of defendant, but is reminded
by the two other dissentient J’[?]P. that the majority rules) :
"The majority rules! Well, Oi’m the majority. Oi’m
Misther Flannigan, that's wan; Oi’m Chairman of this Coort,
that’s two; and Oi’ve the casting vote, that’s three !”
The Adelaide agent for A.F. (Advertising
Fellow) Calvert, states that the Exploring Ex-
pedition has cost .£4OOO, of which quite £2OOO has
been spent by Calvert in the seven months’ search
for the missing men, Wells and Jones, whose
bodies are expected to reach Adelaide during the
first week in July.
John Alex. Dowie, the bearded little par-
son who flourished his umbrella in Sydney 15
years ago or so, has long been in full' blast at
Chicago as a faith-healer, where he runs a “ re-
ligious ’’ paper called the White Dove. Therein
we read a brief autobiography of himself, in which
he says :
In Sydney I was offered by Sir Henry Paries the port-
folio of Minister of Education in his Government, and I
could have been, he said, Premier within a few years if I
had only given myself to polities.
But he didn’t, thank Heaven ! John Alex, is
still the same old John Alex., for in the White
Dove (how eternal is the fitness of things !) he
characterises pressmen as “dirty, stinking little
pots of whisky and tobacco.”
One of the leading men
in the commercial department
of Melb. Age, who has been
in the office from boyhood, re-
cently summoned up enough
nerve to beard King Dawvid
and crave six months’ leave of
absence, to which he trembl-
ingly tacked a request for
half - pay. “Seeks months’
hauliday on hawf-pay ! ” said
Dawvid Syme, pausing.
“Yes,’’faltered the other, wish-
ing he had never been born.
‘ Aw Idonaethingof the kind,”
said King David ; “aw’l geeve
ye seeks months’ leave of ab-
sence on full pay.” And he did.
That well-known jour-
nalist, Charles Otho Montrose,
once professionally attended
a big Maori meeting at Whati-
whatihoe wearing an ancient
beiltopper with its nap in a
violent state of protest. Wa-
hanui, the Maori King’s
Prime Minister, made a re-
mark to Hori Grey about
Montrose which convulsed
the great pro-consul and a
number of listening Maoris.
“What did he say, Sir
George,” said Montrose, who,
though a good Maori linguist,
had missed the quip. “ Ah,
Montrose,” replied Grey, “he
has just nick-named you
‘ Munga-nui-potai-riri ’” (Big
black hat in a rage).
Kinnaird Rose, formerly
editor of Brisbane Courier, is
getting credit for good work
as a war - correspondent with
the Greeks. His solid qualities
and Scotch energy find a
better field “at the front ”
than in the Courier sanctum,
where he did not notably
shine.
Young Nankivell, the Melb. artist who
smartly blends Gibson and Phil May, and has
made a shop for himself in New York, returns to
Vio. shortly for a rest, and to indulge in fatted calf.
Ihe latest woman’s twaddle-book about
Queen Victoria gravely sets forth how that dia-
mafly oppressive monarch used, once upon a time,
to breakfast upon coffee, bread-and-butter, egga,
and cold meat,” but unaccountably omits to de-
scribe the consummate grace with which the royal
toothpick was thereafter applied, or the elegant
condescension with which the royal econoihy
deigned to assimilate such plebeian pabulum in
quite the ordinary manner. There is compensa-
tion, however, in the thrilling information that
Her Gracious not only liked to see the hens
fed, but didn’t disdain to
give the poor pigs a
look.” “The patriot's
ofty soul inspiring ! ”
While the late Melb.
City organist’s coffin was
being lowered into the
grave at the General
Cemetery, a spruce in-
dividual with soulful eyes
approached Mayor Strong,
who stood silently, hat in
hand. “ A terrible thing,”
whispered the stranger in
accents tremulous and
low, during a lull in the
burial service. “It is,”
replied Strong. The other
then fumbled in his pocket
and, shoving a card into
the hand of the Mayor,
observed hoarsely : “I am
a candidate for the posi-
tion of city organist ren-
dered vacant by this
calamity.” And,ereStrong
had time to collect words
suitable to the occasion,
the enterprising musician
was on the other side of
the grave buttonholing
a couple of councillors.
The Australian record reign LL.D. ’s should
be grouped in a special part of the University
calendars to keep the publio acquainted with the
circumstances in which the titles were given.
Many Australians who use the D.D. title received
it years ago when Trinity College, Dublin, con-
ferred it for merely commemorative purposes.
Dear Bulletin, —Your borrowed defini-
tion, “A newspaper man is one who wears two
shirts one week. A journalist is a man who wears
one shirt two weeks,” is not satisfactory. A
journalist is a man who prefers to wear no shirt at
all rather than don the unlaundried, second-hand
garment of a toad-eating and hypocritical boss.—S.
According to Sydney Truth, a discharged
confinee, who acted as Butler’s wardsman in
Dailinghurst, possesses a precious treasure —-
Butler’s whiskers, cut off at the prisoner’s own
request on the first day of his trial. “ I wrapped
them up, he says, “in this piece of paper, and
1 in going to get a good price for them from some
barber or other. I’m sorry T didn't keep the piece
of wadding that staunched the blood.”
Guy Boothby, in a recent instalment of
lus “ Prince of Swindlers, ” in Pkarson’s Maga-
ZTNE, shows his boss swindler airily getting away
at night with 50,000 sovereigns enclosed in a metal
casket. He has one man to heip him, and they
tread so lightly as they depart with the plunder
that no one in the house is disturbed. Fifty thou-
sand sovereigns weigh just about 7cwt., or over
one-third of a ton ; and next day the gorgeous
r* e, Y bt'hos all this to the station with the rest
of the luggage without noticing anything remark-
able. And yet Guy Boothby was once private
secretary to money-lender Cohen, of Adelaide !
However, perhaps he used to draw his salary in
notes—one note weekly. In recent .story
in an Fngnsh magazine, two reduced British swells
find a nugget in Australia. The first finder, in his
joy, throws it 20ft. in the air and catches it when it
comes down His mate says it is only mundio,
and disgustedly aims it at a passing crow. Finally
it proves to be almost solid gold, and they are rich
beyond the dreams of avarice. They had been
carelessly heaving half-a-ton of solid gold into the
atmosphere. Somehow the average compiler of
Australian horrors never can get it into his head
that gold is heavy, and when he starts to slam
together his crude goldfields shriek his hero is
always running for his life with 2cwt. of metal in
his waistcoat pocket, or swimming across a trou-
bled river with of it strapped round his
waist.
SYDNEY TO HIM.
(With apologies to Professor Marshall-Hall).
We wist you love us well, thou wight
Of honey-lipped, cupidous kisses.
In the drear-faced longing of earth’s far space
We have weirdly felt a presence and a yearning.
*Twas thee 1 We wust it not, but the bliss is ours.
Ah me, and ah us 1
Ah you, and ah thee, and ah men 1
SMIER.
SOMETHING WANTING.
There is something wanting sadly
In this diamond jubilee :
Folks are jubilating madly,
Millions go upon the spree ;
To south, east, and west, and nor’ward,
Gas-jets flame and guns explode ;
But Fitz Gibbon isn’t forward
With the customary ode 1
Serious Catastrophe Averted
Whenever a railway accident occurs,” said a
railway official, “people begin to talk of the
dangers of travel. They ask themselves which
route, or what part of the carriage, is the safest
and the timid bid each other a tearful good-bye
and purchase an insurance magazine before taking
the risk. Occasionally a derailment occurs yet
these are not the accidents which figure so largely
m making up the year’s loss of life.
The most horrible, heart-rending and cruel
catastrophes, however, are those so often resulting
from criminal carelessness. Those which by a
little foresight and care might easily be averted.
In travel by rail, there is, of course, a bit of
clanger, but not so much as is involved in the
every-day movements, pleasures, labors, "-oing
and coming of life at home.
The individual hair-breadth escapes; how
many we all have : some of which we may n«t
w eri i° e aware , a t least, until the danger is past
We have just had our attention called to one
which, unless averted, would certainly have re-
sulted in loss of life.
Mrs. Mary Ann O’Brien, Mariner’s Reef, Mary-
borough, Victoria, who is well-known, having li-
dded in the district over forty years, writes : “3
am pleased to state that Warner’s ‘Safe’ Cure
was of great value to me when laid up with in-
fluenza and low fever. I had to take to my bed
and for some time was unable to do my household
work, and became very low and depressed in
spirits. After trying various remedies of no
benefit, I was advised to try Warner’s * Safe ’
Oure, and did so, with wonderful results, for after
taking a few bottles of the medicine I began to
improve m health and spirits, and in a few weeks
was quite well again.”*
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
H. SQUIRE & CO
Pbo tograpbk Stock Peal*rS,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pod&Vt K()d(lk% price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURES, 1 6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists
Trade mai
t* Viv
i'i-
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OP—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE
V
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY


1 It is clear that the chain of illuminated jj
'capitals, putting a sort of girdle a£ fire,
round the earth, will be the chief feature
'in the celebrations of the Queen's memor-
able reign. And Melbourne will not be the
dullest link in that great chain of biasing
- . -gai j
jub/l ee_ dl$ f * r (N * •
/o«r«Z ScteNTfsT.-'Turn. ofi/i water-, old mart.
Tf-orn -ur/tcJ' S> can see Hr is merely some-
-/estiva l in Aono-u.r- of<x fierson •>'
-arcus 77am eel Til*, $1 hhoTdli—^
plipag
fljji “THE OLD DIE-HARDS.”-. IL
“Yes, your Worship,’’ faftereef tHfe old
man. “My name’s James Walsh. Itserved
j 22 years in the army for Her Majesty—God
j bless her—and I couldn't let her sixtieth
| year go bv without doing my little bit of
rejoicing.
, “Were you a soldier?” queried Mr. Nicol-
l “Yes, your Worship,” responded old
[ Walsh, “I fought for England and the
i Queen in the 57th—the ‘Old Die-hards' they
i used to call us. I went through the Cri-
H mea from ’54 to ’56, and then we went to
L India until ’SB. At the end of the mutiny
J we were drafted from Bombay to New Zea-
t land, and stopped there from ’59 until ’64.
I The West Middlesex was our old name,
j: but,” added the old fellow, drawing him-
-1 self up and saluting, “the ‘Old Die-hards'
| was the name that suited us best.”
| "And have you. nothing to keep you?”
J “No, your Worship- I haven’t a penny
I to pay for a bed, but I’ve walked 120 miles
for it, and I’ll see the celebration of the
4 Queen's jubilee if I sleep in the street.”
Ili —r— -111 I I -. M
__ ' — —
/.oyfiti iee- v
7?ans /
Sim
Qf w
' 2e liberated- " -J *
to/C. A hoc Ale .
Ju-hl l die s »
t
LIBERATION OF PRISONERS.
FAVOURABLE DECISION BY THE
GOVERNMENT-
' this will mean that a nura-
,»ber of convicts whose terms of incaj-ceia-
tion are drawing towards, completion vrjl
be )•’ -a Usd next week from Pentndge -
___;—._ -, . .7’ _,_ __.__ .__- ,*;*_—_———- —=~E—2
$~-——;~_ .. 7 %—~q—~—
___—___ ._ ..:._. __“—-—_ ___.:::=..
=EE_—_.=_=.— :: :T:.-._::_.—‘-:E my: a a z; = ~ -———=-=- 4—:
..____.-,=;._.V_ -_..._.-.-_--__ -._.§—
_._ _... __ “K?“
___*—*~__——~———_
=.=.—______——__‘_ __V.___ __ --~
m:==; =_._._= :: _._:=__.: z -==,_§L_~ﬁ——h
_.—. ___, » -———.——'7=.==
“—ﬁ—m ____-~
“___—___ ﬂ=gﬁ
wﬂ:;ﬁm 4: ::-"=
—k
|Bj|
r j|l |l. =
/
ffgmlMi r 'r r Jy- t >
M-Mlllii e- a x. o
WL'f/
g§f? f? X . 7
KsV/*/
mmi «N /
a froff"~d title:
FOR MS. GAT'D SYME.
.‘IT • £ Li^OwiHSD.
f" 777CLTZ cL'dn'tr Zisa-rTL~'fish-f
urha-(r, ?n 7/%<a_ arnc o/
se r nse. ) icr-<x jz Ac
MELBOU RNIANA.


TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.—NO MORE PROSPECTING!


POLITICAL
POINTS
Q. Labor-party has been recessionally
howling for electoral reform. Boss Tozer proposes
to register all electors !
N.S. Wales charges only 3 per cent, suc-
cession duty on .£20,000. Queensland charges 10
per cent, on this sum, and Victoria 5 per cent.
Q. Parliamentary positions were unchanged
on the Opening Day. Ministerialists, disaffecteds,
cross-benchers, and Labor members all sat as of old.
N. : “As soon as an Australian leader
basks in the smiles of Britain, he begins to
dwindle. There is not even one exception to
prove the rule.”
A N.S.W. Minister of the Crown lately
said that, if Govt, popularised and cheapened
Hansard to Id., M.’sP. would deliver advertise-
ments as speeches.
Little Hawaii, which is now being taken
over by the U.S. and which lately refused to allow
a cargo of 400 Japs to land, has a total popula-
tion of 109,000—native Hawaiians, 31,000; Japs,
24,407; Chinese, 21,000 ; remainder, miscellaneous
foreigners.
It is fortunate for Acting-Premier Tozer,
in view of the publicly-strained relations between
the Gym pie law-firm of Tozer and Jamieson and
local warden Towner, that he should be able to
explain that the removal North of Mr. Towner is
a departmental promotion.
“THE BULLETIN'S" AMATEUR ART-
GALLERY.
NEW ANGLICAN BUSH PARSON: “Is he one of my
flock, madam, or one of Father Ryan’s ?”
M ADAM: "Indade, an’ he’s nayther; he’s Tim
O’Driscoll’s !”
In his speech “ agin ” Federation, Jawbone
Neild concluded by appealing to the N.S.W.
Freetraders to say whether they were prepared to
allow a Federal Parliament to place a burden of
£5,000,000 a year on the shoulders of the people
through the Customs-house and the excise officer.
Yet excise is a Freetrade device to counteract a
tariff levied for revenue purposes !
S.M. Herald old gag :
Thus the free breakfast table of the British citizen is to
be taxed unless he will consent to buy Queensland sugar
instead of the foreign product.
Now Britain, with big taxes on tea, coffee, cocoa
and chocolate, never had a “free breakfast table.”
The only genuine attempt at a free breakfast table
was N.S.W. Protectionist See’s foolish removal of
the tea-duty.
Q. Boss Tozer never let Gov. Lamington
say a word in his opening speech to Parliament
about “harbors and rivers.” Cos why? Cos his
mate, Treasurer Philp, not long ago made a
rousing speech in the North about how Brisbane
was a thief and a robber, and the Brisbane port
was making the North pay for its maintenance,
Some of the Labor members may be relied upon
to go at it, however.
The adjournment of N.S.W. Assembly
was lately moved by Frank Farnell to direct the
attention of the nation to the riotous behaviour of
dogs in the Centennial Park, Sydney. Then the
House wrestled with dog till it grew weary, and
finally, at Crick’s suggestion, the mongrel was
adjourned, having been talked of in every possible
aspect, and members proceeded with the compara-
tively trifling subject of Federation.
Leading-citizen Nathan, of
Aucklf .d, just back from Lon-
don, si.ys Maoriland is a laugh-
ing - stock in England. “It
would be a great blessing for us
all if this country were made
a Crown colony, managed by
a man of the Lord Cromer
stamp and half-a-dozen compe-
tent civil servants.” Lord—ah
—Cromer is at present, The
Bulletin believes, bossing the
Egyptians—a race against whom
the Nathan clan has a historical
grudge.
How the Q. Land Commis-
sion can justify its proposal to
let the tenure of grazing farms
remain at 30 years, instead of
limiting it to 21 years, is hard
to see. The Commission admits
that “such a reduction would
not limit the number of appli-
cants ”; but thinks it would
militate against improvements.
How so, when outgoers are
paid for all improvements ?
Many changes may happen in a
young, uprising country in 21
years, which is long enough
tenure in all conscience.
Germany s present con-
cern for the Boers is deeper than
is generally believed. The
founder of the Zollverein (Cus-
toms union) and the real maker
of the German empire, always
declared that Holland would be
necessary for Germany when,
having created her manufactures
by Protection, she would seek
to become a great maritime na-
tion. The succession question
in Holland is likely to be soon
complicated. So Germany is ap-
pealing to the Dutch through
their Boer relatives against her
only manufacturing and mari-
time rival —Britain.
An effort is to be made this session to
establish the Referendum in South Australia, and
to push through a Closer Settlement Bill. A law
of this kind, with power for the compulsory pur-
chase of large estates, is much needed also in
Yiotoria, Tasmania and N.S. Wales. What has
become of the shady-looking N.S.W. bill which
loomed up a year or more ago, and then faded
suddenly away without any explanation whatever?
Archibald, M.L.C. (Q.), seconder of the
address-in-reply, although a newly-turned creation
of the Nelsontozer lathe, was an irritating horse-
fly on some sore spots. He inveighed against
Tozer’s latest Federation countermarch, protested
against the importation of “ hordes of Japanese,”
and, anent the statement that the revenue would
exceed the expenditure, he remarked plainly : “I
don’t believe in selling Crown lands to provide
revenue. ”
S.A. Government will make another effort
this session to reduce the Leg. Council franchise,
and put that institution on a liberal basis. If one
or two Fat members happen to be laid up with
gout the measure should get through, but it will
be a tight fit. For a year or so the Liberal party
had a very small majority in the Council, but it
missed its opportunity, and now Fat is again
dominant. It isn’t quite the old, rampant Fat
party, but even with a moderate Fat party the
chances of reform are problematical.
“Between the Old Country and Australia,
her greatest colony, which is more English than
the mother, and ten times more fervently loyal, it
is difficult,” &c., &c.— (London Referee). Aus-
tralia is at last becoming famous everywhere for
the effusive “loyalty” of the men who run its
political, municipal and society shows. Consider-
ing the comparative lack of excuse for it there is
ten times more jubilee hysteria in this new
country at the present moment than in poor old
Hingland, which has Queen Victoria right under
its public nose.
N.S.W. OPPOSITION LEADER LYNE
The semi-ennobbled A. C. Gregory, M.L.C.,
holds an anomalous position in Q. Council. A
Tory of the Tories, his alleged politics is twin
with the Government’s; yet, by historical acci-
dent, and the stupidities of Government by con-
tradiction, he is nominal leader of the Opposition
in that cockloft. He only speaks thus, however,
as a matter of form, and never means anything.
In short, there is no “ Opposition ” in the Q.
Council, and, up to date, only a labor “Opposition”
in Q. Assembly, though the apparently smooth
surface may prove treacherous later on.
Probable that one of Q.
boss Tozer’s secret reasons for
releasing the Coombemartin
prisoners was to show his
great love for Attorney-Gene-
ral Byrnes, to demonstrate
that the latter’s bark was
worse than his bite, and to
prove that the violent opposi-
tion that Tom joe offered
against any suggestion of re-
lease was only assumed.
THEIR TROUBLES!
O LD GENTLEMAN: “ What are you crying for , sonny ?”
SONNT: “ We broke that winder with the ball !”
OLD G ENTLEMAN: “ Oh, never mind; perhaps the lady isn’t
angry”
SONNY : “ ’Tain’t that—she won’t give us the ball back !”
The explanations as to a recent alleged
“ irregularity ” by an Australian Minister con-
clusively prove that it is undesirable for a Minister
of the Crown to at one and the same time act as
agent for a lessee, and use his influence in securing
“ concessions ” from a brother Minister.
Britishah : “Desiring Queen Victoria to
live long, and not wishful of seeing the Prince of
Wales m the saddle, I protest against the mis-
chievous and killing excitement of this Jubilee
Hullabaloo. Suppose my mother was 78, would 1
desire her to be hawked even through the Melb.
streets amid shouting crowds ?
How the subject of Federation enthrals
N.S.W. Assembly ! “ Mr. Black spoke to empty
benches, which necessitated the bells being rung
two or three times in order to secure a quorum.
Mr. Black candidly admitted that he had notread
the Federal Convention debates, hence he was in
the dark as to the reasons which influenced the
Convention in agreeing to many of the provisions
in the bill. Precisely at midnight there were loud
cries of ‘adjourn,’ and two minutes later mem-
bers were hurrying down the street to catch their
trams.”—S.M. Herald.
Newell, M.P. for Woothakata (N.Q.),
snorted at the “ Governor’s-speech ” reference to
Lamington’s visit up North, and “hoped to see
the time when the Governor of Queensland would
have his permanent residence up North, and be
able to tell the Legislature how he had enjoyed a
visit to the South. ” This is the first parliamentary
toot on Northern Separation, and yet Newell was
the Tozer nominee to second the “ address-in-
reply.” Treasurer Philp should take the hint to
marshal his “ Northern Party ” and raise the
standard of revolt against the Rehoboam of
Queensland.
How reminiscent of the Capitoline wolf
with the twins at her dugs is the picture of the
kangaroo unearthed by Petherick and published in
connection with his alleged discovery of a “ past ”
for us ! In fact, one can imagine a myth-maker of
the future framing from this picture, aided by the
scraps of truth that chance will have saved from
the historian’s dye-pot, the story of one Melbulus,
deserted by his Moloch-worshipping mother,
Britannia, nurtured by a kindly kangaroo, and,
on reaching man’s estate, gathering around him
the outlaws of his race in an asylum at Botany
Bay, finally founding and giving his name to the
capital of Atlantis Resurgens.
At last, even the stammering sup-Press
Brisbane Telegraph admits that “it is under-
stood” that “Nevermind” Nelson “will not
return as Premier to Queensland ; or that, if he
should so return, it will be only that, with more
propriety, he may lay down his office to take up
another less responsible ’’—meaning, of course, the
Council’s Presidency. Govt, whip Hamilton is
now about the only M.P. who believes that Bully
Palmer won’t resign for anybody, and that Nelson
must wait till the old man dies. Meantime,
Griffith says sweetly to his own heart: “ Anyway,
if Nelson gets the Council Presidency, he won’t
get the Lieutenant-Governorship; that’s for the
Chief Justice.”
Half-a-dozen expressionless Chows were
caught by the North-Western Q. police crossing
surreptitiously from the Northern Territory of
S.A. into Q. via Camooweal. They were fined
,£5O apiece under the Act. Their six purses only
panned out £4, and “ allee same go to plison.”
But the police necessary to drag them the long
journey to Normanton could not be spared, and it
was sought to cause them to return to Port
Darwin. “ Mok-a-hi-lo! No feeah! Countly
all dly; no suey (water). Allee same go back;
allee same killee. Takee plenty plison and no go
back. Topside chow chow ! ” At time of writing,
Tozer was considering whether the only alterna-
tive was to set them at liberty !
Judging from the loud cackle which E. M.
Clark raises in nursing the St. Leonards (Sydney)
bike-vote, he is better fitted to represent a con
stituency with votes in its legs than one whoa*
votes are in its head.
The other day a deputation interviewed
the N.S.W. Minister for Works about the awful
condition of the road over the Blue Mountains,
and was curtly informed that it was inadvisable to
keep the said highway in repair, as it diverted
traffic from the railway. Premier Reid accused
his predecessors of shamefully neglecting their
duty by not voting enough money to keep the
roads in order, but the God-fearing Ministry haa
cut the vote down <£300,000 below Dibbs 1892
figures, and it now says it neglects the roads on
principle. If business has to be forced on to the
railways by making the roads impassable it would
seem that the meat horse is ahead of the iron one
when they compete on equal terms.
N.S.W. Parliament does not believe in the
old maxim de minimis non cur ant leges. Nothing
is too high or too low for it. Federation and race-
course betting, land settlement and the regulation
of dancing saloons ; in fact, anything from pitch
and-toss to dogs in the Centennial Park. But
what a commentary on its capacity for legislation
is this income-tax arrears muddle ! The Income-
tax Act, fathered by a Government four of whose
members are lawyers, and passed by Assembly and
Council, many of whose members are lawyers, is so
loosely framed on this particular point that two
“ eminent counsel ” (Campbell and Pring) give an
opinion one way, and two others (the Attorney-
General and C. B. Stephen) flatly contradict their
legal brethren.
Q. nigger-drivers recently received a nasty
knock from Griffith, C. J. Some 16 months ago—
in order to keep down the price of the “ cheap and
reliable ” —a number of kanaka regulations were
framed compelling time-expired boys to re-engage
at the close of one month ; laying also certain re-
strictions on the islander’s power of travelling
coastwise ; and imposing penalties on anyone who
harbored the time-expired, and on any captain
who conveyed him down or up the coast without a
permit. And now the Chief-Justice declares the
first of these regulations illegal, and gives a broad
hint that the others are in the same category,
wherefore, generally speaking, the Fatman is ra
the fire. Q. planters were just within hailing dis-
tance of a nice little Fugitive Slave Law, and now
discover with astonishment that though you may
employ very shady means to get a nigger into
Australia, there are yet some limits to your power
of handling him when here. And Tommy Tanna
'■nows it.
“HOW TO BE HAPPY THOUGH
MARRIED.”
The other night, in N.S.W. Assembly,
Opposition leader Lyne gravely rose to ask the
Acting-Premier
Whether it was the intention of the Government to sub-
mit to the House a congratulatory address to Her
Majesty on the record reisrn ? Similar addresses had been
arranged by one or two of the other Australian Parlia-
ments. If an address were adopted, it would have to be
passed that night. Mr. Brunker reminded Mr. Lyne that
the House had already decided to send an address to the
Queen, and that he (Mr. Lyne) seconded the motion to
that effect. (Great laughter.)
Which incident tends to oast a lurid light on the
formality, hollowness, and selfishness of the publio
Jubilee noise. Out-in-the-cold Lyne was quite
remembersome of his Gracious Sovereign’s jubilee
considered as a means of getting some kind of
kudos for himself and embarrassing the fellows
who held the loaves and fishes ; apart from that he
was utterly oblivious of the whole concern. Of
course, there are other alternatives.
Granuma for Health ,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Hotnah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Qramma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT-^
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive—
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLEM I N-G’S RELIABLE BUGGIES
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, wc., uto""
Catalogue on application.
FLUID SHEEP DIP |
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
STANLEY GRIFFITHS, Hunter Street, Sydney; GOLDSBROUGH, M.ORT & CO. Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney-
Geelone • P LEARMONTF A ( 0., Hamilton; A. HARRAP & SON, Launceston, Tasmania; ROBERTS & CO
Kingston, S.A.j QUEENS I J MERCANTILE CO. Ltd., Brisbane; BLACKBURNE & CO., Christchurch, N.Z.
JAMES M'EWAN & CO. Ltd.,
Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania; GEO
; M‘REAN, BOWKER & CO-.,
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to—
LTD.,
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON
DONCASTER, ENG-., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents
J^RPTf5nW I i E] ?^ YS * , J LASCELLES > AUSTIN <fc CO„
& Adelalde: J °HN OlilCfi k Co!J


N. : “The cooking apparatus of Herbert
Booth and co.’s Melb. Workmen’s Metropole has
had to be enlarged already, and the night before
last there were 170 sleepers.”
Commerce depends on two governing fac-
tors : the sale of commodities, and the receipt of
the cash (or other commodities) which they repre-
sent. In times of depression like the present, both
processes are difficult of accomplishment—espe-
cially the latter ! But merchants who can sell
their goods need not be apprehensive of getting
paid for them if they will hand their accounts to
the Victorian Debt - Collecting Agency (Holds-
worth & Co.), 101 Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
There is some trouble in Melbourne over a
ship with an alibi. Captain Fisher, of the Or-
lando, alleges that he was nearly run into by the
steamer Time, and it was only by promptly going
astern that a collision was averted. The captain
of the Time responds that he was so far away
from the Orlando that she could only be identified
with a telescope, and the distance between them
was never less than five miles. The local Marine
Board reckons that somebody must have been
drinking, but can’t quite make out who it was—or
else that the Orlando was frantically dodging a
*i i irage.
Item from a Windsor (N.S.W.) paper : ,
™ r ’ 7' < ?'9 ornwell had a hen bad from
fowl I!’^ nt j Ik l truck hlm that a P‘ll might do the
minister pH ha??’ B °,, he accordingly caught her and ad-
Jm 8 i . ? ha fapll on a few occasions. The fowl has
Suted to?h V e e pm. fr ° m th 6 COm P lainfc and the cure is
Our respected fellow-townsman’s hen is now feel-
ing better. What wonder the country editor
takes to drink as a relief from literature ?
At the instance of a Deutscher clergyman
named Kaibel, who is good enough to violently
disapprove of The Bulletin’s opinions, the com-
mittee of Natimuk (Vic.) Mechanics’ Institute
has decided to exclude this paper from its reading-
room. The Bulletin proprietary, which, like
the rev. Mr. Kaibel, keeps at least one eye on the
collection-plate, absolutely loathes those who read
this valuable organ on the cheap, and is much
obliged to the ghostly comforter named ; it will
be glad, as a token of gratitude for his godly
exertions, to send The Bulletin free for a year to
him or anyone he may nominate.
Bendigo Art Gallery—which, by the way, the
W.C.T.U. is now trying to boss with a view to
the expulsion of a very innocent nude entitled
“ The'Spanish Ma-iden ” (the flat-chested sister-
hood declares the picture to be “an insult to the
womanhood and motherhood of Bendigo ”) —is
associated with the local library, and in the latter
institution there is a wondrous course pursued re-
garding this journal. The library committee
allowed The Bulletin on the reading-room table,
but only after it had passed a special committee
of expurgation, whose duty it is to carefully black
out, on the Russian principle, all “objectionable ”
utterances. After a trial this system was found
unworkable —so much, presumably, had to be
blacked out—and the committee was empowered
to reject whole copies deemed capable of injuring
the glorious cause of Respectability as the word is
understood at Bendigo. Now, The Bulletin re-
joices to state, no one is ever sure that he will be
able to read this paper free at Bendigo library.
A Boon to Sufferers.—A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes i “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
MM
\\
S'A
,(k /ffY)
cx
m
<£
7/
n
Tb« Show of Haods
is unanimously in favor of LIPP PIANOS, now the most popular Pianos in
Australia, because the quality is so good and the price so moderate. On
our easy time-payuient system within the reach of everybody.
We have other good Pianos besides the Lipp—to wit, the STEIN-
WAY, the BRINSMEAD, the FEURICH, the VICTOR, and many others.
Also, ORGANS and MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS of every description,
SHEET and BOOK MUSIC, &c., &c. Write to us for Catalogues.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
SYPNEY, NEWCASTLE, & BRISBANE.
Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Ly°os’ Palace Hotel,
South. Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
flinders-at., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
rnOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves —and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
James F. Thompson
(better known as Fred Thompson),
Late of Thompson’s Family Hotel, George and Goulburn
Streets, Sydney, has taken
THE PALACE HOTEL,
Corner of George & Hay Streets, Haymarket,
where he tenders his best thanks for past favors to all his
old friends and customers, and hopes for a continuance
in the abovenamed address. Accommodation not to be
excelled. Terms moderate.
Best of Wines, Spirits, etc., always on hand.
THE LAST OF SIX (collected stories by Ernest
Favenc), Is. 3d.
OUR POPULAR BANGLE RINGS.
SINCE INTRODUCING THIS PRETTY NOVELTY WE HAVE SOLD THOUSANDS.
ft
EXPANDING.
FIT ANY SIZE
FINGER.
Bs. 6d. & 10s
EACH.
w
EXPANDING.
ANY INITIAL.
10s
EACH.
POST FREE.
PLAIN HAND
Extra Strong.
12s. 6d.
EACH.
State Size Re-
quired.
Solid Gold, with Amethyst, Topaz, Garnet, Opal, Moonstone, Oval and Heart Shape Hanging Pendants. When
Ordering, kindly state Shape of Pendant Required.
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address—
90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
TN€ INTCRCOLONIAL
Investment, [and & Building Company, [td.
309 Pitt Street, Sydney .
ESTABLISHED 1885.] [INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT.
ASSETS, £60,072 11s. 2d. - LIABILITIES (exclusive of Capital), £12,175 8s- Id.
Directors:
Wm. McCOURT, M.L.A. (Chairman), ALEX. CAMPBELL, M.L.A.
G. DYSON J. T. LAWLER D. J. MONK.
Bankers : THE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
Auditor : GEO. CHRISTIE, F.5.1.A., Public Accountant.
»♦■»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦♦♦♦♦
Balance Sheet for the Half-year ending 30th April, 1897.
ASSETS.
£ s. d. £ a. d.
By Freehold Properties and
Investments
„ Borrowers’ and Pur-
chasers’ Balances (after
deducting Suspense A/c.)
~ Office Furniture
~ Cash in hand
~ Bank of N.S. Wales (Syd-
ney and Perth)
23,840 13 4
31,318 2 8
90 15 0
55,255 11 0
213 15 11
4,603 4 3
4,817 0 2
£60,072 11 2
Deposits for fixed periods at current rates of interest. Loans granted on approved securities.
Copies’of latest Balance-sheet and full information on application to
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manages.
FIRST IN •
FBBB
It*
fOßmosr
zym jiNct
,
sr,®
1
R£ Tjl6
best
.
■BH
FO« SP6SD * y
f{ el _|/»3 |Ll
pDpfiop
TYRES
FISHER & CO’S
MATRICARIA
(REGISTERED).
■^r
UNSURPASSED
For Children Cutting their Teeth, and the various
Slight Derangements incident to Infancy.
DOSE. —Under six months, half a powder, dry on the
tongue, every three hours; above six months, one powder,
dry on the tongue, every three hours. If the child is in
much pain, or very restless, a few doses may be given every
one or two hours.
In Boxes, Is. Three Boxes for 2s. 6d.
Postage extra, Id.
THE PUREST AND MOST EFFECTIVE POWDER
KNOWN TO SCIENCE.
Wholesale from Elliott Bros., Aust. Drug
Compy., Hoffnung’s, and any other Wholesale
House.
also,
At tbs Pbarnjacy,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite G.P.0.).


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER RFDHCGI) KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTIiEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ Sohool, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
Id. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over ,£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Svdney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. • •
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. . • £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,S(l(),o(lft
Paid-up .. .. •• JE2.050.211 ss.
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Menres, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thorniey,
M.L.C.; Hon. St Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gi les Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R- H. M Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD RANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: .John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Ojjice: 1 Bisliopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, EC.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew,
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
” LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 i
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.O.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
hanking business.
LIFE policies. reversions.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden & Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at 6% per
annum by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
Melbourne.
( able Address—Kiemseil.
rode— Mokeing & Neal, eto.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.a
Clarice & Co
(A RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
of
A gents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at broken Hill. . .
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
St ock s.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
TbiS Conjpaov
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
™ United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital ..£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed .. ... 251,260 0 0
HFAD OFFICES ■ 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
T
AjJjES of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, d; Agency
Company, lAmited.
Established 1878.
£150,000 0 0
£60,000 0 0
£44,514 0 0
0 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business ..
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Hlients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq.. Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Bathe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. Jj. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the 1890.
£1,697,976 6 ’ 6 ’
305,780 0 0
Authorised Capital .. ~
Capital Paid-up
Preference Shares Paid-up
Capital Called-up ..
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders
HEAD OFFICE
52,023 14
750,000 0 0
I 2,805,780
w _ MELBOURNE,
’ with~Bran’ches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon.J. M. Frau,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, IK.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: YV. H.Tuckett
Eso.; Andrew Bums, Esq. Clnet Manager: Francis or *J a
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide', with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager.
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England.
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager.
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office- Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. - £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. - 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. - 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEORGE^ STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital i’i9i9B4 0 0
Reserve Fund .. ~ •• •» 0 0
Reserve Liability - • • 1,949,500 0 0
Total 5,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
Tlie II in. Charles K. Mackrllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Jambs Reading Fairf \ ;, Esq.
Audiiois:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uthbr, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United Stat-s, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in publio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all oustomary banking
business. „ , . „, A
The Bank also issues Circular Notes m sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
the
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
head OFFICEi
INTERSECTION
HUNTEULIMSTLEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
000 ® ® O
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
999 9 9 0
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
fit MTIK STORE, [M.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
£2T Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHA JIEBROK ER.
3 Royal Exchange,
A delaide.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO #
West & South Australian,
"Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Tyrian Saturday, June 26, 2
Gabn, Tuesday, June 29, 5 p.i
? "O
ADELAIDE /
PORT AUOUSTA V
PORT PIRIE \
Tyrian, Saturday, June 26, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, June 29, 6 p.ra.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERYLLTOIN
Gabo, Tuesday, June 29, 6 P m -
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE |
MARYBOROUGH v
ROCKHAMPTON \
Leura, Saturday, June 26, 2 p.m.
Uarrabool. Tuesday, June 29, 5 p.i
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Beura, Saturday, June 26, 2 P-m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, June 29, 6 p.
Tvrian, Saturday, July 3, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO All FOISTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices-Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West'
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Bullarra(from Sydney) Friday,
June 25. , ~ .
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, June 29.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney)
Friday, June 25.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, June 29.
ESPERANCE BAY }■ Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Emu, Tuesday, June 29.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & C°’s E< ne
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
Flj lt VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANA D I AN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
England via America
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE!.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES NIARITIMES
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Snipping.
pT AND o. company.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
TO * LONDON, Single, £35 to £7o!
SST. £65 to £105. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s £35. Return, £37, £41, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be pudben on
favorable termsfor passages from England. G -DO LOLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S- N. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON— Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN— Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY AND NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccommodation f Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND'S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35
Third-Class Fare —London, £l6; Natal and Capetown
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
Business Announcements
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each 6s. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
CO MBTNGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wiilinm-st. Only. Sydney.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triumph..”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces'), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
Arpericao Injport Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Leading Warehouses.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. JSP'” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES »
PATENT
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celesttal Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
ful Song, and the Merry Dance can all be played on these
charming Instruments. No know ledge of Music KEQUIREp.
A Useful and Pre ty Present. Enormous Demand,
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of the
“Sydney Bulletin. '
Campbell’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 10/6
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon » 22/6
Cut out this and send P.0.0, tor the amount.
Either sent carriage 1 aid to any address in Australia or
Now Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privlle e Price List for Musical Season 1897, now ready.
150 000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL & CO., Musical Instrument Makers,
116, Trongate, GLASGOW. Eat. 60 Years. Agents Wanted


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
“ I -would lead the Turks anywhere, to do
anything."— Williams, of Kars.
The other week, in an outlying region of
Victoria, a J.P. was requested to call at the near-
est apology for a police-court and deal with one
small case of “drunk and disorderly.” He sent
back word that the culprit might as well be carted
to his private residence, and, after a lapse of 36
hours or so, the case duly came on. The prisoner,
quite sober by this time, arrived in the custody of
the arresting constable, who now happened to be
very drunk, so whilst the prosecutor was hiccup-
ping his evidence the prisoner winked at the
“beak,” and the “beak” gazed at the ceiling.
Then, having heard the evidence, he besought the
prisoner (discharged without the option of a fine)
to see the constable back to the township, and
take warning by his awful example.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Viator: “Dr. Singleton, that often mis-
chievous but ever even Christian, used to make a
good point, urging that in Melb. no thought is
given to lodgings for poor women, whereas the
law-maker of the Creation caters most abundantly
and cheaply for himself. So in all other Austra-
lian cities. Now Melb. has its Workmen’s Metro-
pole, with men’s 3d. beds, nice and snowy. Where
can a woman get any such a bed, even for a shil-
ling? Let me give two examples of Melb. experi-
ence. One night, about 10, a poor sick woman,
not old, crippled by an accident, hardly able to
drag her bandaged foot before the other, appealed
to me, and the doors seemed to be of brass, even
before money. We walked at least a mile ere
any would open to her. Another time, near mid-
night, I was appealed to by a woman with baby
in arms, and another child at foot. Her husband
had failed to keep an appointment to meet her,
on arrival of the last train from far the bush.
After a sickening lot of refusals, ‘No women
taken in here,’ although I offered ample payment,
Is. 6d., she had to be content with a respectable
Little Bourke-street hotel, as a great favor. And
let me add that proprietors of great hotels do all
they can to evade giving lodgings, except to people
who will drink.”
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraelough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection —
long sight, short sight, old sight, 1 ull particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraelough.’
Melb. Dental Board is now worrying Govt,
for a bill to amend the Dental Act, so as to enable
the board to fix a curriculum for the students’ ex-
amination. This is a long-felt want which the
enterprising E. L. Oldfield pointed out previous
to starting the Dental College of Victoria ‘ on
his own,” with the result, of course, that. he lost
his seat on the board at the first opportunity.
51 C».N ELTyCICsAFtetTIS
•T©
&
G:
1)
0 £
tS-4
tp
HV
J 3 D
Km
n
V 1
c^4i
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy t You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco."
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Sent post free from The Bulletin office.
Pubications.
Geo. Robertson & 00.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English & Colonial Celehritoe
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections Ybr VIOLIN
-£*- and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,’ ‘ II Trova-
tore,” “ Des Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
“Friends no Longer.”"KSSl-'
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH ! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
6d. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE.
p€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
6rin>e & Snjitb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.)
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 6/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes 10/- and 12 6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 86, and 10/6 „
KROPP BRAND 6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRA ND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6, 10 6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 5/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
A getting: an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M‘GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
WHEN YOU BUY
j Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST’.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY C'JRED BY .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
rI'HOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
* ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Couch, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a, com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“ MR. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
e-ave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as 1 continued the treatment, until 1
became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
“ Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.—J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“Mr. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured tny
cough. I '.ever coughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to you for it, as i
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, U
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. M e always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he did so, and it was
lust as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too widely known
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“Mv son six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
alonn- back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tam worth.”
“ Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Sir, —Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M‘BEAN, Carlton.”
« Dear Sir,—l had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“Dear Sir,—Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doing
a lot of good.-Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine °f dif-
ferent- kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Aoe of your Bronchitis
Cure I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. After taking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends. —Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Mvers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared and eo,d Whele„l. and Retail by .be Proprietor. WO. He„ne. Cbend*. Oeelon*. Vletoria. ftßd .to, !a «d. i M 4.. «d. Sold by Ohemto. and
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable locally.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Oo
m
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
made—3, 4,5, 6 years written . extra 12s 6d ; superior
Double case, 40s, £2 10s. Short-wind Ke> - , j^’ ev i e gs Walthams; patent
quality, 20s, guaranteed 12 Special iuaranteed s" 15 and 20
filled cases, £2 15s, £i 4s, Fss ss, and £6 Cases guara , ,
years. We guarantee all our watches to give every satisracnon
you will not regret it.
Wmm
Beautiiully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold Bar, 15s. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
6 different Patterns, Gold
Links, l‘2s 6d. Chain connec-
tion, 15s. Large, 21s
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and 6s.
avnm
raaßilK
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
16c. Gold (as above), 355.
Gold Amethyst Heart Coronet, 20b.
15c. dn do. 308.
wold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst, 21s ;
15c. Gold, as abo\ e, 355.
5 pure Diamonds, double-
out, 180. Gold Hand-
made, im ids. l . , ;J r "L t ' r
Diamonds, £6, k ‘ B
£7 ins, £lO, M 2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
r 4»
Q
Gold Broooh, los t'd.
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
Similar, 150. Gold, 20s, 30s.
,
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 16c. Gold
Pearls and Rubies (latest), *2.
18c. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heavy, £2.
d o'w* (
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 150.,3U5.
180. Gold, 2 Diamonds
3 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s. 5 pure Iha-
monds, t 4 10s.
Solid Gold Chain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 108,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
3 pure Sapphires,
4 Diamonds,
18c. £3, £3 10s, £4,
£5, £6.
Beautiful Opals and
Diamonds, same
price. Send for
size card.
f
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, t'2 ss, £3 ;
extra, £3 5s ;
15c., £3, t'4, £5, £6 ;
with key padlock,
10s extra. All se-
cured with Safety
Chains, and in oases.
Solid Gold, 3-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s.
160. Gold, 22s 6d ; Stone Set, 26a.
Any iSame.
c Solid Gold, 17s 6d. 15c., 25s and 30a. 180.
Solid Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame-
thyst, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Pure Diamond, 18c. Gold Band, £B.
160. Gold Twin
Set with Pure
Love Birds, 20s.
White Pearls, £2.
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Is. 6d., 2s 6d; steel-
lined, 3s 6d, 4s; case,
Is extra.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed
All
Articles
!
Free.
S 3
m
m
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
255., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. All
guaranteed.
Quite New, Solid Gold, S-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, 12 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. 90.
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15a Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30a.
355, 40s. Send for size card.
mmm
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold „ 32s fid.
a_fl_o_o_a
%
Gold Fancy Bar Name Brooch, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
() ttr PRICE LIST, I LLUSTKATKO, po-1 ' • „,osl reliable
“SEND FOR OUR TKa, Handsol n e ly-chased SlL\ LRI LAl “’ -a vi
utiful GOLD Art, a Panorama of Loveb
CALL ON A SAUNDERS. and see the beautifiil show fn°every style and price. A Brilliant
£" *5 S2l re W Ju£Sd S S!I “. d ,/S E c U on, nnd SAVE , r » *7. Wln U» po„nd.
and Most Unique m Style and Design. art gBNT pOST FREE T 0 ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.
Beautiful
Exhibition of th
18CU Oiu* kt
Loveliness. Everything N
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDEBS,
mtrT JEWELLER, 815 George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IUXI j* W "early OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION!


The late “ Billy ” Jenkins tried, over two years ago, and
without success, to form an advertising syndicate in Mel-
bourne, to work an innovation of his, which consisted in
opeiating with a perambulating limelight. After dark,
Jenkins and Co. Ltd. were to drive along the busiest city
streets in a trap, containing the paraphernalia necessary
to project the various ads. in enormous letters upon the
upper (and, of course, unlighted) storeys of houses en
route. Speculators, however, wouldn’t bite at remunera-
tive rates. Now, in Paris, a co. is coining money by
pavement flashlights, projected by a camera with slides
moved by clockwork, situated on the third floor of a
central bureau. The law, as at present constituted, is
powerless against this startling invasion of the privaoy of
the peripatetic philosopher.
Talking of “ Billy ” Jinkins, deceased, and his com-
mercial style —is the old type of sealskin-collared showman
quite extinct ? The showman who, not being an actor
himself, aspired to look like ten gaudy actors rolled into
one, even as the purser of a passenger steamer endeavors
to appear more nautical than all the navigating staff—
what has become qf that appalling identity? Geo. Tallis,
the Firm’s business manager, is strictly unpurfeshional at
all points. Louis Lohr might be a squatter, and Edwin
Geach the bookkeeper on his station : Fred Aydon, with
Rickards in Melbourne, is a sombre, undemonstrative
man who has an air of being engaged in hatching a new
variety of steam engine, and Bland Holt’s lieutenants are
likewise indifferent to limelight effects. Not one of the
crowd would look happy with a fur-lined cloak and half-
a pound of castor-oil in his hair.
Next to Coroner Youl, Melb.’s most comic institution is
the Rose of Denmark Lifeboat crew, a brass band which
performs much on all public rejoicings. The members
are uniformly attired in blue serge sailors’ toggery, and,
between performances, they swagger around in real
nautical style. As a matter of fact, the so-called lifeboat
crew hails from the inland suburb of Collingwood, and the
majority of the members have never been on the sea in
their lives. The deeds of daring they are understood to
perform must necessarily take place on that noble stream,
the Reilly-street drain.
“ The Growler ” on the English-company question :
'* Dear Bulletin, —Re the comparative failure of ‘ Zenda,’
one begins to doubt the wisdom of even such an experi-
enced stager as George Musgrove in sending out a com-
pany the ability of which could certainly be equalled by
native-born actors. It may be argued that, assuming the
Australians could play the piece as well as those imported,
they would not draw; but, on the other hand, did the
Englishmen draw? Surely such a run was not a brilliant
one, even in these ‘ busted ’ times ? Australian actors are
too rarely seen in a brand-new drama, with ‘ all appliances
and means to boot.’ They generally get their chance in a
dreadful something ‘by arrangement with W. J. Hol-
loway.’”
“ It is curious,” writes “ Pat ” to The Bulletin, “ that
no play of literary, or even lasting, merit by an Aus-
tralian author has ever been originally produced in Aus-
tralia.” Not a curious thing. There is no money for the
author in an original Australian production, and there
has been no successful Australian playwright, save Haddon
Chambers.
Another reverend slanderer of the stage has made the
notable discovery that the actor must' inevitably be
utterly demoralised “ by having to impersonate the worst
passions of human nature.” At which rate, the mummer
who has to be histrionically of superhuman and incor-
ruptible virtue should eventually develop into a high-
grade angel. Perhaps alternate doses of heavy villain
and immaculate hero would about serve to balance
things; though, as far as The Bulletin’s experience goes,
the avenger of injured innocence is seldom any more
saintly than he has any need for, and the First Murderer
is mostly about as mild and harmless as they make ’em.
Paradis : “ Howard Yernon, taking that Thespic chame-
leon, Melb. Alexandra, changes the name from Her
Majesty’s to the Queen’s, reviving memories of Melb.’s
first noteworthy dramatic temple, where Coppin and
Brooke made their successive debuts. Why not call it
the National ? Are we to be for ever choked with Royal,
Princess’s, Queen’s ? ”
Haresfoot: “ How is it that never an Hebraic name
appears on the stage ? Theatric genius is saturated with
Hebrewism, concealed under Smith, or a much more
sonorous name of Gentile-ty. Now young Whelan, the
clever mimic, in the Melb. Princess Co., turns out to be
Waxman, but must needs be Irish. The Kembles, includ-
ing Mrs. Siddons, were all Jews, Solomon or something,
and the interminable catalogue comes even down to little
Flegeltaub, who won’t allow she has two other names.”
A brother of Elizabeth and Henrietta Watson is on hi 3
way out to Australia to stage-manage “ The Geisha
Musical Comedy Co.” which M. and M. have engaged.
Britishah: “I wonder if Williamson and Musgrove
would stage my Original Jubilee Patriotic National Play,
entitled ‘ Victoria and Albert ?’ In the first act—all being
in blank verse, by the way—l show Cumberland as the
villain, employing his machinations to substitute himself
for the fair young Princess Alexandrina Victoria, her full
name, while Greville burrows away as the industrious
chronicler. Then comes the Coronation, which obviously
whacks all precedent, in spectacle, with Queen Victoria
riding on a white horse through London City. In act 3
I treat with suitable delicacy the wooing of Prince Albert
by Queen Victoria, according to royal rule, after which
comes the Marriage ! There’s a finale for you. West-
minster Abbey, or St. George’s, Windsor, according to
choice.”
Carlyle Smythe, who is still in England, has an excel-
lent criticism in the Argus on Ibsen’s last play, “ John
Gabriel Borkman,” recently produced in London by the
New Century Theatre Co. The cast included Genevieve
Ward, Elizabeth Robins, Mrs. Beerbohm Tree, W. H.
Vernon and James Welch.
R. S. Smythe is a very devout man, but not
a bigot, and if he thinks a celebrity will draw
more money in a theatre than in a hall, he puts
him there. So when the agent of Sydney Royal ad-
vised him that he could have that house for Harry
Furniss, Smythe wired back that he would take it,
but he was afraid that many people did not care to visit
a theatre. The agent wired that the unco guid loved the
Theatre Royal. That is, he intended to send that
message, but the intelligent female telegraph-clerk de-
clined to transmit it, on the ground that the words
“ unco guid ” were not English, and they were not
French, as she had looked in the dictionary, so they must
be cypher words. The telegraph employes fortunately
included a Scotchman, and the message was sent.
Music-teachers should not be allowed to write musical
criticisms re their professional brethren and sisters who
also teach, any more than teaching or practising artists
should be allowed to select pictures for the National
Gallery.
Jules Simonsen has a farewell-benefit at Sydney Town
Hall on July 3 prior to his final departure for Enniore, or
some place.
Two large photographs in one frame form a de-
pressing memento in the d.c. entrance of Melb. Theatre
Royal. One shows poor little Violet Varley as Peep 80,
and the other Arthur Dacre in a “ Bunch of Violets.”
While the backbone of “The Sign of the Cross” is
Massinger’s Virgin Martyr, its ribs are from Corneille’s
“ Polyeucte,” operatised by Gounod.
SPORTING NOTIONS .
Handicapper Dakin must have a poor opinion
of the “form ” shown in last year’s G.N. Hurdle Race at
Flemington. Buzzi and Zouroff, the win ner and runner-up,
are let in again this time at 9st. 111 b. and9st. 101 b., an
advance of only lllb. and 41b. respectively. Yet both
horses have been going on well of late.
* * * *
The Ballarat gelding So-and-So strikes one as a
fairly dangerous candidate for the G.N. Hurdle Race. A
handy son of Fryingpan, he can go very fast on the flat
and jump cleverly. Whether he can stay three miles
under the burden of list. 21b. is a question for the betting-
market to answer after he has been tried.
* » * •
Cedric, a jumper from up-country that was ex-
pected to shine at Flemington next month, has been
scratched for the G.N. Hurdle and Steeple.
* * * *
N.S.W. hurdler, Jack Hanwoll, has been very
nicely treated in V.R.C. Grand National with lOst. 91b.,
and as he has never before been in such good plight as he
is now, he should have a big say on Saturday next.
His most dangerous opponents appear to be his com-
patriots, Irish Stew and His Grace, whilst the best of
Messrs. Manifold and Miller should be in the leading
division. In the big Steeplechase, Larrikin, Tagus, Cam-
paspe, and Vigil are a quartet of likely-looking customers.
* * * *
Bookmakers are themselves rapidly killing the
“ little double ” by the extremely short prices they lay.
Both in N.S.W. and Vic. a hundred to one is the offer for
the Grand Nationals, whereas ’tis a good 400 —1 against
anyone, barring a Delphic oracle, spotting the two
winners.
• * • *
A sample of the prices on offer for forthcoming
races:—G.N. Hurdles, 10 to 1 each, Soult, Black Harry,
Tagus, and So-and-So ;12to 1, Don John; 15 to 1 any-
thing else that has a “paper” chance. G.N. Steeple,
6 to 1, Larrikin ; 10 to 1, Doondiah, Vigil and Dondi, with
12 to 1 against anything else that can raise a gallop.
V.R.C. Derby, 6 to 4 against Aurum ; 6to 1, Fleet Admiral;
10 to 1 bar two. What earthly, or any other, show, have
backers of holding their own at sur-h a game ?
• * » *
The well-known N.S.W. sprinter, Moorefield
(Cheviot —Bengal Light), was fearfully cut about in his
box whilst being trained to Rosehill last Saturday. This
was a bitter blow to his owner, who greatly fancied the
horse’s chance for the Cup, over which event he had been
laid a most satisfactory portion of the big “ sweep.”
Doubtful whether Moorefield will ever be able to race
again.
* * * *
At the Rosehill (N.S.W.) meeting last Saturday
betting was conducted as briskly as of yore. Unfor-
tunately, a false start, from which a number of competi-
tors ran the whole course, somewhat discounted the
chances of several well-backed ones for the Cup, which
fell to the much-improved Kelso (Kingsborough—a Fop
mare). The handicapper well concealed the winners, as
can be seen by the following starting-prices : —6—1,12 —1,
20 —1, 6 —l, 10—1. In the Cup another Australian record
was established, as no less than 43 horses faced the start-
ing-machine.
• * * *
Even in sport John Bull is being cut out of the
foreign markets. The Paris Grand Prize was this year
won by the home-bred Doge, and it is suggestive that for
the past 11 years the French have managed to keep the
money in the country.
* * * *
Melb. councils again interview Ministers with
reference to attempted “ steal ” of public rights by the
V.R.C., with as little result as usual. The public has
used Flemington Flat as a park for 35 years, but now
fences have been put up, and visitors must get a permit
from a lodge-keeper, who will probably soon be ordered
not to be at home when anyone calls. The object of the
club’s move is said to be in the direction of charging ad-
mission to the Flat on race-days. The present committee
denies the alleged intention, but then it isn’t perpetual.
The original deed from the Crown and the Act of ’7l cer-
tainly appear to give power to Charge for admission, hence
the necessity of the public’s insisting on any rights it has
acquired by prescription or otherwise. An awkward
thing for the public is the fact that the club has numerous
secret allies in the municipal bodies themselves. Isaacs
gave a temporising answer, so that the club will probably
score again in the final.
• * * •
R. B. Echlin, manager of Charleville (Q.) Times
has invented a new totalisator and scratching board,
which Rockhampton Jockey Club, having tested, seems
inclined to buy. The tote is on the “ block” system, and
the ticket-seller doesn’t retain possession of the money,
but, standing in an enclosure outside, merely receives it
and passes it on to the man in the office, who immediately
registers it on the board outside by means of a mechani-
cal, automatic counting-machine. When a race starts,
the board, by means of the window-weight system, is
pushed up out of reach of anyone. The scratching board
is so fitted that, as horses are scratched, their names are
made to disappear without taking down the board.
* * • •
Ed. Bulletin, — Here, in Maoriland, polo be-
comes more popular every season ; but why does it seem
necessary to crop the manes and dock the tails of ponies
in such tar-brush fashion ? The local English chappies
declare that they would not ride at the game unless their
mounts were docked ; one of them vowed he would per-
form the operation, even if he had to steal an axe. The
“ colonial” players must be weak down to the knees, for
they imitate this cruel practice, in the same absurd way
that M.L. jockeys are adopting English flapping-sail
breeches and billy-pot boots. Do the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals’ societies not know what horses’ manes
and tails are for ?—Carrington Smith.
* * »
If racing is to be pursued at all, it will be a big
mistake to wipe out the ponies altogether. There would
be nothing the matter with a properly-'-'".itested pony-
meeting each Wednesday by the pro tary clubs in
turn, barring the soup - plate cours ;. Breeders of
thoroughbred stock find the game none too good with the
sale of ponies and galloways thrown in, and it will mean
a big thing to them if ail their stunted stock, though
bred on lines equal to anything on four legs, are thrown
upon their hands as worthless.
* * * *
The names of ’Stralian horses at ’Ome are to be
included in future issues of the exclusive Stud Book,
but, as in Newhaven’s case, explanatory notes are to be
appended re the supposed flaws in pedigree.
Cantle : “ Apropos the departed Sam Davis,
someone catalogues the yore-time Australian jockeys.
What a lesson to the present woefully decadent genera-
tion 1 Sam Waldock, the man of the perfect hands ;
Jimmy Ashworth, on Tait’s Volunteer, steady as a die;
Cutts, the straight pilot of Archer, the racehorse ; Hig-
gerson, the incomparable pigskinist of Verio and De
Mestre’s Tarragon ; Sam Holmes, for ever identified with
Tomboy ; Joe Morrison, who ferried Charon to his vic-
tories, and so on.”
* * * *
In a certain Queensland town an ancient
clergyman requested his parishioners to hold a race-
meeting on St. Patrick’s Day in aid of the church funds.
The O’Briens and the O’Houlahan 3 , the O’Neils and the
O’Flahertys decided that such a meeting should be held.
The rights in connection with the day’s sport were dis_
posed of to Catholics —who paid more than the value of
same just for the good of the church ; and his reverence
went to the races, and perched himself close to the
booth—the better to take stock of those members of his
flock who visited it too often. The result was that the
O’Briens and the O’Houlahans swear they never spent
such a dry day since the local brewery went bung, and
the bhoy who bought the booth swore so much at his
pastor that he has since been afraid to go to confession.
•** • •
At a recent W.A. back country race-meeting all
the ladies were black. Fanny, in a white petticoat hung
over her shoulders ; Polly, in a man’s shirt; Biddy, with
a pair of man’s trousers tied round her neck, and several
in the back-ground with nothing on.
• • » •
Amid all the racecourse betting prosecutions
Chinese gamblers in Sydney are enjoying a well-earned
rest. One afternoon lately' writer counted six fan-tan
and pak-ah-pu shops in full swing near Belmore Markets,
and within a radius of 100yds. On the opposite side of
the street strolled the oblivious policeman.
• * • •
The N.S.W. cast-off, Dora, continued her win-
ning career by annexing the Cambria Plate at Caulfield
last Saturday ; she was followed home by Lady' Loch and
Beau Brummel, both ex-Sydneyites. Two other Walers,
Lieutenant and Athlone, also ran in the field of 10. Vic.
is drawing heavily on the mother province for her race-
horses.
« * * *
Coolgardie R.O. gives £l6OO in stakes to a two
days’ meeting in Aug.—£soo of this goes to the Coolgardie
Cup on the second day.
* * * •
The valuable Ascot Cup was won last week
by the Prince of Wales’ Derby and St. Leger victor,
Persimmon (St. Simon —Perdita II.), who easily defeated
the heavily-backed Cambridgeshire and Lincoln Handicap
winner, Winkfield’s Pride (Winkfield —Alimony)—a decided
victory for classic over handicap form.
* * » *
The S.A. lacrosse team, which visits Melb. in
the beginning of July, has a goalkeeping marvel in Julian
Ayers, one of the stoutest athletes in Australia. Ayers,
although he weighs about I6st., is an active cricketer,
tennis-player and lacrosseur.
* • • •
“ There is grumbling because Wilson, Douglas,
and Evans, three of the rebellious Adelaide medicals who
have adopted Melbourne as their home, are likely to be
chosen in the Vic. lacrosse team.
* * * *
Billiard-champion John Roberts has been put
on the London financial market as “ John Roberts,
Limited,” with a capital of £70,000, the idea being to ex-
ploit his skill with the cue. So Gilbert, in “ The Gon-
doliers,” was a prophet, when he floated the Duke of
Plaza-Toro. The risks are, of course, a sudden “go off”
in form or death of Roberts. The former cannot be pro-
vided against, but they have insured the human asset
against death in three years for £30,000.
* * • •
The German billiard champion, Herr Karkau,
would seem to be even a finer cannon-play’er than Ives,
the ’Murkan. Playing in London lately' on a (presum-
ably) English pocket-table, and with (presumably) 2 l-16in.
balls, Karkau scored 700 cannons at his first break. He
worked the balls nearly three times round the table, com-
pleting the 700 cannons in 36min. If this sort of thing
can be done under English billiard conditions (but was it ?)
the old style of game is doomed. The greatest proficiency
in the art of nursery-cannoning can only be acquired by
practice on the small, originally French, table, so when
the small-table champions can adapt their skill to the big
tables, avoiding the pocket pitfalls, there’s an end to the
English “hazard” striker’s supremacy at his own game.
Already Roberts has gone a long way towards reducing
the “ all-round ” game to a mere manipulation of cannons.
* * * *
The threatened football revival in Melb. and
Adelaide comes as a shock to hotelkeepers. The average
visiting twenty, when they descend upon a city, generally
play blue sheol. The writer can recall three instances—
two in Adelaide, one in Melb. In one case the visiting
team wrecked four hotels at which they successively
stayed ; in the other, a course of rioting ended in the
pub. being surrounded by the police, and the offenders
being locked up in the cells to recover. In another case,
in Melb., the details were utterly unfit for publication.
Collingwood, the premier Melb. football team,
played South Adelaide what was virtually an Australian
premiership match on Adelaide Oval, June 12. Colling-
wood kicked 8 goals 5 behinds (53 points) to 6 goals 4
behinds (40 points). Melb. football teams always beat
Adelaide twenties in the handball game, and this match
was no exception. The play' was rough and the language
at times sulphurous—facts hailed by supporters as an
indication of a revival in the noble sport. The attendance
was 5000—a record for Adelaide for two vears. Umpire
Coffee, by the way, complained of the “ rough behavior
and blackguardly language of several of the players
towards him. ’ Truly, football is reviving : umpires will
soon again have to carry guns and hire police escorts.
* * * *
When the amateur cyclist leaves the lily-white
ranks and becomes a pro. he is usually a verv strong pro
indeed. Some of the most daring heat-rigs during last
season’s Melb. cycle-racing were “ put up ” by ex-
shamateurs.
* * * *
How they handicap cycle road-races in Melb.
In the E. Melb. road-race recently, A. A. Middleton did
the distance (20 miles) in what is reputed to be world’s
record-time (55min., out and back, unpaced), and yet
failed to get a place, the winner, with 14min. start, doin'-
the journey in 61min. Which means that to win Mid”,
would have had to wheel in something under 49min.
* * * *
Amateur cycling in Melbourne is a truly comic
affair, and columns are drivelled over the thrillin'- news
that Mick Mosenstein punctured his tyre four miles from
Footscray on Saturday, or that Ishmael Savinsky’s copious
nose has not entirely recovered from its collision with
the earth on Tuesday week. But the climax was reached
when a cycling journal published a full-page photo, print
of the soulful, inuch-bebarbered youth who runs the
amateur department in the same rag, accompanied bv a
two-col. interview with “ our amateur editor.” One of
the exclamations of surprise used by the interviewee is
Oh diamonds ! which, as the soulful scribe is a
• Ve^' da , y , ': fe ’. is particularly appropriate.
Had he been in the old clo line he would have probably
remarked “Oh, veskits!” 1 y
®y the way, what is the connection between
Orientalism and amateurism ? Though the professional
cycling trades are entirely destitute of the Chosen, the
average amateur meeting resembles the eagle cage at the
Zoo There is only one inference, and that is that there
is more cash in amateurism than there is in professionalism.
* * * * ../(') '
Several Tas. country pub.-keepers now offer
prize-trophies (value, £2 to £5) for cycle races to be run
to their doors. About live o’clock 30 odd cyclists hot and
dusty thirsty and tired, will land in Bung's verandah
with thirsts worth pounds. The whole township will be
collected in front of Bung’s door; also, the majority of
the riders will stay to tea and ride back by moonlight.
Result to publican : Good business, good advt., and
splendid increase of reputation for generosity, likewise,
with luck, portrait in the weekly paper.
If sculler Wray makes a pile in England, Lam-
bert, of the Nepean, now married and in retirement,
missed a chance. He could have had plenty of backing in
England, for he got a splendid advt. when Bubear, who
is supposed to know the ropes, barred him in a challenge
to the world, including Stanbury.
* * * *
The mother of the well-known Punch family, of
Sydney, died last week aged 90. Of eleven children, five
sons still survive.
« * * •
Sculler “Mick” Rush was asked by a fellow
Irishman on the morning of his final race with Trickett
on the Parramatta whether the race was to be a straight
one, as he wanted to put his money on it. “ Yes,” said
Rush, “ it is to be as straight as that,” and with a mighty
blow he laid the questioner on the grass.—Ex.
* * • •
Wray seems to have I.ad a very easy win ovet
Haynes on the Tyne course ; he led shortly after the start,
and was never afterwards asked to row. Wray now chal-
lenges the world over the Tyne. Gaudaur is not likely to
rush matters, and Wray’s most likely opponent looks to be
Towns, his fellow-Australian. Towns’ showing with
Chris. Neilson, however, scarcely places him upon a foot-
ing with Wray.
• • • •
Boxers Maher and Sharkey met recently in
New York, but the police stopped the fight. Both men
are smashing hitters, Sharkey being of the rough-and-
tumble order —a bad sort when the police are “down ”on
the game. He must be a tough customer, having now
met three of the very best and biggest men —Fitzsim-
mons, Corbett, and Maher—without sustaining defeat.
* * * *
Australian boxer Billy Maber is in gaol in
America, awaiting trial for an attempt to murder. Bar-
ring a partiality-for fire-water, Billy was, when in Aus-
tralia, the makings of a very poor murderer. Perhaps J.
Hennessy was at the bottom of the trouble.
* * * •
Steve O’Donnell has gone into the saloon biz. in
the States, and it is to be hoped he will give the ring best,
for he was ever a good boxer and a poor fighter. A very
clever lithographic printer, he tried long and hard to get
employment in the Sydney Government Printing Office,
and it was only for absolute want of something better to
do that he went to the States and tackled pugilism.
» • * *
Young Rodd, who graduated under the pheno-
menal George Scale, is now in England, and may try his
hand on some of the English amateurs. Rodd is a splen-
didly-built young fellow, and if he shows up to his
Australian form should make some of them sit down.
As The Bulletin anticipated, Major Jaw-
bone Neild’s “grand patriotic oration” at the
Sydney Town Hall concert made the miserable
audience snort. Jawbone is now busy denying
press statements that he was cut short by the
audience’s restiveness ; he claims that he succeeded
in getting it all off his chest.
Melb : “ On Jubilee Sabbath, one panted
for a corner to worship God. ”
Will some member of N.S.W. Assembly
kindly call for an official list of the previous con-
victions of the man sentenced to three years’ hard
labor for larceny of a ninepenny tin of baking-pow-
der, in order that the public may judge for itself
as to the validity of Judge Gibson’s excuse that
the sentence owed its severity to the prisoner’s
incorrigibility.
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Packets
Of
•v H
’
ZZ A
LI GAR 5
&
PoalH
r
*-
rr
PURE
pl/LD
nufaaured by
Payerne
Is.
H
MATRIMONY.
A sSLJ?»m™‘Sssi , lis“ AO s
replies to communications sent under plain cover
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association.
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
Westward, ho ! Sixty bulls are being
shipped at Newcastle this week for the land of
the Black Swan. They were bred by the A.A.
Co., Gloucester, and purchased at eight guineas
per head, through Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd.,
by a prosperous Kimberley cattle-owner. This is
the second year the A.A. Co.’s bulls have been
sold to go to Westralia, through the characteristic
enterprise of the agents in following up new
outlets.*
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ;5, Eancy
Goods ; 6, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ;9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
The proprietors of the “ Three Castles ”
cigarettes—“ Three Castles” tobacco was eulogised
by Thackeray—have got on the Jubilee racket
both plain and colored; They have prepared
a series of brilliantly - coloured portraits of
the English inonarchs of the last eight
centuries—presumably taken by Falk or some
other very old-established photographer—and
one glittering monarch is enclosed in each
packet of “ Three Castles ” cigarettes. The pur-
chaser, of course, has no choice in the matter ; he
buys his packet and gets his monarch, and if the
potentate served out to him was a weak, diseased
person who died amid general execration that is
his misfortune.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT, ” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell s’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - . GEO W. ELLIS
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 4'l> York Street , SYDNEY.
>'2 \S
pies
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin


Melbourne City Council, which cut down
the wages of its laborers in the dark days of ’93
rom 7s to Os per day, now puts them up again
to Os. Od. Better times and an improvement in
the revenue are the reasons assigned.
l\ S THEATRE, sydnfy
XX sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Muwrove
lm,. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS 1
“Tbc Sigi) of tl>€ Cross.”
SATURDAY and MONDAY-ROMEO AND JULIET
Tuesday and Wednesday-MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRIQES-Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
237
237
gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE,
PITT STREET,
237
237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
180,000 VISITORS TO DATE ISO nrm
MOVING SCENES of the GRECO - TURKISH WAR
THE REBELLION IN CUBA (a„ actual tttleT '
La Loie Lullers Serpentine Dance &c '
TO-DAY, FROM NOON ONWARDS.
, J* MACMAHON, Director.
■JIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING I
MA66IE MOORE,
In the NEW and ORIGINAL Comedy Drama, entitled
JOHANNA”
Supported by a SPECIALLY-SELECTED Company
Popular Prices—3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD
rjVEMPE ANNUAL CHARITY hXll.
Town Hall, Sydney, Wednesday, 7th July.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
BALL TICKETS, 10 6. : GALLERY TICKETS, 2/-
FAVOURILE CHARACTERS
From CHARLES DICKENS.
LECTURE WITH RECITALS
BY
Mrs. T. R,
THE ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY EVENING, 26th June at 8 o’clock.
Popular Prices :-Reserved Chairs, 2s. Unreserved
Seats, Is. Box plan at Glen’s.
IHEATRE
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT ! TO- NIGHT!
BLAND HOLT’S
MAGNIFICENT SCENIC SPECTACLE
“A LIFE OF PLEASURE.’
Hailed as a Series of Surprises.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6(1, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
X>RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
hoIe Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THE PAULTON - STANLEY COMEDY SEASON.
TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT !
MY FRIEND FROM INDIA.
r, • H ‘ A ’ Du Souche * and W. Lestocq.)
The Brightest, Maddest, Merriest Absurdity ever staged.
T, nce , s as , Blan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, pitt street
SYDNEY.
“ TO LET -
cr Particulars, apply
HENRY BROE,
Box 489 G.P.O. SYDNEY.
THE GLA DSTON E WRIGHT
TI , CONCERT DIRECTION.
Recitl a ke At th H Organisation of Concerts, Dramatic
Recitals, At Homes, Garden Parties, and General
Entertainments.
Supplies Artists, Living Pictures, Lime-light, Stage
Fittings, Marquees.
Estimates on Application to
THE DIRECTION,
77 Swanston Street, MELBOURN E.
T I^ r i°r L 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Hakry Rickards.
Continued Brit/ltant Success of
Mr. Marry Rtckards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company,
r\ i High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission-Private Boxes, £1 is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d :
QTYp e ptiric' Sta 8 ’ 2 ,*! ’ . Stal,s » 18 i and Family Circle,
oiAi'HiJNCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
THE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager . Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
xTn,„ m , MR ' HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW IIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2B, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €ri}brocatioQ-
fliss E. Twccdic, *
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbs Up-to-dats FrockiSt.
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “High
Grade ”as a sign of Excellence have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The Grreville
ABSOLUTELY the
CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd ,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
“ r*HILDEIRTH WITHOUT PAIN:” a Code of
7* Directions for escaping from the Primal Curse :to
which is added Golden Information for Females. This is
a most valuable book, and no lady should be without it.
In secure cover, post free 2s. 6d. Only of
Madame HOMER, Box 992, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, &c.
From Town and Country Journal, March 27, 1897
“We have received from Madame Homer a book entitled
‘ Childbirth Without Pain.’ The principal subject is
treated in a sensible, popular, and straightforward man-
ner ; while useful hints are also given on matters relating
to health and hygienic conditions.”
Sunday Times, April 18, 1897 “ The I ulk of the direc-
tions given seem perfectly in accordance with common
sense, and their adoption can scarcely he otherwise than
beneficial. There is nothing whatever of an objectionable
or prurient nature in the book, and much valuable infor-
mation may be obtained by its perusal.”
Herald of Health, edited by Mr. M. L. Holbrook,
M. D. “ The book sets forth briefly and clearly the nature
and importance of child-bearing, the slightest of its real
dangers, and the best methods of alleviating its discom-
forts and sufferings.”
From Mrs. C. Stokes, Diplomaed Midwife Every
line in the book 1 Childbirth Without Pain ’ is worth care-
ful reading. I have no hesitation in recommending it to
the notice of the sex generally.”
Only of MADAME HOMER, Box 992 G.P.0., Sydney.
BICITCIaES . . .
SOLE AGENTS for the “invincible ” Oyolos, specially
made in Chicago, U.S.A., to our order.
SOLE AGENTS for the “ Royal Progreag” Cycles,
Coventry, England.
We also stock the “ LEA.,” a first-grade Coventry Wheel, and the following
. . AMERICAN CYCLES . .
‘ Ui)ioQ Crackajacks’, ‘ Ow?oS’, ‘ Imperials’, ‘ Ootiogs’.
This Co. caters for the Cycling Public in all branches of the trade ; and, besides keeping a large
and varied stock of Wheels by leading manufacturers in England and America, makes SUNDRIES
and REPAIRS a SPECIALTY.
Sole Agents for the renowned Wheeler &: ‘Wilson. Sewing Machines-
The Kno-hsh American Acrencv do and george street, Sydney,
iiie laigu&n ol -a uienottu agency co., and 52 Elizabeth street, Melbourne.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle
For LADIES and GENTS.
elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
The iQtercbaQgcable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tile ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“ DOW RI DGE'S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
CHILDREN REQUIRE EXERCISE
EVEN MORE THAN ADULTS.
Medical Men agree that Cycling is the best form of exercise for the Young,
their only stipulation being that the youthful rider shall have nothing to do with an inferior and unreliable Machine The
ARIEL MIDGET CYCLES
Are essentially high grade in every respect, and the only difference between them and high-class adult machines is that of
weight and size ; Quality of design, materials, workmanship and finish are exactly the same.
Hitherto machines either toy-like or heavy in construction have been thought “ good enough ” for Juveniles. The public
have now been awakened to the grand possibilities of Cycling as a healthful pastime for our boys and girls, and in the ARI EJL
MIDGET AND JUVENILE CYCLES we claim to have fulfilled the want for high quality machines at a reasonable prt e
£lO-10-0
FITTED WITH
Dunlop or Warwick Tyres
0 01-OISf
The AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LIMITED.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES FOR
Dunlops
Hnmbers
Triumphs (with the
exception of Victoria and S. Australia).
Coventry Cross
Stars
Ariels
Swift
Singers
(except W. Australia).
Oriels,
&c., for
Australasia.
BRAKTCHES at
393 George Street - - Sydney.
229 l.liz ibeth St. - - Melbourne.
33 ltundle St. - - Adelaide.
Colombo & Lichfield Sts., Christchurch.
George Street - - Dunedin.
Hobart and Launceston.


Special Advertisements.
Weakened Vitality
IMPOVERISHED
Read what Ayer’s Sarsaparilla did
for the Rev. Z. P. Wilds, a well-
known city missionary in New York
and brother of the late eminent
Judge Wilds:
“I was for many years a sufferer
from boils and other eruptions of a
like nature, caused by the impover-
ished state of my blood. My appe-
tite was poor and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observa-
tion of the good it had done to others,
I began taking it. My
Appetite Improved
almost from the first dose; then my
general health improved, and now it
is excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent, stronger, and I attribute this
result to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as
the best blood medicine ever
devised.”
For all disorders resulting from
poor or corrupted blood and general
debility, take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
AYEffTpiLLTcURTB^OUSNESS.
.*To
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OL
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
> Obtainable of Chemists, (S'
Stores, Perfumers,
* or direct from
Stre^,
The Celebrated.
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
ill
111
Wk
MM
<ll>
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and wi.hal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” VELVETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS ”
Velveteen bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
Other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
\ Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
4 4 The workman’s capital— his bone and
sinew, inevitably diminishes with age.’ Whixon.
When “Rev. George Stewart, of N.S.
Wales,” assured the Assembly of the Free Church
of Scotland the other day that horse-racing is the
cancer of Australia, he forgot to mention that it
only affects six days a week, and that the cancer
of the seventh is the Calvinistic hypocrisy which
seeks to make the Sabbath a liell-upon-earth.
Look at the Melbourne Sunday !
The “busted” Melb. Harbor Trust now
acknowledges that the dredging of the Yarra and
the building of wharves and docks along that
dreadful stream was all a mistake. The harbor
and the docks should be where Nature intended
them to be—at Port Melbourne and Williains-
town, and the Yarra should have been left to its
own devices all along. It is a trifle late to think
about that, now, however. The present trouble is
that the Trust is practically insolvent, and that,
despite its ruinous exertions, the silt has for some
years past been depositing faster than it could be
removed. Therefore, the Yarra is getting back to
its original condition, and as no one has suggested
a day of prayer and humiliation for the deepening
of the river it is difficult to say what will happen.
Ah Ming, of Little Bourke-streefc, Melb.,
got a release of his estate from insolvency, the
other week. The heathen was not represented by
a solicitor —he couldn’t afford it—but he put in an
affidavit stating that he was in a large way of
business until his customers fell victims to depres-
sion. He was finally broken up through endorsing
Chong Hing’s promissory-notes, and now, being
refused further time to meet his engagements, he
was compelled to file —“ a course I was very sorry
to take,” said Ah Ming, in his affi., “as it is
looked upon by my fellow-countrymen as a great
i disgrace.” Judge Molesworth said he was glad to
I hear that Chinese merchants regarded the in-
! ability to pay 20s. in the £ as a disgrace. The
Bulletin would have told the abashed heathen
not to worry. He is merely moving with civili-
sation :
A WORD OF SYMPATHY.
Why hide your yellow face, Ah Ming',
Why hide your face so yellow,
And brood on your “ disgrace,” Ah Ming?
’Tis not disgrace, old fellow.
’Tis no disgrace, in any case,
To cast aside your trading debts
In Melbourne. Stow your sad regrets,
Absurd repiner !
You dwell among a Clistian race ;
The city of the missing inace,
Where honesty seems out of place,
Is not like China.
Breathe not the old-world wheeze, Ah Ming—
We are not taking any.
Our boomsters live in ease, Ah Ming,
Who paid their “ bob,” or penny.
Look cheerful, please 1 it’s quite the cheese
To file your schedule, allee same
As they, who feel no sense of shame —
Restore your smirk sweet 1
And tell your friends heyond the seas
That “ going bung” (the new disease)
Has spread, from men of high degrees,
To Lilly Buck-street.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
3n.ii©©*
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
Mr
Mr
ItHP
1 i me-FrUit
Juice, it is
found, forms
me st conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
incite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, ATaster in Surgery , writes
so far back as fO/y, in a treatise on Scurvy: —-“I
dare not write how goo 1 a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins."
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
< iCo., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
Banking Notice. _____
The London Qank of Australia, IjiaM.
2 OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL ... -
UNCALKED, INCLUDING RESERVED LIABILITY
.£2,136,050
1,405,390
730,660
board of directors.
Sir JAMES FRANCIS GARRICK, Q.C., K - C M '° 6 > E^ MA^ LLER> Esq.
Sir WALTER FOSTER, M.D., D.C.L., M.P. ROBERT ROME, Esq.
ALFRED CHRISTIAN GARRICK, Esq. NICOL BROWN WATSON, Esq.
ROBERT LANDALE, Esq. ~
Balaocc Sbcct, 3lSt 1896.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation ... _ ...
Bills Payable and other liabilities
Governments Deposits—
Not bear-
ing in-
terest... £35,311 5 3
Bearing
interest. 280,000 0 0
£315,311
Other Deposits—
Not bear-
ing in-
terest.,.. 922,884 12 11
Bearing
interest. 259,940 7 7
1,182,825
Fixed Deposits of the Old Bank
... £172,760 5 0
... 540,685 14 7
5 3
1,498,136 5 9
... 3,716,087 0 0
Capital Account: £5,927,669 5 4
Ordinary Shares —
50,000 Shares, £25 called £1,250,000 0 0
Less-
Unpaid in re-
spect of un-
issued Shares.. £8970
Calls in arrear ... 2305
11,276 0 0
Add— 1,238,725 0 0
Calls paid in ad-
vance 1366
Prepaid by Trus-
tees in respect
of Reserve
Liability ... 6826
8,190 0 0
£1,246,915 0
Preference Shares:
17,193 Shares of £loeach,
fully paid ... ... 171,930 0
Profit and Loss as per account below
1,418,845 0 0
1,811 16 11
£7,348,326 2 3
ASSETS.
Cash in London and the
colonies —
Coin and Bullion, and
Notes of other Banks
Balances due by other
Banks
Loans at Call and short
notice
£990,222 5
64,159 18
170,019 7
0
3
0
-£1,224,401 10
3
Investments, Bills of Exchange, Loans,
and other Assets in London ...
Bills, Discounted Loans, and other Assets
in the Colonies, after deducting pro-
vision for bad and doubtful debts
Bank Premises
692,903 3 9
5,047,160 6 0
383,861 2 ?
£7,348,326 2 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Charges, including Directors’ and Audi-
tors’ Fees, Salaries, and all other ex-
penses at Head Office, Branches, and
Agencies ... ... ••• ...£34,199 6 9
Income Tax and Tax on Note Issue ... 1,323 10 1
Balance ... ... ••• ••• I|Bll 16 11
£37,334 13 9
By Balance carried over as
per last report ... £10,935 19 3
Less Dividend on Prefer-
ence Shares, Deo., 1896 4,728 1 6
£6,207 17 9
Gross Profits in London and in the
Colonies for half-year ended 31st
Dec., 1896, after providing for in-
terest due and accrued on all de-
posits, deducting rebate on Bills
Current, and making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts ... ... 31,126 16 0
£37,334 13 9
By Balance brought down
... £l,Bll 16 11
We hereby certify that the above Balance-sheet is, in our opinion, a full and fair Balance-sheet, properly drawn
up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books of the Bank in London and the
returns from the Colonies. „„ , . ...
PRICE, WATERHOUSE, and CO., Auditors.
6th Hay, 1897.
JAMES F. GARRICK )
R. ROME - Directors.
G. MILLER )
W. N. TOMKINS, Secretary.
■ PS
A
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
s/ 8 inch and 3/ 4 inch Blades,
Round and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
This Razor is True to Name—RINGS like a Bell,
and Is as SOUND as a Belt.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydney
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage.) ■■ _« d
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with ail ■ | CL Ls
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
> .
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queens Gate Terrace. London. S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
INFANTS
7
9
Benger's Food Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.” .
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


TRADE
MARK
SOAP*
MONKEY BRAND
)wM
: ,/** j
| '
ALWAYS HEAD THE DIRECTIONS
Observe Name &. Trade Mark
'Z'P
yJo
<*
a
S’
- •*
V
w*
4K
a
WW/A
S'
a
%
H
%
<g
9>
°ir
<c\r
r.
xx-V-xx
%
W\ : -
SSSS
% f >
»iS
1 H -
X:-;->--v: : : ; :::;X:-^X;XXx.X;-X:-:-
i
clothes.
WOJM’T
WASH CLOTHES.
VVOKT’T "VV_A.SH
BROOKE’S
MONKEY BRAND SOAP
For Gleaning, Scouring, and Scrubbing Floors and Kitchen Tables.
FOR POLISHING
metals Marble, Paint, Cutlery, Crockery, Machinery, Paths, Stair-Pods.
For STEEL, IRON, BRASS and COPPER VESSELS, FIRE-IRONS, MANTELS, etc
Removes Rust, Dirt, Stains, Tarnish, etc.


k
am
V
pi./-,
- *
*
NEVER. CAUGHT A COLD
FISHER AND CO.’S
Fari)o(iS Natara
(REGISTERED)
CURES - - The Head,
CURES - - The Throat,
CURES - - The Chest.
Once Tried, alwaj's Recommended for
COLDS, COUGHS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOFING COUGH,
&c., &c.
A MOST CERTAIN REMEDY, UNRIVALLED FOR
QUICK. ACTION AND IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
One DOSE RELIEVES. One BOTTLE CURES.
PLEASANT TO THE TASTE.
Arthur Cocks and Co.,
Wholesale Opticians, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l was persuaded to try your Natara re-
cently whilst suffering from a heavy cold, and its effect
was far beyond my expectations. One dose effected a
marked improvement, and next day I had fully recovered
from the cold, after taking 1 four doses. It is the best
remedy I have ever used. —Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR COCKS.
Manufactured only by the Proprietors,
FISHER AND CO..
WHOLESALE CHEMISTS AND
DRUGGISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Is. (itl. and 2s. 6d. per Bottle ;
By Post, 6d. and Bd. Extra.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WHEN IN TOWN
CAN OBTAIN SINGLE DOSES, 3d. per dose.
To be had from all Chemists and Storekeepers in the
Colonies. Beware of Imitations, and insist upon being
served with NATARA, and no other Cough Mixture.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Sydney and Parramatta!
PATTINSON (all shops).
Wholesale from Elliott Brothers; Australian Drug
Company ; Hoffnung’s ; Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co. ; or
any other Wholesale House.
TH
i
m
rt
s,E\
Royal
toHerAUjestythe Qoeem. 3
JO Gold & Prize Medals Awcirc/ec/.
(THEWHiSKYOF HIS FOREFATHERS")
S.M. Herald advfc. :
■yOUTH, for cart; don’t want day-dreamer or yellow-
back reader; must know district. O’GRADY,
288 Parramatta-road, Petersham.
Prosaic O’Grady ! No poetry, no romance—only
the cart.
The A.N.A. Board of Directors has gone
cap in hand to the A.N.A. metropolitan com-
mittee, begging the latter to do the splashing for
the association in the Melb. jubilee procession.
What is the quid pro quo ? Disloyal anti-gamblers
in the association phrase it thusly : “ You do our
grovel, we’ll tolerate your gamble.”
Melbourne has landed another leper- A
Ping—who has been living for some time in the
heart of the city, only venturing out to take air
after dark. Acting upon information, the ponce
took Ping from his washtub, and he is now at tne
lazaret. Ping was washing a shirt when arreste ,
and the arresting constable said: 1 here were
sores on his hands, with the typical hard lump
between the thumb and forefinger, always presen
in true leprosy.” The Melbourne girl should abso-
lutely refuse'to rest her golden head upon any
local manly bosom, until she sees its propnetoi s
laundry-certificate.
Is of Unequalled Value as a Household Beverage.
Easy to Make—Easy to Digest and of Exquisite Flavour
A Barometer
... of Trade
IS THE TYPEWRITER BUSINESS.
IT QUICKLY RESPONDS TO IM-
PROVED CONDITIONS. THIS
LENDS GENERAL INTEREST TO
THE FACT THAT
tijor*
Remington...
Stapdard Typewriters
were sold in the month of March, 1897, than in any previous month in its history.
The NEW MODEL No. 7 has many Late Improvements.
Catalogues Free.
STOTT & HOARE, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
• i
.
. . PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OF , .
Cold, Silver, bead m Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.’
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
A. W. THOMSON
Billiard Table WasjGfaetCirer.
5
A. W. THOMSON
has left all rival manufacturers far behind.
Sole Maker of the Thomson Excelsior Low-(}ash i*
Wote Address :
A. W. THOMSON,
103 and 105 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Rheumatism Held the Fort »
A 15 YEARS’ SIEGE.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS TO THE
RESCUE AND THE ENEMY ROUTED.
Mr. Ed. Barsley, of 19 Waverley-road, Wool-
lahra, said a reporter who was sent to interview
him :
“lama pianoforte tuner by profession, and am
well-known throughout the colony ; this latter fact
should add weight to my statements.
“ Now, to deal with the subject of your visit. I
have on and off for the last 15 years been a martyr
to rheumatism and, indeed, have quite recently
recovered from a very severe attack My discovery
is that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are
an unfailing remedy for this torturing disease, and
to emphasise my case I must tell you that each of
my ailments —for I had more than one, as you will
learn later—were so formidable as said to be in-
curable by the hospitals and doctors by whom I
was treated. Towards the end of April last year
I had a very bad attack of rheumatism, and this
was accompaned by a swelling in the groin, but
without pain. A chemist gave me some liniment
to rub on the affected part, but this brought tem-
porary relief only. After this I went to work
again for two or three days, but was soon com-
pelled to give in, being unable to continue any
longer. I then consulted a doctor.”
“ Was his treatment successful ? ”
“ No, he told me mine was an exceptional case,
and he could give me but little assistance ; that I
was suffering from a complex trouble —hip joint
disease with locomotor ataxia. My eyesight was
also failing; this, he said, often accompanied
cases of locomotor ataxia. An eminent oculist
told me that it was a case of optic atropy.”
“ What did you do then, Mr. Barsley ? ”
“ I went to three different hospitals in all, and
came out no better than I went in. A friend I
met in one hospital asked me if I had given Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial. I said I had not. My
friend at once advised me to do so, adding that he
knew of some wonderful cures they had effected in
cases of locomotor ataxia.”
“ Did you follow his advice ? ”
“ I am rejoiced to say I did.”
“ With what result ? ”
“ Well, by the time I had taken three boxes I
felt better, and for this reason determined to go on
, with them. The benefits derived from continuing
I the treatment are very evident. I can now move
about fairly well, getting up and down stairs with-
! out any assistance, whereas when I left the hos-
pital I could only crawl about with difficulty. I
am returning to my usual avocation of pianoforte
tuning, and that, as you know, requires a clear
head and the use of one’s limbs. ”
“ And you feel equal to it, Mr. Barsley? ”
“ I feel quite equal to it, and more too, for I
shall be constantly travelling through the colony,
and of this I shall be doubly glad, as it will afford
me a valuable opportunity to bring sufferers and
sceptics face to face with practical proof of the
wonderful curative powers possessed by Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
For the information of sufferers with hip disease,
we would especially mention that in connection
with the above marvellous cure that the hip bone
was dislocated, necessitating the muscles and tis-
sues doing extra duty for it.
Dr. Will lams’ Pink Pills have cured numerous
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxy, spinal disease,
rheumatism, and sciatica ; also of diseases arising
from impoverishment and vitiated humors of the
blood, which cause scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general mus-
cular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations, pains
in the back, nervous headache, early decay, all
forms of female weakness, and hysteria. These
Pills are not a purgative. They are genuine only
with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and are sold by chemists and by Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who will
forward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or post
order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 14s. 9d.
They are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.*
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
ROOM
dramas?! ®
dhe
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. 6d. NATIVE WA*
RATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding covers,
price 2s.
J. ALBERT & SON,
Largest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments and
spectacles. Illustrated Catalogue of Violins, Accordeons,
Cornets, Mandolines, Music, etc., posted free on applica-
tlon - 118 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
a
o
Send P. 0.0. for 186 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKEX
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoij’s Noted Accordeoi?S,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown ;
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
m F. COX ON X CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
Missing Friends.
VVTILL WALTER HODGES, who left the
ship “ Eardshall ” in 1891, comuiuiiicat*
with Messrs. Rand & Duew, Solicitors,
109 Pitt-streat, Sydney,


NEW
WINTER GOODS!
Ex Banffshire :
198 —Cases & Bales —198
ex Southern Mail Steamers :
IXI Oases & Bales 111
Now being marked off, making 1072
Bales and Cases to hand for this
Winter Season up to the present.
NEW GOODS FLOWING INTO ALL
DEPARTMENTS DAILY, and as quickly
FLOWING OUT AGAIN. The Public
know our values, and appreciate them.
Every Sale we make is an Advertisement,
and every Customer a Salesman.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO
JT
Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As the swift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
Ivose fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
spare
Who wears youth’s coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s -*■
Hair Vigor
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “A woman is as
old as she looks, ” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At the World’s
Chief Expositions.
j)auid graham $ C°-
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
SUITABLE
FOR
Winter SCiitiQgS
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID HD AII AM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
"Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
r>°- eo^
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
bandsomb
Commemoration Box of Butter Scotch
With it will be presented a History of the Victorian
Bra, written especially for Children y
Miss Bessie Hatton.
L Ready J«ne
Order •• of confectioner* e» 6niy » Bmlted
nn*ph».g win be i*eo«L. •
St. John’s Works, W.O. LONiJuIN
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
i Prick Waruno ; Is- 3d posted.
Dr. Holtze, F.L.S., who lias successfully
acclimatised the cocoa-nut palm in the northern
territory, advises S.A. Govt, to go in largely for
planting the trees from which camphor, rubber,
and gum-arabic are obtained.
France’s best surgical monthly (Revue de
Chirurgie) avers that a 5 per cent, solution of
common boric acid is a most effective nose-bleach,
and will turn the beak of either plain drunk or
asserted dyspeptic whiter than snow with neatness
and despatch. ,
The colonial tweeds and serges manufac-
tured by Bums & Gale, of Camden, and by
Murray Bros, of Parramatta ; also the Kaiapoi
and Oamaru (M.L.) materials, are being fostered
by the up-to-date firm of Hordern Bros., Pitt-
street, Sydney. At the Royal Agricultural
Society’s last show Parramatta tweeds were
awarded first-prize and gold medal.*
“Next time you hear a beer-chewer
termed a beast on account of his thirst, ” writes a
N.Q. correspondent to The Bulletin, “ don’t go
away with the idea of the beast being maligned.
There is in Townsville a goat (the property of a
genial host) who can put away long beers with
any in an that (say) ‘Scotty the Wrinkler ’ could
nominate. His usual method is to rub acquaint-
ance with your legs while you are discussing the
fluid yourself, and upon being shouted for he will
take the glass in his mouth and slug it in real
‘chewer ’ fashion —afterwards licking any he may
have spilt in his eagerness to touch bottom. On a
night when the bowl has been particularly strong,
he makes it a rule to touch nothing till about
noon next day.”
Overheard at a discussion on the Grseco-
Turkish war from a dyspeptic doctor. “Hum!
Heredity be damned ! Look at Giuseppe Gari-
baldi, and then at his boy, Ricciotti. Oliver
Cromwell, and his neurotic product. Where’s
Alexander’s progeny, Csesar’s, Akbar’s, Attila’s,
Raleigh’s, Hawkins’s, Frobisher’s, Drake’s, Davis’s,
Walker, of Nicaragua’s, Bolivar’s, Dunn’s —piles
of others. Look at the best of the dead Aus-
tralians, too, and their progeny—just run over the
list. Those men lived 10 years in every calendar
one, and spent, each of them, the nerve-forco of
several generations.”
They were mates and had been such for
years. Respective names, Bill and Jim. Fact!
Bill was chief pilot, and did all the “magging.”
Jim corroborated Bill’s statements—when appealed
to by Bill. Otherwise he was respectfully silent.
Shearing at Fleeceback’s was over, and before
“ doing in ” their cheques at Cleanout’s pub, they j
(Bill) decided to renovate their travelling para- !
phernalia at Hooker’s general store. They had
two drinks meanwhile, then began the renovating
part of their programme. Bill did the “ buying.’
Jim was not consulted, but was satisfied. Bill
thought they could do with a new tucker-bag, and
said so. Jim agreed. Old Hooker produced the
material needed for building the article, also re-
marked that a yard would suffice. Bill concurred.
Jim did not; for the first time in eight years he
disputed the point and said it would take
“a yard an’ a narf.” Bill was thunder-
stricken at Jim’s audacity; told him he was
always putting in his ‘ ‘ mag, always nag-
ging ” and growling. He (Bill) knew how much
ft took to make a tucker-bag. Anyhow, the chap
behind the counter oughter know—fee was a better
scholar than him (Jim). Jim still reckoned that
it would take a “yard an’a narf. Whereupon
Bill unbosomed himself thus: “Don’t speak to
me ! I’ve had enough of yez ! Shut up! yer no
good ! Yer know where yer swag is I
know where mine is ! Wouldn’t tramp another
m ile with yer ! ” The mates prepared to
“bash” each other. Hooker interfered at this
stage and Jim left. Ten minutes after they met
“up the street” and agreed to “stand each
other for another trip out-back.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
A delicious cooling drink. The juice of
the lime fruit, as prepared in Rose’s Lime Juice
Cordial, supplies a beverage particularly whole-
some and refreshing in water —effervescing in all
mineral waters and an excellent stimulant
blended with spirits. It possesses valuable medi-
cinal properties, cooling and purifying the blood,
stimulating and assisting digestion. It is entirely
free of spirits. Recommended by the Lancet.
Sold everywhere. Purchasers should be careful
to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others being
imitations.*
jHAirPENHY
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & 00.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
EVERY VARIETY OF
rietifsi
lex
IN a«-u sizes.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single - -
Direct- Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,— j
mining machinery
AND
mining supplies
Of Every Description.
AifDiCAl /\m
F JNOICEjTio^
Nervous
/^EADACKE
r PAKRoT
BR6ND'
3P<?aiNs Woondc
(bOCMS (OIPS {C
op
Imitati^S 1
a
SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT.”
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Hd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
HAIItItItESSEKS AMI* WIG MAKERS
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
jj.B.-We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, lOs. 6d. ; wire foundation fiom
4si 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
arid design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
080 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
SPLENDID Accommodation for Visitors at
“Wyarlra,” 115 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Mrs. LILLIS (late of Bundaberg).
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Dr. j.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With ati increasing' demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility Of a DOUBT that we
hate the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS \\ HAR-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady-, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the Wearer through all
WEAK PARTS, REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address !
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
i
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
the drum
'H POSITIONy
PeafQCSS
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relived
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chaimer3,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspeps a, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, t(
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
I
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, R gibcred
in England, and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, frbm what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded : the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years ex-
perience in Kurope, America, aud Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONf! POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are yon nervously anxious abm
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write ai d receive
prompt reply: Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons' nanu s,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of . something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
T
HE LAST OF
PRICE— Is.; Per POST, Is.
SIX
3d.


Adaips Tattersall Hotel,
PITT ST., SYDNEY.
AdarpS Cafs, (George Street.
*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦« ——
SPJLENDID A CCOMMODA TION.
TEEMS: FROM Bs. PFR DAT.
- . m* *♦♦♦♦♦- .
VISLTORS CAN DINE IN HOTEL OR CARE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER TILLS.
All kinds of STORES use the
National Cash Register—
GROCERS, IRONMONGERS,
DRUGGISTS, BUTCHERS, STA-
TIONERS, BOOTS & SHOES,
CIGARS & TOBACCO, DRY
GOODS, RESTAURANTS, TEA
STORES, FLORISTS, and
HOTELS, etc. They save time,
work, worry, and money, and
systematize your business.
100,000 IN USE.
■mm
The N.C.R. stops the leaks by ex-
hibiting the amount of each
sale, preventing disputes in
accounts : Keeping a record of
Credit Sales, Moneys Paid Out,
Moneys received on account ;
showing the total amount of
Sales during the day, making
it impossible to open the Cash
Drawer without leaving a record.
Showing the amount of money
taken out of the Cash Drawer
and not entered.
We have all kinds of CASH REGISTERS —Detail-adding, Total-adding, Total-adding Check and
Detail-printing and Autographic, from £5 to <£6o.
We Sell on Easy Monthly Payments, or a Discount of 5 per cent, for Cash.
. . SPECIAL TERMS EOR A NUMBER . .
We GUARANTEE every Register we sell for TWO YEARS —but it will last a business lifetime.
“ They perform everything- that is claimed for them.”—CIVIL SERVICE STORES.
“ It is a most excellent machine for our business.”—WlLLlAMS & GIBBONS.
“ They pay for themselves in a very short time.” —PATTINSON & CO.
“ No hotel should be without them.” —The AUSTRALIA.
“ Since August 29 we have used TWELVE of your National Cash Register machines. These have given us
every possible satisfaction. Nothing would induce us now to be without them. These machines were purchased to
replace the Lamson Cash Carriers. Your Registers reduce the possibility of fraud on the part of the salesmen, and
save the petty thefts of the cashier.”—F. LASSETTER & CO., Ltd.
FISHER & LIN6NAM, Sole Importers for Australia.
Head Offices 1, 2 & 3 VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY.
AGENCIES :
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, DUNEDIN,
AUCKLAND, SUVA, and HONOLULU.
Wasbiogtoi) H. So£il & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars—that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON N. SOUL « CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street;, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
268 Pitt-street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION-.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
THE
* Plum ’
P! U
THE
‘lPluijna’
ENTLEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price i Bazor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
e (.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG fit AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
1207
124
1208
403
126
N.W
125
127
234
078
56
57
4.
%
—THE—
A uHtralicm
Needlewood
Pipe Co. 9 Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc Coole°t Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
-SEE THAT OUR TKADBr
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A l STR ALIAS
A EEDLEII OOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
urice to the above address.
Nos. 07'', 124, 12'', 126, 127,
f 6, 7, 234 — 3/ 8 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
LI 207, 7/6 L 56, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY HE HAH WHOLESALE FROM
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzbi, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA —Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
fllncßoßEßTson s cneine cum
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
D
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Pull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Sc Stores.
Works :
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
12-
ROOK OF JVATUKE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAB'AYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free, Is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted hook, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physioloqy for the Young, by Dr. Foote
illustrated, post free 3s.
New Realistic Novels:—The Serpent Tempted Her >
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories op Love and Frolic, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of the Court of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Famoos Romances of Voltaire, illus., p st, free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Lb Chateau de la Favorite (in French), post Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lam.nine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
• <^A ?i D i.u'Rlc? s 1 , b y Dr - Carver, a new work, contain-
i-« j t / lcks and deceptions with cards explained,
free Is 3d *° r me anc * P ubbo amusement, Is; post
The Secret of Beauty REVEALED-Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
3. ' MJ& xKAjjijj SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
l6 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
GOUTINE.
Remedy for CHRONIC GOUT
sSaSSY”™- 0017 ?' RHEUMATISM, and
1 h , ls wonderful discovery has now been
cripples) in Victoria have been cured of the above horrihlcf 1 J'his time 180 persons (mostly
The only known cure. Prescribed by the Medical Facultv flleP? 15 am * S i • *l, glves I . mm ] ediate Relief.
J. Smith, an employe of the Vic , ( Ref ® rence iskmdly perrmtted to Mr. Alex.
GOUTINE aftex five years of suffering' Jnd afTr the f Q S OPS ’ u™ 3 , c^? d ? f Rheumatic Gout by
In Bottles at 55., 7s. 6d., and 12s. 6d.—posted 6rl extri ('it!,' 1 4° h'adingMelb. physicians to effect cure,
and from the holder of Australasian rights OSCAR LAWSnv^u’w E w° ME & C(X ’ B °urke-street, Melb.,
—- Law!,o «. 17 Hig-h-st., Prahran, MELBOURNE
RELIEF
from
GOUGH
1
fit,
m
m
at.
w
IN
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold. Cure s Cmi <>-v»
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Couffh bv taking tnio , n i
Remedy promptly on the first appearandTcSd o S"*
* r »_area o»>y Py A. HAYMAN & Co., ConOon.


To Save His Soul.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
** Lister, is he not coming ? ”
She turned on her elbow and looked up piteously
as her attendant entered the room. “ Ah ! I see
by your face that you have failed again. He will
not come. He is a hard man, my brother; he
cannot forgive me; men never can forgive a
woman—for injuring herself. No, he will not
come near me, not though I am dying, dying !
He loved me once ; but now ”
There needed no further explanation. The bare
room, the tarnished walls, the shrill cries and
laughter floating up from a dim network of back
yards far below—what were they but the symbols
of a soiled life and a broken heart? With a low
sob the girl turned her face to the wall once more.
Nurse Agatha had removed her bonnet and
veil, and was stooping to replenish the half-dead
fire. There was so much to do that she had but
time for a hasty glance at her patient; yet she was
wondering, as she had wondered ever since the
committee sent her to this wretched place, what
strange force of circumstances had led to this poor
girl’s downfall. Surely hers was not a common
story of easy betrayal. Else that pure brow and
white, small-featured face were not true index of
the soul within. Even in the girl’s manner Nurse
Agatha fancied at times a subtle consciousness of
at least comparative innocence; true, Jeannie’s
lips never sinned like the rest of them. She had
confessed it many times with tears.
* » * *
To-night she lay stiller than usual, face inclining
towards the pillow. The oft-repeated disappoint-
ment was wearing hope away, and with hope the
acuteness of despair. At last she turned round
once more and faced the brightening fire.
“ Shall I live till to-morrow, nurse ? ” Then,
without waiting for an answer, she went on in a
voice of curious quietness. “ There are worse sins
than mine, nurse Agatha. There is pride and self-
righteousness ! Do you know that I used to be-
long to the Salvationists long ago, long before I
went to keep house for my brother, long before
* ? I learnt that lesson in the Army. The
world says it too, but never acts up to its belief.
My brother was more sincere. He never prac-
tised mercy and never preached it. Oh ! how can
such men dare to think of Heaven ! ”
Nurse Agatha tightened her lips and made no
answer. The Pharisee might be wrong, but it
was hardly the Magdalene’s place to rebuke him.
“ He was specially hard on women, women who
were not good. He would hear no excuse. I re-
member,” she added, slowly, her gaze still intent
on the fire, as though aware of no presence but
her own, “there was a girl in his factory went
wrong, and he dismissed her. I remember how I
pleaded with him to give her another chance. I
told him how young she was, how unprotected.
All in vain. He told me to remember what my
own position was when he was away making his
little fortune, how young I had been, how unpro-
tected. And yet I nad kept good. ‘ Temptation
and circumstances had nothing to do with it,’ he
said ; ‘ it was in some women to be wicked, as it
was in others to be good.’ That was always his
argument I had been good; so he used me, as
good women are used every day, to damn their
sisters to everlasting perdition. Is it not a judg-
ment on him,” she cried with quick, inexplicable
passion, “that the sister whom he put to so vile a
use But, oh, if he would only come ! ” Her
voice broke into wailing. “Nurse, you don’t
know what his coming means. It means his sal-
vation. For his own sake, I pray him to forgive
me. Perhaps he may when I am dead. Let me
die quickly, then—quickly What noise is
that ? ”
* * * *
There was a footstep on the stairs. The
doctor s ? No; this tread was heavier, at once
more eager and more hesitating. ‘ * Archie ! ” she
cried. Someone stood in the doorway looking
round the poor room, now hidden, now revealed
by the flashing fire.
“ Archie ! ” she cried once more, and he stumbled
forward, only to sink kneeling by her side.
“ Archie, you forgive me ? ” she whispered in a
rapture.
He put his arm round her, and, at sight of her
worn features he wept. The roughness of the man’s
nature was broken. . . . “And take you back
with me, and where folks will never know of this.
And —and—don’t die, Jeannie, Jeannie, my girl,
don’t die ! ”
“ And you forgive me ? ” she persisted. It was
an effort for her to speak. “ Say it clearly,
Archie, clearly, so that I may carry the exact
words to Heaven.”
“ I forgive you, Jeannie, and ”
“ What more ? ” she whispered. Her eyes were
watchful.
“ May God forgive me ”
“Your ”
“ Pride and hardness of heart.”
“That is all, Archie,” she whispered, with a
little smile of triumph, and consciousness left her
for a time.
When she awoke Nurse Agatha was bending
over her.
“ Is Archie gone? ”
“Yes, dear, but he’s coming back to-morrow.”
“He will not need to come to-morrow,” she
answered, with strange peacefulness. “It’s ail
right now. He will be merciful to sinners after
this. He can never think of these poor women
now without remembering that his sister was one
of them. It’s like God, you know. I’ve always
had a feeling that He didn’t care so very much for
us till He looked down and saw that Christ was
one of us.”
Nurse Agatha poured a stimulant into a cup.
This was her business, not the controverting of
amazing heresies.
* * * *
Towards morning Jeannie woke again. It was
the death-hour when courage dies and life is at its
lowest ebb. Perhaps this was why she told what
she had never intended for any mortal ear.
The nurse heard her sobbing, and hastened
across the dim-lit room to her bedside.
“ Nurse, I want to tell you something. Don’t
let Archie know. It would undo everything. But,
oh ! I must let someone know I have not, have
never been ”
“Yes, yes, dear,” soothingly; “lie down and
tell me it all to-morrow.”
“ Let me speak to-night. I may not live till
to-morrow. Nurse, I am as pure now as on the
day I was born. I only pretended otherwise —to
'ak his heartK P' save his soul ! ”
Maoriland.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
La Revanche.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Carnac limped down the vine-skirted track, and
listened. A splinter of light from the shed located
Kellermann—singing and picking amongst the
piled-up grapes on the floor. Carnac groped
nearer, and the old sabre-wound across his hip
wrung a sharp cry from his lips : Kellermang
might have heard had he not been chantinn
through his nose:
Lieb Vaterland, magst rnhig sein !
Lieb Vaterland, magst ruhig sein 1
Fest steht und treu
Die Wacht, die Wacht am Rhein !
Carnac stopped his ears, and stole back to the
house. Three months ago Kellermann came to
him footsore and begging work ; he was a German
vigneron, but Carnac, the cosmopolitan, gave him
a trial, and the wine he made was equal to his
own Chantilly. Bit by bit, the innocent Keller-
mann had told him the story of bis life —the
campaign of ’7O and ’71 —with flushes of pride that
he had not learned to conceal. In return, Carnac
said nothing ; but here, in the Australian wilds,
Sedan came back to him—the crowd of beaten
lions trapped into a hole, and butchered by Ger-
man mathematicians.
Der Deutsche bieder, fromm und stark,
chanted Kellermann. Carnac swung round in
the track, with the blood leaping to his
listening face. A sudden moisture gathered on
his temples: the ferocious pain across his hip
brought with it the memory of a Uhlan, and a
back-handed sabre-lick under Moltke’s smoking
guns. The sworder was a countryman of Keller-
mann’s, possibly a relative. Kellermann fought
at Sedan, in the front line of Uhlans ; it might
have been Kellermann !
* * • *
Carnac staggered through the long grass, and
the moisture from his face dripped to his sleeve.
He reached the house and brought out a polished
sabre—keen-edged and unfleshed since Sedan. No
sound about the house : Helene—his little girl
Helbne—had been away since dusk. She had gone
over to neighbor Brougaud’s to play with his
children; it was good for Helene to meet other
little folk She would stay there till ten; she
always did. What luck !
His pain-dragged body quivered ; his guard-arm
flew right and left until the sabre sang behind his
ears. Hblbne might miss Kellermann, but he
could say that he had gone west, and she would
soon forget.
The night wind had opened the shed-door ; the
splinter of light was now a white beam against
the darkness, and Kellermann’s neck was moving
in it, sideways and forward to the slow rythrn of
his fulsome hymn. The neck attracted Carnac —
it was so full, so sinewy and round, within arm’s-
length of the doorway, and Carnac knew a certain
cut to fit the narrow space —a short-armed slash
that would send the napeless head bumping over
the wine-bin.
A dingo howled on the near ranges, and in the
stillness that followed Carnac heard the stones
clittering over the rain-flushed creek below.
* * * *
Kellermann was talking—to himself apparently,
and his voice was soft and very winning.
Carnac crouched nearer until his torpedo-shaped
beard brushed the door. Kellermann’s neck
swung across the light, but something was around
it, something white and dimpled like a child’s
arm. Kellerman spoke again.
“ You creep, und creep in here, und you frighten
me like a leedle ghost. Where haf you been,
Helene ? ” His colossal form heaved above the
child’s, while she explained in a whisper that
mother Brougaud was teaching her to sew. She
nodded sleepily from the vine-covered bench, and
Kellermann laughed at her in his big bass.
“ Himmel! I tink dot I should die in dis wilder-
ness if it were not for you, Hel&ne ! —I tink dot I
should die ! ”
He took her up and placed her on his shoulder.
“ Mein work is done, Hel&ne ; led us go to your
fader.” Her hand rested quietly in his sunburnt
fist. He took his pipe from a shelf and tramped
up the silent track under the windless eucalypt that
barred out a red half-risen moon.
IJblbne laughed until her long curls shook about
him like smoke - wreaths. Her piping treble
chorused to his deep bass.
Die Wacht, die Wacht am Rhein !
Carnac crouched back and stumbled; something
clashed on the stones ; he stooped, and his blind-
ing tears fell upon the sword.
ALBA DORION.
A story of the love and marriage of May
and December, and the untimely death of Decem-
ber, and the way May helped it on, is agitating
Maoriland society just now. The marriage took
place several years ago, December being then 60
while May was about 23. Things turned out about
as badly as might have been expected ; May was
ardent and romantic, and full of life, and Decem-
ber was dull and grizzled, and senile, and his feet
were horribly cold in the middle of the night. He
died after seven years married life, and May be-
came the unauthorised bride of a younger man,
whose eye wasn’t quite so rheumy, and whose
hairs were not so few, and whose feet didn’t
register below zero. The new arrangement lasted
three years, and then the paramour drowned him-
self. He left a letter behind him, with instructions
that it wasn’t to be opened till three months
after his death—probably so as to give him tiifie
to make sure that he was quite dead ; and in this
document he stated that he and May had jointly
made away with December by slow poison. The
old man’s ghost had thereupon taken up his resi-
dence with them, and made life unendurable.
Local opinion is divided as to whether the old man
really was poisoned, or whether the young man
was only a lunatic ; anyhow, December is to be
dug up and analysed, but as he has been three
years in the cemetery the chance of any evidence
being found there —unless mineral poison was
used—is limited.
SoftCaQVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO - per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt o. P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. HIKE EROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Tbe Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
ASK FOR COLOAIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING,
see tlxat you get it.
syi
*7
Pf?OOF
Our Netting is
CHEAPER and
BETTER than
LARGE
Imported, and we have
STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
L9SIGHT BROS.
0^
J \
limited.
If
«
ss
mmm
mm m
mm
*7
PROO
on
eV
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Ofßcea —
Bligb Chambers, Bligb-st., Sydijey,
"W orka
Cb>SWick, Parramatta Riv/cr.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.


The Whaler's Pig.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We shipped him at the Sandwich Ti b s—
’Fore God, he’s mostly nose—
We’ve fetched him full eight thousand miles
To fatten in the floes.
The Arctic wind may whistle down
The ice-strewn Baffin Sea,
Our “ passenger ” don’t care a darn
A whaler’s pig is he.
The blubber which the brute devour
Hard fruit of our harpoon—
He merely holds in trust; ’tis ours,
Fresh pork ! God send it soon !
Now, when her sloppy deck’s amuck
With stale cetacean spoil,
The glutton wallows in the ruck,
His paunch a-drip with oil.
When from the crow’s-nest rings the shout,
Clean-echoed “ There she blows ! ”
“Jeff Davis ” lifts his grizzled snout
To let us know he knows.
The white ash blades drop down and rise,
The royal chase begins,
He watches with his wicked eyes,
And multiplies his sins.
With critic squint he stands betide
The harpooneer prepares,
And, if the erring steel goes wide
In swinish tongue he swears
(Great Heavens ! how he swears!)
But when we strike her good and fair,
Before the line runs hot,
He’ll lift a hoarse hog cheer out there
With all the strength he’s got.
And when he sees the steerer take
The bold boat-header’s place,
A gourmand smile will slowly break
Like sunrise round his face.
Around the loggerhead that line
Grows taut as taut may be—
Three turns to hang your life and mine
High o’er Eternity !
Who thinks of that ? Not I, not you,
Not he who most complains,
When like hell’s fire the blood swirls through
Our thumping hearts and veins,
’Tis “ Fast she is ” “ Now ! . . Let her go
Our college stroke-oar yells ;
This hour is worth a life to know ;
’Tis now the savage tells.
They maybe shared (ere progress rose)
Who sired first earls and dukes,
A kindred ecstacy with those
Who dodge a “ fighter’s ’’flukes.
So felt our simian sires who tied
Their sheet-o’-bark canoes
To some mosasaur’s slimy hide
With only life to lose.
But this Kanaka hog will see
The whetted lance succeed ;
Glad epicure, he grunts in glee,
Fore-knowledged of his feed.
Thus will his belly teach his tongue
What eloquence it may
(Some noble songs by poets sung
Have been inspired that way).
So will he squeal approval when
Our six-hour fight is done,
And lord it bravely in his pen
O’er quarry chased and won.
So will he join the chanty free
That echoes as she tows,
To add his porcine jubilee
And glad his adipose.
It is not clean or nice of taste,
This episode of trade,
That lurches with indecent haste
Towards the blubber spade.
But still it goes that man made sail,
Invented rig on rig,
And God Almighty made the whale
That feeds the whaler’s pig.
This sorry beast which might have drowned,
As hogs and humans can,
He also made, so runs the round,
To feed the whaler-man.
The whaler-man will get his “ lay,”
The whaler’s pig his share —
First whale, then pig, then man, some day
The worm will make it square.
E. J. BRADY.
Troedel and Co. (Melb.) have outraged
The Bulletin’s feelings by submitting, for report,
two huge pictures representing their Gracious
Queen. They are seemingly meant to be hung on
a clothes-line, or somewhere, and illuminated from
the rear in the interests of jubilee loyalty. Inas-
much as these gaudy “ transparencies ” are likely
to suit any humble householder who wishes to
rejoice The Bulletin regards them more in
sorrow than in anger, merely remarking that
the royal purple tint on Her Majesty’s cheek is
rank sedition.
Joshua Beard, of Streaky Bay (S.A.), is
to be hanged. The charge brought against
Joshua was that he had a habit of going away with
another man and coming back without him. The
two victims who were dug up were both men of no
wealth; apparently Beard killed them for a
second-hand silver watch, a red handkerchief, a
knife, some clothes, and the remains of a plug of
tobacco. The respectable old Joshua was quite
calm all through the proceedings, and he seems to
be the sort of man who will find religion in a
stolid, grumpy fashion and make an edifying end.
He is one more evidence that it is worst kind of bad
luck to have a nice scriptural name like Boaz, or
Ramoth-Gilead, or Seth Galilee Kerenhappuch,
tagged on to you when you are young. Consider-
ing the comparative scarcity of people called
Joshua, and Jabez, and Jeremiah, the number of
them who drift into the dock is something
appalling. Joshua Beard’s case made no particular
sensation, chiefly because there were no dramatic
circumstances at all about his capture. There
was nothing of the breezy rover about Beard ; he
was taken in a dull, stupid, agricultural fashion,
and he didn’t make one really exciting statement
to anybody ; and, instead of being found armed
to the teeth, as a desperado should be, he had
nothing on him more dreadful than a rather old
and soiled “ wipe ” and an invoice for some butter
A Tip from the Stable .
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
Bunkins always fancied himself as a sportsman
with an especial gift for picking the winner ; but
he never could induce his friends to see that, on
the numerous occasions on which the ‘ dead birds,
he had put them on to had failed to get home, it
was some stroke of ill-luck or turf villainy that
was the cause, and not his own lack of insight into
the mysteries of weight and distance. Their
sneers grew frequent and bitter, and he began to
grow loth to admit the fact when he backed an-
other loser. , , ,
One day, however, Bunkins got what he had
always hoped for —a real good tip, straight from
the stable, and coinciding with his own opinion of
the particular animal, and the particular race for
which it was tipped. Dreams of a fortune filled
his brain ; and, abandoning the cautious rule he
had hitherto observed of not going beyond a
pound in his bets, he pawned everything available,
and by hook or crook raised the sum of £5O. Then
he hastened to “ Bob,” a friend who attended
racecourses, and who had often put Bunkins
money on for him, and gave instructions to place
the £5O on Sold Again for the last race on the
programme. The horse was quite unknown and
likely to start at a good price, Bunkins thought,
so he would net £5OO at least if it won.
• * • *
Soon after the hour for which the race was
timed, Bunkins rushed round to the hotel-bar he
frequented to cool his fever with a whisky-and-
soda. There he met some chums ; and while en-
deavoring to sustain a conversation, with one eye
on the clock and his thoughts with the crowd of
punters returning from the racecourse, a man
entered with dust on his clothes and a pair of
field-glasses by his side, evidently just from the
course. As the newcomer moved to the counter
and called for a beer, Bunkins could no longer
restrain himself, but stepping forward enquired
in trembling tones who had won the last race.
“The favorite!” said the stranger, gloomily;
and down went poor Bunkins’ heart into his boots
as he thought of his watch and chain, and the
little chance of their redemption.
The “ chums ” were round him directly.
“Hello, Bunkins ! Been backing another
ner ? What a knowing beggar you are ! ”
Bunkins covered his feelings with Spartan forti-
tude.
“ No, gentlemen, I assure you I haven’t a penny
on the race ; ” and so reiterated and decided were
his denials that for once he was believed.
* * * *
Just then entered Bob himself, who strolled
towards them in his usual careless way.
“You’ve heard the result?” said he.
“Yes —the favorite ! ” answered Bunkins, eager
to prevent Bob from exposing his mendacity.
“ Lucky I had nothing on the race, wasn’t it ? ”
Here he winked violently at Bob to put him up to
the game.
“ Oh ! —ah ! —ye-e-s; ” said Bob, looking at him
carefully.
“I made up my mind after that last affair,
when the horse I backed was got at, not to make
another bet; and I’ve stuck to my resolution.
Haven’t I, Bob ? ”
Bob corroborated his statement with great will-
ingness, and, as he turned to order his drink, said
quietly: “Rum thing, Sold Again being made
such a hot favorite ! ”
“ What ! ” said Bunkins, turning first pale, and
then red.
“Yes,” went on Bob ; “ they rushed him at the
last moment, and brought him to three to one.
Why, those in the know got their money on at
twenties. And how did he win ? Hands down,
bigod ! ”
* * * *
Bunkins was dizzy and breathless until he could
get Bob aside.
“ Thank God ! I’m a made man ! ” he cried.
“ What price did you get for me, old man ? ”
Bob stepped back and looked at him coolly.
“ What are you raving about, Bunkins ? ” he
said.
‘ ‘ Raving ! ” answered Bunkins, his eyes nearly
out of his head. “Why! Bob, that £5O I gave
you to put on for me. You ”
“£5O be d d!” said Bob. “You’ve just
told everybody you hadn’t a penny on the race.”
Bunkins nearly fainted. “ But you can’t mean
to treat an old friend like that, Bob ? ”
“ You’re drunk, man ! ” was the only answer.
Rage filled Bunkins’ soul. “ Bob ! I’ll expose
you to everyone.”
“ Bunkins ! they all heard you swear you didn’t
bet now.”
“ Bob ! I’ll break your neck for you unless you
square up ! ”
“ Bunkins ! I’ll get damages if you do.”
The two glared at each other for a few minutes.
Then, as Bunkins realised the hopelessness of the
situation, he turned slowly and despairingly
away, and solaced himself with the unholy com"
forter, whisky.
The next morning Bob banked £lOOO.
• * • •
Now two old friends pass each other in the
street with a stony stare; and while Bob is rapidly
blossoming into a leviathan fielder, Bunkins is
saving so much a week to get back his watch and
studs and put the petty cash right.
F. REA.
Brisbane (Q.) Total Abstinence Society, a
sort of federation of all the local never-touch-it
leagues, recommends the sale of the old Temper-
ance Hall and adjoining property. The water-
swillers have got into debt without the aid of
beer. In ’BB they had paid off all the mortgage
claim, and had ,£3OO to the good. Then the rail-
way came from Roma-street slap through the end
of their property to the central station. The
department gave them £6400 for that. Where-
upon they got swelled-head badly, and bought
land in Turbot-street for £12,000, while they
refused £lB,OOO for the hall and adjacent site.
Now they’ll be lucky if they get £BOOO for the
hall, &c. They owe £6500 on Turbot street mort-
gage ; altogether they owe £7500, and they think
the Almighty has been hard on ’em. The curse of
soft derrink ! And these are the people who say
that improvidence is the natural result of whisky.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydnev.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)
ars
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
s.
Wsm
mm
te.
P
m
m
w
m
r
mm
m
r- v />/,
m
n,
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”


AYER'S SARSAPARILLA
CURES
Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Loss of Strength iind
Appetite, and Nervous Disorders.
'A
1 > ; .s
The following letter from Mrs. S. Gash, of Kent Town, So. Australia,
whose portrait is given above, is additional testimony to the remarkable
health-giving power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
“For two years or more I suffered considerably from indigestion,
sleeplessness, and loss of strength and appetite. When I did sleep I was
not refreshed, and I always had a severe headache in the morning. I was
induced to try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and was more than pleased at the
result, for after taking three bottles my complaints disappeared, and I
have been in the best of health ever since. I can strongly recommend
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to any one afflicted as I was.”
The wonderful success of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in purifying the blood and
restoring health and strength to systems enfeebled by disease, or the enervat-
ing effect of a warm climate, has led to the placing on the market of other
preparations called Sarsaparilla. Remember that imitation is the sheer-
est form of flattery, and be sure that you get AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
which has stood the test of time, has won the highest awards at the world’s
great expositions, and has been a blessing to the people of Australia, and
all civilized countries, for more than ageneration. No other medicine operates
so effectually in removing general debility, languor, and all outward symp-
toms of the grave mischief caused by disordered nerves and impure blood.
AYER’S
THE ONLY
Sarsaparilla
That Enriches and Invigorates the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS, Sugar Coated Mild but Effective.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD?
A DOSE at BEDTIME W ILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
“ My youngest daughter was cured of a very heavy cold before »he had
iaken the second bottle, when in a weak state, and has been stronger ever
since. All my family use it now with great benefit when they have colds.”
E. EVANS, Chapel House, Abermule.
fMnridge’s
1/jWgTontc.
"I have been travelling many years, exposed to all kinds of weather, and
have suffered intensely with my chest. Your Lung Tonic, I am happy to
cn y, has done my wife and I more good than all the doctors’ medicines put
together." GEORGE PRICE, 227 Liverpool Street, Pendleton.
Try it for Consumption.
t Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBR'DGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
LD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO.. 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
"F 10 ?,?^ 0118 a S d , Nervous P isor ders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
. fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flusk-
mgs of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosdveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WITT al ' Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WI DD, RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
one Box of these PiUa ’ and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
fcrUINEA A BOX.
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular system ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, a»d
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
.Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Laraest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is and 2s 9d each.
1 Mick. Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMABKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, GANT
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, T.mmai
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, f)ERBT\
WILLIAMS.
—AND—
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
~ ‘ ‘ 3), E
HANSA,
j\ n,\.i 1 tiouiiJUjUO, V lUljJffl
PAROL A, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, 1
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
tr Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAIMAEKET. SYDNEY.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
<®’ fl Saved is equivalent to £5 T a~ned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. JVlargaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
r-THE-^
Ballet Girl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free XK
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
liox 0!;j, <;.!•.<»., SYDVRY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application.
“ The Last of Six.”
The Manufacturers of BLECTBO-PLATBP GOODS and CUTLERY
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF—
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
93 York. Street, SY-I33XrE!3r.
aacßi aoxiRTiTB.
Collins street,
WortbiOgtoi) Ptinjpiog Eogioe Conjpaoy
w w rtva (Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brotners.
Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, X.S.AT.
A,genciea :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North^Temtoe^
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen -street, AUCKLAND CH
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRIS I CHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade-for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
■*- 11V * * ' ' iittt T T)T7m?T-irT]' DDAHIDT A f TT'TJ'T\.T f rTr»Xr
Agents
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARB jUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT A 1 LENTION.
Everywhere. H. PATESON,
M a xr a amp
p
ARKE & LACY COMPANY,
Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
T\/r-nxmxrC3- 3V3C DE33Ft3T, DESIST <3-1IXTIESS & BOILERS.
Madiinery.
TTnnHne-ton Centrifueal Mills. Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers. Sample Grinders. Coarse Crushing Rolls.
Hunt g g Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls. Krom Rolls.
Dodge Pulverizers. Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers. HENDY’S CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
ikmalgaxnating BlacHinery.
Pans a#d Settlers. Clean-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators. Blast Furnaces.
Hea
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Hoastlnp; andl oria izsizig Furnaces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Cone antrati » Machinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Frue Vanners. Triumph Concentrators.
Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating BkEaclainery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
Hoiating Machinery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Fumping Machinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pumps.
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and. Rock Drill Plants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &c., &c.
Blowers
Root’s Patent, and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans. Sturtevant and Huyett & Smith’s Fans
for Ventilating Purposes.
"Water W heels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS.
Bullock Diamond Drills. Huson’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for all purposes.
Caldwell’s Sectional Boilers. Simmons’ Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Boilers. Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supplies.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
TlX© - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR chain STITCH
aLL SIN<3iCR SCWIM6 MACHINCS.
ALL SINgER SEWIN6 MACHIN€S.
Hatho’s Djvbi nn
Baking Powder-
Scale of Advertising
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... ... ... ... 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions) ... ... 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions) ... ... 20 „ „ „
One Year „ (62 insertions) ... ... 26 „ » .
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... . 10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An extra discount of 6 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
Boi)i)ii)gtoo’S
Once Used always Used.
IRISH MOSS
As Safe as it is Certain.
CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
m, fNrbUKNZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
lnroat, bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
V- ocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskmess, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
