

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reids London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
E. G. WATKINS 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HSHS9
SK2S
%i»y*
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MAET.
% X
<RAckaJocK>
ft V °' Cj>
, * V
R. A.
EY, Agent, 171
ce Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Huston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ri ston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROARBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treat ; ng Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbknt & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather,
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wipe & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAYORTTE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHTSKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A Splendid. Luncli for Is. 6d
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence, 10/- per day.
Before visiting the Of/ write to the Manager for
Cara Of Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
K2EHSBA.KTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
BTS
THE
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions
TEE IE!
icycle
uilt
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World's Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Ckeapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNEO
Ediswan - Lamp
I SWAN
; --
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONC LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM a m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
TUB PITT and HUNTER
STREETS,
EMPIRE
SYDNEY. HOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Write for Terms.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Adlake Bicycles
—ARE —
- Good and Strong -
AND THE
Repairman Don’t Know Them*
LET US SEND YOU A
CATALOGUE.
THE
Poke Cycle flgeiscy
422 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY *
(Next Royal Hotel).
A. L. BAIRD,
Sole Agents for Manager.
“ Adlakb ” and " Spartan ” Bicycles
and the famous X-Rays Vapor Lamps.
FRQSSARD’S CAVOUR CI6ARS.
PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Voi 18.—i So. 900. j
[Saturday, May 15, 1897.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.


Publications, etc.
gARCROFT BOAKE’S POEMS.
Asses & Robertson have pleasure in announcing that
the first-edition of Boake’s poems is now passing through
the press, and will be published next month—June.
Apart from the personal and literary interest of the
work, unusual pains have been taken with the format.
Nearly 40 illustrations have been specially drawn by
Mahony, Fischer, and Lambert, and engraved at great
expense, and the book will be the most sumptuous uhich
Angus & Robertson have issued.
Castlereagh-st., Sydney, 6th May, 1897.
George robertson & co^
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S 'TORIES (from The Bum-
tin) ; price, Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLO REGIME (new series, from Tas
Bcll>.tix), by Price Warung; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTX N STAX XE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 64 ;
posted, 2s. lOd. (Shortly.)
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
IHE BULLETIN ” PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SIX, by E r nest Favenc ; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price W arung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
A. £ STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. N'OP.TH P. 0., SYDNEY,
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
TH€
RAILWAY RACKET
... AT THE CONVENTION
much heated argument, it is refreshing to turn to another hi/r mW ™ 4-- \ t A ,
admit of no discussion. The superb Poking qualities of ? q^tlo "’ * he “ ents of whlch
CAMEO CIGARETTES
have never been questioned.
THE RED RAGE.
COMEDY.
They parted, with clasps of hands,
And kisses and burning tears.
They met in a foreign land,
After some twenty years:
Met as acquaintances meet,
Smilingly, tranquil-eyed—
Not even the least little beat
Of the heart, upon either side 1
They chatted of this and that,
The nothings that make up life ;
Bhe in a Gainsborough hat,
And he in black for his wife.
Ah, what a comedy this!
Neither was hurt, it appears:
Yet once she had leaned to his kiss,
And once he had known her tears!
THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH.
The Standpoint of Criticism.
The worst of it is that (as a writer in the Satur-
day Review remarked recently) “an art must be
judged by standards rigorous in the measure of
its exalted claim.” “An art”—and an artist,
and any example of art, in any field. This ex-
plains the disappointment of many a book-maker
who gets scant praise for the collected verses or
articles which earned high praise when they
appeared singly in newspapers. Consciously or
unconsciously, most readers justly apply different
oriteria in different cases. From a newspaper we
only expect good journalism. From a book we
have a right to expect good Literature. And “an
art must be judged by standards rigorous in the
measure of its exalted claim.”
» * * *
So the “Exhibition of Small Works and
Sketches ” by “ The Society of Artists ” (Sydney)
must inevitably receive criticism different from
that due to “A Society of Students of Art ” —the
title which would leave a reasonably accurate im-
pression of the members and their pr rformances.
Of course, every artist remains a student in the
special sense all his life-time, seeing that Man is
finite and Art practically infinite. But there
is nevertheless a time when an artist may
in the general sense be said to cease being
& student, a stage of hi 3 development when he
may fairly be assumed to merge the student in the
artist. And that time, that stage, it is obvious
many of the members of “The Society of
Artists ” have not yet reached. They are still
essentially students, absorbed in a struggle with
the rudiments of technique, and quite unable to
give effective expression to artistic ideas—even if
they possess them, which, in some cases, seems a
little doubtful.
* • * *
Now, the technique of Painting, for example, is
ft thing difficult to acquire, and a student natur-
ally considers each conquest in the field of
technique in relation to himself, and estimates its
value in proportion to the pains it has cost him to
make it. But his standpoint, right in the limited
and personal sense, is in the wider sense artisti-
cally wrong. His work must be critically judged,
not in relation to himself, but in relation to the
work of others, in relation to the whole sum of
artistic achievement, and even of conceivable
artistic achievement. To the student, it is a great
matter when he has learned to draw an arm inside
a sleeve, or to make a red light out of red paint—
and some of the members of “The Society of
Artists ” will never succeed thus far. But these
results are very small indeed compared with the
total results attained by Painting. The thought
of what little has been done should always be
sobered by the thought of how much remains
to do.
• » • *
It is a little strange that the beginner in Paint-
ing should so constantly adopt the wrong stan-
dard, the personal standard, of acquirement. The
beginner in Music does this hardly as much ; the
beginner in Literature does so much less. There
are a score of bright young Australian writers
with at least as great a capacity for artistically
impressing other minds as any score of “The
Society of Artists’ ” exhibitors ; but, though their
heads may swell a little now and then, they do not
call themselves Men of Letters, or Women of
Letters, and the best of them are thoroughly dis-
satisfied with their performances. They look up
a stage higher— to Kipling, say; and Kipling in
turn is dissatisfied and looks up to Hardy or
Meredith. And the Australian writer will listen
to depreciation of his work—though he doesn’t
always pretend to look pleased ; but would it be
safe to take aside , or , or , of
the Society of Artists, and point out that this
picture is destitute of perspective, and that one
of expression, and that other is the crude perform-
ance of a tyro just learning to handle his brushes
—and all three are wanting in “fundamental
brain-power ” and artistic stimulus ?
* • » »
These cavils, to be sure, rest largely upon one’s
definition of the word artist. But it is impossible
for anyone who considers that an artist is, and
•hould be, a creator of beautiful ideals, to visit
without disappointment “The Society of Artists’”
exhibition. There is not one beautiful ideal in
the catalogue. There are some examples of
olever workmanship ; many transcripts of natural
objects and effects—good, bad, and indiffer-
ent; a few pictures which have sufficient
value to serve as illustrations—one could see
them and recollect them with pleasure and
pass from them without regret ; but hardly
half-a-dozen things fine enough to take home and
live with—to hang on a wall or stand on a
bracket and be seen every day, and every day be
a source of inspiration, of consolation, er of
delight. Yet this exhibition has a particular end
and aim—it is held “ by way of an experiment ”
to settle an alleged controversy between the
artists and the public. The former are said to
complain that there is a “ want of desire shown
by those well able to afford to possess themselves
of examples of local talent ” (the “ Artists ” are
quite sure about the “talent”); the latter, that
high prices have hitherto deterred them from
purchasing. And here is the writer, one of the
public, declaring that as works of art merely,
apart from technical, local, or personal considera-
tions, there are only some half-dozen of the 128
exhibits which he would count better than decora-
tive lumber ! So that, so far as one of the public
is concerned, “ the Society of Artists’ ” plaint
begs the question. The issue is not whether the
public will purchase artistic work at its own price,
but whether it will purchase inartistic work at
any price. If, instead of calling themselves
“ Artists,” the exhibitors ranked themselves as
‘ Students of Art’’—which most of them really
are —the standard of criticism shifts at once and
agreeably. Though no amount of gilding by
Governor Hampden will make it a satisfactory
sovereign, a shilling is excellent value for twelve
pence. One could praise the admirable efforts of
“Students” where the poor achievements of
“ Artists ” leave no option but to blame and re-
gret.
‘ Yellowbush’ writes—
How much longer are we to go on counting immigrants
and Australians, indiscriminately, as Australian authors?
It is important that a distinction should be made if we
wish to see Australia as it is. The immigrant’s point of
view is naturally quite different from the nativ e’s. This
is why the average writing-man thinks it necessary to
dwell on the melancholy aspect of Australian scenery.
Melancholy is mainly subjective. What is strange and
gloomy to the ‘ new-chum ’ is cheerful and homelike to
the native. But the 1 new-chum ’ got the first say, and his
view of things has colored much of our later literature.
In a recent ‘Red Page’ discussion Clarke and Gordon
and Domett were singled out as being more or less typical
of Australasian literature. Undoubtedly both Gordon
and Clarke were deeply influenced by their life on this
side of the Line, but they remained English for all that.
Gordon’s melancholy is deepened by the memories of
his Engli- life. After all he is an alien, weaving an
English past and an Australian present into Swinburnian
rhymes. Much of his work has no relation to Australia,
and is a mere echo of Swinburne. For instance, the most
striking lines in the ‘ Rhyme of Joyous Guard ’ (‘ If
ever I fought as a man should fight . . . ’) are plagiarised
from ‘ Les Noyades’ in the first series of the ‘Poems
and Ballads.’ ‘How we beat the Favorite’ is certainly
not Swinburnian, but is it poetry ?
Again, in what sense is Domett a poet of Maoriland?
Born in London, a student at Cambridge, a writer for
Blackwood, an intimate friend of Browning, he had pub-
lished two volumes of poetry before he emigrated at the
age of 31. The fact that he lived twenty years in M.L.,
and wrote poetry there, no more makes him a M.L. poet
than it makes him a Maori. One might as well claim
Henry Kingsley as an Australian novelist, because he
spent five years on the gold diggings and wrote ‘Geoffrey
Hamlvn.’ The true Australian poet must be born and
bred in Australia. All others are counterfeits.
* * » •
Writes ‘ Splodger ’ —
‘ Kipling is distinguished by the local color of his
writings. By turns he is a rookie or a color-ser-
geant, a Paythan or a potentate—“ Ung a scriber of
bone,” a “ gray Gothavn ’speckshioner,” or a fleet-
engineer. In the concluding poem of his “ Seven Seas ”
he deals with artists, and reading his verses from a
splodger’s point of view I am compelled to wonder if his
fluent remarks about “thrust blocks,” ‘‘crank-pins,”
"gander-heads,” and “ scuttlebutt,” are as ohaky to the
real M'Andrews as his ethics of art seem to me. This
is how a painter would have written the second and last
stanzas of the poem, interpolating a third to make a
total of four. Stanza first is perfect—
L’ENVOI.
When Earth’s last picture is painted and the tubes are
twisted and dried,
When the oldest colors have faded, and the youngest
critic has died,
We shall rest, and, faith, we shall need it—lie down for
an aeon or two,
Till the Master of All Good Workmen shall put us to work
anew.
(This is Kipling’s second stanza—)
And those that were good shall be happy: they shall sit
in a golden chair ;
They shall splash at a ten-league canvas with brushes of
comets’ hair ;
They shall find real saints to draw from—Magdalene,
Peter, and Paul ;
They shall work for an age at a sitting and never be tired
at all.
(And this is mine—)
And those that were good shall be happy, and sit in a
golden chair,
And splash on a ten-league canvas with brushes of
comets’ hair,
And they shall have saints for models— Magdalene, Mary,
and Paul—
And work for an age at a sitting, and never be weary
all.
(My third verse—new —)
Neither shall subjects be lacking—landscape, tigure or
sea—
Sunrise, grey day, or sunset, just as their fancies be ;
And brushes shall not need washing, and tubes shall be
always full,
Effects shall be fixed by the artist on pressing a knob in
his stool.
(Kipling’s third—)
And only the Master shall praise us, and only the Master
shall blame ;
And no one shall work for money, and no one shall work
for fame.
But each for the joy of the working, and each, in his
separate star,
Shall draw the Thing as he sees It for the God of Things
as They Are!
(And my fourth—)
And the Master shall smile in approval, calling each
painter by name,
And though no one shall work for money, yet sales shall
be all the same;
And each for the joy of the working, in his own parti*
cular star,
Shall paint as he dam well pleases and laugh with tbeg Ms
that are.
Gibbon and his History.
Among the visionary persons who presented
themselves to William Blake was the man who
built the Pyramids. In the volumes of Gibbon’s
Autobiography and Letters, admirably edited by
Mr. Murray and Mr. Prothero, we make acquaint-
ance with the life of his English eighteenth-
century descendant. They enhance our wonder
in presence of the builder and his stupendous
erection. Compared with the “Decline and
Fall,” Carlyle’s “Frederick” looks a slender
piece of architecture ; yet in the latter what
clatter of bricks, what creaking of cranes, what
piling of scaffolds, what din of hammers, what
ring of chisels, what groans of hodmen, what
shouts of the overseer! Gibbon’s stately structure
rises not like an Eastern enchanted palace in a
single night: nearly 16 years were spent in its con-
struction; butitrisesin a silence and a solitude that
impress us with a sense of the sublime. Steadily
and noiselessly the great blocks are quarried and
shaped and moved into their several places. Year
after year the vast monument ascends with no
clamor of workmen, and at length the topmost
stone is laid. It is designed and accomplished by
a single brain and a solitary artificer. And the
man who built the Pyramid is a little, obese,
gouty gentleman, who can saunter into Almack’s
to learn the news, give his afternoons to Madame
Necker, run over to Paris and see the spectacles,
sit up all night in the House —“the general Pan-
demonium to give a vote about which he does
not greatly care, or at Lausanne can entertain his
friends at early dinners, read some amusing book,
play at chess, look into the coffee-house, appear at
assemblies, indulge in his half-crown rubber of
whist, and be comfortably in bed about eleven.
Such was the man who built the Pyramid. . . . ’
* * » *
The mass of additions to the previously published
letters of Gibbon is large. Our conception of the
man remains unaltered ; but the outline is filled in
with pleasant detail. We had known that Gibbon
was amiable ; how otherwise could his ironv have
been so tranquil in its superiority? But we see
him in his letters constant and kind through all
the incidents of pleasure and of physical or
financial discomfort. His father had squandered
the resources on which his own ease and leisure
depended, and at'the same time was ready to re-
proach a son whose youthful extravagances were
petty. Gibbon is always respectful and reason-
able in his self-justification. He was for a moment
disposed to regard his stepmother as “a personal
and domestic enemy ”; not that he quite appre-
hended “ the bowl or the dagger,” but he “well
knew that the odium, noverraie was proverbial in
the language of antiquity ” ; and his stepmother
became the friend of all his life. His friendship
with Lord Sheffield was fraternal in its warmth
and its ease. For one who would carry through
long toil, a fortunate substitute for passion is
affection, without agitated hours, exaltations or
declensions.
• * * *
Gibbon, indeed, was happily framed for intel-
lectual effort and achievement. His bodily con-
stitution made sedentary habits sit 'light upon
him. Why should he climb a mountain when he
could enjoy the charming prospect from his terrace
and feel that four thousand agreeable friends were
a few yards off in his library ? His temper was
reasonable. He made no extravagant demands on
others, knew no ecstasies, and endured no de-
spairs. He was never whirled above or depressed
below the plateau on which men lay broad foun-
dations. He wasted none of his force in malignity ;
he had no heart-burnings of literary jealousy!
He did not seek to reform the world ; he looked
on it with an amused interest at the spectacle, and
let the world go its way. He was not a victim of
religious joys and terrors ; the gout was a suffi-
cient penance for any sins of dining not wisely
but too well. The process of his conversion to
the Koman Communion was simply one of argu-
ment. He fell by a noble hand—that of the
author of the ' A ariations." There was no moral
crisis accompanying his change of faith. Bayle,
with whom he compares himself, had the
pagandist zeal of a convert, and wore out P h°'
religious ardour m a short-lived enfchuria«
Gibbon retraced his steps gently and with!
noise. In addition to these advantages for ° U ”
tinuity of tranquil labour, he had the
of moderate wealth, as far removed from m ?
as from the servitude of riches. Many f fT y
letters are concerned with financial affairs •hi a
never really knew the cruel inroads of anx, t
which commonly beset the career of letters T V
a 'vise master-builder, he accumulated his material
before he began to lay stone on
Finally, the limitations of his mind aided V
in his progress. No problems of metaphysics ®
embarrassing questions of doubtful psycho]’ ,, 0
delayed his advance He was not perplexed b? a
multitude of sympathies ; he did not hesitate ova,
the complexities of human character. He wish h
to unrol a magnificent panorama, and his gen’
as an historical artist enabled him to determine
the large lines and lay on the colors without th
uncertainties of niggling. 119
* * * .
It Gibbon had a passion, it must have been
that of a literary artist. To accomplish a raaie?
tic design—this was his ambition. Cool on alirin«k
every other occasion, he warms with
excitement as his work draws towards a dr,*!
“ Hills began to rise on hills, and Alps on Aim
and I found my journey far more tedious and tod
some than I had imagined.” But the difficulties!
only stimulated him to new and extraordinary in
dustty; he was “straining for the goal
length the last line of the last page wl!
written. And the event was taken with
a quietude of reserved excitement which
was worthy of Gibbon and of the great moment
Fxultation was tempered with regret. Who
that feels a joy in human achievement can
forget his words of dignified pride and gentl«
melancholy? “The air was temperate theTkv
was serene, the silver orb of the moon was reflected
from the water, and all nature was silent. I will
not dissemble the first emotions of joy on tha
recovery of my freedom, and perhaps the e«tab
lishment of my fame. But my pride was soon
humbled, and a sober melancholy was spread over
my mind by the idea that I had taken an ever
lasting leave of an old and agreeable companion
and that whatsoever might b“ the future fate of
my history, the life of the historian must be short
and precarious.”
• • • •
Silence and moonlight, with joy in achievement
and a touch of human regret—these were mow
becoming than a fanfaronnade of trumpets.
—Edward Dovxlen in ‘ The Saturday Reviev.’
NOCTURNE.
Up to her chamber window
A slight wire trellia goes,
And up this Romeo’s ladder
Clambers a bold white rose.
I lounge in the ilex shadows,
I see the lady lean,
Unclasping her silken girdle,
The curtain's folds between.
She smiles on her white rose lover,
She reaches out her hand
And helps him in at the window—
I see it where I stand!
To her scarlet lips she holds nim,
And kisses him many a time—
Ah, me! it was he that won her
Because he dared to climb !
THOMAS BILEY ALDRICH.


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN'.
b?
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondenoy, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
Shysical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
ledical work post free on application.
DR- FREEMAN,
Comer Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney ,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
Yotiog Mei),
Mail.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY oan be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 21/-. _ 127 Red fern Street,
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post. REDE LKJN.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
•“of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage. «,/
Address — ' v /
“MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MORMON ELDERS.
SPECIFIC for the recovery of HEALTH,
STRENGTH and VIGOR. Price and par-
ticulars sent free (sealed).
HARVARD AGENCY,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
D«IMSK
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt^st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
Medical,
Dr. SPEED,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To Those who Wish to Marry.
Mumford's Vivifying Herbal
Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills
> " positively restore yo to health an., , K .... ....
from what cause you suffer, or how W the case may V
I'his truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm" eii-
richinc the b’->od, and giving strength to the nerves an
ail parts that are weak. Without doubt, one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered, -Miffere s say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case; with ali
i structions. ByPosttoall parts
P. W. MU M PORT). Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition). MELBOURNE.
[Established ’STs, -1
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS,
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 06s. Freight .
extra. Pamj>h 7 ets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
A gen's for Aus'r alasia—Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street. MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor'N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Curp, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and f 1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC E i?™r
An U pUR a iFTER BL ° >D SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
RUPTURE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain ; security from Strangulated Her-
sSß nia, and a permanent cure if possible. Please
jgy investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic Elastic
Truss,” and you will be surprised ac what you
■ will learn. This Truss positively does the work,
W and is worth £lOOO to any ruptured man or
I woman. If you want the BEST, call or send 2d.
f in stamps for free Pamphlet No. 1. It contains
' full information. MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL &
CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
ise
tic i
i
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n?brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatiofy-
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful " cure alls”
uo.m.'NQ. „o week* specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
Horaceopathic'Treatment, which is a complete cure for Nervousness and !• ailing
■Vig-or in young and old men. All letters sent sealed
Address— Dr. IRVINQ CO., corner Hunter and Bligh Streets J _SydneY.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Klizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. G-IBBOKTS,
Who is trebly-<jualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking eough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Wiil Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
IS7 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT mnnHOOD.
)0(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
•WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other causes, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions, etc., sent free on
receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special unsh of the writers
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes“ I can-
not retrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Tnn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
1
T
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —•
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“ Gentlemen, —I cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving tfny benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes “ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over 1200
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
cgv.
.
..•V:
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11 a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A,
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac,


!
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
■*v
<4
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
BIRTHDAY C.
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
,shares in the above.
Address
ROSEHILL C
June 19
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
MAITLAND C
June 21.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
CANTERBURY PARK C. July 31.
10,000 Sutaßcribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name,
Address
T\ aterloo Coursing* C. July 22 & 23.
100,000 SUBSCRIBCRS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Tattsrsalls Great Distribution
—OF THE —
3lillbank Estate, Junee, JN".S.W.
scares a: 2a:h Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead. 2013 acres, Junee
valued at £10,065
2nd
3rd
4th
oth
6th
Empire Hotel, Temora
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc.
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should £fo^O^ Wer Fo/ful/'f^rtkulars7see^r(fs{«ctusf >t * 011 °' H °“’ «
Tattersall s Second Distribution
—OF—
afyd SobCirbar)
Freehold - Properties.
100,000 Shares of ss* Zach*
Ist Prize -Terrace Houses, Glenmore
Road and large Dwelling-House,
W oollahra
I>,ld l']'! if J J ouse and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ...
112 ° ther Pri * e ® ™ngmg fn.m £1.500 down to £2O.
F ° r Particulars apply for Prospectus.
Value
£8,500
£5,000
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts Stiited.
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, hut have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide, for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
Anthony Hordern &S ons
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
; In curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
2 Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
? ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
Qo Dot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See>
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
- HEALTHY BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, inBolb Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
Maclaine Rodney,
mHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
seas.
M
The “Korting Universal ”
Boiler - Teed Injector.
/* * manufactured by
L. 3HUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed Injector in this market,
ft is working in thousands of cases to the very best ad-
vantage It takes water at a temperature of 150 deg.
Fahr. It is worked entirely by one handle. Send for
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (under cover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. (i«l.
*
“ i’ll Try It.” Sole Agexts : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st„ Hydney.
Ladies'
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long:, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMTHNGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
w. H Wigzoll, 110 Wlllltuu-ttt. Only. Sydney.
TROTH
appeals to all, and a trial of my boots and shoes
proves the truth of what I say about them.
THE CELEBRATED HALF-GUINEA BOOT
IS STRANGER
than a dream ; in the latter your pleasure is mythical,
in the former it is real. It is a pleasure to admire
them, a pleasure to wear them, and a pleasure to
reflect that fact is more substantial
THAN FICTION,
and that you have grasped the fact. They are made
in any size or shape, in black or tan, with broad or
narrow toe, suitable for Town or Country wear, the
broad toe being especially recommended for tender feet.
WEAR WELL AND LOOK WELL.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS and BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
Comer GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
EP WA K Dg'
*
WORLD RENOWNED
Hair producer $ Beatorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Eemedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
fW It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ "HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
BcSSoq’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other Maker in the World-
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms.
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
A. P. SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Every "V aristy of
TEA !
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
fir SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. II
Bards of the Backblocks .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“LORD, THINK OF THE LAMBS!”
The sun was hot and the box-trees drooped,
And the hills and the ranges hazed,
And the stones in the creek were afire with
drought,
And the tin roofs crackled and blazed.
There was little grass on the river flats,
The dams were like shaking bogs,
When the parson came with a prayer for rain
To the station at Cedar Logs.
The parson came and the parson prayed,
And he patted his God on the head,
He spoke of famine and seven kine,
Of Egypt and waters red ;
And the service closed with a little hymn
That was sung through the nose,
And the boss got up with a visage grim,
And the congregation rose.
They followed him down to the wool-shed door,
And the parson walked behind ;
“Mac” stopped, and he stood and he turned
about,
And he spoke from his inner mind.
He opened the door that was eight feet wide,
Let in the streaming sun ;
He beckoned the parson to come beside,
And the parson heard and was dumb.
“ Do ye see yon flat beyont the crick ?
Do ye smell the beastly scent
O’ the rotting yows and the fetid cows ?
Was this what yer Goddy meant,
When He closed on Adam for breaking laws,
By ‘ sweat o’ the brow and graft ’ ?
Did He burn my draftin’ yairds for fun
When He saw there’d be nocht to draft ?
“ Is it right for an * evolution ’ man
To blether o’ ‘ walls ’ and ‘ the weak ’ ?
I’m strong ; I’ve brains, and a level head ;
I’ve toiled ; I’ve sweated ; I, weak !
Hear me, whiles I pray to my ain true God
For my land and my life and spul ;
Then go and pray to your little Lord
To pluck me from hot hell-hole.
“ O God of the men that are Men,
Look round on the land !
See the dryness and drouth and sore sorrow !
Stretch forth thy strong hand !
Look, Lord, at the sheep in the dams
Boggit deep in the mud, and their eyes
Taken alive by the crows !
Lord ! think o’ the lambs !
“ Almighty ! I’ve sinned, I’ve no sorrow ;
I’d live just again as I’ve lived ;
But please send thy rain on the morrow —
Or soon. Not for me. I’m broke as it is.
Consider thy beasties !
“ Think o’ the anguish of mothers
With no milk for their bairns !
Hear, Lord, the bleat of the mothers,
The woe of the dying !
Just one big cloud, God, you’ve so many,
To burst on the ranges !
Think of fresh grass, roaring gullies,
Think on the changes !
“ O send rain ere the frost conies ;
Be merciful, pitiful, kind ;
Visit not the sins of such ones
As me on thy beasties.
“ Tak’ thy horse, God, and ride by the rivers,
Smell the stinks in the creek ;
By scorched plains where hot sunlight shivers ;
Mark fat crows on dead trees !
God, think of thy cattle ! ”
The parson mounted his weary nag,
That was galled, and raw on the back ;
He spoke no word as he rode away
Alone, down the dusty track.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
THE CALL OF THE OCEAN.
’Twas last night I heard the gulls screaming,
“ O traitor ! O dastard ! thou art;
And I woke in a fright from my dreaming,
With the strokes of their beaks in my heart.
I long for a sight of the ocean,
I long for the splash of the spray ;
I long for the laughter and motion
Of sunlight and water at play.
I long for the breeze and the creaking
Of cordage, and canvas, and spar ;
I long for the booming voice, speaking
Of danger and death on the bar.
I long for a sense of the throbbing
Great heart in the breast of the world ;
I long for the wailing and sobbing,
When the storm-god his legions hath hurled.
I long to be far away forward,
Where the stem cleaves a way through the
night,
And a glow like a demon’s eyes lurid
Bathes the bows in a phosphorent light.
To Westward, where sky and plain’s mi eting
Wraps Day in a bright crimson shroud ;
Night’s shadows are bearing a greeting
As I murmur my longing aloud.
O, God ! from these plains dry and dreary
To the sea let me wander once more,
Where the surge, in a tone sad and weary,
Sings a dirge for the dead on the shore.
For deep in my heart there are voices
That are calling, aye calling for me ;
And the Soul of the Ocean rejoices
As a sailor returns to the sea.
G.G.


AOStraliai) f^OtCial
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Established 1849.
ProVideQt Society.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.;
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., P.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office : 8 V J? IT T STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
v,:
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
KATES:
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOOKE, Managkr,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney
*J*HB WONDERFUL - -
Watch!
|. ■; , -
For Correct Time and Little Money.
Ujaterbury matches watch the UJorld I
THE UNIVERSAL TIMEKEEPER.
IRO^AID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
engines.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gaug es.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & c ., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The Condon m Melbourne Tailoring Jo.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUK STOCK
is selected from the
Leading London Houses.
CALL for PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
We Buy for Cash
and are 20 per cent. Cheaper
than other Houses.
For Example :
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits 50s
Serge Sac Suits 50s
Scotch or West of England Tweed ... 45s
S. M. BAUMASCHE, Manager.
UNEQUALLED
FOR
quality
AND
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
iX
'401%
m
mi
i '
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. NILLIER,
135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Si Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Si Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing i
System, I h„... -
these have English Dunlop anu ±u. aim *>. ijira. xne uiujme season is just comin
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE set one guinea.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TE ETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed. .
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
'Rodalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
| —totia.lla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
|—godadla. Hams
In Gfet-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
1
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10,'- per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30 -co JS3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 05 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 416 Collins Street
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
f INSURERS share in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN J
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896— divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. P. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ...£22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894 —
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A.W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. EXjiDiainDG-E & co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Important Announcement by Dixson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers.
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Fl?ic© HitllCrtO Till -
known Here a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Vuelta Abajo).
\
BONANZA Cigais are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-choice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for 6d.! ! —will at first no doubt
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming the great cost of production, just
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight to be made at a profit. DIXSON
and SONS intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA”
comes as a pleasant surprise to many who, though capable of appreciating a
good Cigar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury.
Note— Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 900.
SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1897.
Price, 6d.
ANOTHER RECORD REIGN ITEM.
(It is cabled from Melbourne “that Australia is sending 500 bullocks and 20,000 sheep for Queen’s Birthday dinners to the London poor.)
BULLOCKY BILL (from Australia, delivering the consignment. The front animal has followed Bill up the steps): “This ere’s the blanky cattle, yer Majesty. You've no blanky
idea how much trouble we had getting them here." —(The rest of the speech , being mostly “ blanky,” is suppressed.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... .... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required —
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary ■ Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To 'Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event ,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<Sc Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers Neivs Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1897.
Joseph Chamberlain’s Scheme.
In a despatch recently received from Mr. Chamberlain,
it is suggested that during the time the colonial Premiers
will be in London they might discuss such matters as Im-
perial commercial union, colonial defence, the representa-
tion of the colonies in the British Parliament, legislation
with regard to Asiatic and other alien immigrants, the
annexation of the Solomon Islands by New Guinea, uni-
form commercial law throughout the Empire, and other
subjects of concern to the different branches of the Em-
pire. The Premiers will no doubt be prepared to meet
Mr. Chamberlain and talk over those matters. Such a
discussion would be highly valuable, as showing how far
the colonies and the mother county' are in accord on
questions of vital importance to the well-being of the
Empire, and, without pledging the British Government on
the one hand or the colonial Parliaments on the other, a
basis of understanding might be arrived at which might
form the nucleus of a great scheme of Imperial union.—
Daily Paper item.
The above paragraph is the first official sign
that something lies behind the great jubilee
grovel of next J une, and that Australasia is
expected to pay indirectly for the board and
lodging of its seven Premiers at the Hotel
Cecil, London. The jubilee grovel isn’t to
be all grovel; a good part of it is hard busi-
ness. And Joe Chamberlain, of Birming-
ham, has managed the business part of the
arrangements, so far, with the astuteness
which naturally accompanies his impassive
eye-glass and his cold, bony, inscrutable,
bird-of-prey countenance. The invitations
were issued, apparently, for an occasion of
pure festivity, and until they were accepted
there was no hint that anything more than
mere festivity and genial riot and mutually-
agreeable swelled head were intended. If the
political aspect of the matter had been intruded
earlier there would probably have been much
more opposition to the departure of the
Premiers, it having come to be a recognised
fact that the Australian politician who goes
to England, and is knighted by the Queen,
and receives a big cigar from the Heir
Apparent, and is dined and drinked and
danced and advertised, always comes to grief
in the business negotiation that ensues.
Having got all the seven Premiers to-
gether, and dazzled them with a vision of
the great Bull capital in its most gorgeous
state of revelry, and inspired a feeling of
gratitude by free board and lodging, decora-
tions and flattery ; oud having ' t ”iaahed
them into humble in significance by the sight
of more people in one city than are con-
tained in all the seven provinces, the wily
Chamberlain will probably find the seven
surprised and staggered politicians in a mood
to promise anything. And when he gets
them in this mood he proposes, as it now
appears, to lead them, if possible, into pro-
mising a great deal. it begins to
seem that that bill for accommodation at the
Hotel Cecil may be—for Australia—a very
long bill indeed.
♦ ♦ * *
Saying nothing of the “ other subjects of
concern to the different branches of the
Empire,” which may mean anything or
everything or nothing, Joseph Chamberlain
has a stupendous order on hand. The matters
which he asks the Premiers to consider
through the bottom of a glass darkly amount
to the absolute bartering away of the semi-
independence of these provinces. The pro-
posal that the seven perambulating Govern-
ments, while in a genially-obfuscated state,
shall commit themselves, and through them
their Ministries and, as far as possible, their
Parliamentary majorities, to the “represen-
tation of the colonies in the British Parlia-
ment,” simply means an attempt to revive
the idea of Imperial Federation. It means
the creation of a new Imperial Legislature
with direct governing powers over the whole
empire. In this Legislature Britain and the
other sections of the empire would naturally
be represented according to their white
population, therefore, Britain would have
500 members to Australia’s 50, or some simi-
lar proportion. The beautifully equitable
theory thereby implied would be that Aus-
tralasia would gain as much governing power
over Britain as Britain would over Australa-
sia, and each man in each country would
have exactly the same share of political autho-
rity. The hopelessly inequitable practice
would be that the Australian would have
one-tenth share in the government of both
countries, which is a hopeless minority and
worth nothing, while Britain would have
nine-tenths of the control of both countries,
which is an overwhelming majority and
amounts to everything. It is impossible to
suppose that Britain would start an Imperial
Federation on any except a population basis,
and on that basis it would practically reduce
Australasia to its old level as a crown colony.
Therefore, no Australasian politician ven-
tures to advocate it seriously in his sober
moments, but apparently Joseph Chamber-
lain has hopes that the seven Premiers,
when they are intoxicated by board-and-
lodging, may be induced to commit them-
selves even to this insane policy.
* * * *
The representation of the provinces in the
British Parliament would practically mean
committing Australasia to bear any share in
the cost of the empire’s military and naval
defence which the British majority in that
Parliament cared to impose. The suggestion
that the Premiers, while slightly off their
base, should take the opportunity to con-
sider the question of defence, is only another
way of saying that they should consider the
advisability of keeping up big armaments at
their country’s own cost to help in Britain’s
wars. That is the only light in which any
British politician ever views the defence
problem. The further proposal that they
should consider the question of Asiatic
immigration is still more interesting.
Britain is too remote from Asia to suffer
by Asiatic immigration to any appreciable
extent, therefore it doesn’t care in the
least about Asiatic exclusion itself. Also it
can get valuable trade privileges from Asiatic
states if it gives their subjects, in return,
free access to the British territories. And,
as the only important British territory that
is within easy reach of Asiatic immigration
is Australasia, this means that J. Bull
would get the commercial advantages for
himself, while Australasia would pay for
them by being eaten up with the swarming
brown and black and yellow millions. Con-
sidering which way J. Bull’s interest lies,
the spirit in which "he proposes to discuss the
Asiatic question can be easily imagined. He
certamiy doesn’t propose to debate upon
ways and means of keeping the Asiatics out,
partly because he has nothing to gain by
keeping them out, partly because this country
is already attending to that matter in a toler-
ably comprehensive spirit, and debate upon
it is unnecessary. Therefore, the reasonable
assumption is that he wants to debate about
letting Asiatics in, and that is a matter much
too sober and momentous to be safely en-
trusted to any festive and newly-bebaubled
politician.
As regards the matter of Imperial com-
mercial union, the only form of commercial
union which Britain ever wants to consider
is one by which the “colonies” will open
their ports as widely as possible to the
British exporter. Under Freetrade Britain
has, to a great extent, lost control of her own
markets to the German and Frenchman and
American, and has, therefore, to strain
every nerve to find foreign markets in their
stead. Her grievance against the great
majority of her dependencies is that Britain
admits their produce free, while they heavily
tax British produce per medium of protec-
tive tariffs. The British view of the matter,
and the one echoed by the Freetrade press
of Australia, is that these provinces should
give open markets to Britain as a fair ex-
change for the open markets which she offers
to them ; and this is doubtless the view which
Chamberlain proposes to impress on the
vieifing Promi«re to th* V>«et of bi» ability
The other view, which he will assuredly not
impress upon them is : Britain, following
what she considers to be her own interests',
offers Freetrade to everybody, her dependen-
cies included, therefore she gives her depen-
dencies no preference, and treats them no
better or worse than anybody else, and
there is no obligation on either side. Six
of the seven Australias, following what they
consider their own interests, levy protective
duties on their imports, British or other-
wise, and as they give Britain no preference,
and treat her no better or worse than any-
body else, there is again no obligation either
way. If Britain would agree to levy, say,
40 per cent, duties on all imports from
beyond the empire, and let imperial goods in
free, thus giving the outside provinces a
valuable preference, it might possibly be
worth their, while in return to levy similar
duties on foreign imports, while letting
British goods in free. This would simply
mean giving Britain special advantages in
Australian markets in return for special
advantages in British markets. But J.
Bull’s idea that the provinces which follow
a protective policy should let British goods
in at reduced rates as compared with those
of other countries, thus giving him a vast
advantage over all other competitors, while
their goods should have no special advantage
in Britain, but should have to hustle on
equal terms against all the competitors in the
world, is too lop-sided to be worth a
moment’s consideration. The only fair basis
for a commercial union is by giving prefer-
ence in return for preference. And until
Britain adopts a Protectionist policy it has
no preference to offer. All it can do is to
give Australia the same chance in its markets
as it gives to every other outsider, and even
the most protectionist of the Australias gives
Britain exactly the same treatment now.
Therefore, there is already all the commercial
union and reciprocity that circumstances
admit of.
* * * *
The sagacious Chamberlain, however,
has a unique opportunity, and he has seized
it with both hands. His proposal that the
Premiers, while in London, should confer
upon matters which practically amount to a
complete surrender of the autonomy of Aus-
tralasia was not made until they had com-
pleted their arrangements for departure. If
it had been made earlier some of the Parlia-
ments might have expressly stipulated that
the head of the Government should keep
clear of political entanglements, and specified
what he might do and what he must leave
undone. As it is, each Premier was sent on
his holiday with no awkward restrictions
whatever, the idea being that he was going
on a holiday and a non-committal grovel, and
nothing else. Experience has shown that
there are few things so foolish that an Aus-
tralian Premier in London may not assent to
them if he is approached in the proper spirit
—said spirit being carefully decanted out of
the bottle—and with due flattery, and
a title judiciously applied. If the Pre-
miers had to come back and lay the matter
before seven more or less unsympathetic
Parliaments, then the mischief, whatever it
is, would probably go no further, and there
would be little harm done. But in the pre-
sent case they need not, so far as Australia is
concerned, lay the matter before any Parlia-
ment. If the Australian Premiers can be
bought and induced to commit themselves to
Chamberlain’s ideas, and sent back full of
pleasant recollections and new-born loyalty,
and with a handsome new title apiece ; and
if each can win over, or buy over, five of his
colleagues on the Convention to his own way
of thinking, they will form a solid majority
of the Federal delegates. Then that body
may gaily insert the commercial-reciprocity
and the Imperial Federation ideas in the
amended Federal Constitution. The Con-
stitution, having already gone through Parlia-
ment, will thereafter be remitted straight to
a popular vote. The mass of the community
is slow to understand, trustful, and blankly
ignorant of details, and it is capable of vot-
ing “ Tea ” to almost any kind of constitu-
tion if it is not allowed time enough to
realise the situation. Consequently “there
are great possibilities before Joseph of Bir-
mingham, if things only go right.
* * * *
Ihe fact that the Federal Convention and
the great Record Reign grovel come together
gives the astute Birmingham screw-maker
the only chance that might have come in
1000 years to fix the iron yoke of imperialism
upon Australia without his scheme having to
run the gauntlet of a long and searching dis-
cussion in a whole lot of Legislatures. It
gives him his one chance to nobble all Aus-
tralia and Tasmania in a single act. When
Queensland comes in, the Convention will
consist of 60 members, and for once and only
once there is just a possibility that this whole
continent may be bought and sold by anyone
who can command JI votes. The Bulletin
opines that the price of Australian Premiers
will be high in London this year, provided
Chamberlain really sees the greatness of his
opportunity. And, if he doesn’t see it, then
tne cold eye which looks out through Bir-
mingham Joseph’s eye-glass has Tost its
cunning.
The Last Eleven N.S.W. Deficits.
iHE last N.S.W. Treasurer who had a surplus
large enough to be worth calling by that name
was James Watson, who carried the bag lor
the Parkes- Rob e rtso n Ministry of 1878-1883.
Od J. b. larnell, a politician who has now
dropped out of memory, left office in 1878 be-
h'° r« an ann„„ ni U t inn of
.£2,350,000. The Parkes-Robertson Miniof
by 1882, had increased this to £3 888 000
then ended the good days of N.S w’.ZZ
Since then the course of things has hll
follows, the disastrous figures being taken from
Coghlan’s statistics : & n troni
1883 -Stuart _ De fl cit ... jei.323,747
1885 ” ” ••• 1)293,418
1886 Jennings ’*
1887 -Parkes g - -
i qqq c 99 . ••• 612,962
1889 - ” ~ Surplus - 222,218
1800 ” ~ P efic,fc 125,714
1891 ” ~ n U fi P ‘h 8 - 91»022
1892 - Dibits ~ - 292,488
1893 - _ Surplus ... 134,191
1894 - ” Z ? ehC ,' t - 132,288
1895 - HekKi.year) - DefiT Z Jgsg
1897 - ;; (estimate) ” Z gg
Ihe figures up to and including 1896 are taken
rom Coghlan’s Statistics. The estimate fo“
the year ending June, 1897, is tiiat supplied •
few days ago by Premier Reid in his financial
statement.
* * * ♦
The Government Statistician is the only re-
liable official authority whose figures are ac-
cessible to the public, and whose statements are
free from all party bias. .Every new Premier
when he takes office and begins to wallow in
the miry politics of New South Wales starts
lus career by stating that his predecessor’s
figures were a lie, that he was, in effect a
thief and a perjurer, that his alleged surplus
was a deficit, or that his deficit was twice as
large as he said it was. The Bulletin has
long since ceased to have faith in the state-
ments of any newly-arrived Premier in New
South Wales. But as the Statistician has no
political ends to serve, as he isn’t responsible
for anything save the cast-iron accuracy of his
statements, and as his accuracy lias never been
called in question by either party, this paper
accepts his conclusions as beyond all question.
The above is the result.
* * * *
The said result shows that for 15 years the
politicians of New South Wales have hardly
made one decent effort to keep the national
finances solvent. There have been eleven
deficits in that period and four surpluses. If
the shortages are labelled according to the Pre-
mier in office, then Alexander Stuart was
the worst spendthrift and incapable of the
crowd ; Jennings was the next worst; Reid is
a good third ; Parkes comes nex-t; and the late
Dibbs Ministry was the one respectable com-
bination of the crowd, inasmuch as it only went
to the bad by .£176,000, while Parkes made a
shortage of .£700,000, and Reid of over a
million. An excuse may be offered for Stuart
on the ground that he was avowedly spending
an accumulated surplus; and a further and
much better excuse on the ground that he spent
most of it on public works which his successors
have paid for largely out of loan-funds. The
surplus lasted out the days of Stuart and his
Treasurer, Dibbs, and though they used up
most of it religiously they at least left no accu-
mulated deficit behind them. Jennings, as
Premier and Treasurer, finished old James
Watson’s pile, and heaped up that first historic
shortage which the Freetrade press has ever
since persistently labelled the “Dibbs deficit,”
though in reality the only Dibbs deficit that
was ever handed down to posterity was the
small shortage of ,£176,000 which his Ministry
left behind it in 1894. But by dint of persis-
tent, hard, unscrupulous mendacity on the part
of the Sydney importers’ organs the Jennings
shortage of £1,484,000, and the £716,000
deficit accumulated by the Parkes-Burns and
Parkes-M ‘Millan Cabinets, and Reid’s deficit
of £1,059,000, and Dibbs’ own deficit of
£176,000 are all lumped together and described
as the “Dibbs deficit” to this day. This is
the more remarkable, as by the Statistician’s re-
turns, that long and blighted financier was the
only man in the crowd who had practically no-
thing to do with the accumulated shortage
which exists to-day.
* * * *
Every Ministry, since the days when the
surplus began to fade, has started business
with a fearsome blast about the extravagance
of its predecessors, and about its own beautiful
economy. How their economy has gone the
following table of each year’s expenditure will
show. Three items have been purposely omitted
from the expenditures. The cost of railway
management is not under direct Ministerial
control, and the interest payments on the public
debt have to be met by all Ministries alike.
Also the payments made in reduction of the
public debt are not included, for the economy
which reduces payments in this direction isn’t
worth mentioning, and the extravagance which
pays large sums off the country’s old liabilities
is a vice that deserves all encouragement.
Without these three items the net expenditures
are as follows. There is a certain amount of
doubt as to the figures for the first two years
(1883-84) as in these days gross and net ex-
penditures were not very clearly distinguished ;
otherwise the figures are mathematically
correct:—
1883 Stuart £5,427,781
1884 ~ 5,778,914
1885 „ 5,325,239
1886 Jennings 5,569,228
1887 Parkes 5,615,125
1888 „ 4,932,487
1889 5,387,618
1890 ~ 5,274,730
1891 „ 5,722,558
1892 Dibbs 5,944,448
1893 „ 5,478,088
1894 ~ 5,068,014
1895 Reid (f.year) 2,807,562
1896 - 5,266,051
1897 ~ (estimate) 5,366,525
* * » ♦
The moral which principally sticks out here
is that the last half-dozen Treasurers were all
very much alike, and that the chief difference
between a bad Treasurer who wrecks the
country and a brilliant financier who saves it
lies in his success or otherwise in securing the
support of the Sydney daily newspaper
Ananias. The surest way not to secure
that support, as a general thing, is to put
a duty on paper and printing-material. Alex-
ander Stuart ran New South Wales on an
average outlay of £5,510,644 per annum;
Jennings cost £5,569,228 ; Parkes averaged
£5,386,503 a year; Dibbs cost £5,496,850;
Reid’s average, so far, is £5,376,055. What
differenoe I horp ip among them is almost wholly


represented by differences in the amount
spent on public works. Dibbs paid, on an
average, ,£1,084,000 per annum of the works
expenditure out of revenue ; Reid paid only
£905,000 per annum, and economised by
charging the balance to loans, which just
accounts for the discrepancy between the
average annual cost of the two Governments.
The great original surplus—that of Treasurer
Watson, in the Parkes-Robertson coalition
days—was piled up by disposing of the public
lands at the rate of £2,700,000 per annum.
'Fhe first great series of deficiencies—those of
.Stuart and Jennings —was created by cutting
down land sales to about £1,500,000 per annum,
in an attempt to conserve the public estate.
Then Parkes put things partly right again by
immediately running land sales up as high as
£2,300,000 per annum. The difference, in fact,
between the wickedly-extravagant Treasurer
who has a large deficit and the wise and
economical one who has a small deficit is mainly
that the latter sells more land and sells it
faster. Also, it arises to some extent out of
the fact that the economical Treasurer charges
more public works to loan account, and lets
country roads get into disrepair.
* * * *
Among the N.S. W. Treasurers of the last 15
years there isn’t one who kept the accounts
straight, or honestly faced the bad situation.
They all spent money to very much the same
extent; even poor, well-meaning old Jennings
wasn’t noticeably worse than the rest. So far
as the figures show, however, Dibbs came
nearest to making ends meet without resorting
to the expedient of enormous land sales to fill
the state coffers. Also, they show that there
is really no “Dibbs deficit;” there never was
any surplus at all except through tremend-
ous land-sales ; there never was any great finan-
cial genius who rushed in and “saved the
country ” —except by selling more land; and
there never was any special reason why any one
of the crowd should be a small tin god much
more than another. One thing, at all events,
sticks out conspicuously ; with 11 deficits in
15 years, New South Wales can’t afford to
sacrifice a great part of its customs revenue as
it is doing—not even for the blessed privilege
of getting in line with Britain and Turkey as
one of the three great Foreign-trade countries
of the world. The blessing may be all right,
but it costs a great deal too much as things are
at present.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Commutation.
Last week the “ GoD-fearing Ministry ” of
Botany Bay “commuted” the death sentence
on a prisoner named Primmer, then waiting in
Dubbo gaol to be hanged by the neck until he
was dead. Said commutation consisted in
letting Primmer off with life-long imprison-
ment and 25 lashes. It takes a Gou-fear-
ing Ministry—a Ministry that prays regu-
larly, and goes to church religiously, and
has a good, sound faith in a devil and in a
blazing hell, and in the eternal combustion of
unbaptised infants —to rise to anything like
this. “ Imprisonment for life ” is civil death
and obliteration. It practically means that the
prisoner is never to get a chance to repeat his
crime because die is locked away front his
fellows for the rest of his days. Therefore he
doesn’t require a deterrent ; when the law puts
a man away permanently in a stone box so that
he will never have a chance to repeat his crime,
the idea of taking special measures, or special
horrors, to deter him from repeating it is super-
fluous. So The Bulletin presumes that Prim-
mer isn’t to be flogged to deter him from a re-
petition of his crime, but merely as a fiendish
piece of vengeance ; if the flogging will deter
him effectually then there is no need to lock
him up for life, and if he is locked up for
life it matters very little whether he is
effectually deterred or not. It would be
just about as logical to order him to be
flogged and hanged and imprisoned for life
afterwards ; or to flog him and imprison
him for life, and then hang him as soon
as he developes a latal illness, so as to
prevent him dying naturally. Under these
circumstances, the assumption is that the Hog-
ging is a species of pious frill put on to orna-
ment the sentence. It is the sort of thing that
only a GoD-fearing Ministry of the most
ghastly Lagland pattern would associate its
name with. There is also a cold - blooded
and mathematical accuracy about the thing.
Primmer, it seems, isn’t quite bad enough
to hang, yet he is too bad to be let off
with life-long imprisonment only, so the 25
lashes are added to make things exactly square.
If he were somewhat worse he would probably
get lifelong imprisonment and, say, four times
25 lashes. And if he were a little worse still—
well, how much flogging added to perpetual
imprisonment do Reid and Brunker and A. J.
Gag-Gould reejkon is exactly equal to execution?
At what point in its cold-blooded career does the
GoD-fearing Ministry consider that a commuta-
tion ceases to be such, and becomes an aggrava-
tion instead ? Some politician of a logical turn
of mind should ask Minister Gould (of the
Anglican Synod) to explain how much flogging
added to life-long stone-breaking he would
gladly exchange for a nice, dry, warm hanging
in a salubrious and well-ventilated yard where
there are no dogs or hawkers or hospital-col-
lectors to worry him ? And if he doesn’t
know, it would be a fair thing to ask him how
he knew whether he was commuting Primmer’s
sentence or not?
The Latest Gambling Spasm.
Aiti-arently there is shortly to be a fresh
spasm of indignant virtue over the Sydney
totes. At least, Minister for Justice Gould
seemed to intimate as much when he spoke the
following little piece in the Assembly :
Mr. Gould said, as to the hon. member's charges that
the police were not doing' their duty in connection with
betting, he might say that it was not his province to give
instructions to the police. But since the hon. member
first drew attention to the matter the police had received
instructions to take stringent measures to put down tote-
shops. As a result, there would doubtless be a large
number of prosecutions.
This wakes up the old question that The
Bulletin is always asking, and which never
evokes an answer. The police are supposed to
be taking stringent measures to put down law-
breakers all the time. They are nob supposed
to require special instructions at inter-
vals, and they do not require such instruc-
tions except in relation to this particular brand
of illegality. When the “ cop ” comes upon a
person committing burglary or brutal assault
or murder or highway robbery, or throwing
bricks through a plate-glass window, or passing
bogus bank-notes, he arrests him right there.
When he comes across a man publicly and un-
disguisedly conducting a tote he wanders past
and takes no notice—sometimes, of course, he
takes a bribe—unless he has just received spe-
cial instructions. If he wandered past any of the
other kinds of law-breaker and took no notice of
them on the ground that he hadn’t recently re-
ceived any instructions about arresting bur-
glars, murderers, thieves, forgers, &c., he would
be thrown out of the force for shameful neglect
of duty, but he can let the “ tote ” law-breaker
slide, year in and year out, without being
called in question. The country doesn’t want
to know, every six months or so, that special
orders have been issued to the police to look
after the illegal gambling-dens ; it wants to
know why they don’t look after them every
day without any orders in particular. Also, it
isn’t interested so very much in hearing, once
every nine months or more, that the principal
tote-keepers are to be summoned with great
pomp and fuss and ceremony ; it wants to find
out why they aren’t summoned every day that
their shops are found open, and every night
when the gas is lit, and the big lamp outside
shows the proprietor’s name on it, and the
crowd is conspicuously pouring in to pub its
money on, or pouring out after putting its
money on. Also, it wants to know about the
ignominious discharge of that detective
who went round some time last year
and warned the law - breakers to be
more careful, instead of running them
in. When an officer knows where to find some
two dozen notorious law-breakers, and instead
of capturing them he goes round—apparently
with the concurrence of his superiors—and
“ gives them the tip ” to escape in good time,
and the daily papers report his outrageous con-
duct without comment, the situation is at least
remarkable. So long as gambling is a crime
the law against it should be enforced just as
vigorously as any other law. The police and
detectives who don’t attempt to enforce it
should be discharged for neglect of duty, or
else gaoled for corruption. The GoD-fearing
Ministry which allows the force to openly
neglect its duty without calling it to account
should be called to account itself. At present
the administration of the N.S.W. Gambling
Act is a strange and snufflesome mystery.
What other law is there on the statute-book
which the police are allowed to abolish with
impunity in this fashion ?
Holy Hullabaloo.
Just before his departure from London, Dr.
Clifford, the latest little Nonconformist god
to be fussed over in Australia, delivered upon
the Eastern question what is described as “one
of his great fighting speeches.” Quoth Clifford,
magnificently —“ We have done with Lord
Salisbury’s policy !—we have done with the
concert of the Powers ! Across the dark
eastern sky Greece has shot one brilliant hope !”
—with much more irresponsible blatancy, every
sentence of which, we are told, was greeted
by the audience with ringing cheers.
Almost any kind of hysterical screech, however
—with Blood in it, and the Bible and Eng-
land’s Glory—will set the British Philistine a-
whooping wildly for a fray of which he is too
fat-witted to foresee the probable develop-
ments, and to the chances of which, in any
case, he would take excellent care not to commit
his own comfortable Evangelical carcase. It is
lucky for Britain that the clear-headfed part
of her people—not unmindful of her own
pleasing iittle amenities of conquest —have re-
mained, throughout, unstirred of Stead and
Co. to avenge the Armenian at any cost. Even
if he were worth avenging—which the
other Powers evidently consider he isn’t—
said Powers have not the slightest intention
of allowing Britain to play Special Providence
in the East, and the assumption that J. Bull’s
is in any sort a name to conjure with is nowa-
days confined mostly to the people who punc-
tuate with senseless acclamations the “great
fighting speeches” of smug stay-at-home pul-
piteers. “My voice is still for war !” is the
cry generally of those who have never seen a
bullet-hole or a bayonet thrust. The typical
British jingo is the huckster whose adventures
have been bounded by his yard-stick or his
scales, and who is also, for the most
part, the possessor of the Nonconformist
Conscience. It is, in a word, Napoleon’s
“shopkeeper”—stuffed with a lying legend of
Britisli magnanimity, and insolent with a stale
tradition of British dominance—who is doing
his blindfold best to bring the nation to blows
with Russia or Germany, or both, on behalf of
those Cretan “Christians.” The said Chris-
tians, by the way, would unhesitatingly
reject even the strenuous Clifford as dis-
tinctly outside the fold of the faith, and they
are in any case no more worth the howling
that has been raised about them than are the
Greek heroes who, after forcing their King
into hostilities, have promptly skedaddled back
to Athens to fasten upon said King the blame of
their own fatuousness and poltroonery.
+
A Victorian House-Breaker.
The law which permits a prisoner to give
evidence on his own behalf isn’t an unmixed
blessing—in Victoria, anyhow. For instance, last
December, Williams and Dunbar were tried
for house-breaking. Dunbar gave evidence
denying his guilt. Williams pleaded guilty,
but also gave evidence denying Dunbar’s guilt.
Williams was sentenced, but two juries failed
to agree about Dunbar, and it was only when
the law hail stuck to him with the dire persist-
ence of a bull-terrier for three successive trials
that it secured a conviction. Then the law
proceeded against them both for perjury
because they swore to Dunbar’s innocence. It
took two trials to get a jury to decide that
Williams had sworn falsely when he said that
Dunbar was innocent, but even then the jury
couldn’t decide that Dunbar had sworn falsely
when he said that he was innocent himself.
Therefore, the situation is that it is quite cer-
tain Williams told a lie, and not at all certain
that Dunbar, who said exactly the same thing,
didn’t tell the truth. Supposing the next jury
ends the trouble by finding Dunbar “ not
guilty,” what sort of a complication will that
make? The position will then be some-
thing as follows : —(1) Dunbar is guilty
of house-breaking, therefore he is doing a
sentence ; (2) he isn’t guilty of house-breaking,
therefore, his denial of that crime is not
perjury ; (3) he is guilty of that crime, there-
fore Williams’ denial on his behalf is perjury.
If a jury finds Dunbar not guilty of perjury,
then the only thing is either to revoke Dun-
bar’s sentence for house-breaking and Wil-
liams’sentence for perjury ; or else to prosecute
Dunbar for further perjury in swearing that
he didn’t commit perjury. Even if it finds him
guilty, the law, to be decently consistent, must
prosecute him again for perjury, seeing that it
is just as much perjury to swear falsely that he
didn’t commit perjury as to swear falsely that
he didn’t commit house-breaking. The com-
bined opinions of all these juries make an in-
teresting total. It took three trials to convince
a jury that Dunbar was guilty of house-break-
ing. It took two more to convince another jury
that Williams swore falsely when he declared
Dunbar didn’t house-break. A sixth trial has
failed to convince still another jury that Dunbar
swore falsely when he said the same thing as
Williams. Therefore, it has taken six trials
to prove that Dunbar did break into that
house, and it isn’t proved to the satisfaction of
the last jury yet. The Victorian law is now
getting ready for a seventh attempt. If it had
only put one-tenth of this energy into the pro-
ceedings against some bankers the public still
remembers
Be Mr. Lyne.
“ P.” writes as follows :
Dear Bulletin, —Politicians, like eels, must get used to
being skinned, and if the| flaying process be not too fine-
drawn and the agony not too protracted, they had better
not complain—use is second nature. As the candid friend
of the Protectionists you help keep our party up to
collar and, as a rule, your criticisms are fair and logical. In
a late issue, I venture to think, in the article, “ Wanted, a
Policy,” you were neither. With your permission I will
state my reasons. The Protectionist leaders are not
“ constantly putting themselves forward as men with
only one idea —Protection.” They support every bona-
fide reform —Mr. Lyne supported the Referendum to wit.
Further, you say in effect that when the land and income
taxes were introduced by Mr. Reid, Mr. Lyne should have
gone one better. You say he should have demanded “ a
heavier impost on large incomes than on small ones, and
a larger tax on incomes derived from property than from
those realised by personal exertion.” At the time those
taxes were introduced Mr. Lyne avowedly declined to
support, assist, amend, or have anything to do
with them on the ground that their introduction
meant the sweeping away of what modicum of
protection the Customs duties afforded us. He op-
posed them on that ground; Hansard shows that
he always held that side by side with a proper Customs
tariff we must have our due proportion of direct taxa-
tion. In 1886 Mr. Lyne was a member of the Government
(Jennings’) that introduced a land-tax of (d. in the £ on
unimproved values with an exemption of £lOOO. He was
a member of the Govt. (Dibbs’) that introduced a care-
fully graduated income-tax, but when Mr. Reid brought
in a crude, unfair and unjust scheme of taxation, in lieu
of moderate protective Customs duties, he avowedly re-
fused to touch it, saying he wished the country to learn
by painful experience exactly what Freetrade under the
Reid rbgime really meant. Nothing but experience
teaches, and the public are now learning the lesson, and
are beginning to buck at the task. Space precludes
quotations, but Hansard shows that Lyne supported old-
age pensions, a minimum wage, regulation of the hours
of labor, irrigation, home-borrowing as against foreign-
borrowing, cessation of land-sales, the exclusion of
aliens, &c., &c.
You think Lyne should publish the details of the
policy he proposes in lieu of the Reid doctrine.
Hardly good enough. You yourself admit that
Reid has “systematically borrowed” the ideas of the
Protectionist party, so why should Lyne supply him
with a lot more just to keep him going now that his fol-
lowing is beginning to clamor and his power to totter’
We are, in all human probability, still 12 months from l
general election, and if Lyne published a detailed mani
festo to-day the party in power would collar nine-tenthi
of the ideas, and Lyne having already announced then)
would have to vote for them. Besides, the details of to-daj
might not suit 12 months hence, and why should on!
party invite attack on mere matter of detail? Reid, wher
in Opposition, entered into no details ; he attacked Pro-
tection, and promised, if successful, to introduce Free-
trade. Gladstone, when in Opposition, never formulated
a detailed policy. To-day Lyne attacks Freetrade, ana
promises, if successful, to introduce Protection. He has
all along said that if the revenue derivable from a scientifi-
cally-constructed Customs tariff is found insufficient then
he will propose a scheme of graduated Land and Income
taxation—but not until then. In the meantime, should
he arrive, the Reid scheme of land and income taxation
will go by the board. When the proper time arrives, i.e.,
on the eve of a general election, Mr. Lynje will speak to
the country through his constituents, at the same tiruo
publishing a manifesto sufficiently liberal, progressive,
and detailed to satisfy the party —the party only, and not
the Freetrade critics, who may go hang themselves. In
the meantime, with fully 12 months’ life left in the pre-
sent Parliament, why furnish Brunker with “ ideas”?
After the smash at Phersala, it may be safely
assumed that all is over with Greece, unless
some strong Power comes to her assistance in a
hurry. The Greeks fought well in the early
part of the campaign, and they seem in most oi
the battles to have had numbers on their side.
But the deadly courage of the Turkish Tommy
Atkins, who never will understand when he is
beaten, and who wades in with a valor that
never fails against any position and any odds,
seems to have scared the Greeks at last, and, in
the retreat to Larissa, their army crumbled to-
gether all in a heap, and their valor evaporated,
and they degenerated into a mass of terror and
hysterics. It will probably be years before that
army that skedaddled to Larissa is its old self
again. So far as the available evidence goes, the
commanders seem to be about equally good or
equally mediocre ; the difference is that the
Greek is a man of ordinary valor, and the Turk
a man whose valor is extraordinary, so he
walked over the Greek every time. It would
be interesting to know if the Greek was ever
the tremendous fighting demi-god he claims to
be. The stories of the terrific things he did
against the ancient Persians are his own stories
almost'exclusively, for no complete Persian
version of the matter has survived. The Greek
wrote practically all the history of those days.
The first time he ran against a nation which
insisted on leaving behind it its own account
of the trouble Greece went down, and never
rose again. The tales of ancient Greek heroism
are Greek tales, and stand on the same footing
as the Belgian’s account of how he alone won
the Battle of Waterloo ; the tales of how thfe
ancient Greek ran away and surrendered and
howled for mercy are the ones which are best
supported by independent records. Possibly
the Greek, as a soldier, was never very much
better than the gallant but ephemeral fried-fish
man that he is to-day. Certainly the ancient
Hellene, if he was the desperate fighting man
he said he was, should have mopped up half
the East, and his domains, even in the alleged
good old days, were never nearly so extensive
as those of many other nations which howl in a
much lower key on the page of history.
Mr. Ashton, M.L.A., in reply:—
Dear Bulletin, —The essence of Mr. Ewing'S remarks
upon my “Equal representation” article appears to be
this ! As the people who elect the senators for the small
states will be the same sort of people, probably, as those
who elect the senators for the big states, the aforesaid
big states may reasonably trust the 'Minorities of the
aforesaid small states to treat them fairly; to which I
answer : As the people who elect the senators for the
large states will be the same sort of people, probably, as
those who elect the senators for the small states, the
aforesaid small states may reasonably trust the majorities
of the aforesaid big states to treat them fairly. That is
to say, if it comes to a matter of trusting someone,
let the majority be trusted in prefererrce to the
minority. That has been my standpoint through-
out. I have not treated the problem as one of big
v. small states, hut as involving the question as to
whether a majority or a minority of Australian people
shall rule. Mr. Ewing evidently misunderstands my
position when he asks me if I can name any Federation
where “ state rights” have not been conceded. I cannot,
nor have I argued that the “ rights” of the states should
not he conserved. My view is that the self-governing
powers of the individual states are sufficiently safe-
guarded by strictly defining the powers of the Federal
Parliament, and making an extension thereof impossible
without the assent of all the states. If Mr. Ewing, how-
ever, uses the phrase “ state rights ”as a synonym for
“ Equal representation of states in the Senate,” then I
answer that that “principle” does not find a place in
either the Canadian or German Federal Constitutions.—
Jas. Ashton.
Vic. Presbyterian Assembly laments aloud be-
cause its mission to the Jews has not been
successful, not one single Cohen having ac-
cepted Christianity at the hands of the braw,
red-headed Calvinists who have been carrying
grace into the Ghetto during the last twelve
months. The Bulletin holds that it is now
the turn of Solomons, and Isaacs, and Mosen-
stein. The children of Israel should go as
missionaries to the Scotchmen of Melbourne.
They might even try to convert the Presby-
terian Assembly to Christianity. Unfortu-
nately, the Jew is not much given to poking
his nose into other people’s business —chiefly
because nobody’s business is half so lucrative as
his own—but it ought not to be hard to convert
a few Scotchmen to Judaism on strictly business
principles; and, anyhow, the spectacle of Cohen,
and Coiin, and Flegeltaub, and Josephs
wrestling in prayer with Sandy Macintosh,
and M'Allister, and M‘Bain, and M'Fadyen
would be a joyous thing in itself, and an in-
spiriting method of celebrating the 60th year of
the reign of our gracious Queen.
Rev. Dr. Marshall, of Melbourne, has found
a reason for the drought s
The losses and privations and humiliations through
which this country has been wading are God’s retributive i
punishment for the national sins of dishonesty and extra-
vagance and folly committed during the land boom.
And what was the boom God’s retributive'
punishment for? And why does He inflict!
retributive punishment upon the farmer, and
the settler, and the other man out back, all of
whom were victims of, but otherwise had
nothing to do with, the boom? The Rev. Dr.
Marshall’s God is most illogical, but, then,
God is nearly always a parson, which accounts
for the fact that when the parson has a boil on
his neck it calls for soap-and sugar merely, but
when the other fellow has a boil it is a visita-
tion of Providence, and demands regular
attendance at church, prompt payment of pew-
rents, and two half-crowns in the plate every
Sabbath till further notice.
A Treat for the London Poor.
From St. Paul’s Cathedral the return journey will he by
way of Cheapside, London-bridge, the Borough, St.
George’s Circus, Westminster-bridge, and back to the
palace. The poorer classes on the south side of the water
will thus have an opportunity of seeing their Sovereign
and witnessing the day’s spectacle.—Melb. Argus.
They will troop in loyal thousands from the
putrid purlieus where
Foul Disease and Crime and Famine have their
pestilential lair ;
They will crawl from fetid alley, they will creep
from courts obscene,
When they hear the joyous tidings of the pass-
ing of their Queen.
She has reigned—-aloft, sublime—
Sixty years—let joy-bells chime !
And these God-forgotten wretches were her
subjects all the time !
They are hungry ; they are ragged ; they are
gaunt and hollow-eyed ;
But their frowsy bosoms palpitate with fine old
British pride ;
And they’ll belt their rags in tighter, and they’ll
hoarsely cry “Hooray ! ”
When their good Queen’s circus passes on
Sexagenary Day.
0 the thunder of the drums,
And the cry of “ Here she comes ! ”
Will be better than a breakfast to the natives
of the slums.
All their woes will be forgotten on that ever-
blessed day
When they see the Kings and Princes and the
Lords in broad array,
Clad in brand-new dazzling uniforms with golden
lace agleam—
-0 their Hunger and their Misery will vanish
like a dream !
Lust of eye, and pride of life,
In that pageant will run rife,
And “The Dials,” drunk with joy, at night
will dance upon its wife.
Sixty years their gracious Queen has reigned a-
holding up the sky,
And a-bringing round the seasons, hot and cold,
and wet and dry ;
And in all that time she’s never done a deed
deserving gaol—-
So let joy-bells ring out madly and Delirium
prevail !
0 her Poor will blessings pour
On their Queen whom they adore ;
When she blinks with puffy eyes at them they’ll
hunger nevermore.
Melb.
C.R.


Tbc Standard
of Boot excellence
is
fixed
by Callaghan Boots. If you have an
idea that any other make of footwear is
“as good as Callaghan’s/’ the mistake will
show out in the wear.
Try the Callasrhan
Boots and Shoes.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT I
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company • 8 P ° rmS
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost •
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
protection 0 - 0 ” 16 ’ 86 ° Ure investlnent > and absolute
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income; ’
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
"' o H st , e fff tlve of investments, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors )
Continuous Instalment Policy so adiusts
payment of the amount insured as to Create I
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary •
Annuity PoUcies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life •
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years
and to be free from business cares. 8 ‘ ’
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
U 5 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
<3 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A
St. George s Terrace, Perth W A
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
The Corbett - Fitzsimmons battle will
shortly be reproduced with faithful details at
the Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-st., Sydney.
It was cabled that the great fight was recorded
all through by the Kinetoscope, and the colonial
branch of the Edison Laboratory before the fight
took place made its arrangements for securing the
record. The Edison Vitascope, Kinetoscope, and
Kinetophone, and the wonderful X-rays are still
on show in the parlor, and are attracting great
public interest.*
pernjatjeqt
portraits
perfect posing
popular prices
ffo Extrag
Jfo Stairs
ffo Elevator,
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,*)
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- l Cf 1 1
ment in Permanent Bromide or f I /
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras,/
J'heJdeal portrait Co,
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS H
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion. “ Sowing the Wind.”
Her Majesty’s “The Sign ot the Cross.”
E° YAL Stoltz’s Vaudeville Co.
Palace “Skipped by the Light
of the Moon.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Matsa.”
Royal. «• j n sight of St. Paul s.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Empire Palace New Variety Co.'
The “ Sign of the Cross ” opened at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, in the presence of a very large
audience, and, so far, it appears that the religious
tragedy is going to catch on. It is a story of the
old days of the Caesars and the Colisaeum, when
the people of the new faith were thrown to the
wild beasts, and the fastest lion got the first bite
out of the slow Christian, and the fastest Christian
gave a long race to the slow lion, and the biggest
lion got the most Christian, and the smallest lion
was altogether left. The story itself is simple.
Marcus buperbus, the rich and gorgeous and
cynical prefect, is clanking through Rome in his
gilded armor when he finds the rabble capturing
two Christians—an old man and a girl—and out
of a magnificent contempt for the unwashed he
scatters them and rescues the pair. He gets
mashed on the girl Christian, and from that
moment Marcus starts to slide down hill to the
Colisaeum and the lions. The bleared eye of the
Chancellor, who wants his billet, takes in the
situation. The girl’s address isn’t in the direc-
tory, but by vigorously flogging a very small
Christian—apparently flogging a small Christian
is the same thing as a directory in those days—he
gets the information and arrests her. Then
Marcus starts on a succession of rash acts to save
her, and ends by using insurrectionary language
at the throne of a bilious and cataleptic Caesar.
When all this leads to nothing he makes a
final appeal to his girl to abandon her faith, to
marry him, and to be empress when he
has thrown the bilious, haggard Caesar off his
throne. That fails also, and right there, in a sud-
den blaze of fervor, Marcus turns Christian, and
throws up his splendid billet as second man in the
empire, and steps with his Christian girl into the
arena, where the lion presumably makes an im-
mediate vacancy for another prefect. They depart
with the limelight on them, while the Chancellor,
who has the rest of the stage to himself, smiles in-
scrutably out of his bloated head at his rival’s
downfall.
* * • *
The mounting of this tragic tale is
magnificent. Old Rome is put on regardless of
expense, the Roman ladies are a blaze of
millinery, and the armor of the legionaries clatters
like crates of brass-ware as they go by. Almost
everybody is magnificent save the small Christian
who is flogged to make him give up the address,
ihe two informers who live by running down
Christians for the scalp-money are an interesting
study, and their lament that trade is bad, and
that they haven’t seen a Christian for a fortnight,
appeals strongly to the hearers, most of whom
haven’t seen a Christian, to their certain know-
ledge, for much longer than that. Society in those
days was mostly wine and sin and leg-show ; and
the comic Roman drunk, and the Roman lady
who emerges greatly from her clothes, and the
one who tells dreadful tales about the immorality
of the third lady, helped to lighten the gloom some-
what. Still, ‘ The Sign of the Cross ”is very
gloomy and majestically impressive. All the
Christians are butchered at the last. The
prefect—the noblest heathen of them all-
goes to the lions. Nero is left to his ghosts
and his gibberings and his midnight horrors.
Ihe woman who loved the prefect, and gave him
away because she loved him. is left tear-
mg her hair on the steps of Caesar’s
throne. The principal informer is hauled away
to execution; times get so bad that the other in-
former has to arrest him on a charge of Chris-
tianity to make ends meet. Nearly half the play
is taken up with pious exhortation of one kind
and another—this includes the time spent in flog-
ging the smallest Christian. Some more of it is
occupied by Marcus talking to himself and hang-
ing’ fire between two opinions. Nero and the old
Roman drunk keep things moving more actively
than the others ; when they are not there the
pageant goes with a solemn stride. It would feel
very slow in places but for the outbreaks of
spectacular magnificence, and the constant im-
pression that something tremendous is liable to
happen to a Christian at any moment, and the
novelty of all the good people being burnt or
eaten, while the bad ones are left. The play is
well-constructed in its own vast, sombre, magnifi-
cent way, but though one religious drama may be
a great success two would probably be a failure.
* * * .
At least three-fourths of the co. calls for
severe commendation. Caleb Porter, as Nero
makes his first appearance in Sydney, and his
blotchy, bilious, shuddery Caesar is a notable piece
of work. Nero, with his starts and horrors and
visions and sudden alarms, and the gloating voice
m which he orders the Christians to be combusted
is the finest single figure in the show. Julius
-Knight s prefect is a fine, straightforward, manly
pagan. He wears his mail with dignity, and
ml 6 t S, th - e f - rlgld Chris tian girl like a man of
mi f v' lhe Christian girl wears a long white robe
and her pale, impassive face looks rather pretty in
the limelight. Her part consists mainly of a rapt
expression the aforesaid white frock and a mass
of hair, and Miss Ferrar wears these three things
reasonably well. A rather hurried and uncon-
vincmg miracle connected with a thunderbolt
prevents the prefect really hugging her, and serves
as the turning-point in the drama. Gaston Mer-
vale, Hawtrey (a highly artistic Roman drunk)
Miss Mortyne (as the empress whom Caesar paws
lovingly with a shaky hand while giving orders for
P°. ured , over heroine before she is
lighted), Miss Linda Raymond, and especially
Miss Elliott Page, who fills a difficult part very
cleverly, all deserve to be well spoken of. All
of the Christians, also, can pass muster, barring
the smallest Christian, represented by Miss Marie
Neilson. The smallest Christian is the one com-
plete disappointment of the company, and this
paper recommends his immediate relapse into
paganism.
** * *
The present week is the last of Thornton’s
four-months’ season at Sydney Criterion. About
11 on Friday night the Rev. Robert Spalding will
finish bringing the church into contempt and dis-
repute for this season, and will pack up his weak,
watery eye, and his cold feet and his bun, and
take his mild and harmless departure. Except
that The Bulletin desires to shed a tear weighing
2£cwt. over the absence of the original Uncle
Cattermole, the present version of the “ Private
Secretary’’gives no reasonable cause for objection.
Misses Seabrooke and Bessie Rignold fill the two
girl-parts very prettily ; the two girls haven’t
much to do except look pretty and lean up confi-
dentially against two nice young men, and they
get through this contract without turning a hair.
Guyton Heath, who has an occasional tendency to
be shadowy and indefinite, is rather more definite
than usual, and Herbert Terry, who plays Catter-
mole, junior, is always an agreeable youth who
wears a lovely frock-coat to great advantage. The
idea of putting up the “Private Secretary” on
the same night as Williamson’s stupendous “Sign
of the Cross ” has a lot of humor in it, too. The
early Christian preacher at Her Majesty’s and the
recent curate with his bun at the Criterion
represent the two extreme ends of the one
creed. Most creeds which ever amount to
anything begin somewhat after the fashion of
Williamson’s show, and most of them end apolo-
getically with the milk and the bun and the meek,
cackling little priest whose mother is much alarmed
lest he will catch catarrh in his pale, apologetic
nose. This is a solemn thing to consider, and The
Bulletin bids a regretful farewell to Thornton
with mixed feelings. The “ Secretary ”is a
comedy which has very few equals, and Thornton’s
Secretary in particular is a brilliant shriek of
mirth, but when one thinks of the amount of
valuable tiger that was used up in olden times in
the effort to suppress a creed whose natural end,
when left to itself, is the Rev. Spalding suffering
from cold feet in a city that Nero probably never
heard of
** * *
The Brough Comedy Co., which is steadily
farewelling through Australasia, will arrive at
Sydney Cri. on Saturday in a voice broken with
emotion, and revive “ Sowing the Wind ” for six
nights only. “ A White Elephant ” comes next,
and as this pallid pachyderm has not yet been
seen in Sydney it should be the event of the
season. After that follow “The Solicitor,” “A
Woman of No Importance,” “ A Woman’s
Reason,” “Dandy Dick,” the “Second Mrs.
Tanqueray,” “Niobe,” and possibly—if room can
be found for it inside the five weeks available —
“ Thoroughbred ”as a finale. After that the co.
farewells some more in S.A. and Maoriland.
** * *
Melville Stolfcz’s variety co. is keeping up
a consistent boom at Sydney Royal. No member
of that remarkable combination has yet broken his
or her neck, and the pleasant, motherly person
who does the triple somersault in the air takes her
little excursion lightly, as one who is quite at home
in being upside-down upon nothing. The lady
who dances on the thread up by the dome is like-
wise doing well, and if there is anything in the
Moslem theory that the souls of the departed have
to travel along a hair on their way to Paradise
she should get there, unless some large, coarse soul
shoves her off. Some changes in the programme
are announced for next week.
i** m *
“Skipped by the Light of the Moon”
still skips in a rather depressed frame of mind at
Sydney Palace, and its prospects don’t appear to
amount to much more than they did last week.
The Bulletin begins to be convinced that the
Palace will by-and-bye be hired at a great re-
duction by the Wesleyan denomination, and the
collection-plate will stand in its marble vestibule,
and the squalling infant will be passed up over
what is now the orchestra to be duly christened
Jemima Ann, and the Rev. Peter John Job Crump
will hold forth where Gourlay now skips so impro-
bably by the light of the moon. Which is a
sad reflection, and one that can only be ade-
quately quenched in beer.
** * *
The Selbinis, alleged in the advertisement
to be something vast and incredible in the acro-
batic line, are due at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday.
A silver com ’’ co. is running a series of robust
horrors at the Royal Standard, and the Philhar-
momc Society does “ Faust ” to-night (Thursday)
b Town Hall. The Cyclorama still per-
suades the public, on much eloquent canvas, that
the little, seedy city of Jerusalem was formerly a
vast array of marble palaces ; the various cinema-
tographes are much as usual; and otherwise the
amusement ’ page in the daily papers is mostly
devoted to horse and dog advertisements
** * *
One consecutive week of the new comic
opera, entitled “ Lelamine and the Lord from
Government House,” was inaugurated at Mel-
bourne Princess’ on Saturday night, with festivi-
ties quite equal to the occasion—equal, in fact to
many such occasions rolled into one. Flags and
garlands made the route to the dress-circle seem
like the path of glory that leads only to the grave
A bombarding contingent, stationed in a stage-
box, fired a salute of 57 floral tributes at the per-
formance, whilst an honorary secretary was
skirmishing round the premises exhorting press-
men in general to calm their critical faculties at
the managerial canteen.
* * * »
The composer of “Lelamine,” Alfred R
Moulton, conducts the orchestra; the libretto
was written by a man who has already gone to
render an account of his crime. He was a good
enough citizen, no doubt, but a shockingly
bad librettist. If he put an intelligible plot into
his story the amateur artists must have forgotten
to mention it on Saturday, and, as regards dia-
logue, The Bulletin believes that the amateurs, as
a rule, refrained from plain speaking out of re-
spect for the deceased author’s memory. They
didn’t wish his jokes, if he had any, to be under-
stood. Composer Moulton’s music shines some-
what by comparison with the literary half of this
reckless undertaking. It contains three or four
graceful little melodies of the Robinson type. A
couple of songs for the tenor, with chorus, and a
sentimental ballad for the contralto, went very
well on Saturday. Indeed, a lot more of the
music might be called pretty if it were not so
wearisomely similar to the airs that went before.
All that the composer could do for “Lelamine”
was accomplished in the first act, after which he
did the same sort of thing over and over again,
His orchestration is trivial, and the finales have
no force or fulness. Chorus-singing is always ex-
pected to be the best feature of an amateur opera
performance, but in this case the 80 voices get
very little chance, and many of them, seemingly,
are not educated warblers, and so the people who
come and go in mobs are only remembered as a
spectacle. The men do credit to the stage-
manager, and the ladies make a bright display of
millinery. Also, the ballet is expensively put
upon the stage, but a fascination dance by Miss
Florrie Green, who has proved herself a high-class
kicker in previous amateur shows, doesn’t satisfy
the admirers of that supple-waisted damsel.
* * * ♦
The principals in “Lelamine,” bar one
exception, are neither remarkably promising nor
ridiculously incompetent. Miss Rose Musgrove
is the exception. She plays a soubrette part with
natural dash and intelligence, making the most of
her words and dancing buoyantly. Miss Annie
Marr (soprano) and Miss ICitty Grindlay (con-
tralto) are satisfactory as vocalists and otherwise,
though the one has a queer lisp and the other
suffers from twang, The baritone in a Greek
pirate kilt contrives to pause on the brink of ab-
surdity. Nicol Turner, lean and nimble,
passes muster as an amateur funny man
when due allowance is made for the
author’s dulness. C. S. Cunningham stands up
and sings like a person who is not quite abashed
by his fancy costume, and the sudden death of one
Edward H. Shakell, in the first act, is not justifi-
able, considering that a couple of minor characters
don’t get buried with him. Touching the Earl of
Shaftesbury, The Bulletin feels baulked of its
prey. Yarmouth’s earl was a peg to hang a beauti-
ful Democratic moral upon, whereas Shaftesbury
walks and talks and wears the gaudiest uniform
imaginable (designed by Barnes) in a pleasing
manner. Looking at Shaftesbury, no one would
suppose that his blood was almost as blue as his
coat. Many tenors of no family pretensions what-
ever are inferior to him for general stage purposes.
Shaftesbury’s warble is only a gentle murmur,
which soon gets lost in a duet, but it is sweet and
sympathetic as far as it goes. An alarming truth
for the parents of sassiety girls to reflect upon.
A titled tenor, who carries a good stage appear-
ance ! No wonder that they turn pale when he
reaches for a top note. “ Matsa,” reconstructed in
the cast, will follow “ Lelamine ” on Saturday, and
run for a week or so prior to the production of
“A Night Off.”
* * * *
The demand for B racy’s company, at the
Bijou, became much weaker after “ Nemesis ” ap-
peared on the scene, and the end of the season is
due this week. For the last nights Bracy has re-
vived “The Sultan of Mocha,” an opera which
represents a large outlay of catchy music in a
hopeless cause. The fate of this revival is never
in doubt from the moment Knight Aston, the
name-part potentate, sings his awful introductory
notice, “Sultanaml,notabitshy. LookatmyEye.”
After a few repetitions of the aforesaid the public
mind is made up. Bracy has not made half
a million of money during his month in Mel-
bourne, yet there is clearly a disposition to sup-
port comic opera at reduced prices. If the youth-
ful veteran can get hold of something that is up-
to-date, and not burdened with low-comedy busi-
ness, he may call again at the same theatre and
expect to reap his reward.
* * * *
“In Sight of St. Paul’s” blazes away
cheerfully at the Royal, in spite of sundry indig-
nant snorts from the moral playgoer concerning
gilded vice and the dissolute behaviour of the
Panther’s back-hair. There is really nothing to
complain about. The baked Panther dies in a
hospital, and the bad young man gets shot, like-
wise Albert Norman is hanged for shooting him.
Provided that vice comes properly to grief at the
finish, it is all the better for being gilded in its
early stages.
* * * *
The reappearance of Martin Simonsen and
his famous fiddle, after a long interval of years is
just now happening at Melb. Opera House, from
whence Chirgwin and his fiddle will depart on
Friday. Opposition to the Rickards show has
started at the Gaiety under the management of
Fred Fordham, a recent arrival in these parts
Fordham has rechristened his hall “ The Empire
Theatre of Varieties ” and put on a programme
of a deserving character to begin with. 18
At Poverty Point.
Young Oscar Asche, son of the host of SvtW r
penal Hotel, now acting Shakespeare under the banni .
T. B. Benson, was interviewed the other dav in a™
and in the printed report it was stated he was “an * '
tralian by birth though his father is a
Whereupon to him this wire from an English S 1
“ Having read interview Saturday night?
caste can offer “Uncle Tom” autumn! wfre te™
Holland, Theatre Royal, Blackburn.” J Rull p,,;,! ™ 1 ?
still thinks that all Australians are more or less h1»et nt,T
else he is under the impression that a NorwegianV
nigger, and that Harold Hardraada came to EiHan ! ?
melon-stealing- expedition. * u uni '
The death of “Predatoros” Robinson reminds T„.
Bulletin of a certain person interested in ,„ni ,i
matters, who came from London to South a, Lt,
armed with a letter of introduction to the then Om
Robinson, from a professional songstress By the r ;
the new-chum had got to Adelaide he felt doubtful ah™,!
presenting his letter, inasmuch as the sort-stress ~
rather giddy lady whose friendship might not
him to Robinson’s esteem, so he opened the letter h i ?
self. It began—“ Dear Bill, for the sake of old t n :
&c., &c. The document was never presented. ’
The one point which is not realistic about the mavnis
cently-staged “ 8 gn of the Cross ” is the absence oft
lion in the amphitheatre scene When Stephanos stem
into the a,rena, and then rushes back in terror savin*
“ the lion is coming,” the one thing required to conipletl
the intense realism is the sight of that shaggy recentan !
for the small believer stalking across the field ofvfew
And later, when Marcus Superbus suddenly throws m
magnificent billet for the sake of his girl Christian P nnA
they step together into the arena, what a trelmC.
effect would be produced if a large, forbidding animal uu
his mane round the corner as a visible evidence of Xi
was going to happen. And then consider the effect to
produced by this line in the programme : “ Lion Mr
Melb. : “The spectacle of the Earl of Shaftesbury
being made love to in opera, causes a thousand hands
to clasp, with a quivering half-sob. Here is th.
London Journal novelette realised !”
N : “The glorious name of Shaftesbury, how i s it
trailed in the dust ! The pages of Hume, Macaulay and
Green illume one Shaftesbury. Another, more worthy
rises to mind. Now a jackdaw struts the theatre
What sapping and mining of the stronghold of Debre t
more barrels of gunpowder, for Guy Faux, under the
Lords House, and rolled there by the complaisant lily
white hands of this lordling! Sydney Smith wrote
funnily about one Dignum, warbling down the House of
Lords with seditious songs, but Shaftesbury does it more
effectually, working from the inside. Bracy ought cer
tainly to have a seat in the Lords as a legislator, because
he is a better tenor.”
Bois : “ It is not inappropriate for Francillon’s husband
to read the Petit Journal. There is a sly knock in
volved, in the innocence of the only newspaper that
ranges up and down the whole strata, from the Presi-
dent’s to the blanchisseuse’8.”
Boy-Politician ’ Caulfield, in his new character of
temperance-lecturer, advertises himself with quotations
from an old Bulletin notice, which hailed him as the
Great Apostle of Rum. He seems terribly in earnest this
time. The Drink Fiend had hold of him for five years he
says, “ but since he got enfreed from its clutches' he feels
like a fellow just liberated after doing a long term of
penal servitude with constant whippings,” &c.,~&c The
strange thing is that Caulfield, who has lived among many
men, should appear to feel himself unique in this state of
exaltation. He talks as though he were the first person
who had ever been “cured ” of the drink habit, whereas
he differs only from thousands of other intermittent con-
verts in the desire to pour forth unkind remarks about
the Fiend (good old D.F. !) in public. But maybe he has
one claim to originality. “I am not aware of any total-
abstainer ever before lecturing in aid of charitable-institu-
tions,” says Caulfield.
Coincidence : Ten years ago there were two young
jewellers named “ Jack ” Edwards and “ Dick ” Sceats in
business together in Auckland (M.L.). They were both
fine singers, sang in amateur opera together, went on the
stage professionally at the same time, and a month or so
back they both died on the same day.
Henry Irving lately cabled to New York denying that
there was an atom of truth in the ’Murkan story of his
having quarrelled with Ellen Terry. But, according to
unkind critics, it is quite time that Henry and Ellen did
quarrel.
Fred Neebe died a month or two since. The son of a
clergyman, and a good fellow in quite a different way to
his father’s, Neebe was an unctuous impersonator of
parsondom on the stage. He came to Australia with
Jennie Lee some years ago, to play the oily shepherd in
“ Jo,” and his method of calling down a blessing on
Snagsby’s back-parlor gave great satisfaction to the
irreverent.
Irving to Supe : “Confound me, sir, can’t you do as I
do ? ” “No, sir ; if I could, I’d get £‘30 a night instead of
30s. a week.”
Chirgwin, the white-eyed, is quite a family man, and
daily is seen walking his children about St. Hilda. But
he has more virtues than this. He has cultivated a
friendly knack of giving gold medals—real gold, not the
hollow mockeries of. amateur sports meeting—to those in
whom he gets especially interested. One or two cyclists,
including Charlie Kellow, have benefited by this delight-
ful habit, and see another plank between themselves and
a rainy day.. The medals have Chirgwin and his fiddle
and his hat in bold relief. The,y were struck before he
came to Australia, and, although, like Bonaparte, they
once seemed a little previous, latter receptions from the
great unwashed of Rickards’ have justified the amiable
Kaffir in bringing them along.
(Continued on page 20).


BlMchinffPowderTovanide Potassium 98 100%, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, far cheaper than lirug
Houses.
Hy.Markwald,
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
■ *
The Dolly Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little Giant”
Prospectors' CRUSHER.
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
mins MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Sole Agent—
Fredk. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SIR JOHN - -
Power’s Whiskey.
Sydney
P. MacMahon
Lucas Bros.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Hogan, Mooney
& Co. , Perth .;
; Co., Melbourne ; M'Bean, Bowker
Wm. Lennon & Co., Townsville.
CHEQUE BANK LTD., LONDON,
Issues MONEY ORDERS to all parts of the world.
Cashed by over 25,000 banks.
Handbooks on Application.
135 Pitt Street (mar G.P.0.),
SYDNEY.
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent,
The Simpson guckboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Buokboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth —W. B. Gordon & Co.
Geraldton—W. Meadowcroft.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Coghlan, in the N.S.W. Statistical Register
for the present year (Part 111., page 329) gives an interest-
ing history of that great overdraft which is called by the
N.S.W. Foreign-trade press the “ Dibbs deficit.” The
figures don’t wholly agree with the annual revenue and
expenditure returns, because of the weird fashion in
which N.S.W. Treasurers charge expenses back to each
other ; it is simply a statement of the amount of the
overdraft at the end of each financial year without regard
to any after explanations. The figures show that Treas.
Dibbs, when he resigned office at the end of 1885, left a
balance to the good of £2901. In 1896—Jennings’ year as
Premier and Treasurer—an overdraft of £1,286,581 was
piled up. Parkes held office then till the end of 1891,
barring an interlude of 48 days, and added £719,269 to
the deficit; he left it at £2,005,850, Then Dibbs took
office for three years and added £211,749, making the
total shortage, so far, £2,217,599. After that Reid charged
over £400,000 of it to the permanent debt, reducing
it to about £1,800,000, and next he raised it to
£2,301,054 (in June, 1896). These figures are a wildly
hilarious commentary on the aggressive untruthful-
ness of the Foreign-trade press and politicians who
■have so much to say about the “ Dibbs’ deficit.” On the
facts and figures of the case, the deficit
belongs to everybody except the lengthy person whose
name is so persistently affixed to it. No less than £299,000
of it seems to lie at the door of that Parkes Cabinet of
•which William M'Millan was Treasurer. What’s the
matter with a “ M'Millan deficit” ?
* » » *
Westralia is floating another <£1,000,000 loan at
3 per cent. When its last 3 per cent, loan was offered the
minimum price was fixed at £9B, and it actually fetched
£lOO 16s. Bd. This was at the top of the boom, hast
February £1,100,000 Westralian 3 per cents, sold in Lon-
don with difficulty at about £97, and it then became
apparent that things were not quite what they had been.
The present loan is offered at a minimum of £95. This
will make £2,100,000 borrowed by Westralia this year,
•equal to about £l6 per head added to the province’s in-
debtedness inside five months. If the loan floats, W. A.
•will owe nearly £7,000,000, and will be making a vigorous
■sprint for a front seat among the heayilv-indebted pro-
vinces of Australia. At present Westralia has the.small-
■ est debt per head, but the new loan should put it well
ahead of Victoria and not very far behind N.S.W. ip this
■respect.
* * # #
The half-yearly report of the Bank of Austra-
lasia up to 12th ‘October, ’96, shows a net profit of
£40,399 compared with £40,568 at April, ’96, £41,158 at
October, ’95, and £40,854 and £45,735 for two previous
half-years. The 6 per cent, dividend swallows up £40,000,
-so there is a margin of £399 only, and the Australasia has
added just £715 to its accumulated profits in 2J years.
The fact that all the capital and reserve fund and
.£1,500,000 of the deposits are kept lying idle in the cellar,
out of a conservative yearning after enormous cash re-
serves, fully accounts for the comparative smallness pf
the profits. The Australasia owes the public £16,135,000,
and against this it holds £3,902,000 in cash and £2,050,000
in easily realisable securities, which is not only an im-
mensely strong line of defence but one which seems a
good deal stronger than is really necessary. The business
shows a small increase, but the Australasia takes very
few .risks, and looks for absolute security more than a
large turnover these times.
* ■* ♦ * ■*
An agitation is beginning to be heard of for the
amalgamation of the Colonial Bank with either the Vic-
toria or the Commercial. The union of the National
Mutual and Mutual of Victoria life offices broke the ice ;
and the combination of the Perpetual Executors and the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. was another move in
the right direction. Now that the .idea is started it is
probable that some more superfluous institutions will
follow suit, and thus save much needless expense and
staff and premises and brass plate. If the Colonial does
combine it will be a case rather of .selling the business
than of amalgamation. The Colonial ordinary share-
holders have no capital invested in their own alleged hank
now, and though a £2 call has been-made it will probably
require a hard struggle to collect it. At present they are
in the unique position of owing their-institution £42,000
to square losses. , * *
A creditor of the A. J.S. Bank put in a very
justifiable wail when the second reconstruction scheme
came before Judge Manning last Monday. He had a
fixed deposit, which had been locked up since at
per cent., and was now to be further locked up at 3 per
cent., or a little more if profits admitted. He also had
an overdraft on which he was paying the “ usual rate,
which presumably means something like 7 per cent. He
couldn’t pay off' the overdraft in cash, and the bank
'wouldn’t let him square it with his fixed deposit, valuing
£he latter at 20s. in the £. At present market rates it
would take £BOO worth of fixed deposit to pay off £5OO ot
overdraft. The Judge refused to consider the position of
the applicant; still, his grievance seems a very genuine
one. When the bank owed a depositor, at the time of the
smash, say, £BOO, and he owed the bank £5OO, the reason-
able proceeding, in the opinion of most people, would
have been to set one against the other, and simply recon-
struct the £3OO balance. To seize the £BOO and claim the
right to harry and sell up the customer for the £5OO looks
like creating 1 a very large amount of moral stench for a
very small profit.
* * *
It is reported by cable that the British deposi-
tors of the A. J.S. Bank require the retirement of Manager
Adams and three of the directors, and only assented to
the latest reconstruction on these terms. This is the dif-
ference between the British and the Australian depositor.
In all the reconstructions the Australian depositor has
never insisted on anything. He has never organised com-
mittees of inspection as the British person did, or dictated
terms to the management. In fact, he has never shown
that he has a single kick in him. Every time he has
accepted practically anything that the arrogant bank-
director liked to offer him, and accepted it thankfully, by
a big majority, without inquiry, and sometimes he has
passed an enthusiastic vote of thanks to the defaulting
bank for letting him have it.
* * -1
The animal election of directors of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society was accompanied by a
certain amount of disturbance. The two retiring
directors got in again by 1310 and 1306 votes, against an
indignant new man who received only 783. Under the
Colonial Mutual’s articles of association, it was alleged, a
Droxv is not only good for the election for which it is
Tret given, but can be used at any number of after
elections so long as it isn’t definitely revoked, and so long
as the paper will hold together. This seems to be a
beautiful device for keeping the old orowd continuously
in office. On the present occasion it was complained that
496 of the votes which put the old directors back into
office were old proxies—mostly from eight to ten years
old—which had apparently been accumulated in the office
for use whenever required. A number of others
were objected to as being irregular, and one of
the scrutineers supported the defeated candidate’s
objection. If the allegations are well-founded then the
alleged control of affairs by the policy-holders doesn’t
amount to very much, and it is a lovely plan for keeping
any new men from getting in to see what the old men
have been doing. If they are not true, they should be
promptly disproved. In last week’s issue The Bulletin
§ave its reasons for believing that the Colonial Mutual
adlv requires some new blood in it and a whole lot of
careful overhaul. It was bossed almost all its life by one
strong-minded manager, Jaques Martin, the Man that’s
Dead. It has had the same directors at head office arid
the same auditors so far back as the writer’s information
goes. And too much of the Happy Family arrangement
isn’t good for any institution.
• • * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society,
the most consistently prosperous concern of its kind in
Australia, shows another good year’s work. The net
premiums (£29,334) are about £BOO more than in ’95 and
a trifle less than in '94, and, after paying all losses and
expenses, and writing-off over £2200 for depreciation, the
profit on insurance business is £lO,llB. (The losses in
this remarkable co. are only £4687). Interest on invest-
ments yields £5733, against £6059 and £5797 for the two
previous years —equal to about 4)4 per cent. Including
£922 brought forward, there is £16,773 available. An 8
per cent, dividend to shareholders absorbs £2OOO ; bonus
of 20 per cent, to policy-holders takes £7302; £4OOO is
added to reserve (making it £94,000), and £3OOO to con-
tingency-fund (making £6000). These additions make
£lOO,OOO of reserves accumulated in 25 years —the
largest fire-insurance reserve save one in Australia, and
the largest, bar three, in the seven provinces. The Aus-
tralian Mutual does business in N.S.W. only, and is a
valuable proof of the advantages of the mutual system, and
of keeping the business closely concentrated, so that it is
under the managerial eye.
* » * .*
The balance-sheet of the Equitable Life As-
surance Society of the United States shows that the
premium income for 1896 was £7,797,325 ; interest on
investments, £1,860,317 ; total income, £9,657,642. This
is about £400,000 more than the figure for 1895, and
near!}' £600,000 more than for 1894. Of this, £3,245,496
is added to the accumulated funds, making them
£44,821,558. Expenses swallo.w up £1,679,163, which is
equal to 21£ per cent, on premiums, or very pearly 18 per
cent, oh total income. For an office of the Equitable’s
size and age this is a ver3 r heavy percentage, much
heavier than that of the A-M.P. Society or the Maori-
land Government Department. Also, the rate is
higher than it looks on the surface. The Equitable,
when a surrender value is applied tP purchase a paid-
up policy, includes it among pew premiums, which
it certainly isn’t, and thus makes the premium income
look larger and the percentage of expenses look corres-
pondingly smaller than they really are.
The Equitable has the splendid .surplus of
£8,995,090-the biggest insurance surplus on earth. But
it still bases its calculations on the assumption that its
-funds will continue to earn 4 per cent, indefinitely, arid
as the interest actually earned was £4 6s. 2d. per cent,
in 1894, £4 3s. lOd. per' cent, in 1895 arid £4 6s. per
cent, in 1896, the margin is a dangerously small
one— too small, considering the steady fall in interest-
rates all over the world, to justify the assumption
of a permanent 4 per cent. rate. If the Equitable
assumed only per cent, instead of 4, as some of the
Australian offices are beginning to do, it would still have
a large surplus, but it wouldn’t be near so overwhelming
a surplus as it is now. This same remark applies to many
pther American offices. A 4 per cent, rate and an immense
surplus are just as secure as a 3)4 per cent, rate and a much
smallqr surplus, but they are not any mote secure, and
the public should make a mental note of this fact.
* * * *
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. shows a half-year’s
profit of £85,472, and a dividend at lO per cent, per annum
absorbs £85,100. ’The remainder, with previous balance,
leaves' £89,119 to credit of profit and loss, and them are
also various reserves amounting to £328,999. The Colo-
nial Sugar Refining Co. is one of the few Australian insti-
tutions which seem to go ahead at the same pace in all
kinds of financial weather.
* » .* ,*
Thompson and Sons’ (Sydney) share- report
for May, ’97, still includes the Bank of North Queens-
land’s reconstructed deposits ariiong current securities,
quite regardless of the fact that they were all repaid
nearly two years ago. It quotes Commercial of Australia
deposits as carrying 4J per cent, interest and repayable in
five yqars from the original due date, whereas the Com-
mercial has fixed up a new agreement and altered both
these things. It evidently hasn’t heard of the Q.N.
Bank’s new arrangement yet, and it quotes National Bank
deposits as repayable in 1898, 1899 and 1900, regardless of
the fact that all the 1898 deposits are repaid, and the last
of, the 1899 lot will be cleared off in a few months. Nothing
fike being thoroughly up to date.
Some puzzles of N.S.W. fruitgrowing: One
grower sent 26 cases of cherries to one Sydney agent
and 26 cases to another, the cherries being of
equal quality. One agent returned 6s. 6d. per case, the
other 2s. 6d. Another grower sent a large lot of fine
plums. The agent, when dunned for a return, replied
that the sale only met expenses, but that he was willing
to receive another lot. Another grower came to Sydney,
and, being personally unknown, bought his own fruit
from the agent at 9s. 6d., and, when he went back, the
agent wrote stating the price he sold at was 6s. 6d. One
grower has sent fruit to several agents, and has been un-
able to get any returns from any of them. Another nar-
rates ; “ I got a friend in Sydney to call on my agent one
Saturday and ask for a few cases of my fruit. The agent
replied, ‘ All sold.’ Next week, I received a letter from
that agent saying, ‘ I couldn’t sell till Monday, when I
had to almost sacrifice your consignment.’ ” The narrator
adds, “ Then I gave up fruitgrowing.” This is pathetic ;
but where is the remedy ? Perhaps, if law were a little
more sure and less expensive, a dose of it might do some
of these gentry good. But it wouldn’t cure all. Some
growers advocate handing over their sales to the Chinese
That, however, looks like the blindness of desperation.
Co-operation in distribution is the keyword. It may be
difficult to compass, but co-operate—co-operate.
* * * *
Block 14 (which pays a dividend this month) is
now relying almost entirely upon its own ores; the
extraction of sulphides during the past six months was 50
per cent, greater than during the preceding term. Never-
theless almost the whole of it is taken from above the
300 ft level; below that the sulphides are, so far as
exposed, generally hard. It is, however, thought best to
treat the more friable ores while the machinery is being
perfected : as the treatment of slimes, &c., advances, it
becomes possible to more economically treat those ores
which require finer grinding. Additions to these slime-
treating implements continue to be made, and still more
are contemplated.
* * * *
Block 14 persists |in the excellent policy, ini-
tiated by Zeb. Lane, of closely filling up the worked-out
stopes with refuse. , * *
Mr. Gluyas, general manager of the South B.H.
mine, has resigned, and goes to Westralia, after bringing
the mine to the dividend stage. Latterly, Mr. T. J.
Greenwav was appointed consulting engineer, and this is
at the bottom of the resignation. Green way thinks that a
great deal of money has been mis spent, and has advised
that preparationsforstripping ore in large quantities ought
to be more advanced. Recent prospecting work has given
disappointing results so far as quality of ore is concerned,
and it has become necessary to arrange for treating more
of the very large reserves of the poorer stuff. To do this
extra plant will be needed. Generally, the immediate
prospects for shareholders are not bright. For the
present a general manager, in succession to Gluyas, is not
to be appointed. The system adopted at Block 14 is to be
followed ; this will give the consulting engineer and the
Adelaide people, with whom he is moatly associated, a
freer hand. Certainly they have not done badly with
Block 14.
* • * *
B.H. North concentrating machinery is settling
down to better work.
* * * *
B.H. Junction has placed an order for new con-
centrating plant, to be added to the existing works, with
a Kapunda (S.A.) firm, which has also in hand the addi-
tions for Block 10.
• * * *
Though the lead-market has firmed very much,
the exceptionally low price of silver makes silver-lead
mining where a railway does not run to the shaft ex-
tremely precarious. Thackaringa, only five miles from
the Silverton line, has some of the best small lead
“shows” on the Barrier; yet, notwithstanding the “re-
vival,” 495 tons of crude, picked ore constituted the
entire export from that district for the 12 months ended
April 30. The figures are not consoling to shareholders
in some of the recently-floated Junction Extendeds and
Broken Hill Extendeds similarly placed.
* * « •
A beginning has been made with the erection of
the large new concentrating plant at the Junction. Simul-
taneously King shaft is being equipped for the hauling of
ore, &c. —possibly to help supply this new and large plant,
possibly in view of the danger of a further strain upon
the other shafts affected by the recent creep. B.H. Pro-
prietary experience is that no shaft in the neighborhood
of a subsidence can ever be depended upon.
* * » »
Sulphide Corporation’s works at Cockle Creek,
Newcastle, were put into full work at the beginning of
April, and have since been running smoothly. J. S. Reid,
Australian chairman of directors, says that during the
past 12 months the mine has yielded, besides ore stored,
55,300 tons which has been sold. The lode in the mine,
as developed, is 850 ft. long, and from 60 to 150 ft. wide.
* * * *
The much-talked-of Hillgrove and Armidale
Water-power Electric Co., which was to supply all
the mines and townships in the County of Sandon
(N.S. W.) with electric-light and power, and build a tram
from Armidale to Hillgrove and sundry other works,
seems to have fallen on evil days. When its works were
erected, at a cost of over £20,000, the wooden fluming was
found defective, much of the water to be conveyed to the
pelton wheels being lost en route. Then drought came
along, and the alleged “never-failing streams” dried
up. The original people are mostly out of the co., now
known as the New England Electric Co., and it is practi-
cally in a comatose state.
* • * *
“ Pending negotiations for placing the Big Hill
G.M. Co. (N.S.W.) under offer to an English buyer, with
the object of providing additional working capital, it has
been decided to suspend work on the mine.” Another
Sabbath-tipped mine !
• * • *
Nope but a fool would attempt to jump Bull’s
leases in Westralia. There was a time when the wardens
and Govt, lent much encouragement to jumping. The
finders of the Londonderry failed to get their block leases
back. The reason is too well known. Things have much
changed. Several attempts have been made to jump the
Hainault mine, worked by a Bull co. The warden, with
the aid of the pqlice, recently removed all persons from
the lease and allowed the co. to re-peg, and, says the
local paper—“ It is to be hoped this will be the last effort
made to dispossess the co. of its mine, as the news of
Such moves is bound to have a bad effect on the London
investors in our mines.” Every consideration for the
.London investor, who, having been robbed and otherwise
victimised in the boom, is not taking any at present.
• * • *
Norseman, W.A. : “An important develop-
ment has taken place in the Three Colonies Extended.
Very rich specimens have been obtained, and the gold is
very coarse. The future of the mine is assured. Locally
there is considerable excitement, and contributing shares
have changed hands at Is. 3d.” If that is not enough to
make any mining-man sick, what would ? Rich speci-
mens, coarse gold, future of mine assured, local excite-
ment, and scares fifteen-pence. O Boom, where art thou?
* * * *
A Victim ” writes to Sydney D.T. on Queens-
land Menzies mine, W.A. It was boomed on two or
three 6oz. crushings, the reefs were big, plenty of 6oz.
ore in sight, and divs., regular and good, were fore-
shadowed. Shares ran up to 335. After the first crush-
ing and div. they came down, and have been coming
down, down ever since. The manager resigned, and th«.
new man reports that the tons have been too big, the
gold is of poor quality, the reef much disturbed in places ;
also he only talks of “ fair’’gold. This gives “ Victim ”
the blues, and raises his bile. Three years the writer has
been indicating, as far as he dare, that this sort- of busi-
ness was going on in nine-tenths of the W.A. mines. It
is the Liars’ Land, where truth can barely exist. Even
the good mines of the country, as far as public respect is
concerned, have been killed by gross exaggeration. Com-
pare, for instance, the wires appearing several times a
week in papers like the S.M.H. and Argus of the veins of
almost pure gold in the Great Boulder, the immense size
and number of reefs, etc., with the information given of
the developments of the Mt. Morgan mine, or any other
mine of this category outside of Westralia. Compare
them with the report of the Boulder itself by the manager,
Hamilton, who shows that the reefs run from one foot
thick to eight, and average less than four. Of course,
some day when the mischief is done, the papers will
awake to the fact that these crams are already received by
the public with pitying contempt. A later report from
the manager of the Q.M. mine says the lode is made up
of blocks or shoots of stone with blanks between, and is
otherwise erratic and hard to follow.
« * » *
Still later, a rumor that a wire had been received
from the manager that “ the mine never looked better ”
stopped the slump in the shares. Well, if the mine never
looked better than when the reef runs from a foot to two
feet thick, and only in shoots at that, and is broken and
disturbed and hard to follow, how must it have looked
when the public were made to believe it was twice as
thick, wonderfully regular and rich, and that an average
of 6oz. could easily be kept up?
* * * *
Big Blow, Coolgardie. Cable sent to London
office : “Cleaning up, but water at present supplied much
too salt; gold can be seen floating into the tailings.”
Later : “ Crushed 90 tons, yielding 16oz. gold ; average
sample of tailings, 12dwt. per ton.” Note by secretary :
“ This return indicates that the quartz treated was of an
average value of 15dwt. 13gr.” The cables also indicate
that the mine is well-named. The gold would need to be
much richer than 15dwt. to be seen floating away in
tailings. Will the co.’s balance-sheet oredit value of
tailings ?
* * * *
If the returns of crushings from Peak Hill
mines, W.A., furnished by Frank Reed, of Cue, are cor-
rect, that camp is proving itself one of the finest of W.A.
fields. Coming to the front after the boom, the mines,
not Bull, have to be worked for all they are worth.
Crushed from all mines up to the 14th March, 1918 tons,
for 77700 z. gold ; average per ton, a little over 4oz. Prin-
cipal producers : Daisy Bell, 112 tons, 11930 z.; Peak Hill
reef, 259 tons, 12910 z.; Golden Chimes, 167 tons, 815 oz.;
small parcels, 144 tons, 17730 z. The ore crushed consists
chiefly of quartz, kaolin, and cement, and it is claimed
that, owing to the slimes created by the kaolin, from one
to four ounces have been lost in the tailings.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie—“ Mr. Kauffman estimates that the
Lake View Consols will turn out over £750,000 worth of gold
for the ensuing 12 months.” This mine is doing its own
talking. Will Kauffman kindly tell us how much gold will
be turned out this year by the Wealth of Expectations,
Paddington Consols’, Golden Crown, and other ex-pets of
his?
* * * *
Consultation items of expenditure in the Great
Boulder balance-sheet. Sundries : consulting engineer’s
fee (John Taylor and Sons), £2lO ; special visit of repre-
sentative of’consulting engineers to the mine, £1049;
special fee to superintending engineer (Z. Lane), £lOOO.
“ Professor Krause’s report, which will be ready
in a day or two, will, it is said, controvert many pessi-
mistic rumors concerning' the value of the (General
Gordon) mine.” This was published three weeks back.
Had it been of this character the chances are the public
would have heard all about it. Having heard next to
nothing, it may be taken that the Pro. has told the cold-
blooded truth about this over-boomed show, of which more
lies have been told than perhaps of any other mine in the
Liars' Land, and that is saying something. It was said to
have started crushing five weeks ago. When the shares
were standing at 265. one absurd tipster advised their
purchase, and has been doing so ever since. They are
now down to 3s. 6d., and he still says,.“on the most re-
liable information, that the mine is as good as ever."
Which may mean that it is just as bad as ever.
'** » «
The West Australian Venture Syndicate is a big
advertiser in W. A. It gives a gorgeous list of the explora-
tion co.’s it is associated with, the names of the mining
engineers who are retained to inspect, and adds : “ Mining
properties bought, floated or financed. Notice to mine
buyers—The W.A. Venture Syndicate has always on hand,
for sale, developed and partially-developed mining pro-
perties at Hannan’s and other districts, particulars of
which will be forwarded on application.” No doubt. All
the exploration co.’s have mines on hand, and, now the
boom is dead, the weekly turn-over in mines is not tqp
numerous. Anyhow, the advt. is so attractive that the
writer contemplates asking if they have a not too well
developed mine at about 30 bob. If so, he may become a
buyer.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, W.A. : “In reply jto enquiries
the manager telegraphs nothing in mine to justify fall iij
price of shares. Stopes, if anything, looking better. ■
Perhaps so—the crushing-average, so far, has been good
enough. But how often have we similar wiles from other
managers concerning other mines in Westralia? Yet the
writer cannot recollect ever reading one : “ There is
nothing in the mine to warrant the great rise in the
price of shares.” And how often has such a Wire been
necessary if) the Liars’ Land in the interests of truth?
* * •' » »
Menzies, discoverer of the W.A. field bearing
his name, and now promoter of the Menzies Barossa mine,
Gawler, S.A., affirms that with a 100-head stamp mi,!l
going steadily on ore giving Joz. per ton, the mine would
be a veritable Sit. Morgan! Contract for a 40-head mill
about to be let.
* * * *
Ruling prices when the mail left of some W.A.
mines owned in London : Abbott’s, 2s. 6d. ; Arrow Prop.,
45.; Ashbourne, 25.; Austin’s, Is. ; Blackett’s, 35.; Black
Flag Prop., Is. ; Birthday Amalgamated, Is. 3d. ; Black
Flag Consolidated, 3s. 6d. ; Broad Arrow, Is. ; Brownhill
Prop., 2s. ; Carlyle, 25.; Chaffer’s, 3s. ; Clyde, Is. ; Con-
solidated Murchison, 35.; Coolgardie, 3d.; Crown United,
2s. 6d. ; Gem of Cue, Is. ; Hampton Plains Exp., 3s. ; Hit
or Miss, 4s. 3d. ; Jubilee Consols, Is. 9d. ; Kinsella, 2s. 6d.:
Kurnalpi, 25.; Londonderry, 25.; Murchison Diamond, Is.;
Murchison New Chum, 3s. 6d. ; Murchison Gold, 6d. ;
North Coolgardie, 9d.; Princess Royal, 2s. 6d.; Sam’s
Wealth, 2s. ; Star of the East, 2s. 6d.; Yalgoo, Is. 9d. In
most of these co.’s £1 per share has been called up, and
in a number of cases the prices quoted are nominal—it
would be a hard matter even to give away the scrip.
And in the face of this there are men, papers, and other
things talking of another boom.
* * * •
For impudence in anticipation, the Kalgoorlie
wire-hummer to the Argus and S.M.H. wears the belt.
The public have become so tired that the market budges
not an inch, and the news is only read with pitying con-
tempt for the papers that publish it. The latest : “No
returns have yet been received for the Associated Gold
Mines from the Australian group since the first parcel,
but it is estimated that the mine is turning out about
8000 oz. of gold monthly, 400 tons being sent away every
week.” This co., it is known, has got two or three fine
leases amongst a great number of purely prospecting
blocks, the working of which runs away with a barrel of
money. In spite of the grand developments in the Aus-
tralia and Australia East Blocks, the shares are lower
now than they were a year ago. In a dead boom, London
is not taking any “ pups ”of a cat-like kind. Simple little
truths like these never come out in the newspapers which
have played a big part in Westralian boodleism.
* * * •
Westralian gold output for April —39,6600 z.,
less than last month, but a big increase on April
last year. East Coolgardie— i.e., Kalgoorlie—l4,222oz.,
by far the highest. Dundas makes a record, having offi-
cially produced loz.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff tin-mine, Tas., has declared a 7s.
6d. div., the 241st, making to date £1,456,500. Doubtful
if all the other tin-mines of Australasia lumped would
equal this.
« * * •
Active operations, says a correspondent, are to
be immediately begun at the Liberator (BJue Tier, Tag.)
mine. The original owner was quite satisfied to effect a
good sale of this show on shallow indications, and, the
necessary buyer happening along, there was no need for
fooling about in the bowels of the earth. The new pro-
prietors may do all the fooling they like, and if, instead
of knocking the bottom out of the mine, they happen to
strike it extravagantly rich, the wily Bakhap will pro-
bably be the first to congratulate them.
• * * «
The chairman and manager of the South Star,
Vic., have circularised the shareholders, with the view of
easing their minds —“ so many rumors and false state-
ments having recently been circulated about the mine.”
It is denied that the payable ore in sight will only last 12
months ; the Age and Argus are wrong in saying a reduc-
tion of hands would soon have to be seriously considered ;
the working of the tailings by cyanide has not been a
failure. Reference is made to the quantity of gold still
left in the solution and charcoal, and attention is drawn
to the fact that “the cost of carting and crushing, prior
to the completion of our own battery, was 6s. per ton,
while the present cost of crushing and cyaniding together
only reaches 3s. B£d. per ton.” Which seems too cheap to
be effective.
• * * •
The Towers divs. for April are the heaviest for
years. For the four months of this year divs. amount to
£BO,OOO. Calls, £33,000. Gympie for April crushed 5507
tons for 77210 z. Divs. for the month, £lB,OOO.
» * * *
Wilmot Ex. (Gympie) shares fallen from 3s. Bd.
to Is. 3d., for which the last crushing is responsible.
* * * *
A Cairns (N.Q.) editor—Cairns is the place
where the whites take off their hats to Chinamen—
“ earnestly appeals to the farmers individually and as a
class” not to pay their Kanakas more “than £l6 per
year . . or, at any rate, let £2O be the outside limit."
Pray, what for the white man, oh ! Chinatown, where the
Chinee boss rules the roost, and the white slave bellies it
in the dust?
* * * *
Two items from a Bulletin correspondent at
Woodlark Island, New Guinea, under date Feb. 16 : One,
“ This place is about worked out.” Two, “Woodlark is
healthy as compared with the mainland.” And from
Woodlark came that cargo of dying men a few weeks ago 1
* * * *
A syndicate to exploit a big copper find in the
Solomon Islands has lately been formed in Sydney and
Melbourne. The whisper is that two tons of ore from the
find was tested in Sydney and proved marvellously rich.
♦ * * •
There is a strong probability that two very
big and remunerative Sydney mercantile concerns
will be floated in London during the Diamond Jubilee
celebrations'.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Out from the Best Models, and the
3VH A. TIE X2> lA_Xj S TXXOIE O UT CBrXX Xj SXXIEXT XX XX
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING -
OFFICE - BUSH
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES • and COMPANY,
* (OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &, BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOB\COO-6d. Each.
KT See the name CORTO on Ike band,, and beware of imitations
SOCIETY
Melb. Benevolent Asylum, judging from
the wail of an unhappy inmate who writes to The
Bulletin, is a very pathetic establishment on
Tuesdays and Fridays. There is no meat included
in the bill of fare these two days per week, but
merely potatoes and bread served upon bare
tables. Little pyramids of salt adorn the festive
board at intervals, and some fifty or sixty blind
old men may >be observed wiping the table with
their respective ’taters as they grope feebly for the
nearest salt-heap. The “ Bbnevolents ” don’t
seem to wallow in luxury at any time. Mention
of butter melts them to tears. Lately they were
favored with donations of butter from outside
philanthropists, whereupon the management
rushed into print with an announcement that such
dairy produce was scarcely required in an asylum
where treacle and dripping gave pleasure to all.
Yet the dripping supply is painfully limited. A
few of the more active lodgers dodder into the
kitchen twice a week to collect fat from the cook,
whilst the large majority stop away and gnash
their toothless gums in despair of being able to
get fat when there is none left to scramble for.
As for treacle, the allowance is only Jib. every
alternate week, and the “ Benevolent ” who has
secured his dose of treacle is burdened with the
difficulty of findinsr a place to keep it to himself.
As a rule, he plants it in the garden, if nobody is
looking, and recovers the tin by stealth— always
presuming that he possesses a tin, and isn’t obliged
to devour the sticky allowance at one sitting. In
which case he dies from over-fet-ding, and gets
buried without military honors.
* * * *
An Incident related Dy Aid. Fuller much
damped the loyal ardor of Adelaide City Council.
When in Birmingham some years ago lie said he
saw offered at auction a silver casket wliich had
cost £BO, and which had been placed with an en-
MERELY CALVES.
H E: “ I don't know what you women see in bicycle races.”
S HE: “I don't know what you men see in getting to the front
row of the orchestra stalls.”
closed address in the hands of one of the Eng-
lish princes. Under the circumstances, he thought
it absurd that much money should be spent on
this class of folly in respect of the Record Reign
celebrations. Fuller was Mayor of Adelaide
when the Duke of Edinburgh visited S. A., and he
entertained most lavishly on that occasion. Per.-.
haps his casket story was in more senses than one
a. personal reminiscence.
» * * *
Adelaide Council, which is pretty hard up
* i. • • . -« i
mst now, is going to spend £lOO on an address to
Queen Victoria. This yearning to spend money,
which is so badly needed for other purposes, in
throwing more unreadable paper at a tired old
lady who will never see it, or want to see it, seems
utterly incurable.
♦ * * *
The aldermanic mind in Bananaland is
pregnant with big things for this year of Jubilee.
At Ipswich .(Q.) an alderman proposed that the
city fathers should “ procesh ’ round a public
monument in the street singing “God Save the
Queen!” Warwick (Q.) proposes to send con-
gratulations to Warwick in England, per T. .T.
Byrnes, on this happy occasion. The. writer
(thank God !) lives in Bugaboo- a baekblocks
township with a purely Australian name which
proposes to congratulate itself in its own pubs, in
its own peculiarly joyous fashion.
♦ * * *
Just read the last sentence of the Address
to Queen Victoria adopted unanimously by both
N.S.W. Houses of Parliament last Thursday :
We humbly trust that your life may long be preserved ;
and we dutifully assure your Most Gracious Majestj- that
in no portion of your vast dominions are the sentiments of
loyalty and love for your Throne and Person more warmly
cherished than by. the inhabitants of New South Wales.
Who is responsible for this masterpiece of prose
the Chancellor of the University or the Minister
for Education ?
* * * *
Sydney Hospital-Saturday collection was
admirably stage-managed, the prettiest and best-
dressed collectors being put in the front row about
town, while out in the suburbs was equivalent to
the third row of a ballet. The collectors say that
women don’t give, though one lady walked from
King-street to the Quay with a shilling in her
hand waiting in vain to be a«ked for it. Why not
try a men’s collection ? Julius Superbus Kuight,
Burns-Walker, Scot Inglis, and other idols would
have garnered in whips of coin, for even frisky
maids who only come to cough would have re-
mained to pay.
* * * *
The Victorian mounted rifles, who have
gone ’Ome, had all their baggage and their note-
paper (!) marked with the words “Queen’s Es-
cort.’’ Now none of the colonial troops will form
any part of Queen Victoria’s escort at the June
flare-up. The old lady’s escort is always, on State
occasions, composed of the Life Guards, and it
will be so this time. The colonial troops will pro-
bably not be within a mile of H.M.’s carriage.
As a matter of fact, the Vic. mounted rifles will
act as escort to a stout, stubbly-bearded, spec-
tacled, and shabby little man by the name of
Turner, and his matronly spouse.' What fuu will
be poked at that cockily pretentious “Queen’s
Escort ” label on the other side !
* * * *
The very, very private visi-
tors’ book at Vic. Government
House is a complete secret his-
tory of every family in Victoria
that is or has pretensions to be
anything. Its revelations would
keep a society paper going with
sensations and tit-bits for a cen-
tury.
• * *
There is something pathetic
in the way the dying man holds
on to his quack. In Melb. some
time ago a “cancer specialist”
was convicted and sentenced for
killing one of his patients ; his
procedure was to daub the cancer-
ous place with arsenic, and the
sufferer died either of cancer or
the arsenious agony, or both. On
that occasion he nearly got off
through the impassioned support of
a female witness, who told how he
had “ cured ” her of cancer. Then
the cured patient went home and
died of the same old cancer before
ttie specialist had fairly got out of
his trouble. When he emerged he
proceeded to cure another patient
of the same complaint, and the re-
sult was a verdict of manslaughter
by the coroner’s jury and another
committal for trial. Whereupon
an agricultural person got up and
explained that the specialist was
treating him for cancer, and that
his faith was still so solid that lie
was prepared to bail him out there
and then. And he did bail him
put, presumably for fear he should
lose the advantage of his services.
Still, when you have an incurable
disease, and only one greasy old
man in all the world can save you
by putting a sticky rag on you,
and that man has an inveterate
habit of being run in on charges of
killing other people by the same
treatment, and you know you will
die for want of him while he is in
gaol—well, what can you do but
bail him out ?
The Australian Star :
Deceased was not seen alive again until 10 hours later
when his dead body was found with the horses and
vehicle intact some 200 yards away.
Sure, we’re all Irish.
• * * * *
St. James s Budget says Australian frozen
mutton is ruining the Cockney cat’s-meat man.
This is not because the poor are now feed-
ing their oats on mutton, but because they n i
longer feed themselves on catsmeat.
Master Dave Riddle,
whose portrait appears in
this issue, mounted on his
father’s horse, Streak o’
Light, and facing the jump
cleared by him on Bathurst
(N.S.W.) showground on the
previous day, is probably
the only 12-year-old lad yet
sired who has taken a horse
over a jump six feet and half
an inch in height. Young
Riddle has the credit in
the Gowra district, where
his father, Mr. Walter
Riddle, is well-known as a
breeder of good horses, of
being able to sit anything
lapped in hide. In addition
to his sticking ability, he
has “ hands ” possessed by
few matured horsemen, and
the confidence and skill
with which he takes Lis
mount up to the jumps
and lifts him over is a
treat to witness. After the
high jump the saddle was
taken off, and young Riddle
took Streak over the show-
jumps and log fence at
steeplechasing pace bare-
backed.
“ Who will be damned for this ? ” S.M.
Herald and D.T. are simultaneously “ informed ’’
that their published ‘‘Statements of Detectives’
(in the Butler case) have moved the Attorney-
General to shriek wildly for a report upon the
matter from the Inspector-General of Police,
“ with the result that the officers in question indi-
vidually sent in their answers, and we have been
asked by these officers to give equal publicity to
their denial.” Which publicity, accordingly, both
papers proceeded not. to give—to anything but the
fact that they have been asked to give publicity to
the fact that they have been asked to give pub—
and so on, ad inf. From all which it is evident
that, while the detectives may be lying, the news-
papers must be--e>ther m publishing state-
ments which were not made, or m pretending to
accept the denial of statements which were.
The N S W nolice authorities were blindlv
ine TN.iS. w . ponce autnoricies were omiuiy
furious at the action of Butler s captors in grant-
mg newspaper reporters access to their prisoner.
I he Maori land pressmen who were put on the
alleged murderer s track found themselves hope-
iessly beaten through the previous acquaintance
of the Sydney copy-manufacturers d. s.
In a recent Melbourne. maintenance-case
one item of evidence for plaintiff was a pillow-
case full of hair which she alleged defendant had
torn out of her head during 20 years of married
life. Defendant alleged that the hair had come
out naturally; also, that it had come out faster
than usual owing to continued dissipation, as he
had been bailing the plaintiff out ever sinci 1871 ;
likewise, that if he had pulled any of it out it was
done accidentally while tryingto haul the lady home
at night; further, that if he pulled it out intention-
Miss CHARLOTTE HEMMING, the young Victorian reciter.
Photo., Falk Studios.
ally it was only a reasonable amount of hair to
pull out, considering the provocation and the 2C>
years allowed for haulage. Finally, he alleged
that she had borrowed hair from the woman next
door, and other persons, to make up the collection
and excite sympathy, and that her hair was of an
inferior variety which came out easily. Case
adjourned just here.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Herewith specimen verse
embodying your new (Red Page) pronoun
Love, whisper me !
Say was it se,
In whom thy scarlet flame grew dim ?
Whose death-cold kiss
Swift-quenched it?—Sts?
To whom grew dark the world then ?—Sim > D
YOUNG DAVE RIDDLE, and the high-jumper Streak-o'-Light.
Photo., Romney.
Mount Morgan (Q.) state school was built
some six years ago to accommodate 300 children
It now holds 800. Doctor’s official reports sav
there is not breathing room for half the number-
the space allowed being only 3ft. sq. as against
Bft. allotted by law. Reports also state that the
germs of consumption, etc., are being dealt out in
large quantities. And all this ’cause why ’
Because the Education Dept, is centralised in
Brisbane—and the Mt. Morgan wail is a very
feeble noise in the ears of Southern officialdom
300 miles away.
* * * *
The Dowager Duchess of Bedford’s ashes
should help along the cause of the projected crema-
torium at St. Kilda (Melb.) cemetery, concerning
which there is just now a furious outcry in the
neighborhood. A complaint that the St. Kilda
boneyard district is rather thickly populated
conies with astounding impudence from certain
angry howlers whose land was originally included
in the cemetery reserve. When these influential per-
sons lodge their protest with the Government as
they probably will, they had better be called upon
to explain how they, or their ancestors, happen to
be living upon property which was long ago set
apart for the mouldering dead. Anyway, their
objection to the possible aroma of crematorium
cookery can be met, it is said, with the argument
that their freeholds have a much nastier stink
than the smoke from a burning sinner.
* * * *
S.A. Anglican Synod has passed a resolu-
tion in favor of allowing women to vote for Synods-
men. But for the women most churches would
collapse like a punctured tyre.
Ed. Bulletin,— Re de-
mand for shorthand clerks and
typists. There is a demand
here (Adelaide), at all events—
and I am under the impres-
sion that it is the same else-
where—nt a salary. Business
men expect to get capable sten-
ographers (the proper term) at
about 10s. a week—and they
do get them. One of our lads
writing 150 words a minute,
and capable in every respect,
applied for a position and was
offered the usual 10s. a week.
When he stated that he ex-
pected £l, the mountain of fat
requiring his services erupted.
The real causes of the trouble
are want of organisation among
stenographers, and the fatness
of fat. Phono. (P.S. —As
showing that the lad referred
to was capable, I may say he
now engaged as correspond-
ing clerk with a big firm at ill
A week —a record for Adelaide.)
* * *
Hotel people in the Syd-
ney railway - station vicinity
have lately been much exer-
cised by the vagaries of an
individual who works round a
cycle of pubs, stopping at each
for two or three days, arid who,
when departing, leaves behind
him a few articles of feminine
attire of first-class quality. As
he is never seen in female com-
pany, Bung, Pop and Co. sus-
pect-all sorts of things.
* * *
The sweater is much ab-
road in Brisbane. A seam-
stress makes 71 d. on a pair of
trousers ; machinist 4d. : finish-
er 3Jd. Coat, waistcoat and
trousers are built up at a total
cost of 4s. 6d. (public buys at
£2). Kanaka shirts are made
at ljd. apiece ; Dungarees cost
a penny for making and 2d. for
finishing threepence in all;
kanaka coats fetch in sixpence
to the maker. The term kanaka
will yet be a synonym for the
products of sweated labor.
* * *
Henry Gyles Turner, of the Commercial
Bank (Melb.), speaking as chairman of St. Kilda
cemetery directors, considers that Collins-street is
a proper place for a crematorium. And Turner
knows Collins-street is full of busted securities
and cancelled bank “ capital ” which ought to be
burned with solemn funeral rites.
Re the onslaught upon the proposal to build
a crematorium at St. Kilda, one of the at-
tacking forces is led by a tombstone-maker.
Immediately behind this aggressive warrior
the great regiment of undertakers is mar-
shalled in battle array, the rest of the army
being mainly composed of snuffling pietists and
worms, for “Christian burial’’ is a matter of


The “ tick ” pest, which has for years
proved the bane of Australian communities, has
attracted the attention of a Melb. firm of special-
ists (Messrs. Holdsworth and Co.), who invite the
public, by announcement elsewhere, to consult
them on the subject of a definite remedy.*
R c
i OSE’S CELEBRATED
LOTION
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
lations, tea. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGES
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recoin mended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
X
SoftCaQMaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per >4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/0.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
BUCKLEY & HUM Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & L'TJRNI'L’URE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “ Victoria ” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ ... £l<» and £2l
LADIES’ ... £lB and £2l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1890 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
vital importance to the worms. Meanwhile the
stronger attacking force, composed of district
property-owners, has been repelled by the bril-
liant suggestion that a crematorium would be a
valuable advt. for St. Kilda.
* * » *
H.R.H. the Princess of Wales has appealed to the public
to contribute to a fund towards providing a week’s
dinner for the poorest residents of the London slums in
connection with the celebration of the 60th vear of the
reign of Her Majesty the Queen.
Tire same evening Her Royal Highness was informed
by cable from Melbourne that “Australia is
20,000 fat sheep and 500 fat bullocks to the Princess of
Wales for her dinners to the poor.”— (Argus.)
N. : “A girl, having a magnificently
healthy illegitimate infant, was sentenced for
perjury in a Melbourne court the other fore-
noon. Spite of her awful distress, the Judge
refused to let her have her child ; then he went
home to dinner. Observe the Grundyite moral.
That infant’s business is to Die. ‘lt will be well
taken care of,’ said the Judge. Of course. The
Judge did not say the mother ought to have killed
it herself. Society does. ”
* * * *
At Melb. police court a woman, charged
with driving at night without a light, pleaded
that she had a lamp, but had omitted to put a
candle in it. “Ah,” chipped in Panton, P.M.,
“ you are like the foolish virgin who forgot the
oil.” The weak one fired up instantly: “I am
not a foolish virgin ; I am married and have six
children.” Fined 2s. 6d.
* » * •
Kleptomania
is a craze which
attaoks some
people periodi-
cally ; with
others it is chro-
nic. A man
started a restau-
rant in a Wes-
tralian town and
began thieving
in a business-
like way. At
night he went
round and stole
water for domes-
tic purposes;
from different
local camps he
grabbed fire-
wood ; also, he
stole horsefeed
from stables,rob-
bing the horse of
its -well - earned
supper. At last
he was caught,
and got six
months’ hard in
a sea-side gaol.
Taken away
with others in a
conveyance to
the nearest rail-
way-station, at
each camping-
place on the road
he 'stole every-
thing he could
lay his hands on
—spoons, knives
and forks, pan-
nikins, etc., and
stowed them in
the horsefeed
which they car-
ried. The plun-
der was all dis-
covered by the
policeman in
charge, who was surprised to find one of the
horses with a silver spoon in its mouth.
* • * *
At Bairnsdale (Vic.) Assizes, the other
week, a youth convicted of a capital offence was
released on his own recognisances. Capital joke !
THE FIVE FLYING JORDANS.
Photo., Marceau, San Francisco.
All last Thursday morning Collins-street
East was dotted with groups of red-headed, black-
coated men with shaven upper-lips and aggressive
cheek-bones, who gathered closer and closer to the
Presbyterian Assembly Hall as 11 o’clock ap-
proached. It was to be a great day; for at 11 a
converted Hebrew was expected to come forward
and publicly announce his acceptance of Presby-
terianism, porridge, and pork. More than usual
interest hinged on this, for only a few weeks
A WILDERNESS OF JACKEROOS.
STOCKMAN (to station aboriginal after his visit to London with the manager):
“Well, how did you like London, Jack? ”
J ACKY: "Oh, 'plenty fun; der place full of Jackrews, and I say you go home to
your muddar; and they laff, and then I laff.”
back the son pf a certain rabbi was, it was
reported, to have been publicly received, but
the Presbytery was “ slipped uj) at the last
moment.” This time better preparations had
been made. The hall was packed, and, as the
hand slowly approached the fateful hour,
the strain was intense. At last, just at the
tick of 11, a short, dark young man crushed
through the standing crowd at the doors and
walked boldly down the aisle. A thousand
heads turned, and a hum of applause rose in in-
tensity to a roar as he marched past the assembled
parsons in the front row and seated himself at a
table in front of the moderator. Unable to stand
it any longer, three cheers were given, and then
tlie congregation calmed itself to hear the convert
leitify. But the short, dark young man seemed
serenely ignorant of the ovation, and coolly pro-
ducing a roll of copy-paper from his pocket
awaited developments. The Presbyterians had
been wasting their religious fervor on an unre-
generate reporter —a heathen who had come for
news, not salvation. As for the alleged convert,
he never arrived, after all, and the rumor circu-
lating among the remnants of the congregation
about 2 p.m. was that he had struck for better
terms.
* * * *
Detective O’Donnell, who travelled from
Melb. to London and back, per Oceana, with a
vague hope of “ clearing up ” the gold-robbery
case, confesses himself baffled. O’Donnell and the
authorities who despatched him on his picnic,
might as well explain the working of their gigantic
intellects in this matter. Did they think it pos-
sible that the robbers of 5000 sovereigns from the
Oceana’s strong room would not be smart enough
to get away with the booty before the ship left
port? Surely their suspicions must have fallen
upon some ex-members of the detective force.
One wonders where the admirable artist is
now, and how he is spending the money so
cleverly acquired. Is lie living iridescently
in gay Paris, drinking “the foaming wine of
Eastern Prance,” and caressed by fair women
—a Sardanapalus for six glittering months, or
(with economy) a year? Or has Fie, peradven-
ture, entered a monastery, and endowed it with the
remains of his spoil ? Or is he living quietly in
Melbourne —within hail of the Detective-office—as
a gentleman of easy means ? He may have been a
Mahatma (to which solution of the problem Detec-
ti veO’Donnell seems to seriously incline) who carried
the swag away on his astral back to use it as the
nucleus of a fund to establish an Esoteric Nun-
nery, with Annie Besant as Abbess, in far Thibet.
Or he may have been an alchemist who badly
needed the gold for his crucible, or, perhaps, a
missionary with a mania to procure, at any cost,
coin wherewith to purchase (ra a distant country)
Bibles and patent-leather boots and scented soap
for the pore, benighted heathen. He may, in fact,
have been anything but a mere vulgar burglar. If
he had been the latter, Detective O’Donnell would
have brought him back ignominiously by his
thiok-lobed ear. It is a pretty problem as it
stands. Couldn’t Conan Doyle resurrect Sher-
lock Holmes —for one occasion only—to tackle it?
* * * •
A Melb. photoer has taken a lubra, attired
in a magnificent low-cut ball-dress. Women can-
not help envying her torso and fore-arm.
MEATING THE DIFFICOLTY.
The Queen has been graciously reigning
Full sixty long years for our good,
Yet the moon, ever waxing and waning,
Still beams upon subjects complaining
That fate doesn’t find ’em in food.
They groan ’midst a tumult of grovel ;
But Charity, smiling and sleek,
Will call them from fever-gerined hovel
To take part in a festival novel
Of Meat—in the Jubilee week.
Sing hey ! for Her Highness befriending
The pauper who starves at her door.
How thoughtful her project for tending
The wants of a world without ending
Where people seem born to be poor. °
Her wishes were loyally noted,
And promptly was laid, at her feet
By .numerous servants devoted
(Their names in the papers are quoted)
A tribute of Jubilee meat.
Sing hey 1 for the multitude sighting
Fair visions of mutton and beef ;
In dreams they are greedily fighting
For chances of chewing and biting
The “ grub ” that gives solace to grief.
Meantime they get thinner and thinner :
Their faces are pallid with pain—
With pain in the regions called “ inner ” ;
But soon they will wallow in dinner,
Then—back to starvation again.
One week of sublime indigestion
Should make them contented and gay ;
Her Highness’s simple suggestion
Has settled the Socialist question
■ At last in a practical way.
Let each man be carefully treated
To morsels of fat with the lean,
And the demagogue’s cause is defeated :
For the masses, persuasively meated,
Ask only for “ God Save the Queen.”
Answers to Correspondents.
A o notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and, address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Amellama : Good. And since when, pray, has
that beautiful young’ gentleman become a “well-known
mining' expert ” V So far, he has only been known to the
world by his massive frock-coats and the inspired news-
paper paragraphs about his lovely theatre-parties and
hotel suppers Miner (Croydon): Little good by letter.
You must be examined. Send addressed envelope and
we will make you a recommendation E.L.B. : Re-
ceived, with thanks, five printed columns of a most
ungrammatical account of a Ballarat Jewish wed-
ding, whereat, “ after referring to many of the most
important events in connection with Queen Victoria’s
reign, the whole company, including the ladies, rose
and honored the toast with much enthusiasm, and,
being led by the band, sang ‘ God Save the Queen’
in a most enthusiastic manner.” Why doesn’t someone
start an anti-Godsave league? L. How often do bul-
locks take to the sea on their own account? About once in
a blue moon .... O’B. : Maoriland, Tasmania. Victoria,
and S. Australia make vaccination compulsory. N.S.
Wales recommends, but leaves it optional .. O’B : All we
have heard about it is the statement that Mr. Coghlan
has been offered more Government bonuses for extra
work out of office-hours than any other officer in N.S.W.
public service, but has only accepted as much thereof as
represented money out of pocket . W.R.R. (R.):
Woolf is the name... G.P. (M.L.): Thanks Mona:
Don t care for dull didactics Maryborough : Noted
John D. (W.A.): “Honey hung around” you; songs
“ clung around you ” ; and shame “slung around you.”
W hat on earth would you have written for another
rhyme? Marco: Takes a good man (and a very good
woman) to make a good triolet W.G.B. : Kindly rivol
elsewhere Madge M. : The large straggly M.S. wickedly
wastes good foolscap .... Zealandia : Yes. sorry to say that
is the kind of poetry the local M.A. writes Una : You
can’t tame this lion Scourer (Boatman station): Note
your complaint that you are so luxuriously fed that.,
you are too fat to scour. But we have heard of
wool-packs being sewn with fencing-wire before
H.W. : Worthless O.C.K. :So a two-storey house is
being built at Perth? Thanks. .. Heather: Rather
attractive ; not telling-skill enough J.H.A. : Lack
interest M.B. : No; W. B Jas. S. : Don’t know
who wrote “The Stockman’s Tale,” but, if bulk is
like specimen, he wouldn’t tell it in our camp.
Pbormi: Nothing in it W.Y.R. : The long, lame
ballad will never hit an unsuspecting editor any
more L.R.M. : You mustn’t tell how you spend
your evenings with ladies unless you’ve been to an all-
night prayer-meeting. Anything else, after 11 p.m., is
justly regarded with suspicion . G.L. (25-mile) : Expres-
sion of personal opinion noted. Unluckily, it’s nothing
more Australia : Two parsons driving cross shallow
waterhole. Deep ! Swim. Fire. Dry clothes. Fire
spreads. Station manager and lady visitor ride to put fire
out. Horror ! Clothes burnt. Horror on horror’s head !
Home at last. Vaseline. Two parsons writhing.
T.H. : That’s the right picnic motto : Spoon as you like,
but always keep in cooey of the sandwiches “After
the Election”: Ninety lines, each one ending with
“ says he,” grow monotonous. Couldn’t you vary things
by putting in “ditto?” S. Phillips: Better read the
article again Bullock Driver: Wants inci-
dent. Only a faint reminiscence of bards and bullocks
and brandy and “ blanky ”60 years ago. And “ blanky ”
doesn’t improve with age W.D. (Moree) : Tale of beer
and Bill. Declined K. Mapoora :No sign of originality,
which is the first essential. The lost brother and the
strawberry-mark are the two oldest things in fiction
H.D.M. (M.L.) : Either it or we had to die on the spot—
and, you see, we’re wauted to lead the choral service for
the record reign. A.E.: Alec Mayne, B. and B.’s
manager, was the last “ Ironmaster” in Melb. . Roderick :
You are a wicked young misogynist J.H.M. : Not up.
I-P. : Yes, it will do W.J.M. : All in daily paper
S-tyle J.M. (W.A.): Thanks ; but fear it is unavailable.
Try again 11.J.8. : Precisely 9728 miles and a distance
off poetry J.C.B. (Vie.) : Can’t trace. If received,
answered long ago. Valda : Nice little rhymes for an
infant in a high chair and a presentation bib. Bulletin
just 17 years too old for’em D.H. : “Speed thee, my
maiden,” &c. Sped H.S. : Handed to “Heretic.” '
Wanderer: Burr-poem hasn’t stuck 8.5.: Quiller-
Couch has only just discovered Gordon, and is exulting
in the acquaintance Cooanella : Not interested in that
corrupt army-contractor, Cappadocian George Insect:
Neat argument; prefer our own C.T.C. (M.L.) : Pretty
dull C.G. (Mt. Morg.): Thanks; it might have been
longer M.M.S.: A little piece might squeeze in
Boomerang : Unrelieved baldness Ex. C.G. (White F.):
Better omit it altogether ... J.S.A.T. : No space toweaklv
“cap’’the yarns of such prints T.D. (Q.) :It would
be unspeakably offensive in print.... E.A. : “ Being a
constant reader of your paper I know you appreciate
champion liars.” Thanks Daidalus : ’ Too long for
merit ; but promising. Perhaps a bit Kingo Mapoo :
Worthless Roderick M. : You admit you can’t
“sing,” yet want to waste space in teiling how
you would “sing” if you could. G.W.A. : Try
dieting—tin-tacks and kerosene Sliprail: Not exactly
a poor parody—say a parody in reduced circumstances..
J. : Doubtfully usable S.D. : Friend’s version all
moonshine R.G.M. : Witless immaturity L. Pro-
tector : The last word of your poem is “Rot!” That’s
our last word, too N.B. : Unsuitable W.P. : Poor
quibble L.R.M. : “Son” not up Gollah :As you
ask for it, our opinion of your scheme is oxqvbj 2B z??
(rj££!) Ml XIIJ ORZo;:,.N £n”—and that’s a lot more
coherent than the scheme itself Ambrose Gates: Verses
too rugged. You can be forcible without quite so much
“belly” and “curse” and more “belly.” The truest
democratic sentiments can be expressed without alluding
constantly to anybody’s abdomen D.H. (Fremantle) :
Westralia can't be quite bad enough to deserve that poem.
R-B. (Wyalong): The hand counts 24 Iloilo : Not
good enough. The zephyr poem about nothing in parti-
cular needs to be very good to pass muster ... G.M'G.
(Walgett): Well, what about it? Staghorn : You “ left
the poem in our hands,” but they weren’t large enough to
hold a poem of that size. You should have left it in our
tank Herbert A. Probert: Considering Aurum :
“ Bill and Jim ” received Phil Random : The Bulletin
said it didn’t know then whether you were a genius or a
d.t. And it is still wondering F.A.E. : Shortly
A Subscriber since 1886 : Not right. Farnell’s grammar
in this instance was simply awful Banker : Brough and
Boucicault ran Melb. Bijou and Sydney Criterion simul-
taneously for several years C.P.C.: Thanks ... S.J.
(Maryboro’) : Received W. Barr : Tale of inebriated
corpse drinking in morgue duly received F. Campbell:
Picnic-van which becomes a hearse when you touch a
spring isn’t convincing. Just invent some kind of Demo-
cratic politician who won’t become a howling loyalist and
K. when you touch a spring and you’ll have some-
thing new Young Cub : Why send us your wild,
woolly poem telling Oom Paul not to wake up the British
liou? We don’t keep the British lion on these premises
Notes: Three pages of faint pencil smudge. No name
or address Aberdeen : The Perpetual Trustee Co., 2
Spring-street, Sydney, will suit you admirably
Satirical Tom : Satire as flabby as a boiled psalm.


DEFY THE WINDS
And the cold by wearing warm woollen
underclothing. We have ladies’ “all-wool”
undervests from 9id. upwards. A special
line of all-wool undervests with buttoned
fronts at Is. lid. and 2s. 3s. is worth your
attention. Hosiery and gloves for winter
wear in great variety. Write, if you cannot
call.
U. T. WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
dearye and King Streets, Sydney.
2/6
2/6 CURES PILES.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPTCPTTT’r*
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr En
Lod g H e A ) K sa y ?f-l PMAN > ° f FoTest
“ It . is the mo T st wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Will. Adams, nephew of the celebrated
George, is now in charge of Adams’s hotel, Pitt-
street, Sydney—with its 40 bedrooms, unsurpassed
cuisine, modern appurtenances, and the famous
marble bar throwing a three-ply halo round the
lot. And W. A. guarantees that patrons will find
his palatial pub. a perfect poem of up-to-date con-
venience.*
A delicious cooling drink. The juice of
the lime fruit, as prepared in Rose’s Lime Juice
Cordial, supplies a beverage particularly whole-
some and refreshing in water —effervescing in all
mineral waters and an excellent stimulant
blended with spirits. It possesses valuable medi-
cinal properties, cooling and purifying the blood,
stimulating and assisting digestion. It is entirely
free of spirits. Recommended by the Lancet.
Sold everywhere. Purchasers should be careful
to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others being
imitations.*
WAHOO!
More Unsolicited Praise .
Buck St., Adamstown, N.S.W.,
20th April, 1897.
Manager, Loasby’s Wahoo Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in recommending
your “ WAHOO” to any who suffer from Indigestion
and Liver Complaints, as it completely cured me
before I had taken two (2) bottles. To-day I am a
better man in health and spirits than ever I was, and
I attribute the change in my condition to LOASBY’S
“ WAHOO.”
Yours truly,
ROBERT NICHOLS, Jon.
WAHOO!
Price 2/6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Lodsbjr’s “Wahoo” Ufg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 11, 1897.
Mr Dear Myee—
A Melbourne girl, Miss Phoebe Howitt (a grand-
daughter, by the way, of William and Mary
Howitt), has carried off the ladies’ lawn-tennis
championship at this year’s matches, and Vic.
folk, of whom there are many in Sydney just
now, are jubilating much thereat. The finals
were played at the S.C.G. on Saturday in a detest-
able wind which gave the prowling snap-shotters
present excellent chances for sensational repro-
ductions of flying skirts and spread-eagle atti-
tudes. The Maoriland player, Miss Nunneley,
from whom the championship has been wrested,
went at her work with grim determination, and,
despite her vigorous heavy strokes and her ener-
getic vertiginous leaps into the air, never lost her
pale, intense earnestness. The two Dransfield
girls, and, in fact, all the local cracks, gave jerky,
uncertain dives at the ball and wore a nervous,
worried look.
Miss Howitt was almost the only girl who
seemed to be playing for the fun of the thing, and
had a pleased smile as she gave her steady, dexter-
ous drives. At the prize-giving she practically
devastated the glittering stand. She has now
enough table bric-a-brac to make her quite inde-
pendent of wedding-presents when she marries,
and a whole phalanx of silver shields.
Some of the quarantined Himalaya people are
quite sorry their detention is over. They liked
tne scenery, the company, the commissariat, and
the long moonlight walks—minus the moon—the
“sausage parties,” and “potato picnics,” and,
above all, they admired the P. & O. Co.’s kindness
in footing the little bill. One young man, whose
vaccination didn’t take, was suspected of privately
rubbing off the lymph, so that he could remain
longer with an angel similarly spotted with
ineffective tattoo-marks. Evening strolls after
the concerts were immensely popular, but as each
strolling couple armed itself before starting with
an extra-warm rug, the promenading theory was
felt to be a hollow pretext. One gallant salt, who
used to sally forth into the cold night air osten-
tatiously swagless, had his “ bluey ” ingeniously
planted in a sheltered nook, so the girl didn’t
catch a chill, while everybody thought the pair
really went out for a “good, brisk walk.” Love
rules—alike.in court, camp, grove, and quaran-
tine.
The pink-clad girl who nightly walks the silver
wire at the Flying Jordans’ performance at the
Theatre Royal, has introduced an entirely new and
original smile, differing completely from the worn,
thin-lipped grin of the usual woman acrobat.
Conventional acknowledgements for applause after
very difficult monkey-tricks on trapeze or tight-
rope are as humbly deprecating as if the performer
would say, “ A mere nothing, ladies and gentle-
men, any of you could do the same,” but Virginia
Aragon, standing at about the level of the gallery
boy’s eyes, flashes into their faces a brilliant and
triumphant dazzle of dark eyes and white teeth
calculated to make every boy of them feel his
heart thumping violently against his ribs in
sudden admiration. On her entry she trails
behind her an enormous white overall of expensive
satin with a whole farm of ostrich-plumes upon
it. Discarding this, her garments are seen to be
a very much abridged edition, and, after her
pocket-handkerchief trick, she disposes of the
cambric morsel in a way which causes a titter by
tucking it up inside her abbreviated pink trunks,
the only thing in the nature of a pocket she has
about her.
There were frocks at the Admiralty House
garden-party last Thursday. Taken all round, it
was the best-gowned show of this season to date.
Commonplace wearing-apparel was weeded out,
and every woman was resplendent in velvet and
fur. A social leader, whose clothes are usually
copied, had on a symphony in dark-green velvet
with an upstanding, much-gilt braided and be-
furred collar ; many matrons wore important-
looking, black velvet mantles; the party from
Govt. House was small and unremarkable in ves-
ture beyond a fairly bright purple frock; some
women shivered in silks. The party huddled
itself together from the biting wind on the lawn
in front of the house, and for amusement listened
to the Orlando band, discussed tea and light
refreshments and each other’s dresses, and watched
Fort Denison turning as many tints in the sunset
as a dying dolphin. Blue coats and brass buttons
were numerous. Many of the Nicest women like
to appear with a uniformed admirer attached ; the
rule seems to be the older the siren the younger
the lieutenant. Juvenile damsels generally avoid
their naval contemporaries and promenade with
elderly captains. A girl who came out at one of
the recent balls was describing her experiences to
a friend next day: “I got on very well,” she
declared, “till somebody introduced a mere boy,
a middy; and when I found I had got down to
middies I came home.”
Presbyterians in session are presided over by the
Moderator, who can choose for himself how he will
be garbed. The new N.S.W. Moderator appears
in the assembly in a Court dress consisting of a
fine black-cloth dress-coat trimmed with braid-
froggings and ruffles of white lace on the breast
and at the wrists, black cassock and knee-breeches,
and shoes with silver buckles; over this, a robe,
bands and D.D. hood of purple and white silk.
Solomon in all his glory !
The first of numerous “afternoons ” arranged to
increase the attractions of the Society of Artists’
picture-show was given last week. Mrs. French
and Mrs. Mackenzie supervised the pro-
gramme, and the upper room in George-street,
where the exhibition is held, was crowded with
military people and others. On Saturday an ar-
tistic afternoon, managed by Miss Ethel Stephens,
was billed. For Tuesday the legal folk took up
the task of entertaining all-comers, under the
direction of Mrs. Cohen. On Saturday evening,
“9th May, the journalists of Sydney intend to cele-
brate the end of the show in a blaze of glory by a
programme coruscating with talent. His Ex.
visited the gallery one day last week, and on his
departure, as he was backing politely out of the
narrow doorway, contrived to carry away one of
the works of art on his coat, by rubbing against
the yellow-ochre man on the passage wall.
A new barmaid arrived at the principal hotel
of a Yic. township, and all the local ladies were
agitated as to whether or not Hebe dyed her hair,
which was very plain to see. One day the wife of
the bank manager next door noticed a wisp of
golden hair blowing about her backyard. It was
the same color as the barmaid’s, and presumably
one of her stray combings. The lady eagerly
pounced upon the wisp and washed it. It was
dyed after all, and at every subsequent gossip
meeting the discovery was announced to thrill-
ingly-interested listeners. Of such large-minded
women is the sassiety of country towns usually
composed.
The stern Romans in “The Sign of the Cross ”
look as natural as if they had wandered out of
Smith’s Classical Dictionary. Such a classical
atmosphere envelopes the play that you feel like
being at school again, and grope in your mind for
the principal parts of “aino,” which is freely con-
jugated on the stage in all its moods and tenses.
The revels are crowned with roses and rapture,
and bald-headed patricians are garlanded in a
giddy manner as well as the dancing girls.
Glabrio, the bald antique, has many bright things
to say against women—a habit which passes for
cynical brilliancy in all ages. His most cutting
jibe, “ I can get a woman to say she’ll love me as
long as I have any money,” is vociferously ap-
plauded by the millionaires in the shilling gallery.
Julius Knight, as Marcus Superbus, has several
very pretty frocks, the most striking being a cos-
tume of pale-grey cloth, studded with gems and
embroidered overmantle with faint-blue border ;
his ball-dress is of sky-blue over white-and-gold
tunic and silk fleshings ; the armor is chiefly white
and gold. ’ He makes a splendid figure, and
entirely eclipses the women in glory. Miss Elliott
Page has a patrician bearing, and one sumptuous
robe. There are multitudes of slaves in fine
raiment and guests in ditto, who form flowery
stage pictures ; and Nero, in his imperial-purple,
is apparently on his last legs, and very tottery.
Gaston Mervale is grim as Tigellinus in a red
toga, with a cart-wheel pattern. The Christians
are all very shabby, and their midnight service
near the Tiber recalls a torchlight Harmy meet-
ing. Linda Raymond, as the giddy Dacia, bundles
that Roman matron’s blue skirt around her legs
and shuffles &la Yum Yum. Mrs. M. Morris is
too modern in style to appear at her best in the
severely classic.
At the official opening of Brisbane Exhibition
(or “Jubbert”) most of the exhibits of import-
ance were still on the sea, and there were large
yawning spaces which were satisfactorily filled by
crowds, mostly consisting of dowds and bald-heads.
The speeches were of the dreariest. The chief
revel of the week was the Governess’s Home Ball,
at which many girls “came out.” On Monday
Bananaland society was “received” by Lady
Lamington.
Portable jokes are the latest importation from
the land of dollars. The new American comedian
at the Royal carries on his light humor in the
form of a pick—among other things—and this
enables him to remark that he’s going out to the
races to “ pick ” a winner. Then he makes jests
with a bell and a spade. Anybody can get jokes
now by buying them at the ironmonger's. The
dialogue sandwiched in between the acrobatic
feats of the Jordans and other spine-twisters can
hardly be said to be funny without being vulgar,
though sometimes it is vulgar without being
funny, and sometimes it is both funny and vulgar.
But it is never neither funny nor vulgar.
A vice-regal tour was recently undertaken to
St, Helen’s (Tas.) by the Gov. and suite. The
whole town —population about 200—turned out to
greet the noble tourists, who were presented with
the usual loyal address, and the whole party was
then driven to the police buildings to see the
grapes grown by the local constable. This sort of
thing is regarded as a high old time in Tasmania.
The Sydney Philharmonic Society has been hard
at work rehearsing for the first concert season,
due this (Thursday) evening. Miss Josephine
Deakin, Messrs. Simonsen, Burns-Walker and W.
T. Colyer will be the principals in Berlioz’s
“Faust.” The chorus has been enlarged, and the
orchestra much strengthened with a view to com-
ing out with a strong roar in the Pandemonium
scene.
The French ball will take place next Monday
night, 17th, in Paddington Town Hall. One of
the features of the party will be a French cotillon
which the performers are now engaged in busily
rehearsing. The Town Hall meeting re the pro-
posed Hospital for Consumptives will be on the
same evening, and His Ex. and party have pro-
mised to be present at both.
Mrs. Gore-Gillon, now petitioning for a separa-
tion from her husband, is a slim, fair woman, with
what dressmakers term an “ elegant ’’figure. She
is usually tailor-made, and much addicted to large,
overshadowing hats ; also she often carries a silver-
headed cane in public. In M.L., Gov. Onslow was
a friend of the doctor’s family, and vice-regal
acquaintanceship elevated Mrs. G.-G. to the ranks
of the Nicest. The book, “Napoleon and the
Fair Sex,” which has been boomed so much during
the case, isn’t such a terribly moral-corrupting
work |as many people hoped' from the shocked
manner in which it was referred to. I have seen
it lying about in most correct and proper houses,
and no domestic peace has been wrecked thereby.
It is a collection of old and rather weary tattle
and gossip about the First Empire—and the
author’s idea of thrill is to print Josephine’s
washing-list in full.
( A man in the Cri. stalls, on the first night of the
“ Private Secretary,” was as good a claque as Yic.
Chief Sec. Peacock. He had a boisterous laugh,
and was evidently interviewing the Rev. Robert
for the first time. Whenever old Cattermole
shook and worried the mild curate, the man in
front howled and screamed ; when the limp and
bewildered sec. was hauled out of the box looking
like a thing the cat would bring into the room on
a wet night, the spectator crowed and yelled with
mirth; and when, for the thousandth time,
Thornton took his flying leap over the settee, the
house heard one last exploding guffaw, and the
rest was silence. The natural inference was that
the enthusiast had burst.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“After the sassiety papers had announced the
dates of Guvment House balls for May and June
a small mob of rather nice ones, who had shown a
Spartan dilatoriness in calling, rolled up hastily
to inscribe their names in The Holy Book. Their
horror was intense when they found the visiting
volume removed from its accustomed place in the
cold mortuary of a vestibule, and a silence there
as of the dead. No explanations were forthcom-
ing, All the callers could do was to leave their
‘ Yery-sorry-came-too-late ’ cards on the V.R.
door-mat, and turn to praying to a Higher Power
for a card.
“Sentiment is not quite extinct in the silver-
coated heart of the Australian husband, to judge
by recent demonstrations attending the arrival of
a certain lady, who, after a trip ’Ome ‘ for
repairs,’had been detained a week in quarantine
on the Himalaya. The devoted spouse (by pro-
fession a financier) had two magnificent floral
designs perpetrated, at a Collins-street florist’s.
One design represented a ship, in Neapolitan
violets (favorites of the loved one), with masts and
rigging complete, from one of which fluttered rib-
bons with such tender turtle-dove devices as
‘Welcome to my darling wife.’ The second
design, on the lines of a lyre, was wreathed in
orchids and fern, with a nest at the base, in which
four little birds (representing their progeny
numerically) chirped forth a welcome to mammie.
Furthermore, their home-roost at Brighton had
been fresh painted and upholstered, a boudoir re-
ceiving special attention, freshly decorated with
pale or sea-green fittings, as a never-to-be-for-
gotten symbol of that sea-trip.
“ There are whispers of a coming flare-up in
Ji.C. circles on the question of church music.
Archbishop Carr, through the instrumentality of
his right-hand councillor, Dean McKenna, has in-
troduced the Gregorian Chant at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, to the dire dissatisfaction of the common
or garden kind of worshipper. All the goody-
goody priests who seek episcopal favor have fol-
lowed the potentate’s lead, made a clean sweep of
the expensive soloists in the choir, and fallen back
on the reserved stock of ‘ Catholic young men and
children of Mary.’ Other pastors of a more inde-
pendent order stick to the florid operatic masses
of Mozart and Gounod, and await the conse-
quences.
“ What an irreligious institution is the church
choir ! A well-known bass singer was recently
asked to contribute a solo at St. .Tames’, Little
Collins-street, Melbourne. He promised and was
advertised. He turned up to time, and was
knocked out of all conceit to find eleven people in
the body of the tabernacle, and in the gallery
about 30 dead-beats (who muster strong every
Sunday on the strength of a free lunch after-
wards). The singer refused point-blank to con-
tribute his solo, even ‘ for the honor and glory of
the Lord,’ and so the advt. represented a dead
loss to Christianity.
“ Melbourne is already in a state of Jubilee
measles, shop after shop beginning to break out in
electric rashes and transparencies, beseeching
Providence to be tender in its dealings with Her
Gracious. In Swanston-street a shop for some
time past has sparkled with a gigantic V.R. every
night. Last Saturday evening a neighboring
establishment hung forth on a long pole a beer-
bottle with the bottom cut out of it. A candle in-
side the bottle supplied the Jubilee illumination.
“ The Diamond Jubilee shivoo attracts all sorts
and conditions of people from Melbourne to Eng-
land’s bloated metropolis. One of the latest ex-
portations is Miss Sutherland—a good friend to
Melb. street boys and fallen lydies—who has gone
for a four months’ trip to repair her health, see
the procession, and study the beneficent influence
of Queen Victoria’s reign upon the submerged
tenth.
“An insurrection among the nurses at Melb.
Hospital, the other week, was averted by a prompt
disappearing of the grievance. The grievance was
a ‘ sister,’ of only 20 months’experience, whom the
matron had procured from Adelaide, without
authority, to act as superior officer to the local
talent. The local talent, being in most cases
better qualified than the ‘ sister,’ and the introduc-
tion of a foreign ‘ sister ’ being contrary to the rules
anyhow, 36 nurses marched to the matron’s room
in 36 caps and pinafores, only to find that the
secretary was there before them, with ‘ sister’s ’
resignation in his strong right hand. Whereupon,
the deputation withdrew, wreathed in smiles, yet
not quite happy. It had missed the excite-
ment of tearing off its 36 caps and pinnies, and
going forth on strike. And when a nurse has a
best boy ready to take her out for the day, she
wants a strike badly.
The fact that in N.S.W. 1026 candidates ap-
plied for 128 N.S.W. public-school pupil-teacher
vacancies reminds me that a lady B.A. gets <£lo a
year, as monitor, in a Victorian state school.
“Lady-collectors for the Queen’s Shilling Fund
have not too rosy a time. The rule is that every
house, large or small, must be visited. Sometimes
the inmates are so palpably poverty-stricken that
it seems a shame to ask them. They think so
themselves, and say it, too, with a good deal of
strong language thrown in. Of course, one is
delayed by time-wasters of all sorts. Shrill little
women, in default of a donation, scold humanity
in general for misplaced charity, and lay bare the
peccadilloes of neighbors, no better than they
should be, said to fatten persistently on the funds
of the local Benevolent Association. Then there
is the fatherly man, contributing, along with his
shilling, pathetic anecdotes of suffering ‘ virgins ’
(as he calls them every two seconds) subjected to
the professional scrutiny of irreverent male meds.
“Collectors, comparing notes, condemn tiny
houses and huge ones as equally unprofitable.
Bet wi xt-and-between villas are havens where
tired askers.scoop in shillings, sweetened by civility
and invitations to rest and afternoon tea Man-
sion doors are barred by ‘ uppish ’ maids, who an-
nounce haughtily that ‘ the lady has given else-
where ! Probably the philanthropist referred to
prefers doing good on the housetops. After all a
shilling should bring in a shilling’s-worth, though
the latter may mean nothing more substantial
than an impressive thank you ’ from Lady This
or gushing post-card from Mrs. T’other.
“ Not a few folk regard the shilling fund with
suspicion as a device for feathering the nests of
hard-up she-surgeons (and many of them are hard-
, S ™g hospital billets and
xv lui k i nd j° f tllng '’ don vherknow. Apropos of
Melb. lady-doctors, one of them died the other
K t^ er A h . afe^ r at he , r defeat for a vacancy
on the staff of the Women s Hospital, two others
are preparing their trousseaux. Of these, one has
undertaken to regulate the digestion and affections
of a love-lorn bank official, while her breezy
colleague is to lighten the labors of a brother
physician.
“ Nowadays the acquaintances of male ‘ meds ’
have to listen meekly to endless abuse of Saw-
bones in skirts, especially those on the staffs of
local institutions Howling failures ! ’ snort the
biassed critics aforesaid. ‘Balls, bicycles, six
strings to her bow at the very least, makes eyes
at the patients, not to speak of the dressers!’
Do the male inmates like her ? ’ murmurs the lis-
tener, tentatively. ‘Not they! far too flippant
for ’em, with her ‘ Show us your trilbies»’ and
H °ws your tummy?’ Nice methods' with
invalids old enough to be the girl’s grandfather !
“A jubilee agitation is being worked
behalf of the Cottage by the Sea' that spick-and
span institution where room is found aLI ii
hne furniture and fixings for a few child-suffered
to convalesce. Because of the dainty surround
ings inmates must provide themselves with si
pers and similar superfluities, obtainable onlyTv
children of comparatively well-to-do parents Th'
extra-elegant sanatorium is so near the big
Queenscliffe that whenever the latter medihA
music 24 hours’ notice is given at the cottar £
that the matron may take down breakable”wall
decorations. Should war-scare or other occasion
for frequent cannon-banging arise, the establish
merit would have to stir its stumps and move
boddy. The site was decided upon on this
understanding. 118
“ At the annual meeting of the Victorian cent™
of the bt. John s Ambulance Association an ad
vanced Radical (in trousers) made bold to suge-e<a
that pupils be judged by their public form and th*
great heart of the uninitiated among the kudienra
went right out to this reformer. Blushing amateurs
masculine or otherwise, who have been taught to
bandage but can’t screw up their nerves to the
point of remembering their lessons when a lot of
strange, agitated people are looking at them
shouldn’t be left to imagine that they are handv
things to have in a house before the doctor comes.
“ A Herald correspondent, it seemed, gravelv
suggests there ought to be trained nurses for
and the idea is worth the earnest consideration of
about five thousand fully-qualified ‘first-aiders'
Let them begin by bandaging Fido when he re-
turns mangled from an angry conversation with
the dawg next door.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Last week’s rainfall in Victoria was sent
bv the Lord as a special favor to James Balfour
late of the Freehold Investment Co. St. James
in question bosses the Council of the Churches
and it was the C. of C. that persuaded the Govern-
ment to fix a Sunday for prayer and humiliation
Now, when the prayers reached Heaven the Lord
enquired : “ Who is connected with this move-
ment ? ” and Angel Gabriel said, “ Well, Balfour
is in it.” Consequently some rain was sent down
as requested.
At a Koroit (Vic.) tabernacle, last Sunday week
the vicar found himself very awkwardly placed!
He had to offer up prayer for rain, notwithstand-
ing that Koroit was already as wet as it wanted
to be. So the good man, after praying for rain in
other parts of the province, offered up thanks for
the local deluge, by way of reminding the Almighty
that Koroit worshippers didn’t wish to get caught
in a shower whilst returning home from church.
Which recalls to mind a very old Bulletin story
of the two evangelists who were holding a drought
service one Sunday on Sydney Domain. “0
Lord, send down thy plenteous rain upon our
parched land,” snuffled the tall, thin preacher.
Whereupon his short, fat brother, clasping his
hands and gazing up to Heaven with a conciliatory
smirk, added, “ But not, O Lord, until our little
meeting is over.”
F. R. Godfrey, chairman of Melb. Hospital
Committee, signalises the completion of the term
of Drs. Alfreda Hilda Gamble and Janet Greig as
medical officers to the institution with an outburst
of eloquence, in which he falls foul of the “ medi-
cal gentlemen ” attached to the hospital for not
treating the ladies with that fine old-fashioned
courtesy due to them as “sich.” Mr. Godfrey
suddenly discovers that the age of chivalry is past
because the male doctors refused to relieve the
female doctors of all the unpleasant duties, leaving
them to wrestle with barking “ drunks,” and
persons afflicted with blue devils, and various
“horrid cases” too numerous and too delicate to
mention. When their attention was drawn to the
situation, the male M.D.’s remarked coarsely that
the doctresses would have to take the thick with the
thin. This, of course, is not conduct becoming an
officer and a gentleman in his attitude towards a
defenceless maiden in distress. But, when we re-
member that the woman is a fighting rival, and
that she is rushing the he-sawbones for place and
preferment, for his shekels, and beef and bread,
for his dogcart, and his tall horse, and his pretty
villa, it is only reasonable to expect the latter to
regard the former merely as a man and a brother,
who has casually mislaid his breeches, and has
undertaken to compete in petticoats, but cannot
expect to be allowed under-grip and the privilege
of hitting and kicking below the belt on that
account. If the age of chivalry had not passed
long before it existed, it would hardly have sur-
vived the fair damsel armed with the stomach-
pump.


J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Pbotograpbk Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
M4GIC OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM FOR 12 EXPOSURES, 16 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
Hill'll!
uui
iii |l "m
KK
""Hi
iu..iini,iiiiiiir£
,iiiiiiiiii
ji'iir
illlllll!i*
%
w
y
*li!
:*i»inuiu!'j
III"!'
&
fiiilll
m
n>
fdl
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steame?
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
• - - LIKE CHAMPAGHk
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
The Sydney J udges pointedly enthused not
when admitting to the N.S.W. Bar Charles Lilley
the pensioned Queensland ex-Chief Justice
It is alleged in aN.S. W. country newspaper
that a man now under sentence of death for
murder was at one time the Victorian hangman.
Queen Rosey, of Illawarra (N.S.W.), has
presented her ebony husband, King Mickey, with
a daughter—the 10th child born unto the pair, 14
of the number being boys.
Henry V. Goring, a Tam worth (N.S.W.)
tobacconist, succeeds to the baronetcy of Sir
Charles Goring, deceased, erstwhile private secre-
tary to Hori Grey.
A FAULT OF THE SURROUNDINGS.
SQUATTER MACMISERY (of Skintlee Station) : “ Hech, mon, ye'll travel mony a
mile before ye'll get ten shillings a week and yeer grub offered ye."
OVERLAND BILL: “Just in payment for your advice, Fit cut down your blessed
thistles, so that you'll think you're in Australia."
Some people say that the London Lady’s
Letter to S.M. Herald, allegedly contributed by
the wife of Rev. Haweis, is, in reality, written by
the musical little bore himself. The sex of a par-
son is often doubtful.
If the Turner Government wishes to do a
good stroke of policy it will appoint Wrixon to the
Supreme Court when a vacancy arises. He is the
best available man and his appointment would be
acceptable to all parties.
Thomas Garton died suddenly on the floor
of his study in London, a mail or so ago, at the
age of 75. 'He was the first man to bring news to
England of the discovery of gold in Australia. He
had gathered a stack of wealth in Australia, and
spent the balance of his life in philanthropy.
S.A. Agent-General Playford, who aban-
doned radishes for diplomacy, is credited with
being “one of the best-dressed men in London.”
“ Honest Tom ” has, however, refused bebauble-
ment so far, despite the advice of his old friend
Kingston. And now the problem is, what about
both of them in June ?
Queen Victoria is to be fitted with works
to enable her adequately to do the Gracious
Sovereign business in the record reign procession.
Her carriage will be provided with “ a sort of
rocking-chair, which will enable her automatically
to appear to return the salutes of her subjects.
The monarchical sham !
“Princess T. Kroubetskoi, of Russia,”
arrived in Australia per Polynesien. Some people
misread the lady’s name for Troubetskoi, thinking
that Australia was favored by a visit from Amelie
Rives, the authoress of “The Quick and the
Dead,” who lately married a Russian prince.
But the newcomer turns out to be a mere princess
and nothing more.
Rumors that Vic. Justice Williams—now
laid up by a severe accident —will not return to
the Bench may be contradicted on family
authority. The Judge has had little heart in his
judicial work since Madden was pitchforked into
the Chief Justiceship over his head, but he does
not want to be out of harness altogether. Law-
yers regard Williams as one of the soundest of
Judges, and would be sorry if he did retire.
Writes “Bures” re Oscar Wilde and Wain-
wright. In his “Dorian Gray,” Oscar Wilde
says :
“ Harry,” said Basil Hallward, looking him straight in
the face, “ every portrait that is painted with feeling is a
portrait of the artist, not of the sitter. The sitter is
merely the accident, the occasion. It is not he who is
revealed by the painter ; it is rather the painter who, on
the colored canvas, reveals himself. The reason I will
not exhibit this picture is that I am afraid that I have
shown in it the secret of my own soul.’’
The appeal of John Higginson, of Noumea,
in a complicated company case involving the in-
terests of his old partner, J. C. Morgan, was dis-
missed by N.S.W. Full Court last week. J. C.
Morgan was Higginson’s right hand, away off in
the beginning of their joint career. Together
they fought the established moneyed power of
New Caledonia, beating both it and the Credit
Foncier forces called in to assist it. J. C. Morgan
died some years age, and the present litigation is
with his brother, W. E. Morgan.
“ We humbly beg Your Majesty’s gracious
acceptance of our loyal and hearty congratulations
upon the completion of the sixtieth year of Your
Majesty’s unprecedentedly long and incomparably
beneficent sovereignty.” (Extract from the illumi-
nated address of Fitz Gibbon and the Smellbourne
Board of Works). “ Loyalty,” it may be observed,
is composed of adjectives and adverbs.
Capt. Burrows, governor of Melb. gaol,
was one day in the prison exercise-yard, talking
with a man under committal for murderously
assaulting another. He spoke to the fellow about
the cruelty of the crime, and said: “Supposing,
for instance, that one of the men yonder were to
assault me in the same way?” “Bless yer, sir,”
said the man, “ they wouldn’t do it. Why, in this
yere gaol yer bear the best o’ characters.”
An Aus-
tralian writes
from Nice that
when Queen
Victoria ar-
rives there
she uses some-
th in g like a
cattle - ramp
for getting out
of the railway
carriage and
getting into
the landau.
H.M. is hoist-
ed up by two
Indians, who
are not able to
handle her
weight easily,
but the nigs,
are so much in
Court favor
that when
H.M. arrived
the other day
her Indian
secretary
drove alone in
a landau, while
the Queen’s
white servants
were mixed up
with coolies in
another.
At a recent
vice-regal din-
ner - party
somewhere
south of the
equator (this
happene d
about 48 years
ago), the soup
did not please
the host, who
remarked in a
whisper, audi-
ble two blocks away : “ When my first wife waß
alive she went into the kitchen and saw to these
things herself.”
Premier Kingston wired triumphantly that
he hadn’t been ill at all on the voyage from Adelaide
to Albany. Apropos : when Kingston was travel-
ling awhile ago from Albany a certain
“ loud ” passenger was bragging that he
had never been seasick. The man be-
came so arrogant that at last Kingston
and one or two kindred spirits bribed
a steward to doctor the boastful one’s
soup, with the result
that he succumbed to
what he fervently be-
lieved was mal-de-
mcr, and didn’t re-
appear till next morn-
ing. Thenceforward
all was peace.
‘ ‘ Bertram Mac-
kennal is sending five
specimens of his year’s
work to the Royal
Academy, ” writes
The Bulletin’s Lon-
don correspondent.
“ A marble, nearly
life-sized femalefigure
entitled ‘ Oceana ’ was
done to the order of
the President of the
Union Club, Sydney,
for presentation to
that institution. The
bust of an American
heiress in marble and
a bronze miniature
18in. perpendicular of
the Reign ‘ Ringer,
Queen Victoria, are worthy
of the artist’s craft. Mac-
kennal’s steady, persistent
improvement is bound to tell
and land him in the conserya-
tively exclusive circles of the first flight at no far-
off date.”
Treas. Holder (S.A.), who in Kingston’s
absence acts as Premier, will be 47 on Wednesday,
May 12. He first entered Parliament in ’B7, and
during’ the subsequent 10 years has served nearly
six years as a Minister. He has been in turns a
school-master, a country newspaper editor, and a
general agent.
Green Box : “ Who would have thought of
demised Gov. William Robinson going before his
brother Hercules ? He was an undervalued man
by the public, though not by Downing-street,
which found him a success in seven or eight pretty
difficult governorships. He might be likened to
Leopold Lewis, who lost a grand legal practice
through his brilliant success in adapting the play
of ‘ The Bells ’ for Irving, and died a pensioner on
the tragedian. Thus Robinson discounted him-
self as a Governor by dabbling in music. Hercules
cowed him somewhat unduly. It is possible his
ability was equal to that of his rumbustious big
brother, and one would have little hesitation in
saying it equalled Bowen’s, but tonguey qualities
go for so much. Born for bachelorhood, Robinson
failed to attain it. Wherefore his malaise.”
Isaac Pit-
man was cre-
mated at Wo-
king. Perhaps
he t h ou g h t
cremation tlie
shorthand of
burial.
M e 1 b. :
“ Apropos C.
E. Jones. De-
mised Attor-
ney - General
G. P. Smith
said to me :
‘ These teeto-
tallers are such
beastly glut-
tons, and to
see that fellow
Jones swilling
milk makes me
sick. ’ ”
A Dailey
anecdote: The
little Q.C. was
bitterly be-
moaning to a
friend the de-
parture of his
cook, famed
far and wide
for her fish-
dinners.
“ Thank God,
however,’’said
W.8.D., pull-
ing himself to
gether with a
great effort—
“we parted ex-
cellent friends
—I kissed her
on both cheeks
and gave her
my benedic-
tion.”
The general opinion in S.A. is that, apart
from Premier Reid, Kingston would prove more
than a match for any man in the Convention.
Reid’s calmness and the humor of his interjections,
it is felt, would drive the fiery Charlie into mad-
ness if they were leaders of opposing political
parties in the same House.
Melb. Argus chuckles over the fact that
labor-member Trenwith was about the most care-
fully and expensively apparelled person at Ade-
laide Convention. Quite natural: the clothes
with which Trenwith did “credit to the colony ”
whilst he was figuring as a Victorian politician
in London have not yet lost their freshness.
NO CASE FOR THE BEAK.
(2 a.m.)
MRS. FOGARTY (with much concern to Fogarty,
who is taking a well-earned rest at the foot of
the stairs) : “ Holy Mother of Moses, Tim—
who's been larrupin' yez? Who’s been
assaultin' yez? Who’s been shtrikin’ yez?
Tell me neow, and I'U have the law of ’em in
the marnin’? ”
FOGARTY (with a groan): “For Hivven’s sake,
wumman, have sinse. Shure, yez can’t bring
a charge agin the blanky ground!”
HER PHYSIQUE.
(Two hospital inmates of the men's ward discussing the new matron.)
1ST PATIENT: “ I rather like her physique."
2ND PATIENT: “ Begorra, does she mix yours fur ye?"
Journalist : “E. M. Young makes me
think of Jardine Smith. Young, reckoned t
failure in Melb. banking business, went anc
created a London one of his own, with three times
the salary. Jardine Smith was employed by
David Syrne on the Herald as leader-writer,
when it and the Age were the Symese Twins
Not being adjudged good enough, he went to tne
Argds, and wielded the most brilliant rapier ever
known there. But Age Windsor was the rejected
Argus editor. Bitter mistake. ”
J. P. T. Caulfield, the boy-politician of
younger days, was to lecture on the Evils
Derrink at Melb. Athenaeum Hall one night this
week. The loquacious Caulfield is converted te
temperance principles. Not long ago he ran »
grog shop in W.A., and since then he has been', *
distinguished visitor at many a Melbourne bar,
but now he improves the shining hour by relatinf
How and Why He became a Teetotaller. Per-
haps he did it—Heaven forbid ! —in order that ht
might get a suitable subject for a lecture.
Herbert Yivian in London Figaro (in »
letter to J. B. Robinson, the South African gold-
king)
My good man, the Prince of Wales is on sale very cheaj
to-day ; any ruffian who possesses a fairly round sum may
buy his dismal acquaintance at a comparatively moderate
price. Why, even Hirsch contrived to purchase, a bosom
friendship, when no foreigner of decent birth would a®-
knowledge the man’s bow in the street. If you thought
you were going to cheat English sooiety into accepting
vou, you were very much mistaken indeed. When you
know a little more about this country, you will understand
that the Prince of Wales’s friends are instinctively fought
shy of.
Which appears to be emphatically the case.
At Melb. National Art Gallery studios u
a blue “ ohinaware ” vase, on the hard surface oi
which are cut the initials of each winner of the
Yic. Travelling Scholarship up to date. It hat
been the practice of every winner of the prize to
dedicate the cup to his most likely successor, anti,
so far, the tip has never gone wrong. It is now
in the honorary possession of Alec. Williams
(“Sas”) a chic artist whose work is known t«
readers of The Bulletin. Little “ Sas ”is the
anointed king of the “ Cannibals,” or youngs
students, who grow their forelocks long and
straight, but are otherwise quite harmless.
A correspondent :
Ed. Bulletin, —Speaking from inside knowledge, uu
present leaders of a political Tammany, in a provinoi
that shall be nameless, don’t know enough to respond tt
the dinner-cooey. Looking back but a few, few years ant
admiring the bold pirates who masterfully shovelled th*
Treasury into their own pockets—and defended their acti
on patriotic grounds—the present are a poor lot. It
seems incredible, and I cannot explain it (seeing that eve*
the salary is £lOOO a year), but it is true that there is onh
one of the whole mob who doesn’t positively get hurt it
his finances if he gives a fiver out of his own purse
Willing to “do ” the fake ? Bless you, yes; but that
don’t know how. Instead of controlling a big bank an«
sliding it into insolvency, they let a bankrupt bank cow
trol them and keep them in a state of whimpering obeeb
ence. One, as I have said, is all right, and he practical!?
doesn’t care what happens. Another is comparatives
young, never had anything to lose, and has a bright pr*>
fessional career at his feet. A third had the horse-sensi
to get away from under before the roof fell in on him, bui
even he has lost a few thousands and the loss has made mn
absolutely afraid. A fourth had sheer bad luck by reaaoi
of a business partner, and is now painfully working off a
dead horse. A fifth has the repute of wealth, which If
always useful. But the rest? Stark, stony-broke
Salaries, so to speak, garnisheed without orders of th*
court, and have to live up to the rest of ’em. Esche*
clubs and think eighteen-penny meals the height of extra
vagance. Gad ! sir, when I see you “ going for” then.,
on account of their looting, I pity ’em. Why, they hav«
«tambarooras” —ay, and “ tarpaulin-musters ” I—for apt-
penny drinks. When alone, they drink thrippennv Oi
the sly.—Yours, Hoo.


The impression prevails at the War Office
that the horses of the Argentine Republic
are stronger and hardier than the Australian
animals.
J.ef~ f£c 'neCe
Ct vrc/x?/' y?ccs-fra?iay \6c<c/f-yuyfter
/ <2/rc7 Sv&r-tfyy’t 'ce Sisil/
vo7?y <^oop
//s y/s7 </ y
< »- v 0 ■
. ,t x v,\® i^
. o v , e X> e
• & z \&* o° 6
■ '° i
l_c 3N&, NaP
■s
Q°
t
He will Br,d time befcrre'\e leaves London to
take a run across to Paris, and to slip up to
Scotland,
, Mr.. Retd
hearing n his arms his youngest child, stepped
out of his cab with Mrs. Reid, and thenceforth
to the saloon carriage had to t»Unce the family
hope in one hand and greet enthusiastic Auslra-
liaris with the other The operation was skil-
' lully performed-on a crowded platform,•
£7ey rte '2)*tZy
7o<zlc<£/-ajbfy Could. 7p 'r
7a He 71) e a-bose if)
ciderifr
°
'■x
x
%
%
\x>
% h, '■>?
% V
S>£*
£ /or cerz cuss is fey/j /yKecf*?<^r
s<J?/c./for c/ufics? 06 Hanf'cc
GfoocC S'fcci/yb tenocru/fUJous JoerSoy 70~ <£o oc2{
Zfc> y&ccybers oirxU c Taey/—baf~Zi/&e7s
y
> O'
“ / , I <o°“
i-^m 1 V*
CARTOON LETS.


At thw
meeting of the commission of the Preeby-
•enan Assembly last evening/ Mr. Ehrlich,
Jewish missionary delivered an address on
uhe subject of his labours, and though h,ia
work appeared/to be carried on with great
hopefulness, he,was not able to claim that
his efforts had ’Jeen attended with any tan-
gible result.
./tf
. "P 7 *7
‘
iM
~ a l **
771
C t *
'
uA ir ' «**■?■ *T«* 4
f^ ,b k » r ‘ L^-'fhtf* r u*-
</,/ ih \ , r ,xT/*'
rt'^ 1 c^ s tt fo t> <w ' , ' k
'Civility on the part of railway traveller*
fb porters and others, who have frequently
unpleasant duties to perform, will, as a
rule, command civility io return
T/-ci ts ell e
C/Sife me o/tancC,
po r fe t~ P
~Posfe/-. -2> et/' > 1 « bif,
$//?ce ye
~/Ae e/i/iiit f /a A if- A
y 4 m Aa f~ ias A q l-i
in
n'-n e.. '*
With reference to the prayer* for rain, he
reminded tne brethren that in many parts
of the colony the land was still parched, and
tliei ' earnest supplications to God should
be continued. the motion did:
not suggest thafc'hhey were to supplicate;
merely that rath should fall by 27tn June.'
They were to continue praying for rain on)
the parched lands in the manner commenced j
Inst Sunday.
..Tho.motion with the date altered to 6thj
Jtihe vrpe- carried.
/hr jeYetencl. _ Olxlufoi/er'.eari
w 5/io ur
2<fJ~le rno , ' & -
J;sCthnnT^ (orX
A
Ay
yr<t, r
aWSK’"^\
v%r-
-%*
JO 'Jo*Jo ncs y *U.C~A-Uc~
/ /lA c- catx Su-oSu-tu- Sus——
1 -f oirt er - S-u.s-fut~Su.iSuS- S/X-
-ptn'ort A /?n./?-/>~/*»./7- / b/eate.
72
y/iu, u . . *K , „
- i* 1 '-/A er
:, f 'iifc c -f.V" r / o/ /
/ all"' \l&u y e \'x
VQ > *</■ * , > ~TT^ 11 /" f O- X
c i y- « ' y IV- 1 i'oC lj '\ v* X
cr—'«*. * . a ' „A / « -n. /
<?f-£ec7ecZ m'f .° rC _ V
lAr<?m A «" 1 . rt^
« He
bad brought this under the notice of ■
some of the medical gentlemen, thinking
tLat some of them would agree to re.'ieve
her of the unpleasant duty ot attending on
the “d.t.'s/’ drunks and gome other horrid
cases that came into the Hospital—3ome of
them at late hours of the night. He war
soriy to say, however, that the age of
jhivaJry seemed to be passed The male
members of the staff had replied simply
,hat she would have to take the rough oases
„vntb thc.regt. /
v? C&S £ Y ~D. /.
T’/AsTWea(< l Vorrt<*T''~
'' 7?z et- e. / ctect. r- y *) tt Sit
ojt /i/. s /ie&<?(.j
'-wkihrf”
or\ hivn ovith ~f/l£ j
Jflg ftu. re y Sn/^o> oct
jn proposing tae health of Sir Frede-
rick Sargood, the President said that
their guest had proved himself so neces-
sary to the advancement of the colony
til at 'he trusted the hon. gentleman's
holiday would’ not he too extended. Sir
(//r ea ?? 7Ae 7'/[€f'€- l <PAneus
■ituras Jlv/io z*ras rnakm<f y/ie. blooTrunq Coac/k
-To 90."
MELBOURNE MATTERS.


Granuma for Health ,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Hotnali for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you'd see ,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And—there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Those who sympathise with the afflicted will
rejoice with Station-master I. Ludwick, of Talbot
railway station, Vic., whose recovery from lum-
bago by the use of .Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure has
created such extensive and favorable comment.
Me explains in a letter dated Feb. 12, 1897 : “For
many years I had very bad attacks of lumbago,
suffering terrible agony, each lasting three or four
days, rendering me unable to do any work. I
tried every known internal and external remedv,
but received no benefit until, about six years ago,
1 tried Warner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure, and lam pleased to
say tour bottles cured me, and I have never been
troubled with this painful disease since. I have
also recommended this remedy to others, and I
am pleased to say, with good results.”*
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liveb
and Kidney Disease.
William Fleming,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Xh Stock, and to Awxve —
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARKOWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES
HARNESS. Jo
Catalogue on application.
FLUID SHEEP DIP ]
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE” J
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to-
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD..
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE,
Ok, the following Agents
QUEENSLAND
Kingston, S.A.;
POLITICAL
One member of We.stralia’s Leg. Council
was returned to the “ Old Men’s Home ” with 13
votes.
The Westralian spurification of Rolls Act
worked sad havoc in the t’othersider votes at
Westralian elections.
The return of the two Labor men (Guthrie
and Hutchinson) for Adelaide district of S.A.
Leg. Council now looks certain.
The President of Yic. Leg. Council states
that Sargood is “necessary to the advancement of
the colony.” “ The colony ” must be a crab.
Moans Zeal, M.L.C., Vic: “A director’s
life under the new Companies Act is the life of a
galley slave.” Humph ! and the lives ci many
under the old act ought to have been.
A Westralian election question : Is the
candidate in favor of granting woman’s suffrage ?
Heavy voice from the back, “ Yes, give ’em any-
thing to come over from t’otherside.”
Not a single official of either House of the
A. legislature wears a uniform, the only robe
, office donned being a gown. There is no usher
of the-black, or any other, rod, and the assistant-
clerk.m either House has the title and performs
the duties, when necessary, of Sergeant-at-Arms.
The idea of bundling hundreds, thousands,
if iposjdble, of Sydney’s hungry and ragged unem-
ployed on to the space in front of Redfern railway-
etation, to yell Premier Reid a malediction on his
departure for ’Ome, ranks among the most trucu-
lent party moves of the generation. And the idea
hqd abase.
A GREAT DISPLAY.
“ Veil, veil! Cohen must he mad to put up that big dransparency for the
Diamond Jubilee: vat exdravagance, to be sure!”
W IFE: “ Veil, I dinks you should make some disblay.”
So I vill, mine tear. I gets dose dree balls covered mid luminous
baint!”
Premier Kingston’s departure for England
leaves his Ministry without a lawyer in its ranks.
Holder will have to act as grand jury, and dodge
legal problems in Parliament until his chief returns.
Frank Harris, the Saturday Review
editor, who is excellently informed on South
Africa, avers that English war on the Boers
would hoop up and cooper all South Africa into a
Republic.
Political appointments are still possible
in Victoria, despite Public Service and Rail-
way Acts passed to prevent them. One
potentate in particular, it is averred, works
his opportunities for all they are worth.
Within a short space he has smuggled in
five youths—two were his own sons, and the
rest sons of intimate friends.
“We may presume,” writes Rev. Dr.
Geikie to Sydney D.T., “ that the members of
the Federal Convention (who refused to em-
body anything about God in the Federal Con-
stitution) are neither agnostics nor atheists.”
Well, the atheist-affirmative is a very rare
bird ; but, as regards agnostics, since the ma-
jority of intelligent men are nowadays agnostic,
in esse, if not in nomine, it is only reasonable
to suppose that a majority of the Convention-
members are of opinions which —while prevent-
ing them, on the one hand, from asserting
God —prevent them equally, on the other, from
taking what Dr. Geikie calls the manlier
course of denying Him altogether. There is
no special manliness in being, like his rever-
ence, cocksure about the unknowable.
Brunker’s appointment as N.S.W. Acting-
Premier is the necessary consequence of the order
in which the members of the Reid Ministry were
sworn in and gazetted. In the event of death or
disability of the Prime Minister, the members of a
Ministry succeed to the duties of Premier in their
originally gazetted order. In the U.S. constitu-
tion this principle is expressly laid down.
Another half-hundred of the “Empress’s ’
subjects—“ the most miserable objects yet intro-
duced ” —are reported as en route from Sydney to
“New India” at Tucki, N.S.W. Their prede-
cessors on the sugar fields, however, are fast
putting on flesh and impudence, and the Richmond
Herald sends forth a wail over a prospect of soon
having in the district more colored man than plain.
At Croydon, recently, John Hoolan con-
fessed that he had seen the error of his Ways and
lived to repent. He had hunted away capital, and
instanced the present state of the Etheridge as
caused by this hunting of capital. He wanted in
future to do all he could to attract capital, and
hoped some day to be a capitalist. . . . And this
is the fire-eater of yesterday. Beware of the Jerry
Simpsons ! Whenever they brag about never
wearing socks they’re on the high road to a plug-
hat.
Governor Mac-
gregor hires out his
Papuan prisoners to
private employers.
Diggers up there who
have read of the sys-
tem of assigning con-
victs in the early days
of N.S. Wales can
now study some fea-
tures of the policy at
their own doors.
Maurice O’Rorke
is the only survivor of
the Maoriland House
of Representatives of
1861 who sits in the
House of 1897. Last
year there were two
survivors, but the
other one, the patri-
archal Saunders,
dropped out at the
’96 election, and
O’Rorke is now a
lonesome Methuselah
all “on his own.”
South Australia
is the only Australian
province whose post
and telegraph depart-
ment shows a sub-
stantial profit. Also,
it is the only province
where an expert per-
manent official runs
the department in-
stead of it being en-
trusted to the fool of
the Ministry who
has generally to make
way for the fool of
the next Ministry
before he has begun
to learn anything.
There maybe no con-
nection between these
circumstances, but it
certainly looks as if
there was.
Copeland’s pro-
posal to have N.S.W.
Parliament meet at 3
p.m. and rise at 11
p.m., “whoever was
speaking,” is the old
eight-hour-system of
the workshops. When
the clock strikes,
“down tools.”
N.S.W. Single-Tax latest manifesto de-
clares for the abolition of income-tax, abolition of
exemptions under land-tax, and increase of that
tax to 3d. in the £,. What chance has such a pro-
gramme ! And where, now, has gone the vaunted
tax on stimulants and narcotics ? Has the League
thrown the Wise-party over, or the Wise-party
the League ?
Premier Reid, at his farewell banquet in
Sydney Town Hall, enthused much about the
Australians being “one people.” Yet at the
Federal Convention he fought to the bitter end to
keep the railways under six hostile provincial
managements, and to keep the debts separate, and
generally to make Australia as far as possible six
peoples instead of one. If half the after-dinner
Federal enthusiasm were only available when it is
really wanted !
DIPLOMATIC WEAKNESS, ,
SYMPATHISER: “ You are not looking too well."
SICK ONE: “ Oh, I don’t want to. If I did, I’d be expected to do some housework!"
Tt is reported now that Nelson, as soon as
he has secured whatever title happens to be going,
will cable his resignation of Queensland Premier-
ship. Then Horace Tozer, as Acting-Premier,
will seize the billet before Byrnes can get back.
But the air is full of rumors about the Happy
Family at Brisbane, and the only point on which
they resemble each other is that each rumor
represents somebody as surreptitiously throwing
someone else overboard.
While Colonial Secretary Brunker has been
made nominal acting-Premier of N.S.W., the real
work is to fall on Minister Carruthers, who will
engineer the Federal Bill through Parliament. A
very clear admission of the very patent and well-
known fact that Brunker knows nothing about
Federation, and a direct smack in the face for the
voters who supported him in his voiceless candi-
dature for a great National Convention, where he
figured merely as a smug dummy with a vote.
Old John M‘lntyre, leader of Vie. Opposi-
tion, enthusiastically assured Premier Turner that
he would not countenance any attack on the Govt,
in Turner’s absence. It transpires, however, that
John is himself going England wards to look for
some favorable opportunity for bumping his old
white head in the dust before the throne, and his
substitute isn’t bound by John’s promise, so if
the Tories see a chance to Upset the Government
while Turner is away it will be upset promptly.
There are grumblings out West (N.S.W.)
at the free exercise of the power conferred by the
’95 Land Act to attach resumed areas to lease-
holds ; and indignation meetings are being held.
The complaint is made more especially as to river-
frontage holdings. The Act certainly provides
that any resumed areas so attached may be again
resumed, and so thrown open for settlement upon
six months’notice being given by the Governor,
which, in practice, means the Minister for Lands ;
but confidence in Lands Ministers’ friendship for
selectors is not unlimited out back.
The present Dutch succession-difficulty in-
volves a choice chapter of “ Royal ” history. Of
the late King’s two sons by his first wife, one went
mad, the other raked himself to death ; and, when
the father in turn had debauched himself into a
miserable wreck, the present Duchess of Albany
was chosen in hot haste to provide the crown, if
possible, with an heir at the last moment. But an
elder sister became the victim ; result, daughter—
the present girl-queen, upon whose marriage and
possible issue depends the preservation of the
rotten House of Orange from extinction.
The Vic. Ministry lost an honorary mem-
ber last week, but the business of the country
wasn’t interrupted by the melancholy event. In
fact, everybody had forgotten that David Coutts,
M.L.C., had been anyway connected with the
Turner Government until the matter cropped
up casually in his deat i notices. Coutts was a
grazier in a way, and he died of dropsy, resulting
from the drought. Alas ! even Property has its
drawbacks. Thousands of older and unhealthier
men than the late M.L.C. have lived through this
drought-time without feeling a penny the worse
for it.
Jawbone Neild, M.L.A., in the old age
pension scheme debate: “I do not see why We
should give the person who has an income of .£5O
a year a pension of 10s. per week and settle the
same sum on those who have nothing at all.”
Perhaps the best reason is that every citizen will
contribute to the pension-fund through the general
taxation, therefore every citizen has the same
right to benefit by the fund if he wants to. It
isn’t a question of “giving” the money, in any
case ; it is a matter of the whole community in-
suring its life and collecting the insurance when it
comes due. Neild in the attitude of a national
benefactor talking of himself as the “ We ” who
“ give the money ” is grotesque.
Writes “T.” to The Bulletin :
The Victorian Minister of Mines ‘is carrying* out his
track-cutting policy under a system very much like
sweating. A 30-mile track at Buchan has just been com-
pleted for 9d. a chain ; and another in East Gippsland has
recently been let at the same price. This latter track is
28 miles long, across mountainous and otherwise tough
country, and is to be cleared Bft. wide. For a distance of
sa Pl in K s are so thick that a horseman can
with difficulty ride through them. The track also includes
four miles of cutting, to be cut sft. wide, and much of
that is rock. When the job is completed each man will
have earned about 10s. per week These contracts are
tendered for by one of a party of mates, who share alike
in the profits. The reason why they are taken so cheaply
is the same as with the sweated factory employes thev
must obtain a living somehow. It would surely be judi-
cious for the track inspector—the one who surveyed this
has bossed Government jobs for years—to put on the
work an estimate, below which tenders should not be
accepted. Mr. Foster, having such evidence of Victorian
prosperity before him, must be joking when he says he
can t understand why so many Vies, migrate to other
lands.
“Can we never extract this tapeworm ol
Europe from the brain of our countrymen?”—
Emerson.
Writes “ A Voter : ”
Dear Bulletin,— How to make elections a pront instead
of a loss to the commonwealth. Every district to keep a
book with voters’ signatures recorded. At election-time
each voter to post his vote, securely sealed, enclosing a
separate slip containing- his signature for comparision
The district signature-book to be sent to the Federal City"
prior to the election, and the signatures to be compared
by experts. The votes to be opened and counted by the
usual officers appointed for that purpose. The advantages
of this system would be : A large increase of revenue to
the post office ; saving of time and money to the voters
who now mostly lose one day visiting the polling booth l
saving the country a large amount of the usual election
expenses. Fraud would be almost impossible under this
system. If cheques are honored by the banks, why should
not written votes be honored by returning officers? Sig-
natures to be renewed every year.
Sydney Telegraph leading article : “ One
of the counts in Mr. Lyne’s indictment against
the (N.S.W.) Government is that the roads and
bridges vote has been starved in order to make the
public balance-sheet presentable. This is a stock
charge.” It is. For instance, Dibbs, in his last
year of office, spent .£450,000 on roads and bridges.
And Reid, when he came into power, not only
accused him of “ starving ” the road vote, but in
1895 he charged £332,000 of his own road-and-
“ THE BULLETIN’S” AMATEUR ART-
GALLERY.
Hic! ’Mall ri’; thanks f’r see in’m’ home!"
bridge expenditure back to Dibbs’ accounts, and
put it among the expenditure of ’94—on the
ground that Djbbs should have spent it, and that
the vote of £450,000 was ridiculously small. Then
“ e °nL, own roa d-and-bridge expenditure down
to £387,000. And the Telegraph didn’t even
mention that it was a stock charge, and that the
little fat monte-man was running it into the
ground.


WHY DO
PALING'S PIANOS
Sell so readily and prove easily VICTORS over all
competition ? It is because of the overpoweriny
magnet of well - known and honorable names,
such as —
STEIN WAY & SONS, New York
JOHN BRINSMEAD & SONS, London
RICH, LIPP & SONS, Stuttgart
JULIUS FEURICH, Leipzig
GORS & KALLMANN, Berlin
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, Heilbroun ...
ESTEY ORGAN COMPANY
BOOSEY & CO., London
BESSON & CO., London
COUESNON & CO., Paris
Sc 0., &c.,
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
AMERICAN ORGANS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
These names are sufficient in themselves to vouch for all that is meritorious and excellent,
but to make assurance doubly sure, we add our own guarantee that in every instrument sup-
plied, the very best material and workmanship have been used, and that they excel in all-round
merit and intrinsic value. In beauty and chaste elegance of design they are far in advance of
competition.
The “ VICTOR ” and the “ BELLING ” Pianos, constructed especially to our order at
.£46 and =£ll6 respectively, are extraordinary good value, and we can recommend them with
confidence.
Our new Showroom for Band Instruments is now full of every description and variety of
musical instrument, and well worth a visit. Our prices are extremely low—wholesale or retail.
We sell for cash or on easy time payment terms. Please call and see us, or write for catalogues.
W. w. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY & WEW CASTLE.
Do you know that
ARE
Guaranteed for 12 Months?
3
To ensure this guarantee, you
must see that they bear this
Trade Mark—
e)
66 The Paten t Dunlop- Welsh
Pneumatie Tyre . 99
If you are in doubt of the
genuineness of your Cover
or Tube, we shall be glad
to report on same.
FIRST IN
1888.
FOREMOST
EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
*Tattersall’s Lane, Melbourne. *B6 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Litchfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
p
r.O
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand finished, full-capped jewelled English Lever, £3 10s. Extra quality,
£4, £4 10s, £5, fc'6, t'7, £B, strongest, cheapest, and best time-keeper ever
made—3, 5, 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Open-face Keyless, 30s.
Double case, 40s, t 2 10s. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d ; extra, 12s 6d ; superior
quality, 2i}s, guaranteed 12 months. Special Gold Keyless Walthams, patent
filled cases, £2 15s, £4 4s, £6s ss, and £6 6s. Cases guaranteed 5, 15, and 20
years. iWp guarantee all our watches to give every satisfaction. Try us,
you will not regret it.
r /j'/\
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s 6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold Bar, 15s. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
ctefjtv:::;:
»»a;3sio
■Tito
w
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Gold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst, 21s ;
15c. Gold, as above, 355.
6 different Patterns, Gold
Links, 12s 6d. Chain connec-
tion, 15s. Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and 6s.
Gold Amethyst Heart Coronet, 20s.
15c. do. do. 30s.
5 pure Diamonds, double-
cut, 18e. Gold Hand-
made, £4 10s. Larger
Diamonds, £5, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
Strong Gold Broooh, 10s ed.
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s 6d
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
Similar, 15c. Gold, 20s, 30s.
EEEBEHffikH
rj?z
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 15c. Gobi
Pearls and Rubies (latest), £2.
18c. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heavy, £2.
a-3-0-0,
0009
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 15c., 30s.
18c. Gold, 2 Diamonds
3 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s. 5 pure Dia-
monds, i. 4 10s.
Still
m
0
*
Solid Gold Übain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £0 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
3 pure Sapphires,
4 Diamonds,
18c. £3, £3 10s, £4,
£5, £6.
Beautiful Opals and
Diamonds, same
price. Send for
size card.
m
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, £2 ss, £3 ;
extra, £3 ss;
15c., £3, £4, £5, £6;
with key padlock,
10s extra. All se-
cured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
|^pf">*iiri:r' 1 " ;*a
Solid Gold, 3-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d ; Stone Set, 255.
Any iNaine.
c Solid Gold, 17s 6d. 15c., 25s and 3ls. 18c,
Solid Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame-
thyst, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Pure Diamond, 18c. Gold Band, £3.
15c. Gold Twin Love Birds, 20s.
Set with Pure White Pearls, £2.
All
Articles
Post
Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed
np-
-151
«
n
Stos
g&ffid ,;v.;XF WU?%^
jg§|gg®|^
fvwy-'V
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
255., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. A];
guaranteed.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. 9c.
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30a
355, 40s. Send for size card.
<£»
sjc-
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold „ 3256 d.
Gold Fancy Bar Name Brooch, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDERS,
“SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST, ILLUSTRATED,” post free and when in town SoIUrGOLD'and’^SILVERCHAINS, CLOCKS style and price™ A BriUtat
Beautiful GOLD JEWELLERY and Most Unique in Style and Design. Our articles are guaranteed to give you every satisfaction, and Purchasers SAVE from 5s to 7s 6d in the pound.
Exhibition of the Jeweller 8 Art, a .panorama oi uvYciuicoo.
“ ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
THE JEWELLER,
815 George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W
(NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION).


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
-THE-
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,)s00,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,950,211 ss.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JSishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E O.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors :
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents ;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macgreg'or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BROKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Oyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office! Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, eto. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies .
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available. Latest Information from Speoial Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
* p.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Ulients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Rsq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith. Es t., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
phmnix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... ~ £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed <£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
rn HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
- 1 * LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .„ .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up ~. .. £1,660,032 3 0
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 89,967 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. ... 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman ; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Auditors: W.H. Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E:C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. „ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY ... .„ 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. ._ 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Banh of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
1,946,940 0 0
1,190,250 0 0
1,946,940 0 0
Total 6,084,130 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
The H<>n. Charles Kinnaird Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison. F. W. Utker,
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
London Office-Old Itroart Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India arid the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH & CASILEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIYE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Tyrian, Saturday, May 15, 12 noon.
Buniriyong, Tuesday, May 18, 6 p.m.
ADELAIDE
I’OUT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Tyrian, Saturday, May 15, 12 noon.
Buriinyong, Tuesday, May 18, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tuesday, May 18, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, May 15, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, May 18, 6 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Leura, Saturday, May 15, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 22, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger’ Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wallowra (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, May 18.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Saturday, May 22.
S.S. Wallowra (from Mel-
bourne) Tuesday, May 18.
S.S. Adelaide (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, May 22.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
ESPERANCE BAY Steamerfrom Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
-S.S. Emu, Tuesday, May 18.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & C°’s Din®
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Eoyal Mail Line
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE ALBAN F
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
May 22
June 19
July 17
Ade-
laide,
Noon.
May 24
June 21
July 19
to Bombay, India,
PASSENGERS booked
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including
table wmes.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD. KAlJib ’
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £36 to £7n
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £26 £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £65. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
f avorabl e terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S- INI■ Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnifioent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane
Townsville, Cooktovrn, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Every Three Weeks
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Asrencv
Coy. Ltd.
Mining Notices.
T. j. <iilimn;
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
BALLARAT.
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHA REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
A delaide.
N.S.W. of MiQeS.
"IVT OTICE is hereby given that a PUBLIC
JAI MEETING will be held on FRIDAY,
MAY 21st, at the Equitable Buildings, George-
street, Sydney, at 4.15 p.m., at which it is pro-
posed to form a N.S.W. CHAMBER OF
MINES. Draft Memorandum and Articles of
Association will be submitted to the Meeting.
Provisional Committee :
Messrs. Alexander, Batley, Bensusan, Boucher,
Buzacott, Cohen, Dodds, Eissler, Gainford, Howell,
Inglis, Kirk, Low, Malcolm, Marks, Massey,
Mullens, Danvers, Power, Robson, Samuel,
Tarleton.
ARTHUR J. CHAPPELL, Sec. pro tem.,
Equitable Buildings,
George-st., Sydney.
April 30th, 1897.
Business Announcements.
EVERY VARIETY OF
gEO
P
m
I
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
MINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
CANNED SALMON”
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australia#
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triumpli.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
An>ericaQ I report Co.,
PACKER'S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Leading Warehouse*


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
j)avid graham g Co.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
<a'QtUn)?Q’S B % T oT”
Winter SOitiogS
JUST OPENED !
Importers op
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BR AD AM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 ZKli.xxg’ St., Sydney.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cures dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of six doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Pubications.
G-eo. Rotoertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
" Friends no Longer*” S0 ™u R^
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
tid. (‘iirli, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at Ski. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton & Co., London,
And 203 Swanston-street, MEI.ISOIICMI.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKEB
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
.PATENT,
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn I’salin,
the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
ful Song, and the Merry Dance can all be played on these
charming Instruments. N o KNOW LEDGE OF MUSIC K EQUIREI).
A Useful and Pre ty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of the
“ Sydney Bulletin. '
Campbell’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 10/8
Campbell's “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22/6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, for the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privlle e Price List for Musical Season 1897, now ready.
150,000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL & Co., Musical Instrument Makers,
116, Trongate, Glasgow. Est. 50 Years. Agents 'Wanted.
Hotels.
Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXOELSIOK HOTEL.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
Soutli E ristaane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTER BALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
TOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’B HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves —and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c
Visitors to
z Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence <£l per
Week' (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
PHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL-
-409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
MELBOURNE.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
_from 18s. per week upwards.
Banking Notice-
Tb* Colofyial MCitOal Life Assftraoc?
Society, Lirpit^d.
Sydney Office ----- 105 Pitt Street.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
Presented to the Annual Meeting of the Society, held on Wednesday, 28th day of
April, 1897, at 3 o’clock p.m.
NEW BUSINESS.
During the twelve months there have been received—
-3588 Proposals, for sums amounting to
Of these—
-623 were declined, withdrawn, or have not
been proceeded with, amounting to ...
366 remain in various stages towards com-
pletion, the sums proposed being
2599 were completed and policies issued, of which
2437 were for Life Assurance and 159 for
Endowments, amounting in the aggregate to ...
3 Annuity bonds
£1,083,462 0 0
212,050 0 0
106,450 0 0
764,962 0 0
318 9 5
INCOME.
The annual income arising from policies issued during the year amounts to
£26,471 19s. 3d.
CLAIMS.
Claims have matured by death under 337 policies, on 306 lives, amounting to
£112,222 Is. 10d., including bonuses.
A sum of £37,677 ss. 6d. has been paid for endowments matured under 181 policies.
One annuity of £2l ss. 6d. has ceased to become payable owing to the death of the
annuitant.
ACCOUNTS. .
The addition to the funds during the year was £117,136 13s. 6d., bringing the total
funds up to £2,040,972 7s. 2d.
REDUCTION IN EXPENSES.
The ratio of expenses to premium revenue has again been diminished notwithstanding
the increased volume of new business.
INTEREST.
The average rate of interest yielded throughout the year by the funds (after deduction
of the amount in the Investment Fluctuation Fund) had exceeded 4J per cent.
THE GENERAL MANAGER.
It is with sincere regret that they have to report the death, on 26th June last, of Mr.
Thomas Jaques Martin, the general manager and managing director of the society since its
establishment. They acknowledge that it has been largely owing to his great organising
powers and thorough grasp of the business that the society possesses its present extensive
organisation and large volume of transactions.
The General Committee of Management, in whose hands lay the appointment of a
successor, unanimously elected the Secretary, Mr. Leslie John Park, to the chief executive
position of General Manager of the Sydney office.
The General Committee of Management also appointed the Assistant Secretary, Mr.
A. F. Crombie, to be Assistant General Manager and Secretary to the Principal Office Board
of Directors.
DIRECTORS.
In accordance wdth the articles, it will be necessary for the meeting to elect two direc-
tors to fill the places of the retiring directors, viz., the Hon. Agar Wynne, M.L.C., and
Mr. George Withers. These gentlemen being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Mr. Phillip Blashki, J.P., and Mr. Alfred Webster have also given notice of candidature.
AUDITORS.
Mr. Louis Charles Wilkinson and Mr. B. D. Smith retire at this meeting, and offer
themselves for re-election.
HENRY HENTY, Chairman.
Melbourne, 15th April, 1897. LESLIE J. PARK, General Manager.
REVENUE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1896.
Amount of funds at the beginning of
the year ... ... ... . . £1,923,835 13 8
Renewal Premiums, after deduction of
reassurance premiums 282,839 14 4
New Premiums, after de-
duction of reassurance
premiums:—
On 2599 new policies is-
sued during the year,
assuring £764,962, and
yielding an annual re-
venue of £26,471 19s
3d after deduction
of reassurances ...£23,691 9 4
Balance of New Pre-
miums on policies is-
sued in last year, be-
ing half - yearly and
quarterly premiums,
which have since be-
come due, and have
been paid 1,166 17 10
24,858 7 2
Consideration for Annuities granted ... 3,860 0 0
Interest 81,147 6 5
£2,316,541 1 7
Claims under Policies (in-
cluding bonus addi-
tions), less reassurances £112,114 15 4
Law Charges re Claims
Resisting fraudulent
claims 794 17 10
Agencies—
Advertising 1,860 8 2
General Charges. ... 1,803 4 4
Law Charges 112 8 4
Postages, Telegrams and
Exchange 1,964 16 10
Rents and Salaries . 24,709 14 9
Stationery and Printing 1,809 9 2
Directors’ Fees (all offices)
Auditors’ Fees
Written off Investment Fluctuation Fund
during the year
Written off Office, Property
Amount of Funds at the end of the year
30,399 13 5
3,997 11 3
412 6 0
3,446 15 5
997 16 6
2,040,972 7 2
£2,316,544 1 7
BALANCE SHEET TO DECEMBER 31, 1896.
LIABILITIES.
Assurance Fund . £1,993,107 14 9
Investment Fluctua-
tion Fund 47,864 12 6
Total Funds £2,040,972 7 2
Claims admitted, but not paid* 4,543 11 0
Other sums owing by the Society ... 1,869 4 5
£2,047,385 2 7 £2,047,385 2 7
♦This item is included in the Revenue Account above. .
We have audited the balance-sheet and accounts of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Limited, to the 31st December, 1896,. together with the books and vouchers, of
which we have made a monthly examination in terms of the articles of association, and
have found the same correct ; and we consider that the balance-sheet is a full and
fair balance-sheet, containing the particulars required by the regulations of “ The Com-
panies Statute, 1864 ” (“ The Companies Act, 1890”) and is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the society.
LOUIS C. WILKINSON
B. A. SMITH
j Auditors.
Local Directors:
Hon. J. F. BURNS (Chairman)
Hon. C. ,T. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. ARTHUR BRUCE-SMITH.
Offices of the Society :
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE BUILDINGS,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALEX. ROSS MILLER,
Resident Secretary.
A Newtown Sensation.
SUFFERED FOR NINETEEN YEARS.
A SUPPOSED INCURABLE CURED IN
TWO MONTHS.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS AGAIN
VICTORIOUS AFTER HOSPITALS
PRONOUNCED A LADY INCURABLE
—THE AWFUL EFFECTS OF RHEU-
MATIC FEVER—A HUNDRED AND
FIFTY PEOPLE WATCHING HER—
A BRIGHT AND CHERRY PERSON-
ALITY—WHAT SHE SAYS ABOUT
THE PINK PILLS.
From the Australian Star.
The truest of axioms remarks that there is no
smoke without fire, and whenever the public talk
in warm and appreciative terms of the benefit
they have derived from the use of some specific,
there is always certain to be clear and honest
evidence behind to prove these words.
Hearing in especial of a local cure which had,
amongst numberless others, been effected by the
use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, a
reporter was despatched to the residence of the
patient in question to personally investigate the
case.
Mrs. Evans is the lady’s name, and her house is
situated at No. 105 Mary-street, Newtown, neat
St. Peters.
When we entered we were met by a bright and
cheerful woman, past middle age, but still wear-
ing on her face the signs of recent illness and
departed pain.
We explained our mission.
“Oh,” she said, “ sit down by the window there.
I’ll tell yon all you want to know—and more
besides ” —she added, cheerily, “ about the mar-
vellous change that has taken place in my con-
dition entirely since I began taking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills.”
“ You had previously been an invalid, had you
not ? ” we asked.
“Yes,” she replied. “lam a widow, and the
mother of twelve children, and for nineteen years
I have suffered intensely from the after effects of
rheumatic fever.”
“ And now ? ”
“ Ah ! ” she said, shaking her head and smiling,
“ I am much better now.”
“ How did you first hear of the Pills, then ? ”
“ Well, a man left a pamphlet at my door issued
by the Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Company, and I
read it, and was struck by a case in it similar to
my own in which a cure had been effected.”
“ Did you get a box ? ”
“ Yes, I got a box, and just took the Pills about
the end of November or the beginning of Decem-
ber. ”
“ And the improvement ? ”
“It dated gradually from that date, and as I
took each box I could feel myself perceptibly
growing better, until to-day I’m a changed woman
to what I was two months ago.”
“ Were you very bad, then ? ”
“ Yes. Before I began taking Dr. Willliams’
Pink Pills I couldn’t move my shoulder, neck,
arms, or hands. I couldn’t think of using the
sewing machine. Now I turn the wheel quite
easily with my hand ; but before that I couldn’t
lift it from my side. Look what I’ve done with
the machine, thanks to the Pills.” And she
showed us a number of ladies’ articles profusely
ornamented with fancy stitching and frills of deft
embroidery. Each stich was white and regular,
and each curve cut with the nicest attention to
detail.
“You know I earn my living by this,” she said,
looking up, “ and I’d be thankful for more cus-
tomers. But before I took Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I could no more think of using the machine
than I could of flying.”
“ Did you try much medicine before you bought
the Pills ? ”
“Yes, continually for 19 years; and I could
swim,” she added, reminiscently, “in all the lina-
ments and stuff I’ve taken. Bottle after bottle-
one thing followed another —and there seemed to
be no end to it. ”
“Didn’t you try the hospitals?”
“Yes ; I tried them all. But after I’d been at
each place a while they all declared me incurable.
Why, I walked into the Sydney Infirmary in
Macquarie-street, but it did me no good, and I
had to be carried out.”
“ And you have had private doctors, I suppose?”
“ Yes, I have. Plenty of them—and too many,”
she remarked, with a laugh. “ But it was no
good. After they’d treated me a bit they all told
me the same : ‘ It’s no use,’ they said. ‘You’ll
never get better. We can’t do any more for you.’
So I wasted my money year after year. One doc-
tor recommended me to go into the hospital, and
have my sinews cut. But I wouldn’t agree to
that.”
“ Then you ascribe the improvement in your
condition absolutely to the use of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills?”
“ Yes, absolutely,” she replied. “ I have taken
seven boxes by now, and I’m using my eighth.
And I intend to keep on using them. They’re
the only thing I’ve ever had that have done me
any good, and I can’t to be too thankful to them.
I believe absolutely in them.”
“ Why, look,” she added, quickly, as she raised
her arms, and pinned her collar with the greatest
ease. “I could not raise my hands from my
waist before I took the Pills, and was thoroughly
useless. Now I can earn my own living. And
the awful pains from my neck and chest and
shoulders have all gone away. I never feel them
a bit now. Though in the old days,” and she gave
a little shiver at the recollection, “if I made the
slightest move sharp pains would dart all through
my neck and shoulders.
“ Your case is exceedingly interesting.”
“Do you know that there are about 150 people
who have heard of me and are watching my case?
I am a great object of interest to the neighborhood,
and as I get well others who’re also suffering are
taking the Pills, and I recommend them strongly
to all my friends. I bless the day,” she added
conclusively, “ when I first bought a box of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. Many people know of me,”
she added, “ through my late husband, who was
for several years a leading officer in the Sons and
Daughters of Temperance.”
Then the reporter read the interview over to her,
and she signified its correctness and signed her
name, “ Honor Evans,” below. “ Honor by
name” she said—“ And Honor by nature,” we
added, looking into her earnest face as we bade
her good-bye.
As we left we felt that here, under our personal
observation, was a case, similar to many, in which
the efficacy and marvellous effects of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills had been honestly and exhaustively
demonstrated. *
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.


Packets
of
Fiears
e;xtm.
P OAL«I
Piff\£
U n /LD
/pan ufacrure d by
Til YERNE m
Is.
PILES. —Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “ Canna-
lin ” cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
3!
liitQtft
w
m
m
1
m
E
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ■ - - GEO. W, ELLIS.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
Special Cbeap ExcCirSioi)
TO AND FROM
The Southern District.
TICKETS at Specially Low Fares will be issued
at Sydney and Suburban Stations to all Main
Line Stations, Menangle to Albury inclusive, by
the undermentioned Special Train, available for
return by Ordinary Trains (Melbourne Express
excepted) on any day up to and INCLUDING
THURSDAY, 10th JUNE, 1897.
THURSDAY, 27th MAY, 1897.
Return Tickets at Specially Low Fares will also
be issued TO SYDNEY from all Main Line
Stations, Albury to Demondrille inclusive, by
Special Train leaving Albury at 5.35 a.m., and
from Stations Murrumburrah to Menangle in-
clusive by Special Train leaving Murrumburrah a 8
10.50 a.m. on FRIDAY, 28th MAY.
RETURN TICKETS at TWOPENCE per
mile First-Class (minimum, 10s.) and ONE
PENNY per mile Second-Class (minimum, 55.)
will be issued from stations on the Main Southern
Line to stations Goulburn to Mittagong inclusive,
by the above Special Trains.
These Tickets will only be available on the out-
ward journey by the Special Trains named ; but
passengers can return by Ordinary Trains (Ex-
press excepted) leaving Sydney up to and including
FRIDAY, Uth JUNE, 1897.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. M'LACHLAN, Secretary.
APAMS NOT€L, Pitt-St., Sydney.
Superior Accommodation,
Private Suites.
ELECTRIC LIGHT and
BELLS throughout
the House.
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
TERMS :
From, Bs. per Day.
U|. J. Hdams,
Manager.
V'
'**■
MAIN ENTRANCE.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street, SYDNEY .
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
Military music is, seemingly, not up to much in Vic-
toria. Of 11 brass bands competing for prizes at the
Druids’ Carnival the two lowest scorers (they were judged
by points) were the bands of the Vic. Permanent Artil-
lery, and 2nd Battalion Infantry. The three boss bands
came from Sydney—the Railway Military, Newtown
Brass, and Glebe Borough.
Miss Eva Mylott, the most promising Sydney contralto,
resembles Myra Kemble strikingly, especially when ani-
mated. Miss Mylott’s voice was trained and developed by
Signor Riccardi, Sydney’s retired Mephistopheles.
At Melb. Athenseum Hall a Mrs. C. T. Rickarby has
started to deliver a course of four Friday evening lectures
on the Queens of England, with limelight illustrations.
Queen Victoria is mercifully omitted from the list of sub-
jects. The lecturess restricts herself to the 30 queens
(mostly by marriage only) who wore a crown between a.d.
1067 and 1837, and didn’t live to have a diamond jubilee.
They were mostly uninteresting persons apart from their
exalted billets, but their little histories offer a few oppor-
tunities for eloquent grovel, and Mrs. Rickarby, in record-
ing their alleged virtues, fills a long-felt want by distract-
ing public attention, for an hour or two, from the
unprecedented goodness of Albert Edward’s mother. Re-
marks about any queen who isn’t our Gracious Sovereign
Lady ought to be thankfully received just now.
Haresfoot: “It needed Mrs. Potter’s Francillon to con-
vince me she is an actress. Charming 1' Yet I wager the
business is the invention of a Parisienne, like many other
things that la belle Cora does in plays adapted from the
French.”
Dan. Barry’s facetious advertising devices in the back-
blocks of this fine young country have earned the dis-
pleasure of British M.P. Hogan. Speaking at the Play-
goers’ Club, a few Sundays ago, Hogan informed the
company that in the course of his Australian experience
he had regretted to find three blood-and-thunder dramas
billed as the work of Spurgeon, Parnell, and W. E. Glad-
stone respectively. Whereat the company, no doubt, did
beat their white shirt-fronts, and beseech Heaven to
blight the theatrical manager who had taken those famous
names in vain. And yet our old friend Daniel remains
capable of even greater atrocities. In his time he has
attributed some of his awfullest plays to W. G. Grace,
Queen Victoria, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and L. L.
Smith.
Flautist Lemmone gave his first public performance in
Australia (i.e., since his return) at Point Nepean quaran-
tine station. Lemmone had the bad luck to arrive per
s.s. Himalaya, and was doomed to vaccination and isola-
tion along with the rest of the passengers.
Poor Nellie Farren is selling her jewels, either from
necessity or because she has wearied of this world’s pomps
and vanities. Anyhow, her “ necklace, formed of 45 fine
graduated brilliant collets, and pendant en suite,” and a
host of other glittering souvenirs, were about to be auc-
tioned when last mail left.
N. : “ Observe the subtle oourtesanic fashion of doing
up the hair by the Panther and her cohort, in ‘ln Sight
of St. Paul’s. ’ ”
S.S. : “Have just seen ‘The Lady of Lyons’ for the
first time, and find myself familiar with much of it
through the medium of modern farce and burlesque.
‘The Lady of Lyons,’ more than any other classic, lends
itself to broad travesty. How stilted it is, how artificial;
one comes from the theatre with a guilty feeling, as if,
after reaching years of discretion, one had been caught
reading ‘ Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded.’ Bellew, a most
wary actor, as Melnotte, shivers on the brink of the
ridiculous. Intuitively arises the odious comparison:
‘ Good, but not as funny as Whitburn.’ ”
“The Firm” did not break Adelaide records with
“ Matsa.” It is hard to run a show in Adelaide just now,
as nothing is to be gained from the present vice-regal set,
and the “bong tong” follow the Buxtonian example of
staying away.
Mrs. Boothman writes: “ The Bulletin has stated that
Alma Gray is Ada Baker’s daughter. Also that she is a
copyist of Alice Leamar, and a singer of objectionable
songs, such as ‘ Johnny Jones.’ I am her mother, the
wife of Alfred W. Boothman, myself better known by my
theatrical name of Ruth Gray. Alma did not sing
‘ Johnny Jones ’ and has no coarse and vulgar songs in
her repertoire. She imitates no one—she has sufficient
natural talent to obviate the necessity.”
“ Old Tom Haydon, in all his verdant juvenility, ap-
peared at Mackennal’s ‘ Show Sunday,’ accompanied by
ma Haydon, and Ethel, ‘ The Circus Girl,’ looking pale
and tired from overwork,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent. “ Ethel’s one ambition is to ‘ rest ’ Marie
Tempest and play ‘The Geisha,’ still the best draw in
London. The ex-Melb. amateur has pluck, talent and
confidence, and wisely handled should go further. Dark
Mabel Lane looked bright and lively, despite her nightly
appearance in the depressing, drawling curtain-raiser at
the Globe. Next week she is promoted to the ‘ piece ’
‘ The MacHaggis,’ by Jerome and Phillpotts, where
Weedon Grossmith gets the ‘ fat.’ Mrs. Phil. May and
Nellie Veitch were also present. The latter trips to the
native heath of her yearning and then returns to Victoria,
preliminary to a long and last farewell of the South.
Gorlitz, Hugh Glass, Leslie Norman and Frank Madden
were there with other Australian peripatetics, and cabbed
and chaperoned their fellow-exiles to Hilda Spong’s as
eve fell.”
Yosper, the long-haired newspaper-man
who was gaoled for so-called “ sedition ” at
Charters Towers by the Griffilwraith gang, is one
of the elected at Westralian polls. Yosper is a
man of no particular brains, but with imposing
appearance and splendid energy. He looks good
enough to be a democratic Napoleon, and has a
fine gift-o’-gab for the multitude. His past hasn’t
been too creditable —not altogether by his own
fault; but if he puts ice on his head and walketh
slowly and uprightly, W.A. holds for him a fine
political future.
The well-rigged Westralian elections—
with three-fourths of adult males disfranchised —
put the Forrest crowd in office again by a big
majority. The figures are—Ministerialists, 29 ;
Opposition, 8; Independent, B—with one result
to come. Politics on t’otherside no longer consist
wholly of Six-Family lickspittles : only half nowa-
days is lickspittling and half {mining swindle ;
but the great sandy province stews in its mournful
gravy just the same.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Totalisator dividends on two concluding days of
S.A.J.C. meeting:—£2 175.; £l3 75.; £9 7s. ; £l4 35.;
£2 10s.; £9 15s. ; £2 ss. ; £5 10s.; £8 10s. ; £2 Is. ;
£4 10s. ;£8 15s. Very fair prices considering that the
majority of the winners were “ dead birds.”
* * * *
The two last days of S.A.J.C. meeting at
Adelaide were even more successful than the opening
one, and on Cup-day no less than £15,167 passed through
the tote. Mora, the Cup-winner, is a three-year-old filly
by the lately-defunct Malua from White Star, a mare with
the best of running blood. Mora has been mercifully
treated as a two-year-old, and so is likely to train into
a sterling four-year-old. The erstwhile champion, Loyalty,
started first favorite for the Cup, but finished down the
course ; however, on Saturday last he won the Fisher
Stakes, beating a moderate field. The unreliable Staffa
wound up the meeting by winning the Totalisator Handi-
cap of 200sovs., carrying Bst. 81b. to victory in less time
than the Goodwood Handicap was run in, when he had
61b. less on his back and only managed to get third.
» * * *
Adelaide Cup was a comparative boil-over. Not
one of the heavily-backed cracks secured even a place,
and the trophy once more went to Victoria. Mora, a
nicely-bred mare, like Warpaint in ’96, was a comparative
outsider, the heavily-backed division being Acton (who
was interfered with), Surefoot, and Loyalty. Birksgate,
the second horse, nearly brought off a big coup for
John Crozier, an Adelaide owner, who bought it the
day before, and would have made a heavy win with the
tote odds at 20 to 1. £15,167 went through the machine.
* * * ♦
When days look darkest for pony-racing, new
devotees invariably turn up to keep the game alive.
Sundry doctors have now taken to the game in earnest,
both as owners and punters, and there is joy once more
amongst the gang of “ guns,” who were becoming quite
despondent and wondering where the next lot of “mugs”
was to come from. Some of the best ponies now running
about Sydney are owned by local medicos.
• * * *
Apropos M‘Elhone on the “tote.” The writer
saw a Sydney Stipendiary Magistrate, accompanied by a
lady, e n teflon e of the chief betting offices in Pitt-street,
last week, while the bobby on the pavement smole a broad
«mile.
* * * *
Mummell Boy, who has been on scratch for
some time past at the Brighton (Sydney) trots, was let
loose last week, scoring an easy win and a twelve-months’
“ send-up ” for “ reversal of form.” As Thb Bulletin has
so often pointed out, this sort of thing is more the fault
of the handicapper than the owner. No horse with a re-
cord like Mummell Boy should ever be let up on scratch,
no matter what his latter-day performances are like. Any
trotting man will tell you it is never safe to take liberties
with a horse who hold's a good record, however ancient.
• * • *
“Newhaven’s contradictory performances at
Randwick were easily explainable,” says the horse-repor-
ter for Melb. Age. Then he unwisely went on to explain :
“ The fact that the ground was different on each day
simply absolved those who were interested in the horse
from any charge of inconsistency ; and, besides, it is well-
known that Newhaven when raced on soft ground does
not perform as well as usual.” It is also well-known that
the ground wasn’t soft when the unsatisfactory animal got
badly beaten for the V.R.O. St. Leger; in fact it was
harder than when he won the Champion race, five days
later. The in-and-out running of Newhaven has been a
turf scandal, but not so great a scandal as the unwisdom
of the V.R.O. andA.J.C. stewards in allowing it to pass
without enquiry. Horsey men by the thousand have
discussed the Newhaven freaks, and found them inex-
plicable. The Age reporter’s nonsense is, however, easily
explained. He is clearly a foolish person, endeavoring to
soothe trainer Higinbotham’s feelings.
• • * •
Melb. : “ To-day I saw a Chinaman in charge
of two racehorses, with clothes on, at exercise, and he
was mounted on one. First time I have seen a Chinky in
the pigskin. Soon the rider of the Melb. Cup winner
will be bracketed mandarin blue jacket, gamboge sleeves
and face.”
* * * •
Semiramis, by the Grandmaster horse Gibraltar
out of the imported Security, won three races at Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) meeting. In Tam worth Cup she is
returned as having cut out the mile and a quarter in
2min. 9sec.—a big order with Bst. lib. up.
* * * *
Though much whispered about as a likely Birth-
day Cup winner, the imported Positano has not been
entered for that race, Mr. Hangar doubtless reserving him
for higher game. Tho’ but little raced in England, he
showed fair form at Kempton Park, running third in
City of London Breeders’ Foal Plate of 1179sovs. If
leniently treated, he should show up in either Caulfield
or Melb. Cup, provided he be not given “ a thorough
Cup preparation ” — i.e., provided he hasn’t his heart
galloped out on the training-track.
• * • •
Mr. Kelso, after his bad luck at A. J.C. meet,
soon struck form, as last Saturday he won Warwick Farm
Handicap with the Anniversary Handicap winner Tom,
who just managed to beat Rebel Queen after a good
struggle. The Chester horse, Projectile, was third, and
as he is rapidly recovering his former nick, he must
prove dangerous in the Birthday Cup. The N.Q. cham-
pion sprinter, Physician, ran twice at the meeting with-
out success, but he showed he could gallop, and will be
returned a winner ere long.
♦ * * *
“ Paris 111. started at 7 to 2, a good second
favorite, for the Northamptonshire Stakes, to finish fourth
with his 9st. 41b.,” writes The Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent. “Turf experts prophesy his decline, and it
certainly looks as if his best days in England were over.
Pounamu, Maluma, Merman, Emmalea, Erl King, and
Bombshell 11. show little indication of refunding their
passage-money.”
* * * •
“Manifesto, the Irish ‘fancy,’won a fast-run
Grand National,” writes The Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent, “ much to the dismay of Gollan, Gibson,
Escott and Co., with whom Norton was the ‘snip.’
Daimio was not sent, and collapsed early in the second
round. He is to be nursed and schooled for the ’9B event,
as at present he can’t go fast enough to keep his jockey
warm. Norton fell over a mile from home, a disaster the
papers overlooked, and Timon, who had made the pace a
clinker, came down at the second-class fence. The time,
9min. 39sec., is not over lOsec. behind record. ’
* * * *
After unshipping Hickey in the English Grand
National, Norton completed the course “on his own,”
fencing in perfect style, tho’ ’tis doubtful if he would
have got so near the front if his rider had sat tight.
* * * *
First Mate, Wolumumbi, San Marco, Milkmaid,
Creme d’Or and Aurea appear a likely sextet for the
winner of the Royal Stakes, at S.T.C. Randwick meeting,
to spring from ; whilst Sam, Projectile, and Hindoo may
be expected to show prominently in the Birthday Handi-
cap. The up-country horse Pat, and Favor should manage
to account for the two Hurdle races, in which event
Cornet may also have a look in.
» * * »
Lacrosse teams from S.A. and N.S. Wales will
visit Melb. during July and play a round of interprovin-
cial matches there. The selection of an Australian team
to visit Canada, the home of the game, and probably Eng-
land, is almost certain to be mooted at the same time.
* * * •
Lacrosse has now caught on in Melbourne and
bids fair to knock out the Republican game of baseball.
There are 12 clubs going strong, and they put 15 teams
(eight senior and seven junior) of 12 each into the field
every Saturday. The fillip has been given by the M.C.C.
taking up the game in preference to baseball. Meanwhile
what is practically an M.C.C. baseball team is doing its
utmost to convince Yankees that the game is flourishing
in Victoria like a dry-grass fire.
The interprovincial eight-oar race, at Melb. on
Saturday last, fell an easy victory to Victoria, followed
home by the Westralian crew, composed chiefly of old
Vic. oarsmen. The N.S.W. Association stood out this
year owing to the inclusion in the Victorian eight of
a cash cyclist. N.S. Wales has given way in every
particular, barring the so-called cash-amateur. Although
it has never yet rowed a manual laborer in its crew, N.S.
Wales at the conference agreed to Victoria rowing a whole
crew of workmen if it felt so inclined, under which cir-
cumstances Victoria, having so much the thicker end of
the stick, behaved foolishly in insisting upon including a
cash cyclist in its crew.
• * • •
Westralia’s first aquatic distinction was gained
on Saturday, when “ Teddy” Powell carried off the ama-
teur sculling championship of Australia on the Lower
Yarra. The race was a sorry procession, the winner being
really the only finisher ; Dennis (Q.) was a quarter of a
mile behind, and Lindgren, the Vic. man, stopped at the
second mile. Powell won the last Australian championship
in Brisbane in ’95, when everyone thought the race a
moral for Slack, of Breakfast Creek. Powell was at
the time a Victorian, and he rowed in several Vic. repre-
sentative eights and was a member of the Albert Park
Club. For the past 18 months he has lived in Perth.
The order of the interprovincial contest — Vic-
toria (1), Westralia (2), and Queensland (3) —was only
what was expected from the day the visiting crews ap-
peared on the Yarra. The Westerners, however, quite
failed to pick up the condition they lost on the voyage
over, and the probabilities are that had they taken the
Yarra as fit as when they left, the finish would have been
a good battle. With a few weeks’ more coaching the
Westralians would be a better crew than many who have
won the interprovincial contest.
Lindgren, who represented Vic. in the sculls,
retains his amateur status in an amusing fashion. Riding
as a cash cyclist last year, he was eligible to continue
rowing as an amateur, provided he retired from the pro-
fessional track on 31st Dec. —vide the interprovincial
agreement. All the same, he started in a bike race for
money at Northcote sports. Called upon to explain,
Lindgren showed that he never entered for the race at
Northcote ; and the secretary of the sports meeting wrote,
saying that Lindgren was virtually a trespasser on the
track on that occasion. The law said “ entered” ; Lind-
gren had not entered, and so he remained a lily-white
amateur.
* * • *
Smith, the Melbourne billiardist who ran rings
round James, in Sydney, the other week, is to take 1000
points in 10,000 from Charlie Memmott, spot and push
barred.
* * * *
The Vic. cycling season proper finished on
Saturday with the Geelong meeting, where all the cracks
turned up. The pacing-wonder Body was the hero of the
day, winning the Five-mile Scratch from Walne and Mid-
dleton, and finishing second from his new mark of scratch
in the big handicap.
In the classic event, Body and Green went out
just after the first mile, and raised such a gap that, when
Walne tried to reduce the break, only A. A. Middleton,
Megson and Green were capable of hanging to the Queens-
lander ; the rest of the big field, including Bilmartin and
Porta, went out when the race was half over. A lap and
a-half from home Body started to move again, and, when
the bell went, he was still in front with Green, Walne,
Middleton and Megson tailing behind. When the last
rush came the Englishman was pocketed, and Walne’s
grand run was made a bit too late, the Maorilander finish-
ing a foot in front.
Body, on the same mark as Walne, Martin, and
Megson, was the only scratch man who qualified for the
final and the big handicap. Relph, on 15yd., helped him
considerably to win his heat, but, in the final, Body lost
ground coming round a dangerous corner, and young
A. C. Middleton, on 80yd., was able to keep ahead in the
run home.
Middleton, like Body, has come to the front
wonderfully during the last month, since the time he so
effectually beat Walne after training at St. Kilda. Three
tolerable handicaps in three weeks is not bad. Young
Middleton, like his big brother, has heaps of pluck and
strength, and he is far the more skilled in his management
of a machine.
The bad turn spoken of put young South Melb.
M‘limes into the second place of the 2nd and 3rd-class
handicap. He was riding splendidly, and had he not been
forced to ease up to save his neck he would have beaten
Cochrane in the run home. In the amateur event the
riders were very dicky at the corner, and one of their
number (Clartson) had a smash involving unconscious-
ness and a badly-chipped face.
• • • •
At St. Kilda, on Saturday, they interlarded
some record-breaking with the races. Relph went out
first for the quarter, but his chain gave way 100yds. from
home. His team saw the mishap and eased off, but they
nevertheless passed the line only 26sec. after the man
started. A. A. Middleton, the Dunolly miner, riding a
107 gear, then brought down the Australian time to 25sec.
dead.
Relph had a cut at the mile, and though he lost
the pace at one sharp turn, he caught his triplet again
and did the distance, so says the timekeeper, in lmin.
48sec. Several private watches, however, made the go
1.50.
It is doubtful whether the League will recognise
these records. They were certainly held under fair con-
ditions, and a quorum of the racing board was present
and gave leave. But, according to League rules, several
days’ notice must be given of any attempt at record-
breaking. So probably the L.V.W. will strike out Satur-
day’s times and let Megson’s 1.48 3-5 stand as Australia’s
best. But the rule is, in one respect, a very awkward
one: no cyclist can tell what the weather will be days
ahead.
* * • *
Tebbutt, who, by the way, teaches in a Baptist
Sunday-school, says he will not race for another two
years.
The first round of the N.S.W. senior football
competition started on Saturday last, when Randwick
beat Pirates, Wallaroos defeated Paddington, and Went-
worth beat University. If Saturday’s play is any cri-
terion, it looks as if Randwicks and Wallaroos will be the
pair to fight out the finals. There are plenty new men in
all the teams recruited from the juniors, but University,
losing as it does Abbott, Colquhoun, Waugh, and others,
looks on paper a very weak team.
* • * *
The opening day of the Vic. football season was
a pathetic travesty of similar occasions in the past, when
for a month before all Melbourne anxiously awaited the
first battles. This year nobody seemed to care a rap
whether the matches were played or not.
One sensible idea adopted by the money-grab-
bing “Football League,” which now possesses all the big
clubs of Melb., is the recognition of the “behind” in the
score. Formerly one club, by a stroke of luck, would
kick one goal and no behinds, while their opponents were
driving the ball about the posts all the afternoon without
being able to get it through. Now the game is decided
on points—six for a goal and one for a behind—which,
without discounting the value of accurate shooting, pre-
vents such miscarriages of sport as frequently took place
in the past.
* * * »
Extract from the Irish Cyclist, March 31st,
1897 “ Messrs. Humber and Co are prepared to supply
American-made Humber Bicycles, fitted with Dunlop
tyres and weighing stripped 27}41b., for £2l 10s. net.
As the price of Messrs. Humber and Co.’s Beeston
machines of a similar pattern is £3O, it is evident that
they do not consider the British public will pay the same
prices for the product of their American factory as they
will for their world-renowned Beeston make.
m * * *


Among the protected industries of Vic-
toria, Macßobertson’s (Melb.) huge confectionery-
works have probably reached the highest pinnacle
of success. This mammoth establishment em-
ploys upwards of 250 operatives, and practically
supplies the Southern province with sweets, to the
almost entire discomfiture of the foreign manufac-
turer. Now, Macßobertson seeks to extend his
domain, and is ambitious to cater for the tastes of
Federal Australia as well as for his native pro-
vince. A notable novelty turned out to perfection
by this firm is chewing-gum, a Yankee notion
which has recently become the vogue in Melb.*
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
e Okv,
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
HANDSOME
Commemoration Box- of Butter Scotch
With It will be presented a History of the Victorian
Bra, written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie Hatton.
Ready Jun« lat>
Order Cl loot of confection an a* only a United
comber will be iuuad* t
St. John’s Works, W.O. LONDON.
Tlx© Celebrated
LOUIS” Velveteen,
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
EH
A
Y
Genuine “ LOUIS ” VELVETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine "LOUIS"
Velveteen bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
m
w. w.
GREENER’S
CELEBRATED
CURS * RIFLES.
Have you a GREENER? Is it genuine? If
you wish to know, read the “Breechloader, and
how to use it,” with notes on rifles, by W. W.
Greener—the best 2/6 book of its kind published.
It is now in the fifth edition, which proves its
popularity: it contains 373 pages profusely illu-
strated. This work teaches sportsmen all they
want to know about guns : what to buy and what
to avoid, and how to detect spurious weapons.
PIS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “ High
Grade ” as a sign of Excellence —have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The G-reville, CHE*A MA*
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GRKVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
90 KING STREET
SYDNEY
THE BEST VALUE WATCH
ijst
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, OPEN FACE £2 0 0
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, FULL HUNTER £2 5 0
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, DEMI-HUNTER £2 15 0
Finely finished movement, full jewelled, compensation
balance, and a most perfect timekeeper.
GUARANTEED FOR THREE YEARS. POST FREE.
wmV
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address—
90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
IMROBERTSOII’S?!! Cheuiing Gum.
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath,
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Eull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Works :
- - TIIE NEW “ -
Herald Bicycle.
For LADIES and GENTS.
Tj'MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs end Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc lotcrcbaogeabk
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T.Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
203 & 205 CLARENCE STREET, STD NET
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tile ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
66 DOWHIDGE’S'
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
AND
CYCLES
Are made liy the Oldest Firms in the Cycle Trade, and embody all
the features which experience has shown to he IMPROVEMENTS.
STYLE AND FINISH UNEQUALLED.
Adelaide - 33 R,undle-st.
Brisbane—Adelaide-st.
Perth —Hay-st.
Charters Towers (Q.) Gill-st.
Christchurch (N.Z.) —Manchester-st.
Dunedin (N.Z.) —123 George-st.
Melbourne —1 39-141 Elizabeth-st.
Sydney —393 George-st.
SOLE AGENTS:
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY
LIMITED,
Head Office: 285 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Branches :
GJoulburn, N.S.W.
Hobart, Tas.
Launceston, Tas.
CATALOGUES FREE.


Special Advertisements,
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager Beer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
Beware of imitations,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
Indigestion
Loss of Strength
And Appetite.
The testimony of Mr. R.
Dennis, Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia, who was cured by Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, is like unto that of
many thousands of others. He
writes:
“It is with very much pleasure
that I testify to the great benefit I
received from using your wonderful
blood-purifier. I was a sufferer for
years from indigestion, loss of
strength and appetite, and constipa-
tion. My whole system seemed to
be thoroughly out of order. A friend
finally told me to take Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. I followed his advice, though
feeling discouraged at the fruitless
results of other treatment, and I am
thankful to state that a few bottles
completely cured me.”
The medicine that has cured
others will cure you.
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
Bewabe of imitations. The name —Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla—is prominent on the wrapper
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
AYER’S PILLS A GENTLE PURGATIVE.
I Sf '■
WITH
COPYRICHT BOOK
How to Disinfect
SENT FREE
The Sanitas C ? L
u Bethnal Creen_^
LONDON
* Q
A NOVELTY!
*
*
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three an elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
> Obtainable of Chemist a, S?
Stores. Perfumers.
or direct from
v°
Street
Whitehead’s He J : Si o '^fo*
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Company.
Despatch Store: Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
We reply on scientific, mining or general
matters for Is. Every other subject by arrange-
ment. We will act as your agent in any way at
lowest fees. If you have money to invest in
mines or property, or want to buy a few shares
only, consult us ; it will pay you. Australasian
Answers Bureau, 35 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
tyiSS E. Tv/ecdie,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbe Up-to-date FroqkiSt.
o
l-ei'A VWjo£
° <iTV^
-3 teg j
iiliHriSiM'Sw v ©^w&§£.
ASIEi /j^lQWff
Station - Master : “ I say, there is no smoking allowed
here ! "
German Tourist (pointing to advt.) : “ Vy, you say
‘ Smoke Signet Tobacco.’ I am smoking Signet."
TEE TICK PEST.
NOLDSWORTN & CO.,
101 Swanston-st., Melbourne,
Recover Debts of every description—
Dishonored Cheques, promissory Dotes, etc.,
In all parts of AUSTRALIA and ABROAD.
HIGHEST REFERENCES. . . .
. - - MODERATE CHARGES.
Write and Consult Us.
BANKERS :
UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITER,
MELBOURNE.
SOLICITORS :
Mc&sr&. FARLOW & BARKER,
4 ST. JAMES’ BUILDINGS,
WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Z 8
%
ft
<P
9JT
810
IZ\
I %WIW
AN
>2l
#
921
eotr
SOZI
*2l
2Z£
Zo2i
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE I KOM
NEW ZEALAND-
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christohurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
JPipe CoLtd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUK TRAD 15*
MARK
A.N.W^I
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRTCE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
AUSTRALIAS
NEEDLE WOOD
EIRE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234— 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
L 1207, 7/6 856, 7/6
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE— Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA— Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
The Last of Si-V PRICE, ONE SHILLING;
Per Post, Is. 3d.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected -
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co.. Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
The Aged.
Henssler, the lately-appointed Queensland
immigration lecturer, is unlikely to pull off his trip
to Germany and draw the honorarium after all.
German law prohibits a German from seducing
German subjects from their own country with the
object of settling them under a foreign flag.
They have a gruesome taste in the matter
of festivity at Brunner (M.L.). March 26 was the
anniversary of the mine explosion which caused
such hideous slaughter a year ago, and the Brun-
nerites observed the occasion as a holiday.
A far-back correspondent :
Longreach (W.Q.) is bidding- hard to beat Cairns for the
Chow primacy. Some of the hotels there have Chinese
cooks. Several of them buy their bread exclusively from
the Chinese bakery. Strangely enough, these pubs, are
mainly supported by white workers, but for whose thirst
seeking solace in this direction they would be compelled
to shut. Longreach has a Chinese cabinet-making fac-
tory, and these pretended “ union ” hotels are furnished
almost throughout with Chow furniture. Ilfracombe, in
the same district, has a white baker and a Chinese ditto.
It has only three hotels ; two of these patronise the
Chinaman. Yet the white workers seldom take their beer
at the other pub. Curious animal, the unionist.
At last Melb. Criminal Court Judge
Hodges questioned, as well he might, the wis-
dom of the Crown Law Department in bringing a
charge of manslaughter against a mother who had
“overlain” the baby in a drunken sleep, when
there was no question as to the genuineness of her
drunk. Hundreds of such cases occur in Great
Britain every year, and are disposed of by the
coroners, whereas if the charge of “criminal neg-
ligence ” were permissible the Society for the Pro-
tection of Infant Life would have a shot at the
delinquent every time. There’s no law to punish
a woman for sleeping soundly, whether from drink
or fatigue, and no means of proving that the infant
didn’t roll into a place where the mother was
likely to sleep on top of it in an ordinary sober
kind of way.
Dear Bulletin, —“ T.D.” on Australian
slang is a bit too sure about “barrack” and
“ borak.” The latter, he says, “is undoubtedly a
development” of the former. Briefly, to show a
doubt. “ Barrikin ” (noun) is old English cant for
words hard to follow or comprehend. From this,
mistaken for a participle, it is quite likely that
“barrack” may have been formed. But then
“ barrack,” in its present sense, is of very recent
use in Australia —a thing of 12 or 15 years, while
“to poke borak ” was old slang about Melbourne
40 years ago. Now a suggestion. At the time I
refer to “ borak ” was commonly used and under-
stood to be an aboriginal word for “no.” It may
or may not have been so, but it certainly was so
used both by blacks and whites. It may, of
course, have come there from Tasmania. Old
settlers could settle this. —-T.M.
X.Z. : “Prof. R. Semon, of Jena, in his
lately-published ‘ Australian Bush and Coral-
Sea-Coasts,’'denies that the echidna is an eater of
adult ants. Ants full-grown may be found inside
them, but these have got there by accident, when
the echidna, setting out after epicurean dishes,
starts to break down the hills to get at the
white succulent larvae, and pupse (so-called eggs).
Asserted also by him that if you set an echidna
straight at a teeming ant-track, it won’t look at
it. These assertions contradict past acceptances
considerably. The spectacled German is, how-
ever, commonly a much better scientific observer
than the average bushman, the one being trained
to observe, the other being an impressionist.”


Herr Rassmussen,
tiie (£i.i:i;i: tii:i»
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOR THE—
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfalme Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice; the
very fact of their having been before the public
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should he no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the comer of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the uttermost parts of the earth
HERE RASSMUSSEN’S
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizaheth-st., Melb.
Hear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that, a
course of your »lfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grnte-
A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmusskn.—Dear
Hlr ’ * A duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfahne Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.-Yours, R. a. LUCK.HAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
. Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
„ _ „ March 7th, 1895.
lo Herr R^ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived arreat benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. l- UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Peker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne. F *
Mr. Button writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill j his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills oured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing - . Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaoa-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
„ Sept. 20, 1892.
1 o Herr Rassmussen.
1 am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
1 am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the.treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates oan
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. N ERVIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of j our
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
O/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra
N.S. W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John HAQBRMAN(my husband), 96 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Piles.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J. KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Oyole Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera. N.S.W.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press:—
Sydney Bulletin. —" Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening Nevys, Sydney.—" Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—" Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Bally Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
B.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
f’ooktown Eourier, Queensland. —“ Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.—“ Herr Bass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Ehemist and Druggist Journal, Melbourne.—
“Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depfit at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Trut*>. —“ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r< quire any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the publio for over ten years.”
N.Z. Mall, Wellington. — “We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
The Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable.”
The Nurd Australisclic Zeltung, Brisbane.—“We
speak from personal know 'edge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by it rr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
B3T- ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 G-eorge Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING,
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Han.
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
AWARDED.
||WO GOLD
IEDALSj
o^SSWUS
y/
;Kf
AHk
ofH
LtW'V'
ALFA LINE PILLS,
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES.
A Certain Cure for the Herves.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affections
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alla line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica-and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier— A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and'wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costivene-s, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electrio Suspender Bandage— Thie
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE “ NATURAL DOCTOR.” - A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERRRASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “ Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ON hi m. Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:


Amusements.
fJIHBATRB ROYAL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.6 p.m. and MATINEE,
SATURDAY, at 2.15.
Second Big Week and Continued Unparalleled Success of
TN€ FLYING JORPANS.
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. No Early Doors. Book Plan
at Elvy and Company’s. Day Sale Tickets at Power’s
Cigar Divan. Doors open, 7 ; commence, 8.5.
PIRITERTON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Lessee and Manager ... Frank Thornton.
TO-NIGHT! Farewell Appearances in Sydney.
FRANK THORNTON
—as —
Tf)€ Private Secretary.
Terminating on Friday Night next a phenomenally
brilliant and successful season of four months.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan, Nicholson’s. Door open, 7.
No early doors. Commence 8. Manager, L. J. LOHR.
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
jEvery Evening and Saturday Matinee,
“Tl)€ Sigo of tbe Cross.”
By WILSON BARRETT, Esq.
A Noble Drama. Splendidly Produced and Acted.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
“PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
To-Night and Every Evening, Messrs. GOURLAY and
St. JOHN’S
MUSICAL : COMEDY : COMPANY
in the Famous Musical, Farcical Comedy,
"SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON."
Popular Prices —Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 3s; Stalls,
2s ; Upper Circle, Is ; Private Boxes, 21s.
JOHN C. LEETE, General Manager.
F|IHE MUSIN CONCERTS.
FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR!
OVIDE MUSIN, the World-renowned Violinist.
ANNIE LOUISE MUSIN, the Highest-ranged Soprano
in the World.
EDUARD SCHARF, the eminent Pianist.
CONSTANCE HATHERLY, the charming Harpist
(pupil of Oberthur, Medallist of London
Academy of Music).
ALFRED HILL, the Australian Composer (composer
of “ Hinemoa ”).
ear FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR! ■»
E. D. WOODWARD, Manager.
Address all Business Communications to John Laure,
c/o Paling & Co., Sydney.
237 gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
“STILL THEY COME!”
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND PEOPLE
have already thronged the Salon in Pitt-street to witness
the GREATEST CINEMATOGRAPH IN THE WORLD.
The New and GLORIOUS SUBJECTS per S.S. Rome.
J. MACMAHON, Director.
Mias Florence Mack
—AND —
MISS RUBY REYNOLDS,
Assisted bv Herr GERARD VOLLMAN, Mr. W. H.
YOUNG, and Mr. ALBERT FISHER,
WILL GIVE A CONCERT at th'
Y.M.C.A. Hall on
THURSDAY EVENING, 20th INST., at 8 o’clock.
Ticket-holders please mark off Reserved Seats at Nichol-
son’s Music Warehouse, where tickets may be obtained.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Mr. ROBERT BROUGH.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. Hamilton.
SATURDAY NEXT, 15th MAY.
FAREWELL : TO : SYDNEY : OF : THE
| BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
When will be revived for Six Nights only
“Sowing the Wind.”
By Sydney Grundy. [Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Empire theatre of varieties,
MELBOURNE (formerly the GAIETY).
NEW SEASON (under management from London)
inaugurated Bth May—A BRILLIANT SUCCESS !
The list of Artists and Specialists includes: —Emile
Lazern (world-renowned conjurer), Frank Yorke, the
celebrated SMITH FAMILY of cyclistes (four in number),
Mons Provo, F. Fordham, Anetta Lynd, beautiful soprano,
John Matlock, Frank Wyatt, Cambry Sisters, Jack Evans,
Horace Elliott, and many others. Million Prices : 2s, Is,
and 6d : half-price at 9 o’clock. Matinee Wednesdays at 2.
Plan at Allen’s. FRED. FORDHAM, Lessee & Manager.
■jIHE CINEMATOGRAPHE. “LDMIERE."
Mr. H. W. Barnett is now able to supply complete
apparatus for producing
ANIMATED PHOTOGRAPHS
by the LUMIERE system, together with FILMS both
LOCAL and FOREIGN, at PARIS PRICES.
Full Particulars on application to
H. W. BARNETT, The Falk Studios, Melbourne (only).
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
I|IHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager . . Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT’S
Enormously Successful Spectacle,
IN SKSHT OF St. PAUL’S.
Written by SUTTON VANE.
PRICES—Ss, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION!
A. R. Moulton’s New Military Comic Opera, in three
acts, entitled
“ t.tit.atvttnte.”
SATURDAY, May 15—MATSA, QUEEN OF FIRE.
Prices of Admission—Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s;
Stalls, Ss ; Amphitheatre (early door Is extra), Is.
PON CASN
TRADING Co.’s
Popular Parcels !
W E ,
- have extended OUR POPULAR PARCEL SYSTEM so as to embrace the whole of
» t the AUSTRALIAN COLONIES, TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND, and FIJI.
The value of these parcels is UNPRECEDENTED, and we guarantee to REFUND 1H
MONEY in every instance where satisfaction is not given.
O 1 OUR ORIGINAL DRESS PARCEL contains 3 Dresses and Linings, as follows:
2 dress lengths of New Fancy Tweed, Cashmere, or All-Wool Serge ; good
Print or pretty Delainette; Byds. Selicia, 2iyds. Body Lining, and 4yds. White Calico.
20s. the lot.
T>Q THE DON DRESS PARCEL contains 1 Good Dress, Linings and Trimmings as
• follows : 7yds. double width of new Boucle Cloth, stylish Tweed, or rich All-wool
Coating Serge, 4yds. heavy beetled Twill Selicia (40in. wide), 2yds. reversible Body
Lining, 4yds. new Sequin, Gimp, or Jet Trimming, 1 pair Silk-covered Dress Preservers,
1 doz. Covered Bone, 2 doz. pretty Buttons, 4yds. Velvet Skirt Binding, Silk Twist, and
Webbing. Unequalled value for 20s.
UQ OUR SPECIAL REMNANT PARCEL containing from 45 to 60yds. of Odd-
JL3fJ • ments, in all classes of material, such as Dress Stuffs, Flannelette, Shirting,
Galatea, Calico, Print, Muslin, Holland, Embroidery, Lace, &c., &c. A most useful parcel
where there is a family. Send 20s. for one of these Remnant Parcels. Remember, we refund
the money if not approved of.
T> A OUR SPECIAL PARCEL FOR LADIES contains 6yds. double width of our
Jj'X* Famous All-Wool Coating Serge, unequalled for appearance and durability ; Iyd.
rich Silk-finished Velveteen, 2yds. fashionable Sequin or Jet Trimming, 4yds. fine Twill
Selicia, 2yds. Body Lining, 1 Ladies’ Chemise, 1 Night-dress, and 1 pair Ladies’ Knickers
manufactured from beautiful soft-finish Flannelette, and 1 Ancona Underskirt with circular
band. This wonderful parcel post free for 255.
T> K OUR WONDERFUL HOUSEHOLD PARCEL is a marvel of cheapness, and
Jj• contains s|yds. White Twill Sheeting 2yds. wide; 1 doz. yds. good Household
Calico Iyd. wide ; 6yds. soft Saxony-finish Flannelette, in pink, white, cream, or fancy stripes ;
2Jyds. heavy cream Linen Table Damask, very wide ; 6yds. pure Linen Apron Dowlas, 38in.
wide ; and \ doz. good White Turkish Towels. Post free, 255.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING PARCEL has a complete outfit of really nice
jJU• Garments:—2 Chemises, 2 Night-dresses, 2 pairs Knickers, all pure longcloth,
beautifully trimmed with Swiss Embroidery and Insertion (these garments will be sent in Soft
Saxony-finish Flannelette, if preferred), 2 All-wool Singlets, 1 pair Corsets (state size), 1 large
Holland Apron, 1 White Muslin Apron with frill, 2 pairs Cashmere or 4 pairs Stainless Black
Cotton Hose, all for 255. NOTE. —We will substitute one Red and Black Ancona Under-
skirt with Circular Band in place of the Aprons, if desired.
B 7
OUR GENTS’ SUIT PARCEL. For 20s. we will forward post free to any
_ • address in the Australasian colonies—one Gent’s All-Wool Colonial Tweed Suit;
well made and trimmed, any size from 3 to 7. Undoubtedly the best suit ever offered for
the money.
B 8
THE DON SUIT PARCEL contains one Gent’s heavy Scotch Tweed Suit; a
• magnificent line for real hard wear, and can be thoroughly recommended. 20s.
T 3 THE WORKING MAN’S PARCEL —2 pairs heavy Mole Trousers, 2 strong
Xj • Cotton or Flannellete Shirts, with or without collars, 4 pairs strong, well-finished
Sox, 1 Soft-Felt Hat, black or colored, 1 pair of good Braces or strong Leather Belt, 2 large
Cotton Handkerchiefs, white or colored. State size of hat, shirts, and trousers. 255. the lot.
Marvellous value.
XM A THE DON SPECIAL CLEARING PARCEL.-l Dress length of All-Wool
JL3J_Vf • Serge or Fancy Tweed, 12yds. Soft Twill Flannelette, ldoz. yds. Pure Un-
dressed Family Calico, Iyd. wide, 6yds. Cream Dressed Holland, now so much used for aprons
and pinafores, 6yds. Pretty Printed Cashmerette, in pink, blue, or marone. The lot post free
for 225. 6d.
81l
THE DON BLANKET PARCEL contains 1 pair splendid White Whitney
• Blankets with handsome border, extra weight, full size for Double Bed, 20s.
post free. A special Bargain.
T)1 O OUR LADIES’ COSTUME PARCEL contains 1 All-Wool Serge Costume
lined throughout, Blouse with Yoke Back and Full Bishop Sleeves, trimmed
either with Velveteen or rich Black and Gold Gimp, large Jet Buttons. This stylish costume
packed in a neat straw board box, and sent post free to any intercolonial address for 14s. 9d
only. Measurements required : round bust under arms, waist, length of sleeves (inside seam)'
length of skirt from waist to bottom hem. h
II> _ j O THE LITTLE STRANGER’S PARCEL contains a Complete Outfit of Babv
DJ.O • Linen as follows 3 Fine Longcloth Day Gowns, Trimmed Lace • 2 Long
Flannels, .2 Flannel Binders, 2 White Lawn Shirts, Trimmed Lace; 1 Swathe, 1 Embroidered
Head Square, 1 Beautiful Embroidered Muslin Robe, 1 Long Petticoat, Trimmed Embroiderv
and 1 Box Safety Pins. Post free to any Intercolonial Address for 225. 6d.
Til “DON” VELVETEEN PARCEL contains 12yds. Beautiful Silk
DlO • Finish Indestructible Pile Velveteen, in Black or any of the Leading Shades •
6yds. Linenette Lining to match, 3yds. New Sequin Trimming, and 2 Dozen Fancy Buttons’
Velveteen will be one of the Leading Materials for the coming Season, both for Trimmings
and Complete Costumes. Send 255. for this Wonderful Bargain Parcel • the value wdl
surprise you. ’ 111
817
Contains One Pair Gent’s Superior All-Wool Colonial Tweed Trousers-spech
cut and finish. Post free any Australian or New Zealand address for 7s. 9d
X>T Q THE DON PARCEL FOR YOUTHS, contains 1 Youth’s All-Wool TwppH
Til Q °BR BLACK CASHMERE PARCEL, contains 7 yards Rich Blue or Jet
JJ-LcJ. Black Cashmere, permanent dye, superior finish; 1 yard Rich RGr>V <•
trimming ; 6 yards Silk finished Lmenette for lining, and 2 dozen pretty Jet l k9n °r
Carriage Paid. J "uutons. /Us.
I>AA CHILDREN’S HANDSOME COATING SERGE FROCKS Vpl vpTvT -
• and Cuffs, Puff Sleeves, Yoke and Sleeves Lined. Size. 2Hr. ilj ot .
3s. 6d. ; 27in., 4s. 3d. ; 30in., 55.; 33in., ss. 9d. ; 36in., 6s. 6d. Post Fref Thfo UJY 77"“’
can be had in any of the following colors : Navy, myrtle, brown, and marone nvr«o ty Dre ® s
taken from neck to bottom of skirt). ’ marone. (Measurements
BOYS’ EXTRA HEAVY NAVY SERGE SAILOR SUTTS iTj 7
trimmed with braid, lined knickers. Sizes 2to 7,6 s. 6d • Bto 10 s 01^ ely
riaere Paid to any Victorian address. Undoubtedly the erentoQ* ’ ’ ’ ?*• 6d. Car-
riage Paid to any Victorian address. Undoubtedly the greatest value ever offered in this li"
800 CHILDREN’S PRETTY WASHING 7 7"
Soft Floral Delainette imported specially for this purpose A n f b . eaufcdul
little Dress, with full Dorothy sleeves, frills on shoulders, trimmed with y - Datty
Lace ; yoke and sleeves lined with strong calico. Sizes—2lin Is qo • ox.v, r ?, w ya mnciennes
30in., 2s. 6d. ; 33in., 2s. 9d. ; 30in., 3s. Post Free. ’’ ’ 4in ’’ 2s - 5 2 7in., 2s. 3d;
WE will forward any of the above WONDERFUL PAFfTR’T „„„ ,
PAID to any intercolonial address on receipt of amount stated Pac , ked ’ ■ POS
Postal Notes, and Postage Stamps must have exchange addpd p’n j CO onijd Ban]
C. Bethune. K orde m payable i
Tb€ Pod CasbTradiogCo.,
208 to 214 Johnston Street, Collingwood,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Wone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTITFRiu
HEMISPHERE But, a, many S’S
may be as well to let them know that there Wu
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT nnr
the production of thecolony, composed of wildnhn l
indigenous to the country and nowhere else «
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS V
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES
when one application will relieve you * *
lr AD ™ LETTER AND Try FOR YoCRSEtVM
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
D TI ha 7t tried , y° ur Josephson’sOint,
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
disposed Y ° U are Hberty t 0 USe thiB if you f e«l
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office
BAD LEGS OLD. SORES of longstanL
ha^T b ,^ n by using this Ointment. g
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man eaual to JOSEPHSfWQ
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
mg all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’ —
Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting ib
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
(t Statutory Declaration.
_ “I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
‘'That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
- 't- ■ a
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.— When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.


NEW
WINTER GOODS!
Ex Duke of Buckingham and Southern
Mail Steamers.
CASES and BALES,
Now being Marked off and Put
Forward EVERY DAY, making
763 BALES & CASES
To Hand for this Winter Season,
up to the present.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
*/'■
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AVER & CO., Lowell, Mass., 0. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE CONSTIPATION.
X
Reginald A. F. Murray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
!KSL
Y/A'A
r>
VS/
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoq’s Noted AccordeoQS,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown;
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
TP. F. COX ON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
d catKuE?
FREE t
WCTCriES-CLOCKS-JEWELLERY-BlßTriD«f«
. Weddialg l CHristeiJkJg Presents
n-NEWMAfj- 1752177-EUZABETri St*
OPPOSITE CiP.O.
MELBOURNE-
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
mam
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (Jd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BftONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
|*r- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these errand medicines have not jeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-strest, London, they are
spurious.
TO
\#
TRADE
KRUSES
-DESTROYS-
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden.
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth.
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of
Parasites.
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. -- Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
a
9}
FOB
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto s “Parrot Brand.”
TOEIWITIIEt STORE, V*.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
4ST Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
Haikuuesseus an» wigmakkbs
To tl»c Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBEES’ SUPPLY HOUSE
(JBO tfe <>B2 George Street, Sydney.
The Smelting 1 Go.
of Australia, Ltd.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—Mutual Life
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rTIH'E Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be tested
for the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Celebrated
Fer machine
A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
7CiCARS FREE
n r-rr m nmi-rirm
lIOWII/DROP 5? IN THE SLOT\
HOME ROLE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.,
SYDNEY, Agents for Australia.
Price - £5.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-*
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney."
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S.W.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G- HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
the
'H positionJt
PeafQcss AN k D oi!!s AD
WnJ’S COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention
No Wire or String:.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
lever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TIQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de.
stroy the desire for liquor in anj
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRABY CO.,
62 Hunter Bt., Bydney.
EASILY
CXJREO
It transpires that Childers and other re-
maining members of Gladstone’s Cabinet were
really opposed to his scheme of Home Rule. Yet
they spoke for it in Parliament. Such is the uni-
versal political hypocrisy.
A Thames (M.L.) would-be suicide by
poison was pumped out just in time, and woke up
after a while in the hospital to find Policeman
M‘Phee, who had him in custody, at his bedside.
“Am I dead?” he asked. “You ar-r-re not,”
said Policeman M‘Phee ; “ you’re better.” Then
the unsuccessful corpse shed tears and wailed, “I
won’t see the Lord and all the little angels to-
night, after all.” How many people can show a
record like that for solid faith ?
In the return of Yic. railway “deadheads”
is the item “Executive Councillors—36.” These are
members of the Council, who are now neither
Ministers nor M’s.P., since the full strength of
the Executive is about a dozen. Among the 36 are
Frank Stuart, who was an honorary member of the
Munro Ministry for just half a year; “Jimmy”
Munro, now resting in suburban obscurity ; L. L.
Smith ; Matthew Davies ; “ Tommy ” Bent;
Howard Spensley, absentee owner of Royal
Arcade ; “ Tommy ” Loader; John Henry Brooke,
now journalising in Japan ; Edward Langton;
Dow; Townsend M'Dermott; Charles Gavan
Duffy; John Denniston Wood; Archibald
Michie ; and “Fish Creek ” Richardson. Of how
many of these can it be truly said that they have
earned from the country a free pass for life over
its railways ?
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection —
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
London contains a ‘ ‘ purveyor by Royal
Appointment to Her Majesty the Queen and the
Royal Family ”of “ perfumed butter. ” The butter
is made up in small pats and, wrapped in fine
muslin, is placed on a bed of rose-leaves in an
earthen jar and covered with another layer of
roseleaves. Then the jar, filled up with a solid
chunk of ice, is left in a refrigerator for ten hours
before using.
A record. An 8-year-old boy was struck
in the abdomen by a swinging-boat, and thrown
thereby into water 40 feet away. The abdomen
was opened, and the damage found to be such that
eleven feet (!) of the small intestine had to be cut
out. The cut ends were sewn together, and in 5
weeks the boy left the hospital cured. Fifteen
months later he was enjoying splendid health.
The Canadian Practitioner reports the case.
The S.A. authorities are digging vigor-
ously around the neighbourhood of Streaky Bay
for dead bodies, supposed to be planted (a la Glen-
brook corpse) by Joshua Beard. A few months
ago Joshua Beard went out kangaroo-hunting
with Walter Richards, and came back alone,
merely saying that Richards had gone off “ down
the main road. ” About a year earlier the same
individual went out kangaroo-hunting with Joseph
Mario, and then also he returned alone, saying
that Mario had gone to Westralia. This ten-
dency of Beard’s to go out with another man
and to return without him attracted no special
attention, but some of Richards’ property was
found in his possession, and he Was charged with
the familiar crime of “ goods reasonably supposed
to be stolen.” Still, there was no serious suspicion
of any buried corpse, but, at the trial, Beard un-
accountably blasted his chances by announcing
that Richards had accidentally shot himself, and
he had buried the defunct mate in the bush.
He also led the way to the grave, where it
was found that Richards’ wound was in the
back of the head. Then he got maundering about
the missing Mario, who, he alleged, had been
killed by a horse, and ended by showing his grave
also. The Streaky Bay mystery, coming so close
after the Glenbrook affair, sets one wondering
whether the Australian bard who writes about the
bushman’s lonely grave has ever begun to under-
stand how numerous that grave is, or who shunted
the bushman into it. And, considering that
“ Banjo’s ” Clancy hasn’t been heard of for quite
a long time, the writer rises to inquire what sort
of person he was last seen with.


“ So true a Sovereign lady
Ne’er ruled all hearts before 1
Rise up and praise Victoria’s days,
The glorious years three score.”
Purtell?—No. Knapp?—No. Zachariah Sut-
cliffe?—No. Neild?—No. Sir Edwin Arnold,
author of “ The Light of Asia.” Such is the stuff
that a man who received =£4ooo for a single poem
foists on the unfortunate British public at a time
when it is drunk with loyalty. The poetic Fatman
seems to be the most virulent type extant.
S.M. Herald advt. : “ Wanted, by single
gentleman, home with Christian widow.” Why
“ Christian ” widow ?
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free' or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Gidyea scrubs smell horribly after rain,
as the bushman knows, but the Rev. Coalsofire,
fresh from Hingland, struck Gidyea station just
after a shower and detected what he called “ a
most offensive odah.” After asking everyone,
from the manager down to the cook’s “slushy,”
what the “ odah ” was, and getting the same reply,
“ no strange smell here,” he convinced himself he
was getting cancer in his nose, and cleared back
for the township next day.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
A certain North Australian surgeon, so goes
the story, was consulted re a married-female ailment,
and with due solemnity he advised the immediate
performance of an operation. The “ knife ” alone
could cure the case, said the expert, so the deed
was done, and the loving husband paid a substan-
tial fee for the lady’s alleged salvation. Shortly
afterwards the convalescent took a trip abroad for
her health, and, daring her travels, was persuaded
to consult a famous specialist. This authority
promptly told his visitor that the operation she
had suffered in Australia was quite unnecessary,
also was calculated to do more harm than good.
The lady having written home a full account of her
interview with the foreign surgeon, her husband
tore round to the Australian operator, placed
the letter before him, and demanded an explana-
tion. The surgeon remained perfectly cool under
the attack. He read the letter whilst picking his
teeth, then remarked airily that the other surgeon
didn’t understand how the case had stood at the
time when the knife was applied. “If this man
had seen the state of my banking account six
months ago,” said the dauntless Australian prac-
titioner, “ he would have thought that two opera-
tions were necessary.” “ Off with the leg so
much for Buckingham ! ” Not that there was a
leg in question, or that Buckingham was the name
of the operating surgeon in this narrative.
BEST SOAPS FOR W ARM CLIMATES.
CAI.VSBTS CARBOLIC
TOILET Soap 6(1. Tablets, and
PRICKLY-HEAT Soap, 6d. & 1/- Bars.
Pleasantly-perfumed Antiseptic Soaps for Bath or Toilet, prepared with CALVERT'S pure Carbolic.
Extract of letter from Fred. I. Mouat, Esq., M.D., late Professor of Medicine in the Medical College of
Calcutta:—“For some time before I left India I used your Carbolic Soaps with much satisfaction and
advantage ; indeed, F ceased to use any other. I found none so soothing to the discomfort caused by prickly-
heat, profuse perspiration, and other sources of dermic irritation.”
F. C. CALVERT & CO., MANCHESTER,
WHITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depot. 454 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest oi
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord in walnut or ebony—direct from the maker*,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with-buying them from dealers
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made bv the foremost firms in Germany
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is tie-
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at ail
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate, and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra
long and plated. All
ba.as wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.'
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hansburg Pianos can
bo nad m walnut oi
ebony, with or without
gold* engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra,
isive. The t
, The touch is easy, elastic, and
—, „ j tone possesses a fall sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
reight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands ot actual pur-
chasers will be submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutiona BEALE & CO, LTD., 484 Georg
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS:
M‘Lean Bros. & Ri gg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
fHE
‘ Plum *
THB
‘ Plum’
ENTLEMEN wlio find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
~H Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Tico Years.
•p • J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price Isinde Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to ant/ oj the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG 8l AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
WaSbiOgtoo H. SoCil & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER'S BAKING POWDER. 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars—that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON N. SOUL & CO., M’sP S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street;, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
268 Pitt - street, Sydney
(NEAR to PARK-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS. PARRAMATTA.
The Seventh Year
of Success.
75,000 in Daily Use.
Easiest Running
Typewriter known.
Requires less
Movements to
Operate.
Manifolding
Unexcelled.
K2S&-
n
«ie«n e ,
SMITi,
THE
THE
Corrections Easily
Keys all Locked at
End of Line.
Triplex Ribbon
Movement.
Directlnterchaiiif«.
able Platen. °
Fixed Rotary
Type-Brush.
Solid Ball-bearing
Carriage.
The SMITH PREMIER TUPEUIRITER SICES
EXCEED all others . .
THE KEYBOARD is specially constructed for Australian users, and the characters are inter-
changeable The platen is self-feeding. Line-spacing automatic, adapted for column-writing
Automatic right and left margins. Solid steel typebars. The only typewriter with solid ball-bearing
carriage Direct-lateral reversible ribbon movement, with interchangeable spools. Regular rectan-
gular keyboard. Punctuation marks do not puncture the paper, and the only machine that writes
direct on lines without alteration of gear. Special attachment for card writing and envelope
addressing.
NOTE -Second-hand Machines, of various makes, from =£3. Write for specimens of work.
Edison Mimeographs, Stencil Paper, Ink, Silks, Varnish and Paper, Carbon and Ribbons for all
machines. Special Typewriter Table . .
Vls\)€r Bt Liogban>>
Sole Importers for Australasia,
1, 2 k 3 Victoria Arcade, Sydney,
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTHS
Lifts.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains ovef*«2Oo Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperiatlnstitute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter
HOTEL
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
12-
|SOOK OF NATURE
Complete Medical Treatise,
ty Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MO HU THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
AD OR ESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll I'’ca.\de;;s, t>\ I) ■ Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1 C.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koo«, post free, Is 3d.
romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mtsteriks Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptambron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d: post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it SnouLD
Be. by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Hatpin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Fox’s Sensational Series, French Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2s 6d each ; posted 3s.
BOOKS OX ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
New Realistic Novels:—The Serpent Tempted Her;
Dbcoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2a.
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
Madame Bovary, from the French, posted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wifb, posted2s.
The Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
La Chasse au Chastre (in French), posted Is 64
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art of Lo\b, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book. Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with co da explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Tbllino Book of Fate, Dreamer's
Sure Guide, price, Is : post. Is 4d.
The Wife's Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould's Sportixg Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
RELIEF
from
GOUGH
ro
HAYMAN’S I
' < Balsam®ftdreHomdi
IN
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures
pREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly cn the first appearance of Co.d or Chill.
Preo'i-''-* "illy by A. KAYMAN & Co.. London. Price I*. lja atul-2s. M.
and
A Aew Scientific Remedy tor untiufln/
EttKUMafli; GO UT. RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA This wonderful discovery has now been
„ ■ . i v- * • k I , m ~se 8 : during this time 180 persons (mostly
h^- e - be ", n ?\ lred . of * h « horrible atinplaint'. It gives immediate Relief.
i'V t' v cureti ot me above horrible complaints. It gives immediate tveno.
- - *1 cnre. Prescribed by the Medical Faculty. (Reference is kindly permitted to Mr. Ale**
\ ic. railway locomotive shops. who was cured of Rheumatic bout by
if Clin»l»*l« IT on,-] cl. 1 • 1 e 1 1* » r v , ■ •• <_ PllTft.
GRrTTWP !f? pl s ° f the ' railway locomotive shop., who was cured'of Rheumatic bout oy
° ?L S, ' f T ftrm " and after tlle failure of leading Melb. physicians to effect cure,
and from the holder of In o-i—p xstoi. M extra. City Agent. M. SKOGLAND i CO.. Elizabeth-st., Melb.,
an.TJroni_tl.e_hoid.r of AuMrabsia,, rights. OSCAR LAtVSOV. 11 High-st.. Prahran. MELBOURNE^-
GrOUTINE.
It fibber Man u/aeturers.
INNERNESS CAPES, driving COATS. MACINTOSHES. DRIVING RUGS,
COATS. OILSKINS.
CAP!
RUBBER HOSE.
TM’V TIACIi ~r.n
GARDEN SPRAYS, ROSES, JETK, SPRINKLERS. Ac. BREWERS’
HUbE ’ STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, FIRE HOSE.
HOSE,
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.


A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys; 7; Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
T\)€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S..
OXFORP STREET.
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING,
-A.ndL see tliat you get it.
OOLU/^
R 0
I\DE
PROO
Of]
'j ur Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
l«IT BIOS.
vjt;
$
LIMITED.
I ma
Wft
s«s«
n
giSsSs
J \ EsS®*r2S
¥:& dgSstS
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application
Special attention and quotations given tor
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb CbanjberS, Bligb-St., Sydney,
■W" orks
Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“ COURIER ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
A Kangaroo-Hunt front Shingle-
Hut.
[FOR THEBULLETIN.]
We always looked forward to Sunday. It was
our day of sport. Once, I remember, we thought
it would never come. We longed restlessly for it,
and the more we longed the more it seemed to
linger.
A meeting of selectors had been held ; war
declared against the marsupial; complete anni-
hilation of him sought, and a hunt on a grand
scale arranged for this particular Sabbath. Of
course those in the neighborhood hunted the
kangaroo every Sunday, but “on their own,”
and always on foot, which had its fatigues.
This was to be a raid en masse and on horse-
back. The whole country side was to
assemble at Shingle Hut and proceed thence. It
assembled; and what a collection ! Such a
crowd ! such gear ! such a tame lot of horses !
and such a motley swarm of lean, lank, lame
kangaroo-dogs !
• * * *
We were not ready. The crowed sat on their
horses and waited at the slip-rails. Dogs trooped
into the yard by the dozen and proceeded to com-
mit acts of depredation. One pounced on a fowl ;
another lamed the pig; a trio put the cat up a
peach-tree ; one with a thirst mounted the water-
cask and looked down it, while the bulk of the
brutes trotted inside and disputed the right of
access to the safe with mother.
Dad loosed our three, and pleased they were to
feel themselves free. They had been chained up
all the week, with scarcely anything to eat. Dad
didn’t believe in too much feeding. He had had
wide experience in dogs and coursing at “home ”
on his grandfather’s large estates, and always
found them fleetest when empty. Ours ought to
have been fleet as locomotives.
Dave, showing a neat seat, rode out of the yard
on Bess, fresh and fat and fit to run for a king-
dom. They awaited Dad. He was standing
beside his mount, Farmer, the plough-horse, who
was arrayed in winkers with green-hide reins and
an old saddle with only one flap. He was holding
an earnest altercation with Joe. . . . Still they
waited. Still Dad and Joe argued the point. . . .
There was a murmur and a movement and much
merriment. Dad was coming ; so was Joe—
perched behind him, “double bank,” rapidly wip-
ing the tears from his eyes with his knuckles.
’ Hoorray ! They were off. Paddy Maloney and
Dave took the lead, heading for kangaroo country
along the foot of Dead Man’s Mountain and
through Smith’s paddock, where there was a low
wire fenoe to negotiate. Paddy spread his coat
over it and jumped his mare across. He was a
horseman, was Pat. The others twisted a stick in
the wires, and proceeded carefully to lead their
horses over. When it came to Farmer’s turn he
hesitated. Dad coaxed him. Slowly he put one
leg across, as if feeling his way, and paused again.
Joe was on his back behind the saddle. Dad
tugged hard at the winkers. Farmer was inclined
to withdraw his leg. Dad was determined not to
let him. Farmer’s heel got caught against the wire,
and he began to pull back and grunt —so did Dad.
Both pulled hard. Anderson and old Brown
ran to Dad’s assistance. The trio planted their
heels in the ground and leaned back. Joe became
afraid. He clutched at the saddle and cried
“Let me off!” “Stick to him!” said Paddy
Maloney, hopping over the fence, “ stick to him. ”
He kicked Farmer what he-afterwards called
“ a sollicker on the tail. ” Again he kicked him.
Still Farmer strained and hung back. Once more
he let him have it. Then—off flew the winkers
and over went Dad and Anderson and old Brown
and down rolled Joe and Farmer on the other side
°f the fence. The others leant against their
horses and laughed the laugh of their lives,
“ Worse ’n a lot of d—— jackasses,” Dad was heard
to sa Y- They caught Farmer and led him to the
Unee again. He jumped it and rose feet higher
than he had any need to, and had not old Brown
dodged him just when he did he would be a dead
n ? an now instead of the swell he is down in the
city—on a regular wage and nothing to do for it only
dodge about the streets after horses with a small
shovel and a broom in his hand. But Brown was
always a lucky dog.
* * * *
A little further on the huntsmen sighted a mob
of kangaroos. Joy and excitement. A mob? it
was a swarm ! Away they hopped. Off scrambled
the dogs and off flew Paddy Maloney and Dave —
the rust followed anyhow and at various rates of
speed.
That all those dogs should have selected and fol-
lowed the same kangaroo was sad and humiliating,
And such a waif of a thing, too ! Still they stuck
to afc . For more than a mile, down a slope, the
weedy marsupial out-paced them, but when it
came to the hill the daylight between rapidly
began to lessen. A few seconds more and all
would have been over, but a straggling, stupid old
ewe belonging to an unneighborly squatter darted
II P f rom the shade of a tree right in the way of
Maloney’s Brindle, who was leading. Brindle
always preferred mutton to marsupial, so he let
the latter slide and secured the ewe. The death-
scene was most imposing. The ground around
became strewn with small tufts of white wool,
There was a complete circle of eager, wriggling
canines—all jammed together, heads down and
tails elevated. Not a scrap of the ewe was visible,
Paddy Maloney jumped down and proceeded
vigorously to batter the brutes with a waddy. As
tl ie others arrived, they joined him. The dogs
were hungry, and fought for every inch of the
sheep. Those not laid out were pulled away, and
when old Brown had dragged the last one off by
the hlnd le S s all that . was left of that ewe was
four feet and some skin.
* * * *
Dad shook his head and looked grave—so did
Anderson. After a short rest they decided to
divide into parties and “work” the ridges. A
start was made. Dad’s contingent—consisting of
himself and Joe, Paddy Maloney, Anderson, old
Brown, and several others—started a mob. This
time the dogs separated and scampered off in all
directions. In quick time Brown’s black slut
bailed up an “ old man,” full of fight,
Nothing was more desirable. He was a
monster, a king kangaroo, and as he raised
himself to his full height on his toes and tail
he looked a formidable fiend a grand and
majestic demon of the bush. The slut made no
attempt to tackle him ; she stood off with her
tongue out. Several small dogs belonging to
Anderson barked energetically at him, even ven-
turing occasionally to run behind and bite his tail,
But, further than grabbing them in his arms and
embracing them, he took no notice. There he
towered, his head back and chest well out, await-
ing the horsemen. They came, shouting and
hurraying. He faced them defiantly. Anderson,
aglow with excitement, dismounted and aimed a
lump of rock at his head, which laid out one of
the little dogs. They pelted him with sticks and
stones till their arms were tired, but they might
just as well have pelted a dead cow. Paddy
Maloney took out his stirrup. “Look out!” he
cried. They looked out. Then, galloping up, he
swung the iron at the marsupial and nearly
knocked his horse’s eye out.
T, j j- . j tt j t j.l. i j
Dad was disgusted. He and Joe then approached
the enemy on Farmer. Dad carried a short stick,
The “ old man ” looked him straight in the face,
Dad poked the stick at him. He promptly grabbed
hold of it and a piece of Dad’s hand as well.
Farmer had not been in many battles—no Defence-
force man ever owned him. He threw up his head
and snorted and commenced a retreat. The kan-
garoo followed him up and seized Dad by the shirt.
Joe evinced signs of timidity. He lost faith in
Dad, and half jumping, half falling, he landed on
the ground and set out speedily for a tree. Dad
lost the stick, and in attempting to brain
the brute with his fist he overbalanced and
fell out of the saddle. He struggled to his feet
and clutched his antagonist affectionately by both
paws—standing well away. Backwards and for-
wards and round and round they moved. “Use
your knife!” Anderson called out advisedly, get-
ting further away himself. But Dad dared not
relax his grip. Faddy Maloney ran behind the
brute several times to lay him out with a waddy,
but each time he turned and fled before striking
the blow. Dad now thought to force matters, and
began kicking his assailant vigorously in the
stomach. Such dull, heavy thuds ! The kangaroo
retaliated, putting Dad on the defensive. Dad
displayed remarkable suppleness about the hips.
At last the brute fixed his deadly toe in Dad’s
It was an anxious moment, but the belt broke,
and Dad breathed freely again. He now acted
entirely on the defensive, but an aw r ful consciousness
of impending misfortune assailed him. His belt
was gone and—his trousers began to slip—slip—
slip ! He called wildly to the others for God’s sake
to do something. They helped with advice. He
yelled “ Curs ! ” and “ Cowards ! ” back at them.
Still, as he danced around with his strange
and ungainly partner, his trousers kept
slipping—slipping! For the fiftieth time and
more he glanced eagerly over his shoulder for
some haven of safety. None was near. And
then-oh, horror !-down slid the unmention-
ables, calmly and noiselessly. Poor Dad! He
was now at a disadvantage ; his leg-work was
it
free of them altogether But he couldn t-his
er 6 large. He took a lesson from the foe and
jumped—jumped this way and that way, and
rolled offTm
rolled off him It was a grotesque scene. The
small dogs displayed renewed and ridiculous
ferocity, often mistaking Dad for the marsupial.
himOn“heSf—Z
Twice he tripped. Heetaggered again p dt,wn he
was going — down, down —and down he fell ! But
at the same moment, and as though they had
dropped from the clouds, Brindle and five or six
other canines pounced on the “old man.” The
rest may be imagined.
» * * *
Dad lay on the ground to recover his wind, and
when he mounted Farmer again and silently
turned for home Paddy Maloney was trium-
phantly seated on the carcass of the fallen fiend
exultingly explaining how he missed the brute’s
head with the stirrup-iron, and claiming the tail.
Q.
STEELE RUDD.
smellbourne’s latest anonymous letter-writer shows
some knowledge of this wicked world in his (or her) deal-
ings with newly-wedded ladies. The letter, in thes*
cases, threatens to disclose pre-nuptial philanderings be-
tween the young bride and a married man. There’s
wisdom in the “ a married man ” assumption. Spinsters
are 80 likely to have indulged at least one little weakness
that sort before finding a legitimate victim.
THE MARRIED MAN.
Miss Maudie, when she answers “ Yes ”
To cousin Dick, will freely own
That half-a-dozen boys, or less,
Were privileged her hand to press
Ere first she cared for him alone.
She ticks them off, nor dreads his blame,
Upon her fingers with her fan ;
Such “ sweethearts ” give no cause for shame-
Mere pastime, all girls do the same.
But one boy Maudie does not name-
The Married Man.
m, „ ■ , , .
Th ? man who gripped her tight
And left her lips inflamed and rough,
Who blurred toe line twixt ‘wrong and
, rl^ tl j • , . . ,
a f u , n , te , d her ’ m dreams, at night
A “ d told , her than quite enough
ofAhm f she never heard before-
d hen formed their secret-meeting plan t
Pictured happy days in store
r( , 11 , won ier l° ve > and fondly swore
Ti
Miss Maudie, having told her tale
Of flirtings that were “ just for/ww,”
, h&htly, though her cheek be pale;
‘ That’s all,” she says, and drops a veil
Hr si 1 en _ce on the earnest one.
That s all, she says, “believe me, pet ! ”
( Believe her!” Why, he knows he can),
Her pretty mouth is firmly set;
Maud dotes on Dick, of course, and yet
Whilst memory lives, she’ll not forget
The Married Man.


K
n
n
; t.
REPUBUQUE
FRAMCAIS
h
A. ft F.PEARS
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1689.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS ,
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
The Old to the New.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
[“ Australia can only boast of two or three cities on its
Seaboard, the great portion of its interior being desert.”
—English globe-trotter in an English paper.]
Thus the little English critic standing on his
island ledge,
Careful not to jostle others —they might shove him
off the edge !
Seeing all Australia’s backblocks from an Orient
liner’s deck,
Where they’d damn well dress for dinner in the
middle of a wreck.
But behind the streets of Melbourne, and behind
the Sydney squares,
Are the plains flow’r-ribbed with crimson, and
the waste that never spares.
We can show that critic wonders in this white
isle walled with seas—
Granaries for all the ages billowing on a million
leas.
I have seen the Gippsland jinkers hauling paves
for London streets,
Heard the clarion of the top-saw —tasbcd of that
life the sweets ;
Watched the blackwood blossom melting into
honey for the bee ;
Seen the Leeuwin light lay tracks on all the mys-
t’ry of the sea ;
And the sun’s broad, blood red footways on old
Bogong’s ancient snow,
And the eaglehawk go wheeling to the Loddon
vales below ;
Heard the bellbird strike her hammer deep from
endless dew and musk,
And the bells of all the “workers” seeking pas-
ture in the dusk ;
Heard the creaking of the saddle as the pommel
gripped the “ tree,”
When we left the stony uplands for the marshes
of the sea;
Seen “the Promontory ” fishers lifting Singapore
and past,
Heard the crying of the cordage, and the music
of the mast;
Seen the mighty mallee country drowned in curl-
ing waves of grain,
Heard the chirping of the brake-block on the
backward loading wain ;
Felt the whipping of the Rip tide on the steps of
Melbourne’s halls,
And the lashing of the Pole wind on the rocks of
Otway’s walls;
Seen the Old Man Plain brim level with a flood of
moving wool,
And with life the sub-soil teeming, and with
wealth Australia full;
Seen the Darling River steamer with her naked
stack ablaze,
Heard her helm-gear groan and squeal in all the
devious water-ways,
Watched her snag-poles walk, and felt her shoot
the races of the flood,
With the freshet’s rush behind her and “ Adven-
ture ” in her blood ;
Seen old Sydney Harbor blushing in the opening
rose of dawn—
Gathered daisies on the Cooper from a hundred
leagues of lawn ;
Caught the giant groper off the sugar-barges at
Wardell,
Seen the knife flash through the sweet cane, oozing
sugar as it fell;
Watched the pearlers north of “ Thursday ” shake
their sails out to the dawn —
Played the game for lazy women—with a diver’s
life as pawn !
Seen the fireman of the coaster, and the trimmer,
black and stark,
Groping for the final bearings in the sobbing, oily
dark ;
Rocked off Hell-gate for a week, and with the
Rocks of Death a-lee,
Beat sev’n thousand miles of current and the reefs
of Reminie ;
Seen Macquarie’s convict-hell become a treasure-
house of mines,
Guarded by the water-tangle and the wild coast’s
sentry-lines ;
Seen the bush-fires clearing Zeehan, breathed the
southern wind a-wing,
Eaten with the men of Lyell, and the piners of
the King;
Hunted rubies at the Peak-height, where
M‘Donnell’s ranges lift
Up the veil of clouds upon them, and the cairns
of Ruby Drift;
Seen an ocean-big lake flashing back the sun’s
defiant eye,
Shining round a sapphired arch which otherwhere
is but a sky.
Seen the beche-de-mer boats fishing in the sludge
of Flat-top Bay,
And the teamsters on the Roper cram a week into
a day ;
Watched the ocean-gates at Wyndliam whence t.lie
West cyclone comes forth
Raced the buffalo at Arnheim's with the hunters
of the north.
Poor old England ! with your petty sneering at
these ‘ ‘ colonies ”
“Shall Be’s ” greater far than “Has Been!’’ —
new wine better than old lees ;
You, who gave away your people, when you closed
the fields of grain—
You, who outward drove your yeomen, cannot
have their strength again !
As our land is so our strength is—wide as
planets—broad as skies —
Every acre is a manling with a new strong giant’s
eyes!
From the Leeuwin to the Norman —cape on cape
and plain On plain—
From Dirk Hartog’s to the Smoky and West to
the Bight again,
Every wild shall have its city- every scrub shall
have its men—
Wide-World’s cream have we creating new the
mountain and the fen !
That you gave us, that we hold to—merged in us
your Strong and Bold !
And their new cry is “ Defiance —from the New
unto the Old ! ”
I O U., Westralia.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A compositor in Brisbane Govt. Printing-
office tallied up his dockets, the other Saturday,
and wrote “ Domino ” after the number (the first
time for 13 years). He then went out to a selection
and was struck dead by a falling-tree.
Brisbane hospital records show that the
mortality in typhoid has fallen from 14 per cent,
in female cases to 6 per cent, since the adoption of
the cold-bath treatment; and in male cases from
16 per cent, to 9 per cent. ; and at Glebe (Sydney)
children’s hospital the diphtheria mortality (taking
an experience of 600 cases) has been reduced from
52 to 18 per cent, by the anti-toxin treatment.
Kate: An Australian Girl .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Bulletin, — You told me once, years ago, to “ send
you more gospel from my heathen land.” The accom-
panying is gospel—it is a lot truer than most of the gospel
you hear preached nowadays.— Note from Author.
Up to 15 or thereabouts Kate was very-
like the average farm-bred Australian girl. She
would shin up a tree after a bird’s nest with as
much ease as a boy, and would ride a horse bare-
backed as fearlessly. She would walk over the
ploughed ground barefoot, planting potatoes all
day without a murmur ; and would sit up half the
night husking corn in the old draughty barn.
But as her skirts grew downwards Kate took
more interest in herself. Gradually she got freed
from the thraldom of outdoor work, and by-and-by
managed to coax her father into buying her a
side-saddle. After that she had some excuse every
fine day for riding into the nearest township ; and
from a riding-skirt she rose to a tall hat and veil.
Then she affected a lisp ; and if a young man were
near found it impossible to get on or off her horse
without assistance. She also developed a great
love for novels of the Young Ladies’ Jouknal
style, and could often be found lolling about
on the old husk-stuffed sofa at home en deshabille,
reading the literature that has ruined so many
Australian belles, while her mother was at the
wash-tub, or feeding the calves and pigs.
In spite of all this, and although she was red-
haired, and freckled, and vainly tried to hide the
freckles with paint and powder, Kate had found a
very soft part in my heart (or head), but luckily,
or unluckily, I was sent away from that district
before matters had gone too far.
* * * *
After 12 years’ absence I called to see Kate
the other day. She married the other fellow after
I left, and has four “kids,” as she calls them.
Her “ old man,” as she terms him, is a well-to-do
farmer, and owns four farms.
It was 10 a.m. ; Kate was in the kitchen. The kit-
chen is also the dining room, and the table was still
‘ ‘ set ” for breakfast, though that meal had been eaten
some hours before. The table-cloth had about two
dozen holes and rents in it, and was unspeakably
dirty. There wasn’t a whole cup, saucer, or plate
on the table; the cups that had handles had gaps,
and the cups that had no gaps were cracked.
Kate greeted me with “ a hundred thousand
welcomes ; ” wiped her sticky hands on her dress
to shake hands with me ; and bade me walk straight
in and take a chair. With the exception of two
long stools under the table, the only thing like a
chair I could see was a greasy block of wood about
a foot high placed alongside the fireplace. The
lisping, skittish Kitty I had known 12 years ago
was now dressed in an old wincey frock trimmed
with red braid ; no apron ; and a pair of boots from
which the soles were making great efforts to part
company—in the effort to do so displaying Kate’s
toes (she had no stockings on) as black as a coal-
miner’s.
Her hair was plastered with grease, and twisted
into a knot at the back of her head. Her dress,
especially the front from the level of the hips
down, was covered with grease and flour, but as it
was Kate’s towel and wash-basin combined that
was easily accounted for. Kate’s hands and arms
were covered with a mixture of flour, eggs, and
butter ; for she had just started to make a plum-
pudding for dinner and was not using a spoon to
stir the ingredients. She had a patch of yellow
on one side of her mouth and some greasy marks
on the other, showing that she had lately had a
meal of eggs and bacon.
♦ ♦ • *
I sat down, while Kate resumed her stirring of
the sticky mass that was destined to be a pudding •
but she had hardly got fairly started when the
knot at the back of her head uncoiled itself and
fell ker-flop over her shoulder, about six inches at
the end sticking into the pudding. Kate rubbed
her doughy fingers up and down once on the front
of her dress; rolled the disorderly hair up again
into the same old knot ; and resumed the pudding
operations. By-and-by she left the room for a
minute, and returned with two dirty pillow-slips
into one of which she scraped (with her fingers!
the pudding, and bundled it into the boiler. Then
she washed up the breakfast cups, &c., in the pud
ding-dish, which was still covered with the yellow
slimy dough; and wiped them dry on the other
pillow-slip.
I had promised to stay and have dinner but
long before dinner-time came—well, I didn’t feel
very well. About 12 o’clock, Joe, Kate’s husband
arrived ; and inquired “ Has my pretty Pollv
got the tucker ready yet?” Alas for the pa-
tience and resignation of Man—or had Kate
married a mere hog?) At dinner, Joe so per-
sistently begged me to “wire in,” and “buck
up -’ for some more, that, as I couldn’t eat anv
meat, vegetables, or pudding, I asked for some
bread and butter. Kate at once took the saucer
from under her cup and went to the butter-' 1 kag ”
in the corner, from which she scooped out with
her fingers a lump of butter, patting it smooth on
the saucer. Then she wiped her fingers on her
dress, and begged me to eat.
* * • •
When I was bidding them good-bye, Kate said
I must take a bottle of her honey. She said I
mustn’t notice a little dirt in it, for the kerosene-
tin in which it had been kept fell off the shelf on
to the floor the other day. I took the honey but
when crossing the river in the ferry-boat it some-
how slipped over the stern in mid-stream, where
it sank with all my old, fond recollections of
Kitty.
KATE'S CHAP.
From Nansen’s Arctic diary “ I have
weighed all the dogs, and have come to the con-
clusion that we can feed them on each other and
keep going for about 50 days, having, in addition
to this, dog provisions for about 30 days.”
It is stated now that Jamieson’s raid into
the Transvaal came to grief, like many other
schemes, through the insidious influences of
drink, Two men were detailed to cut the tele-
graph wires. One kept sober and did his job
effectually. The other, overcome by alcohol, sank
to the mental level of the beasts that per-r-rish
and thought he was cutting the main telegraph
line to Pretoria, while in reality he only hacked a
section out of a farmer’s wire fence. Consequently
news of the raid got through, and Oom Paul’s sol-
diers were lying in wait for Jameson at Door-
knop.
A Record for a Sovereign. —Hordern’s
in Pitt-street sovereign blankets break a record
for sterling value, and the fact that they are for-
warded without extra cost to any town in New
South Vales should induce residents in the
country districts of New South Wales to send for
a pair. Hordern Brothers, Government Con-
tractors, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (only)
Sydney. Telegraphic address simply ; “Hordern
Brothers.”


HOW TWO BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN
Were Rescued from Disease, and Restored to Health
and Happiness by Ayer s Sarsaparilla.
m,
Vj
v
S/ M
rU
Throughout the world Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is noted as a blood purifier
and a tonic and invigorator. Testimonials to its worth are to be numbered
by the thousands, and come from all the four quarters of the globe. One
of the latest is from Miss Mary Maguire, a well-known Philadelphia
business woman, who has two nephews, both aged five years, Elliott
Maguire and Walter Kester. Out of gratitude for the cure of their
diseases by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla she sends us their portraits, which we
reproduce above, and writes :
“ I can safely say that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has saved those children much agony and
perhaps their lives. Since they were horn, not one dollar in doctor’s fees has been spent upon
them, and the only medicine they have taken has been the Sarsaparilla. They first began on
it two years and a half ago. They hadn’t been strong, but were never exactly sick till then.
It was early in the spring and both children, who are cousins of almost the same age, fell ill
at the same time. Elliott’s trouble was chiefly in his stomach at first. He had violent indi-
gestion, and at such an early age that was something alarming. Then eczema made its
appearance. These unhealthy conditions were largely hereditary. The little boy’s skin
began to blotch up and eruptions made their appearance. With Walter it was different. His
arms and the upper part of his legs were badly swollen and the veins seemed to stand out like
purple cords. He also had stomach trouble, which was inherited, and it is pretty hard to get
medicine to cure inherited diseases. However, I had seen Ayer’s Sarsaparilla advertised to
cure such cases and I got a bottle of it, and gave it to both boys. The first bottle produced
a really remarkable change. It was wonderful. Then I began a regular Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
treatment. I gave the medicine to them three times a day. The blood troubles disappeared
and their skin cleared up splendidly. Then their stomachs got into condition again. Since
that time I have given it to them regularly every spring. They have got so used to taking it in
that season that when I miss a dose they say: ‘Auntie, you forgot our Ayer’s.’ They have
never had any other medicine whatever, and that alone has cured them and made them well,
strong and hardy. I consider the Sarsaparilla a wonderful medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
Makes Rich, Red Blood, and Invigorates the Entire System.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
fn v " youngest daughter was cured of a very heavy cold before she had
Becol *d bottle, when in a weak state, and has been stronger ever
All my family UBe ij now w ith great benefit when they have colds.”
E. EVANS, Chapel House, Abermule.
188 MsJM
'Jftmglonic.
”1 have been travelling many years, exposed to all kinds of weather, and
have suffered intensely with my chest. Your Lung Tonic, I am happy to
say, has done my wife and I more good than all the doctors’ medicines putt
together.” GEORGE PRICE, 227 Liverpool Street, Pendleton.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRiDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. l}d., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d„
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
%
%
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PEIftLFS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'-iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Roshbud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
Miols. Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—Ain>—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY/ FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND —
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT. NATIVE ROSE, OAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LeGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, f)ERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
SalOOnS furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment,
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony. r
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEKET, SYDNEY.


EPPS'S
GEATEFUL—COMFOETING
COCOA
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best (Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
1
Ballet 6irl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting: hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic lifp
Post Free l/-»
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons o f Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 918, G.P.0., SYDXRY,
MAD AMES List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.”
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ABE— • '"’ l SSi'--.*
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FO
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
fSPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SY33WTEY.
Collins
“THE BLOCK,
Street, liIEXjiBOXJSIKrE.
WortbiQgtoi? P(ifi)pii)g Ei)gii)c Co.
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence-st.,
TRADE MARK.
Sydney, X.S. \V.
VICTORIA: Welch, Perkin & Co., Moray-street, South
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
Brisbane.
■ ■
ASMANIA:
T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street
Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : E. Porter & Co., Queen-sty Auckland
J. Anderson, Canterbury Foundry, Christchurch
Worthing’ton Pumps
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION, MINING, GARDEN SUPPLIES, WOOL-DUMPING, SEWERAGE, TANK-FILLING,
SINKING, CREAMERIES, WOOL-SCOURING, WATER-SUPPLIES, MARINE, BOILER-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO, LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE ; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
' The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal pieces of Sy ey with
Milk, Cream, Ice. Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) — 92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade—fen
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywhere. H. PATES ON, MANAGER.
p
ARKE & LACY COMPANY,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MACHINERY, STEAM SMG-IKTSS &
Limited,
BOILERS.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and Settlers.
Coarse Crushing R«lk.
Orush.ing Machinery.
Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers. Sample Grinders.
Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls. Krom Rolls.
Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low's Hand Rock Breakers. HENDY’S CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
Amalgamating Machinery.
Clean-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators. Blast Furnaces.
Heater.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Roasting and CLloriHizing Furnaces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Concentrating Machinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes. Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Frue Manners. ' Triumph Concentrators.
Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Ma.chdn.ery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts,
Hoisting Machinery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Hnnaping Machinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pomps.
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and Rock Drill Plants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &c., &c.
Blowers.
Root’s Patent, and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans. Sturtevant and Huyett & Smith’s Faw
for Ventilating Purposes.
Water Whteels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS.
Bullock Diamond Drills. Huson’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for all purposes.
Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supplies.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
Caldwell's Sectional Boilers. Simmons' Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Boilers.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Worß. Agents Everywhere.
Batho’S Rnlcinn
Bakm 9 Powder
Scale of Advertising
—m—
“ THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column _ «. 6s. per inoh per insertion, nett.
Quarterly Contracts _ ~ 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly ~ .. ~ ~ 20 „ »s »>
One Year ... •» -» » .
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... life- per inch per insertion, nett.
An extra discount of 5 per cent allowed for cash in advance.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE Is Per Post, Is. 3d.
BoQoiogtoQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used.
As Safe as it is Certain.
\\ ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronicj,
TWuf Ti u— T™ of Voice ’ Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
inroat. bronchitis. Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
RmoSriH b » nd Public Speakers. ft deal* the Throa'
Kemoves all Huskmess. and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware wheap Substitutes. See you get Bennington’s.
