

McE WAN'S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
dbury's Cocoa
41 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
—I P°B— _ . _
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. * NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Meial Merchants,
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Ort> ” and “ Pyramid Galvanized. Iron,
10,000 Cashs Knight Sevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
Yj
ZXJ
'o f SS
$
i m ..
<rac«X"°cK>
e
-'■7 T
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE A. Co.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent <& Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, and SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
AGENTS
FOR
This Steel, which is of the highest quality,
is fast displacing every other brand on all
the leading fields throughout Australasia.
Price, £3O per Ton.
’Sags
Before visiting the City wrirelo the Manager for
(jrd of Tariff, (prreipondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRISBANE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprirtor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE - -
<arostf«OorNotsl,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDMBY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
TToU^uM
Use “Pioneer” Sole
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ABB
Tanned £k Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
THE BEST IX THE WORLD.
ULUDMM,
TANNERS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
Tannery: Lane Cove River.
\m
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
'seiswi
r
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the im & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
63T" Poverty Pointers
Four Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
Hadleys Qrient hotel.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, a,nd other Sketches in
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON LTP,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CI6ARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vui 18.—No. 924. \
[Saturday, October 30, 18^7.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE ROBKRTSON & CO.,
George Stkeet, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from Tiik Bulle-
tin) ; price. Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OP THE OLD REGIME (new series, from Tub
Bullktin), l>y Price Waruns ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d. . a . .
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderio Qunin ; price, 2s. »a.,
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
AG. STEPHENS,
• J ITER ARY AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copyinit, Disposal.
A.II work- involved between Author and drub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
THE RED PAGE.
Regarding Mahony’s picture at Sydney
Society of Artists’ show—
Did you notice the edge of the precipice in “To
the Bitter End”—the exact edge? The undermost
centaur has not an inch of brown heath or barren
rock between his hind-leg and eternity. Mahony
has strained the situation till it snaps. Similarly,
another artist made an exceedingly pretty little
moonlight sketch for Barcroft Boake’s poems, and
the moon is introduced as evidence of good faith,
though the quality of the tones and the manner of
reproduction have taken all the moony virtue out
of it—there is moonlight everywhere in the picture
but in the moon. Similarly, a very promising
young Queensland author, having to poison a
woman in a Bulletin story not long ago, poisoned
her in the drawing-room and dragged her right
against her child’s cot in the bedroom to die
—distilling the agony to the last bitter
drop. Similarly, the one charming picture in the
newly-established Brisbane Art Gallery (and it
doesn’t belong to the Gallery ; it is lent by Sam.
Griffith) is called “An Ice-Breaker on the Elbe.”
(Without knowledge, one infers that at Spring’s
advent a powerful bluff-bowed steamer is set to
work to hasten the disintegration of the floating
ice somewhere between Hamburg and Cuxhaven,
and that in the channel she outs follows a line of
released vessels just as the relief squadron followed
through the Mountjoy’s breach in the Londonderry
boom.) Ice-floes lie under a lowering sky, with a
dull-red sun shining over the vessel to shimmer
wonderfully down murky depths of foreground.
Behind, one dimly sees the following fleet. The
atmosphere of the whole is perfect—it looks like
truth, yet truth idealised in a most effective com-
bination of color. But the ice-breaker is mathe-
matically in the middle of the picture, and the sun
glows through the haze mathematically above the
middle of the vessel; and this gives any properly-
constituted mind a feeling of irritation which all
the charm of the work can hardly conquer.
Why? Because you get a glimpse of the man
behind the work, deliberately pulling certain
strings in order to get certain effects ; and the
human intelligence is so built that it hates to
think of itself as a marionette on a wire the
thought dissolves all one’s honest pride of inde-
pendence.
* * « *
[The Brisbane Gallery temporarily occupies an
upper room of the Town Hall; and the local com-
plaint is that about three-fourths of the Govt, suba
sidy goes in management exes., and only the casual
remainder in pictures A dozen tolerable paint-
ings hang on the walls—two landscapes by E. W.
Christmas being about the most satisfactory.
“The Legitimate Drama,” by T. W. Couldery,
contains a nice lot of well-drawn figures ; and most
of them don’t look like models with pokers down
their backs. Godfrey Rivers’ figures in a wool-
Bhed picture do—every one stands rigidly “ just
so,” as if the artist had taken off a photographer’s
camera-cap to them and said, “ Now . . .
steady ! 1!” “An Eviction,” by B. F. Fletcher,has
the same manufactured air—as if every figure had
been studied separately and slid into its place on
the canvas to suit the painter’s arbitrary notion of
what an eviction our/ht to look like. Griffith’s
Icebreaker ” (H. Gayaston, artist) is the only
really valuable item ; with the Christian pair good
seconds.]
W 9 m +
In all these instances, the artists are in error.
They are showing themselves not artists, but
mechanics —stage-carpenters, contriving that the
pantomime fairy shall fly up the precise centre of
the stage ; that the side-scenes shall come forward
precisely the same distance (who hasn’t seen an
anxious carpenter hitching his scenes back or for-
ward after the curtain rises, with the instinct of a
careful mother hitching her little girl’s frock
straight ?). The stage-ideal throughout, indeed,
is in grotesque conformity with the erroneous
notion that order is heaven’s first law. The hou
must always die in a particular patch of lime-
light; slow music must always lead up to the
catastrophe; in Sheridan’s time, the heroine
always went mad in white satin.
Puff. Now Tilburina comes in stark mad in white satin.
Sneer. Why in white satin ?
Puff. O Lord, sir—when a heroine goes mad, she
always goes into white satin.
But this continual conformity with bourgeois
conceptions of fitness is barbarously inartistic.
The outr4 is not necessarily better, but let us wor-
ship the outrd rather than the obvious. The
Scriptural chaos must have been a lot more
attractive than the Scriptural universe de-
picted in some old Bibles —as regularly wooden
as a row of skittles. When in England
a while ago the writer stayed a short time
with an estimable English family which
always, when eating, cleaned its plates. (Cleaning
one’s plate seems to be a well-marked English
trait.) Being an Australian, he never cleaned his
plate; and on the third day the head of the family
kindly took him to task. It irritated the excellent
British citizen to see an uncleaned plate on a
British citizen’s table. So at some personal in-
convenience the writer cleaned his plate until the
very last meal; and then the Imp of the Perverse
insisted on him leaving a spoonful ®f soup, and a
fragment of joint, and a morsel of pudding, and
a heel-tap of ale. He felt instinctively that the
farewell was saddened by those uncleaned plates ;
and, much to his regret, his relations with that
estimable British family have never been quite so
cordial since. And yet one feels in the marrow
of one’s bones that an artist should never dean
his plate.
Mr. Stephens objects to the ‘ brutal truth
primarily beoause it ‘makes us wretched.’ The
inference that the poet has no right to make people
wretched opens up a big question. A good many
honest people believe that the poet should be orna-
mental, not useful; that he should have privileges,
not duties. He should hold himself aloof from
the stress and strain of life, tuning his ears to
catch its harmonies, not its discords; living for
Art’s sake solely, contemplating abstractions. He
should deal only with the rosy-hued and aesthetic.
He should sit at the feet of power, and chant its
praise, and soothe its conscience, happy in his
sycophancy. He should sing of the greatness of
kings and the pride of power—of the goodness of
the deity and the moral ordination of society.
‘ God’s in his Heaven ; all’s right with the world.’
Aud if he should veuture to couch on the ‘ brutal
truth ’ —the tabooed side of life—it must be with
lavender kid gloves on his fingers, using only
the most delicate, distautly-suggestive language,
so as not to derile his sacred calling and hurt the
tender susceptibilities of his readers. To use Mr.
Stephens’s words, ‘he must intensify the present-
ment of truth in the very act of debrutalismg it.’
But there are also a good many honest people
who believe that the poet, after all, has a higher
mission. They believe chat he should come down
among his fellows, and be one of them ; that his
duty co society (which should be above his duty Co
himself) demands that he shall give some share of
the gift that is in him to the making of the world
even ever so little a better place for his having
lived in ic. They believe that he should write of
things as he finds them, aud that it is better to
snarl at a wrong than to wail at it. They believe
that it is almost a crime for a man to close his
eyes to the injustice that confronts him every-
where, or to attempt to gloss it over with equi-
vocal phrases. They believe that the function of
the poet is not solely to please, not solely to dally
with the pleasant side of things ; that he may
seriously employ his art, if he choose, by writing
a song now and then to help along tiie better
times to come. They believe that the right can
look after itself well enough—is being looked after
well enough, and lias been ; and that the victims
of wrong, and injustice, and oppression, want all
the help they can get, artistically or otherwise.
The ‘ brutal truth ’ told by poets of this school
jars on the artist in Mr. Stephens and makes the
man in him wretohed. It is not Art! You had
better pack up your poetic swag ‘ if your faculties
stop short at that.’ There is one condition, how-
ever, under which Mr. Stephens will admit that
the ‘brutal truth’ may be poetically rendered,
and that is in rose-colored verses. The poet who
insists on dealing with the world as he finds it
‘must learn to express the most dreadful senti-
ments in a pleasant way.’
* • * *
Again, a strong and growing note in much of
the verse that one meets with nowadays is simply
the poetic expression of a starved sexuality. It
is very noticeable in verses above the names of
women. They put it pretty plainly, oftentimes,
but none the less poetically, pathetically, or artis-
tically. While it is a wail it is all right, it
appears; but when there is a recognition of the
social injustice behind it, and consequently a snarl
in the wail, then it comes into Mr. Stephens’s
category of the unpoetical.
Yet how can anyone whose mind has acquired
the -scientific habit of looking straight at
the things he sees with naked eyes avoid
writing of these same things as he finds them ?
It is no doubt very comforting to oneself and to
one’s readers to be able to see only the brighter
side of things. But which, after all, is the higher
type of man—the one who cherishes delusions and
shuts his eyes and blinds his readers to half the
facts of life, or the man who dares to face the
whole truth of things as far as his powers can
help him? Isn’t one mentally plucky and the
other a shirker?
Now, you can’t separate the poet from the man
in these matters, any more than you can separate
the poet from his verses.
* * * *
The great mistake that Mr. Stephens makes,
however, is in the belief that the ‘brutal-truth-cum-
anti-cwwi-Marseillaise’ school of poets is purely de-
structive in its writings. If society is to be saved,
scholars in the ‘brutal truth’ school believe it
must have practical ideals to work for; and the
highest of these is the fellowship of man, and its
consequence, as taught by Confucius, that no one
has a right to be happy while his fellows are
miserable. It is just a stage ahead in social evo-
lution that they have an eye on—not ‘ Europe,’
and not ‘ nor-nor-westerly’any more than sou-sou-
westerly. It is only the obstacles to social evolu-
tion to which they are ‘ anti.’ It is only here and
there, at the clearing away of one of these, that
they write ‘ Marseillaise ’ and ‘ Workers, Arise!’
poems.
* * • *
Mr. Stephens is also a social Salvationist, and
these are his views of the poet as saviour
‘There is more relish of salvation, even of social
salvation, in a pretty, fanciful, well-sustained
effort like that of Boake’s, “The Box Tree’s Love,”
than in a thousand sonnets to “Divine Discon-
tent.” The one is at least achievement—of a sort,
and a good sort, too ; the other, however iEolian,
is just wind on thestomach,’ And yet Swinburne
used to be a ‘ brutal truth ’ poet, and an ‘anti
and so was James Thomson, and Shelley, and
William Morris, and many another. It was
Swinburne who penned the line —
Of Christian creeds that spit on Christ.
There is no rosy tint in this—no equivocation, no
quibbling with words, no ‘intensifying the pre-
sentment of truth in the very act of brutalising
it.’ Yet Swinburne is regarded as a great poet.
* « • •
As a matter of faot, the Romantic school is re-
sponsible for a good deal of the ‘ anti-cum-brutal-
truth-cum-Marseillaise ’ poetry that is abroad.
Its one-sided verses are taken seriously by many
generous, high-souled youths and maidens who
set out to face the facts of life, equipped with
rosy-tinted ideals of love and life which they
fondly hope to realise. These believe that love,
as the Romantic school paints it, is an attainable
reality, that life is a pleasant place of dreams,
and that society is organised on a strictly moral
basis, so that the good man shall receive terrestrial
exaltation, and the bad terrestial damnation.
When such an ill-equipped individual clashes
against the realities of life, and his ideals tumble
one after another about him, what wonder if, in
his soul-revolt, he lift a voice of warning to those
who are to follow him? What wonder if, when
he finds everywtiere large-hearted, noble men and
women laboring to make the world a better place to
live in than it is, he should range himself among their
ranks and help to destroy much that deserves
destruction —only that a reconstruction may be
effected? What wonder if he becomes an ‘anti’
in this sense?—for this is how ‘ antis ’ are largely
recruited and made. The Romantic school makes
them and then damns them.
There are many right good and beautiful things
still left on earth, but they are no more exolusi vely
the property of poetry than their antitheses. So
much of a poet’s work is a matter of tempera-
ment, a matter of heredity and environment.
James Thomson could no more have written ‘The
Bab Ballads ’ than \V. S. Gilbert could have
written ‘The City of Dreadful Night.’ And
because James i hotnson, whose ‘ brutal truth ’
makes us wretched, could not ‘ intensify the
presentment of truth in the very act of debrutalis-
ing it,’ he should have ‘ tried some other sphere
than poetry ’! Which is very questionable.
There is so much rebellion, revolution, and
despair in the world, and one poet caters for it;
there is so much hope and joy in the world, and
another sings it. There is a demand for ‘ brutal
truth ’ and one school supplies it; there is a desire
for rosy tints, and another school supplies those.
fSo that every phase of human feeling has its
corresponding poetry or school of poetry. And
for one of these schools to try and oust the other
isn’t fair or brotherly.
AJways remembering Mr. Stephens’s great poetic
achievements, the young Australian poet might
well be justified in saying : ‘ I resent the right cf
the author of “ Convict Once,” or of any one else,
to tell me what I must write about. I have just
as good a right to be in the universe as he has, and
to take my own views of it. I have just as good
a right to select from the wealth of material
everywhere the particular features that suit my
fancy, or my bent, or my temperament—
whatever you like to call it—and sing about
them to my heart’s content. If he prefers to
sing about the Right of things, the pleasant side
of life, the Romantic, I don’t deny him the right
to his preference ; and if I prefer to sing about
the Wrongs of life, the injustice, the oppression,
I deny him the right to deny me my preference.
I have just as much right to my note in the gamut
of human feeling as he has to his, and in thegreat
catholicity of tastes vve can each find our
audience, great or small, and our due share of
appreciation—always provided we deserve it.
There is plenty of room for us all. Let us each
stick to our branch in the tree of poetry, and sing
our best in our own way. But don’t—if you
please, Mr. Stephens—don’t order me off my limb
and decry it as rotten, and don’t describe my
afflatus as ‘wind on the stomach’ because it
doesn’t chime with yours, or your ideas.
— * .
And, on the same subject, ‘P. Luftig ’ —
Mr. Brunton Stephens, on the Red Page
‘ Too many of our young poets sit down with the
deliberate intention of telling the “ brutal truth.”
It is all very well to tell the brutal truth, hut if
your faculties stop short at this, you had better
try some other sphere of usefulness than poetry,’
With the latter portion of which criticism one can,
of course, heartily agree. At the same time it
must be remarked that an individual who can
only tell the brutal truth in brutal language
(essentially a bullock-driver’s qualification) has
certainly no claim to the title of poet, and even
less claim still to be the object of the animadver-
sions of a penman of Mr. Stephens’s calibre. I
am inclined, however, to look upon the tendency
Mr. S. denounces as rather a healthy one. . . .
It is, unfortunately, only too true that poets in
general, from the polished Horace and the courtly
Virgil down to glorious Dryden and the laureate
rhymesters of a later day, have seldom been con-
spicuous for their honest devotion to the dear
goddess Truth. As a rule they have been re-
markably loyal to the loaves and fishes.
Generally speaking, they have basked in
the sun of royalty right gladly ; have fed
only too willingly at the hand of Dives
the magnificent; have even been known, in true
Lazarus-humility of spirit, to eat greedily of the
crumbs that fell from the rich man’s table. We
have had such a surfeit of poetic sycophancy for
countless generations that a little lively rebellion
among even the very diminutive hards of the fag-
end of the 19th century is not altogether a thing
deplorable. (I trust, however, they won’t ‘Awake!
and arise ’ to any considerable extent oii the
strength of this.)
• 9 • •
Mr. Stephens is no friend of the ‘antistic’
school. But the poetry of the lesser hard is not
bad because it is ‘ antistio,’ but simply because the
bard himself is particularly small potatoes. Hein-
rich Heine is essentially ‘ antistio ’; so is Shelley ;
so is Byron ; and there be few loftier names than
these in the poetic calendar. I venture also to add
that their poetic reputation would have been in
no wise diminished had they been ‘pro-istic’
(pardon the clumsy vocable) instead of ‘antistic,’
for Art is Art always, whether the human
habitation she occupies for the moment nub itself
Radical red or blue-blooded Tory. Wherefore
the devotees of the ‘antistic ’ school may go on
their way rejoicing, for the peculiar view they
take of things won’t improve or depreciate the
value of their poetic output to any remarkable
degree. True, the ‘anti-lay’ palls terribly at
times; so does the loyal anthem ; so does the
jubilee ode. Yet both ‘anti-lay’ and loyal
anthem can rise into the region of the Sublime
when Ronget de Lisle intones the one and
Dryden the other.
J • * • *
‘ It is the poet’s mission to make society worth
saving,’ Mr. S. continues. Undoubtedly ! And
surely the songs of a Burns (who was ‘antistic’ to
the backbone), the songs that breath a wholesome
hatred to every form of sham and fiunkeyism,
have done something to make society worth the
saving. Surely the man who fights the Wrong is
doing, in some sort, a battle for the. Right—and
the Beautiful. Surely Hugo (‘antistic’ to t.ie
very core) did a little to redeem society from the
curse of injustice and hideousness that beset
it. The unfortunate side of your jovial,
genial, optimistic bard is that he either
can't see or ivon't see that society is in
need of any Salvation at all. . . . This, however,
is beside the main question, viz.—the merits
and demerits of the ‘ antistic ’ school. The real
truth appears to be that creative poetical power
is entirely independent of pessimistic or opti-
mistic bias; that the artist is the artist always—
whether he be ‘ pro-istic ’ or ‘antistic;’ whether
his peculiar bent make him for the nonce fertile
in mellifluous benediction or gorgeously fecund m
varied execration.
‘ K.’ writes—
In a recent Red Page Mr. Brunton Stephens
discourses on Australian poets and Australian
poetry, kindly but severely. It is hard to get a
definition of what Australian poetry really is. If
it is poetry written by natives of the continent,
then Brunton Stephens and Gordon are out of it.
If it is poetry written upon distinctively Austra-
lian subjeots, then there will not be much Austra-
lian poetry left after you have eliminated the
essential elements common to humanity. Aus-
tralian poetry should really be that part of the
world’s poetry for which Australia is in some way
or other responsible. And it isn’t a very impor-
tant part when you come to sum it up.
When a poet like Brunton Stephens begins to
speak about Australian poetry it is good to listen,
and if it may be, learn. That he is at variance
with some of the younger Australian poets is only
to be expected. Differences of opinion between
the older generation and the younger lie in the
nature of things. Generalised, the dispute be-
tween Brunton Stephens and the young school of
Australian poets is the dispute between the
Romantic and the Realistic schools of Art. Par-
ticularised, it seems that the modern socialistic
idea is pervading Australian poetry. Its mani-
festations are bugbears called ‘ brutal truth ’ and
‘ anti ’ and ‘ Marseillaise ’ —none of which, accord-
ing to Brunton Stephens, ever can be poetry.


Bledloal.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADINC SPECIALIST) and
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE,
Tlie tried & trusted
Friki, dsol sufferers
Secoud to Hoke in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a quest ion of doubt. '1 hat
they have investigated fui ther into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in S Y I > N it! Y,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thoni-ands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
5
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfulness,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r'en.
MIDDLE-AGED l OLD MED,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of ttiis difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIMATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to the
doctors if living
away from the
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this ma- nor
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-
tises, NKIiVDUS
AND PItIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applicti-
rw=
m
IflCv^R
a 33
All Trains stop at the Boor.
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical su feriug and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaiut,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Kooms.
If we cannot Cure yon, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
hV!
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing' how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENT 111 ELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“A Boro PljySiciao.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have battled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health, in justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price 4:2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical,
Dp. SPBEE,
29 York street.
WYNYaED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st,, Melbourne.
9^l
FULL DIRECTIONS^
>. enclosed; "J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sajrrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
L A. D I E S !
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
SSjpeer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street, Sydney.
LADIES !
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
FEE iO/- 127 R e dfern Street,
ppropnate Medicine
by Return Post. REDFERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
t)S R* CORDS
0^0 ? y.l F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating
all, the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for !i6s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales— W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
Publications, eto.
Married Ladies.
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
lx stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Eooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. G-IBBOINTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PEIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research,-investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches,-
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on tfm back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, ftc.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
dbbil.it y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none bub the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230 P G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday,
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Mcdicaj,
PERFECT MOOD.
)0(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
T)I7'EAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
” permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All canes are treated strictly confidentially.
171 publishing the folloioing remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the limiters
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writesl can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted t<*
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindlev-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact., was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing’ of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure."
‘SB 5
Pt
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better," when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes;
—“Gentlemen, —I cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst eases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have ail disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what>
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes “ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
.
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I waa a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwao.


TATTERSALL’S
• § •
Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Sandhurst 0. 24th November.
100,000 Subscribers at 5
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name
Address__
Sandhurst 0.
24th November.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me-
_ Shares in the above.
Name
Address-
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


flnthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
999
♦
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ONE!
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USE
Spooler’s
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC l lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLAOKIM,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
FRINGES,
rfftturat Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2oin. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS,
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapeiitin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.wigz'll,
110 W HjPiam Street,
corner of Palmer-street.
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List
Prompt attention giyen to Country Ordm
SUSSiUJ. MAJCSAtULSQMr&Ii ~
The Blahe Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
r lhe Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AMD CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Spec'ality
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmusserj’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS 30s to 90s
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s 6d BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery
Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc.
Saddles for Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good
nduJl&a The f P ' T lce -n low i quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one 3 , do so. Ii
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A
saddles used in the
’ you order from this
CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
gPWARDg»
Si
WORLD-RENOWNED
Bair firodueer # Bedtorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE" Produces Luxuriant Hair.
■
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
jglF“ It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ "HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN. LONDON, W.C.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
o* PIANOS ik
Tlje Fii>?St ai)d Largest MGSic WareboGS*
IN AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S
George Street,
SYDRfBY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOMT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, STDNET.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin &, Complexion
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovelv Com-
plexion, free trom blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet, Doctor’s certificate with each cake 7
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists* Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr Mackenzies
Arsen let Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge Eng
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
The Fruit wMh Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird's Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Bards of the Backblocks .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LEGEND OF THE DARGO.
It was on the Upper Dargo, in the spring of eighty-
four,
That Cargoola township boasted a Salvation Army
corps;
Which was needed very badly, for the Upper
Dargo then
Contained a population of most irreligious men.
And the daddy of the sinners, owning neither God
nor boss,
Was h grey old drunken Scotchman of the name
of Sandy Ross.
Now Sandy, as a sinful man, was very hard to
beat. '
His oaths were fresh and fierce and strong—-they
scorched you with their heat.
He was drunk at early sunrise, he was drunk at
sunset, too;
And when drunkest told his biggest lie—he sang
‘We are na fou’! ”
He would steal, or beg, or borrow ; he was always
on the cross;
And the parsons—classing sinners—gave the cake
to Sandy Ross.
But the “ Army ” girls got at him, for their hearts
were m their work,
And the Hallelujah ” lasses have been never
known to shirk
A hopeless case, an uphill fight—salute them as
they pass,
worker of the workers is a “Hallelujah
So they tackled Alexander with the Story of the
Cross,
And a change became apparent in the life of
Sandy Ross.
Now, about this time, it happened that a direful
deed was done;
For the parson’s ducks they vanished—yes, they
vanished one by one ;
And the solitary trooper, for the honor of the
force,
Spent watchful days, and sleepless nights, and
sorely tried his horse ;
Till at length a whisper went abroad—a calumny
most gross,
And the finger of suspicion seemed to point to
Sandy Ross.
But the “ Army ” wouldn’t hear it, and they gave
that yarn the lie,
When they entered Sandy boldly for the “ Coming
by-and-bye.”
Then each night upon the platform, in a broken
voice and low,
He informed his fellow sinners he was “ whiter
than the snow.”
And the.parson’s pretty daughter—the enthusiastic
I loss,
Told her friends, in gladsome accents, “ There’s a
change in Mister Ross ! ”
Then the teacher of the State-school, who possessed
a merry eye,
And had doubts of Sandy’s fitness for a mansion
in the sky,
Wagered gloves that, at next meeting, the con-
verted man would scare
And demoralize the godly with a most prodigious
swear.
But the girls they booked the wagers, and en-
thusiastic Floss
Said she felt just like a sister to the convert
Mister Ross.
The night arrived, the hall was full; men spoke,
and by-and-bye
Came announcement from the chairman: “Brother
Ross will testify ; ”
And Sandy rose and told once more how he
excelled the snow
In whiteness—but Co further in his tale could
Sandy go,
For, heard by all, and seemingly proceeding from
the back,
To the horror of the “ Army ” came a duck’s pro-
testing quack.
The speaker paused, and glared around, then had
another try.
I thank the quack!” “I thank ” —“ quack
quack I” “I thank the Lord that I
Am whiter”—“qu-a-a-ck.” “See here, young
chap ” —-then out the torrent burst,
And Sandy ripped, and tore, and swore—’twas
fearsome how he cursed !
He cursed the teacher—cursed the ducks—he cursed
till all was blue ;
The solitary trooper came, he cursed the trooper
too; *
He took his coat and waistcoat off— he would have
taken more,
But the solitary trooper led him cursing to the
door.
Thus, back upon society, came old-time Sandv
Ross, J
Fearing neither man nor devil, owing neither God
nor boss.
W. LONG.
BALLADE OF SHEARING TIME.
The sweating on the board, the smell of sheep ;
The clicking shears, from sunrise unto night,
Fill all the hours that leaden-footed creep—
The slow, dull hours—“O, would that I were
tight!
That you, or he, or any other might
Walk up and down, and round about the floor
And curse and spit, and listen to the skite,
And understand that shearing is a bore.
The drafting at the race where dust lies deep,
And swirls like gum-smoke in the blazing light:
Where endless strings of jumbucks endless keep ’
The straining eyes of swearing drafters bright
With eager searchings after variants slight
Of “squares,”and “notes,” and marks behind,
before.
Ah, would that you could feel the gay tick bite,
And understand that shearing is a bore.
The must’rings on the mountains that are steep,
Where “ double-fleecers ” line on every height,
And all the bloomin’ world seems but a heap
Of ranges piled on ranges out o’ sight.
The dronings down the roads, dry, dusty, white ;
The blasphemy that rings from shore to shore,
At river-crossings. Seek this last delight—
And understand that shearing is a bore.
ENVOY.
Banks, bosses—you who all the profits reap
Of toil, and sweat, and labor long and sore—
Come up yourselves and work your blessed sheep
And understand that shearing is a bore.
N.S.W.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


mjt g. g a Established 1810.
Fiutuai Provident Society.
ssurance Society established w 1 w V B V ™ g "
and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income.. ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Of3H.ce : 8 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
AdStraliao
The Oldest Mutual Life A
in Australasia,
HOTEL
C 3
TRALIA
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &e. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night—advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES: 32/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manaqer,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, ROLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from =62 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia)..
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality •
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from ,£3 3s. each.
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER ,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELjBOXJRKTE.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
'
■ ;
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Cold, Silver, [sad $ Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc etc’
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemobe, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
description's. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
In U M U n IAI rI I (late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
JUrtlM nUWLLL, Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Every Variety of
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Summer Suita! Summer Suits!
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Tb€ Loijdoij & Tailoriijg Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have one of the Largest and most Varied Stock of SUMMER SUITINGS in the City.
Call or send for Patterns and Measurement Forms.
SM SUITS—4S/-, 50/- to 90/- TROUSERS—I2/0 to 25/-
All Goods delivered FREE to any part of the Colony.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED. S . M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 la. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
HHHE above Establishment has been improved and fit ted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Brldyemork,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-03 King-'st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
MELBOURNE CUP
VISITORS should STAY AT
FEDERAL PALACE
HOTEL
M ELBOUR N E.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Booms. . . .
Two Dining' Rooms; and Caf6 open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your- BOOTMAKER
FOB
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
CjECOND-HAND
ANI)
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
.SAVE 50 PER CENT.
[ £1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRA LIAN COMPANY
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
insurance company, ltd.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices ; .9,5 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire. Jiuildinf/s, 4id Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for t.lie year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of lo'icies. The BONUS
makes £97,763, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insirance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed i 2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73.972 assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
I Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
I Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE EADIES.
W_ O. ELDRIDG-E & CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOHlt STRUM l\ SYDNBY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post tram alt the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 ToqS n)ore Imported Leaf
tbao all tbe other Tobacco
Factories PGt Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of DixsOll’S
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
yai)k?e Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PEE, CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cl)an)pioQ.
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cooqfi^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Moiiopole,
Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 924.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1897.
Price, 6d.
h
\/ICToRIAcf.. (v'ST'ssqeMT.
AS USUAL!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street,'Waverley, for The Bit letin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ?•
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 j.
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 o o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Ojlice Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
d Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, -are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in alack, and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
ether topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — 11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,,
Wcstralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside " N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is noiv
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland,.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—l?d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1897.
The Smith that Failed.
Minister Smith, of the New South Wales
Government, said a straight and honest and
democratic thing when he announced that
his department would resist the application
of the Wentworth Gold Mining Co. for a
suspension of the labor conditions during the
existence of the Lucknow strike. And then
he did a very weak and crooked one, inas-
much as his department didn’t resist the
company’s demand for exemption after all.
Nobody doubts that Minister Smith meant
to carry out his announced intentions, but
the vituperation of the capitalistic press and,
presumably, the opposition of Attorney-
General Want, the strong Tory bigot of a
flabby band, were too much for him, and he
foolishly died away. And therein the Smith
that Failed lost the one great opportunity of
his mild career. He didn’t wreck himself
with the democratic party anything like so
badly as Dibbs did over tire Broken Hill
trouble, inasmuch as Smith evidently meant
to do right and failed, whereas Dibbs
avowedly intended to do wrong and fully
succeeded. But it was a pretty bad wreck
all the same.
* * * *
The principal curse levelled at Minister
Smith by the capitalistic press based
on the fact that he interfered in a mat-
ter that was sub judice. The application
of the Wentworth Co. for a suspension
of the labor conditions was about to
tome on before the Warden, and, while
the case was pending, Smith rushed into
print with a minute to the effect that,
in the department’s opinion, the company
was not entitled to exemption, and that the
application would be opposed. This was
denounced as a base and horrible attempt to
interfere with the ends of justice, and to
influence the mind of the Warden, and to
scare that official from the fair and impartial
exercise of his judicial functions. As a
piece of utterly unscrupulous misrepresenta-
tion this argument takes a high place. The
Mines Department, on behalf of the State,
was the defendant in the case, and the
defendant simply gave notice that he intended
contesting the matter. If he had appeared
to contest it without giving notice of his
intention, there might have been cause for
complaint. Labor conditions are the essen-
tial part of the bargain between the State
and the mining lessee. The Wentworth co.
obtained from the State an immensely valu-
able property on condition that it paid an
infinitesimal rent in money, and made up the
balance of the consideration by employing a
certain number of men. The rent paid in
money is so small that the real consideration
is undoubtedly—as Chief Justice Higin-
botham once laid down in a similar case
before the Victorian courts—the company’s
undertaking to find employment for a certain
number of men. Apparently, from state-
ments that have been made in Parliament, it
didn’t pay any very close attention to the
cash part of the bargain, and it desired to be
excused from paying any attention whatever
to the other part..
* * * *
The Wentworth co., in fact, announced its
intention of appealing to the Court for per-
mission to keep the property and yet to stop
paying the largest part—about 99 per cent. —-
of the I’ent or consideration it had bargained
for. Its landlord, the State, through the
mouth of Minister Smith, announced its in-
tention of resisting the application and re-
quiring payment in full. And the Fat Man
press declared unanimously that the landlord
should have let the matter go, and that his
announced intention of objecting to the de-
fault of his tenant was a gross outrage, and
that he was endeavoring to bring undue in-
fluence to bear on the administration of jus-
tice because he stated publicly the reasons
why he didn’t feel inclined to let his tenant
stop payment without putting his side of the
case also before the Court. In fact, the plea
of the Tory papers was that only the com-
pany’s or tenant’s side of the matter should
have been heard, and that it was an outrage
on Property for the landlord’s side of it to
appear at all. Also, tin re was the bitter wail
aforementioned about the landlord appearing
in the case while it was sub jndice —yet every
defendant appears while his case is sub jndice.
If he doesn’t appear then, there is absolutely
no use in appearing at all.
* *' * *
Apart from the fact that the State has just
as much right as any other defendant to op-
pose its defaulting tenant in the law courts,
there were good reasons why it should have
been heard against this application in parti-
cular. The Wentworth co. demanded that
the State should give it special assistance to
starve out its workmen because they had
gone on strike—which was a gross perver-
sion of the truth. It was the Wentworth
co. which went on strike. There are two
sides to every contract ; the employes agreed
to sell a certain amount of labor for so much
coin, and the co. agreed to sell so much coin
for a certain amount of labor. The co. went
on strike by refusing to give so much coin as
heretofore for a day’s labor and by demand-
ing that other new conditions should be im-
ported into the bargain. Hence it was
distinctly the aggressor, and when it de-
manded State assistance on the ground
that its employes were on strike it said
what was utterly untrue — it, was the only
striker in the case. The Wentworth pro-
prietary declared war against its w r orkers,
and demanded that the State should forego
the largest part of the rent of its lease—the
part that was paid in kind, not in cash—to
provide it with the means for carrying on
the campaign ; also, that it should do this
without any proof that the war was justifi-
able. It merely dumped down the fact that
there was a war, and asked for charity on an
enormous scale on the ground that the other
party hadn’t caved in without a struggle.
* * * *
Assuming that the average wages at Luck-
now' were £2 per week this would mean,
when the leases are fully mannid, a wnekly
expenditure of some £4OO. The amount
looks large, but it is only so because the co.
chooses to grab a stupendous area of land
with a full knowledge of the conditions and
consequences. The State has a very large
direct interest in this amount. It gets Cus-
toms and excise duties out of it. It goes to
swell the incomes of storekeepers and others,
who pay their quota in income-tax. It is
passed on by the storekeepers to city mer-
chants, and pays more income-tax. It keeps
Lucknow in existence, and gives the land
thereabouts a value it would not otherwise
possess, and the Government taxes that
value. It creates postal revenue- -in fact the
State levies tribute on it directly and in-
directly in every possible way ; also it in-
directly saves revenue by keeping down the
number of unemployed and the demands
for State assistance. Therefore it is of far
more importance to the State in actual cash
than the paltry sum which the co. is sup-
posed to pay as the nominal rent of the
ground occupied. By demanding exemption
the Wentworth co. demands that the State
shall give up a lot of revenue to enable it to
carry on its private war aga.ast its employes,
and the State has every reason to inquire
into the justice of the cause which sends
round such a stupendous hat and takes up
a collection so aggressively, and to object
to pay this subsidy if it reckons that
the sturdy British beggar is begging
without good reason. And the employes
have a perfect right to demand an equally
large subsidy for themselves. Probably the
labor which the Wentworth co. agreed to
employ in return for a very valuable conces-
sion yields, directly and indirectly, at least
£3O a week out of its wages to the Trea-
sury at the lowest estimate, and these
joint - stock speculators asked that the
Treasury shall forego this sum in their
private interests. If the men had a similar
amount of brassy assurance —which they
haven’t—they would ask, in the name of
impartial justice, an equal weekly donation
in cash to keep up their end of the scrimmage.
And then the shriek of the aggregate Aus-
tralian Fat Man would rend the heavens and
make the stars sit up in affright.
• * * *
About the loudest note of woe in the
press, however, was to the effect that, if the
co. didn’t get exemption, and wasn’t aided
by a large indirect subsidy to cut down
wages, and wasn’t allowed to default on its
side of the bargain with its landlord, the
State, and if the landlord raised any objec-
tion to the default, or even wanted to have
his side of the case heard at all—capital
would “ leave the country.” But very little
mining capital ever came, or seems likely to
come, to this country ; there are plenty of
British mining companies in Australia with
a large paper capital which was mostly
annexed by first-robbers in London, but
the amount which actually reaches Aus-
tralia isn’t worth a moment’s consideration.
What is much more to the point is that
labor may leave the country—the class of
labor which created Bendigo and Ballarat,
Charters Towers, Gympie, Forest Creek,
and every other past or present goldfield of
any serious account which Australia ever
possessed. When one considers the hundreds
of splendid mines which have been found by
the Australian miner, and setsagainstthemthe
fact that British capital has not often really
found anything, the value of the latter is
infinitesimal. In any case, the business of
the law is to serve out impartial justice, even
if all the British capital which ever reached
this country packed up its carpet-bag and
departed never to return. And the pity is
that Minister Smith lacked the courage to
give impartial justice a fair chance. The
case for the plaintiff company was set forth
at length, while that for the defendant—the
State—was not even represented. The Reid
Government has been going to do many
great things in the interest of Labor, but it
always—or nearly always—funks at the last
moment, and these great things are never
done.
A HARD KNOT.
Dear Bulletin, —After much perpension of
this miserable Suffield business, I had arrived
at the conclusion that, in cases in which the
sex-element comes powerfully into action, there
are special reasons why justice should miscarry.
Where it is Man’s alleged offence against Man,
Woman’s against Woman, or either Man’s or
Woman’s against Property, the procedure-
machine works with none too much precision
and uniformity ; but, where male is arraigned
for offence against female, as female, the ricketty
old concern is so apt to get hopelessly out of
gear that some special “ attachment ” is badly
needed to guard against the barbarous bungles
of which Suffield’s case is but an unusually
obvious example.
• • • at
Suffield, in the first place, was unlucky
enough to be tried before a Judge whose
possibly unconscious tendency to favor the
“ spindle side ” of humanity—however natural
to him, as a man—was an atrocious scandal
upon his administration of reputed justice.
And, when to the effect of this bias was
added his pleasing little custom of con-
veying, not very indirectly, to the jury
that, if it wasn’t either a deplorable idiot oV
a contumacious miscreant, its verdict would
have to be his verdict—the result was • a
foregone conclusion. For the average jury is
guided, not by the evidence of the witnesses,
but by the Judge’s evidence about the evidence
of the witnesses—colored always, little or
much, by the Judge’s personal opinion in the
matter. And, even when that opinion, instead
of being thrust arrogantly down the throat of
the jury, is kept conscientiously as far as pos-
sible in the background, the jury itself—being
mostly “right-thinking person,” and pillar of
church, and Goo-fearing father-of-family—may
generally be backed to deny to an alleged
ravisher the benefit of any doubt. If the Judge
is sufficiently arrogant it can be backed to
convict him, as in Suffield’s case, in the
teeth of one of the clearest alibis ever estab-
lished, which brings me to my “Eureka!”—
or what I took to be such, until I turned it
over to look at the other side.
* * * *
A bi-sexual jury, I thought, should go far to-
wards equalising matters. Trust six women
to counterbalance by a perhaps-inevitable sex-
leaning towards one side, the equally natural
inclination of six men towards the other. “It
takes a woman to understand a woman’s possi-
bilities,” and—given jurywomen of the right
stamp —such a personal sex-attitude, for in-
stance, as ex-Judge Windeyer’s, would have
vastly less weight with the petticoated arbiters
of an accused man’s fate than with the
trousered.
* « * »
And this “ right stamp ” we can arrive at
only by eliminating—lst, the woman who
knows nothing of the seamy side of life; 2nd,
the woman who knows too much of it; and,
3rd, the woman whose second-hand and dis-
torted knowledge thereof is more dangerously
misleading than absolute ignorance. The
mechanically virtuous person, whose “ correct”
environment has kept her almost as ignorant of
her own sex as of the other, would be as ill-
fitted for the duty as the notoriously imvirtuous
person who would probably be prepared to
believe any evil of either. And if we further
exclude not only the envenomed virgin who
revenges her unacceptability to the male sex
by ascribing to it, as a whole, the worst
qualities of its worst part, but also
the uneasy old tabby whose delight it
? 8 . to continually sniffing round such
high - flavored morsels as the age-of-con-
sent question—we have left only the kind of
woman to whom marriage and maternity, in
bringing full sex-enlightenment, have brought
also a wholesome, non-hysterical attitude
towards sex-relations.
* * * «
But here it struck me that this is just the
stamp of woman whom the man who can
properly appreciate her would almost as soon
see behind the spikes, herself, as see her com-
pelled to seek for the truth amongst the deplor-
able filth which has so often to be raked over
in sex-cases. If wife is to husband, then, as
impossible in this connection as daughter to
father or sister to brother, it only remains to
be acknowledged that, after all, there is a
point at which woman’s “sphere” brings up
hard against the essential nature of things. A
point which most of her doesn’t approach, and
doesn t want to ; which some of her would like
to pass, if she could ; and which a little of her
actually does pass, at the inevitable expense of
ceasing—as belonging to neither sex—to be of
any interest or consequence to either !— Stkix.
PLAIN ENGLISH,
On Behalf of the Widow.
The N.S.W. Government proposes to increase
the duties on the estate of the late lamented
with a view to bringing them more in line with
those of Queensland, Vic., and S. A. At present,
N.S.W. charges a maximum of 5 per cent, on
the largest estates, and all estates below £2OO
are exempt. In Victoria all estates below
.£lOOO are exempt, but the maximum on the
largest estates is 10 per cent. In Queensland
estates under .£2OO are exempt, and the maxi-
mum is also 10 per cent., but whereas the 10
per cent, is only levied in Victoria on.an estate
worth ,£lOO,OOO or upwards, in Queensland it
is levied on estates worth £20,000 or upwards.
In S.A., if the inheritor is the widower, widow,
or descendant of the deceased, the full 10 per
cent, rate is only charged when the estate is
worth £200,000 or upwards ; any distant rela-
tive or a stranger has to pay 10 per cent, when
the property is worth .£20,000 or upwards.
Therefore when the fat man dies and leaves,
say, ,£30,000 to a complete stranger, the
State takes, in N.S.W., 4 per cent. ; in Vic-
toria 6 per cent. ; Queensland 10 per cent. ;
S.A. 10 per cent. ; while Maoriland comes out
on top with 13 per cent. On the other hand,
if he left £lO,OOO, the inheritor being no rela
tive by blood or marriage, the State would
take, in N.S.W., 2 per cent. ; Victoria 4 per
cent. ; Queensland 8 per cent. ; S.A. 8 per
cent. ; Maoriland 10 per cent. With a much
smaller rate N.S.W. raises nearly as much
revenue as Victoria, the difference being that
N.S.W. raises the money mostly by taxing the
small property which is barely sufficient to keep
the widow out of the Benevolent Asylum, while
Victoria makes its revenue mostly by “ slop-
ping it on ”to the very big estate. Queensland
follows both policies at once. The Bulletin
reckons that there should be heavier taxation
on the large estate, but also that the small one
should receive further exemption; when the
old man pegs out and leaves the old woman
minus her sole source of income, and with only
£2so—in other words, with only a four-roomed
wooden cottage and a little furniture —between
her and starvation, it is a mean, sinful, grovel-
ling, undemocratic business to lay a special tax
on her merely for the loss of her bread-winner.
Even if all estates up to £lOOO went free,
that would only mean that the old woman was
left untaxed the equivalent of a six-roomed
brick cottage and the furniture, and about
enough money to keep her from actual want for
two or perhaps three years, and the widow in
that situation—especially if she is too old to
go out washing—isn’t so bloatedly affluent as
to call for special taxation. In this paper’s
opinion the policy of N.S.W. and Queensland,
by which succession duty is charged to the
widow and the small orphan on everything over
<£2oo, is an outrage on humanity, and even the
exemption limit of .£5OO fixed by S.A. law is
much too narrow. Premier Reid’s proposal to
increase the taxation on large estates is highly
commendable, but if it isn’t accompanied by
liberal concessions in favor of small properties
the Labor-party, as the only reliable democratic
force in the Assembly, should press the matter
for all it is worth. The merciful law of Maori-
land goes even further than that of Victoria,
for it exempts the widow altogether, and there
s a great deal to be said in favor of this idea.
The Galvanising of Gillies.
Dear Bulletin, —The blunder of the Victorian
elections, which was worse than a crime, was
the Age’s persistent attack on Duncan Gillies,
which had the effect of regalvanising that poli-
tical corpse into a new life and sending him
into Parliament the hero of the hour. It is
only a few weeks back since the rosy-cheeked
Duncan returned from England, and com-
menced haunting the Opera House and other
places as he used to do in the days of his very
own boom. At that time not the most Tory of
Conservatives took the little man seriously,
and even the Argus did not think fit to
chronicle his arrival by a five-line par. The
mention of his name was merely the cause for a
laugh, or a pitying word from the more tender-
hearted, and the mere suggestion of his
attempting to re-enter politics would have
been regarded as an extravagant joke. When
he did announce himself for Toorak, and even
addressed a meeting, the blundering Syme,
instead of chronicling the fact that “ a candi-
date named I). Gillijes was given a patient
hearing at Toorak last night,” with a few
mock-kindly words about past services and grey
hairs, burst into an hysterical frenzy, and with
fiery adjectives blazing at each other’s tails
shrieked at the disgraced boom author.
Syme deliberately went and poured boil-
ing water the sleeping dog and
effectually woke him up. The community, see-
ing Gillies attacked, considered that he must be
somebody to be worthy of so much abuse, and
began to take Duncan seriously. Then the
Age, still not satisfied, wired in afresh, and


worked up a heated controversy with the
Argus over the reports of a Gillies meeting,
and consequently the people who had forgotten
Gillies couldn’t help remembering him again,
and the “old war-horse of the party” neces-
sarily emerged from his obscurity. What is the
end ? Heaven only knows, with a dangerous
man like Gillies in politics again. Cute,
clever, courageous and unscrupulous, who can
say how long it is before the Premier of ’BB has
wormed or forced himself into the Turner
Govt., or has ousted Turner from his position?
The return of Duncan Gillies means much
more to Victoria, much more to Australia, than
appears on the Toorak notice-board. It means
that a parasite has fallen upon the saplings of
Democracy just giving promise of becoming
sturdy gums—probably the most vigorous thing
in the way of political parasites to be found in
Australian politics.—X.Z.
The Casual Counsel.
In the S. A. Assembly, after Nixon had been
sentenced to 18 months imprisonment for
stabbing his wife in State Bank Chairman
Addison’s office :
Mr. Poynton : “ Who is defraying the cost of the
Queen’s counsel who appeared for the prosecution in con-
nection with the case?” (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Kingston : “ I don’t know, except that the Govern-
ment are not.” (Cheers.)
Surely a very bad principle, and not worthy of
cheers. Whoever it was that paid him, the
Q.C., at any rate, took particular pains to
whitewash Addison ; and if Addison didn’t
pay him—well, the Q.C. did more than most
lawyers do for clients who fee them hand-
somely. For the papers had not reported his
closing speech ; whereupon he wrote, quoting
what he had said, and it was all a defence of
Addison from the attack of Nixon’s counsel.
Also, nobody but Addison was likely to fee
him. Now, Addison wanted to get Nixon out
of the road, and offered him money to go —
he admits that. Further, he admits that
he neither hates nor has a contempt for Nixon,
because his feelings are more intense than those
weak words imply. The public will possibly
conclude that it was this man with such amiable
intentions who paid the Q.C., or in whose in-
terests the Q.G. was paid ; and appearances are
in favor of such a view. But the Criminal
Courts are surely not constituted either to
gratify feelings of this sort or to allow them to
be gratified. The Crown takes up a prosecu-
tion, not as a matter between the stabber and
the stabbed, the robber and the robbed, but as
one between the people and the accused. The
process is not one which allows any place for
personal malice; if personal malice exists
the proceeding becomes naturally a persecution,
and is not a prosecution at all. The poor man
who gets into the prisoner’s dock (an unfair and
odious institution in itself) is handicapped
enough by the Crown fee-ing only an ad-
vocate to prosecute, leaving him to shift
as to his defence as best he may; but
if on top of this the Crown accepts
without question the services of other advo-
cates paid by private individuals who, for some
reason or other, may be anxious to get the
accused out of the way, or to pay off an old
score against him, then the handicap on the
poor man becomes pretty well intolerable. The
Adelaide ease does not seem singular, either. A
similar thing has been done in N. S. W., especially
during labor troubles, when, the employers
being eager to “rub it in” to “ agitators,”
have paid higher-priced and more influential
and zealous advocates than the Grown has
retained.
♦ :
Sydney Evening News, in its leading a±cicle
of last Friday, brushed away all Lyne’s un-
pleasant criticisms of Reid’s budget like a fly
off a bald head :
How far Mr. Lyne’s criticism of abstruse points of
government-account keeping is likely to be fair may be
judged by the extraordinary things he endeavored to make
figures prove in connection with matters more within
ordinary knowledge. He tried to make out that Victoria
was, in proportion, much more prosperous than New
South Wales, entirely ignoring the awkward fact that
people are leaving Victoria for N.S. Wales, and that the
decline in the population of Melbourne has been, within
the last few years, most marked, whereas the population
of Sydney has increased.
That settles it, of course. Everybody knows,
through much reiteration in the shoddy press,
that the people from all the adjacent provinces
keep pouring into N.S.W. to enjoy the bless-
ings of Free-raid, and that Sydney is constantly
expanding. Yet how they do know it has
never been explained. The N.S.W.. official
Government publication lumps together the
arrivals from Queensland, S.A., and Victoria
in one item, and does the same with departures
to those three provinces. For the last six years
(1891-96) recorded departures from N.S.W. for
the three adjacent Protectionist provinces were
321,883, and arrivals in N.S.W. from the three
adjacent provinces were 312,464. This is over-
land-traffic only, the sea-traffic returns giving
no particulars as to countries of origin or desti-
nation, but, presumably, it is a fair guide, and
it shows N.S.W. has lost nearly 9000 people
to the adjacent provinces in six years. Two of
them, Vic. and S.A., have also lost population,
but they lost it to Westralia, not to N.S.W.
And, as regards the increase of Sydney, even
that has exceptions, as witness the Govt. returns:
1894, population 423,600; 1896, population
410,000; decrease in two years, 13,600. Yet
the constant growth and prosperity of Sydney,
and the great influx of population from the
adjacent provinces, are two articles of faith
with the average cornstalk person, and paper,
and politician. They are so self-evident that
he never dreams of asking anybody to prove
them.
Premier Seddon’s announcement that on the
Royal Commission to inquire into theMaoriland
Police Administration there shall be no one
connected with Prohibition, the liquor-traffic
or politics, makes a new, bold, good departure.
Too long it has been the custom of Governments,
in casting around for members of a commission,
to see only political, social, and clique circles.
The daily bores who fill the papers with cronk
crime-statistics, the ring-bosses who smell of
the evils the inquiry is concerned about,
and frayed and other politicians whose judg-
ments at the tail of the investigation can be
foretold before the inquiry opens, constitute
the general field out of which Australian Go-
vernments are accustomed to pick the favorites.
Commissions so appointed are worse than
worthless. Men nominated to a commission
should be as free from taint of bias or pre-
possession as the juror empanelled to try a
criminal or civil action. And men thus free
are available in all communities if Governments
would but look beyond the field where the axe-
grinders are at work.
In Melbourne Evening Herald, Alexander
Sutherland is writing some papers under the
heading, “Men who have made Australia.”
This is one of the trails left by the Jubilee
drunk. Sutherland poses Phillip as a
humane and just and benevolent deity,
to whom we must accord all praise and
honor as the founder of Australian coloni-
sation. But the mists of tradition have not
yet closed over the acts of our first Governors.
There are such things as records. Nay, there
are those living who have spoken with contem-
poraries of Phillip. And it is known, thereby,
that during that humane Governor’s control of
the first settlement women, stripped to the
waist, were harnessed to the carts that carried
cobblestones and bricks and timber for the
buildings of voung Sydney and Parramatta.
The dull-eyed, diseased hags from seaport
stews of England, and the younger and more
venial sinners (they were all thrown into the
cauldron alike in those days) toiled in this
shameful, shameless fashion under the lash of
an overseer and the orders and approval of
Governor Phillip. But what then ? It is the
fashion of historians to cover up the dungheaps,
just as Jack Robertson, yielding to the pres-
sure of colonial sassiety, destroyed its family
tree when he burned the passenger-list of the
First Fleet.
From July to September, of this year, the
number of miners in Tasmania was : Whites,
3839; Chinese, 285 ; a total decrease on the
figures for July-September, 1896, of 350 —230
whites and 120 Chinese. Since leaving the tin-
fields, whither have those 120 Chows wandered ?
They are certainly not growing cabbages in
Tasmania, so the chances are all in favor of
them having drifted across Bass’ Straits. In
addition to these 120 Mongolians displaced in
the tin-mines, another hundred or two reached
Tasmania during the year—ostensibly to work
at the aforesaid tin-mines. Where are they
now ? Tasmania is as much the dirty back-door
for the admission of undesirables to the main-
land as ever it was, and well the boss Chinamen
know how to take advantage of the pliability of
Fysh.
“ Public School Teacher” to The Bulletin :
The Irish National Scripture Lesson books (unexpurgat-d)
are used in the N.S.W. public schools, and it was usual,
until lately, for the scholars to read the books, with the
result that the teacher would generally contrive to be
busy at his desk or with another class while big girls
(often young women) read full-flavored passages aloud.
In one case, a nine-year-old girl, having enquired what
was meant by “ Abraham circumcised his son Isaac,”
wasn’t satisfied with the information that circumcis’on
was a Jewish rite, and so confused the teacher that he
had to beat a retreat. “ I don’t believe he knows,”
said the girl ; “ I’ll find out for myself.” And
doubtless she searched the Scriptures, and found
many things that she would understand later in life.
Many teacher's on this account avoid administration of the
“ pure ” Word by giving the Scripture lessons orally, and
garbling them into comparative decency. Public schools
have occasionally been styled “hotbeds of immorality”
because religion was not given a prominent place, but the
truth is that a great deal of the immoral knowledge
acquired at school is from the Scripture lessons. Even
from the ultra-religious point of view, in short, Scripture
lessons are a dead failure. Also, since truthfulness,
honesty, industry, obedience, and so on are inculcated
in the general routine of every well-managed school, what
is the use of warning children against sins of which they
have no knowledge, or worrying them about creeds and
other things, of which their elders don’t really know any
more than they do ? If Scripture must be taught, let
properly qualified theologians undertake the cure of their
own particular lambs. The difficulty, though, would be
to sort ’em out, for it is amusing to observe how the
children change their religion according to the parson in
attendance.
“ Homestead Lessee,” to The Bulletin :
In your issue of 28th Aug. there is an article on home-
stead leases and resumed areas, in which you seem to favor
the attachment of said areas to leaseholds. As a home-
stead lessee, I, in common with my class, don’t agree, for
this reason : If attaching the resumed areas to the lease-
hold gives the squatter a more secure tenure, there is no
need to get the areas attached. The argument that
resuming half of the large pastoral holdings stopped im-
provement will only hold water with those who do not
know. Out back here there are miles of country which
are not on the resumed areas, and which are not improved,
or anything like it; still the lessees of these lands will say
that they can’t improve them, as their tenure is not
secure. About 60,000 acres would be an average sheep-
paddock out in the Western district. If cut up into four
or five paddocks, it would carry about 6000 sheep con-
tinuously ; but in some paddocks the body of sheep soon
tread the feed down ; in its present unimproved condi-
tion, with an average of one watering place to each pad-
dock, about 4000 sheep would be heavy stocking. There
is no guarantee that more improvements will he gone on
with when the areas are attached, nor that the attached
areas will yield a better rental—as the lessee has the
right of appeal against the rent if he thinks it is too
much—and he always thinks it is too much. The beastly
Cocky protests for all he is worth against attachment, as
small pastoral holdings give working men and others with
small capital their only chance to start in life out here,
for the rainfall is too uncertain for farming, and irrigation
on a large scale will only come with population ; so by all
means keen the land open for homestead leases until the
land needs to be re-divided. Station-holders will not kill
more vermin with attached areas, or they would be more
industrious on the leaseholds. The present Ministry
seem to favor farms or large holdings. Well, farms will
not do out here, until the rainfall improves. But, as a
living can be made off 10,240 acres of the best class of
western land—and that is about the least one can raise a
family on—let the land stay as it is.
[What The Bulletin said was this : that in
the interests of the legitimate selector the
prowler who drops upon a squatter’s tank and
holds it until a pinch is over, but without in-
tention of selecting it, ought to have his game
spoiled ; and, therefore, that, where land is not
likely to be at once needed for settlement, it is
in the general interest that such land should
be thrown into leasehold, with a provision for
its resumption six months after any application
is made for it, and without reference then to
the Minister. This last is the all-important
safeguard of the bona-fide selector. — Ed. B.]
Queensland Land Bill makes 18 the minimum
age for selectors ; Groom and others fight for
16, and rely on N.S.W. experience. The
N.S.W. experience is that the selector under
18 or 19 is inostlj r more or less of a dummy ;
but as he is generally more or less the dummy
of his father, the evil is comparatively small,
especially as, in most cases, the son, if he
proves to be any good for the work at all
presently goes into bona fide possession “ on
his own.” The N.S.W. law doesn’t prohibit a
father giving his son money wherewith to take
up land and make a start in life, while hitherto
Queensland has not permitted this to be done.
Certainly the permission does open a door to
fraud ; but, providing the door is watched,
not enough harm is done to set off the good.
In this respect, as in most others in con-
nection with the land law, administration
counts for almost more than the law itself.
What the N.S.W. law does not allow is that
the son, having got the money from the father,
shall give a mortgage or otherwise secure the
land to the “old man ”; it is on this rock that
more than one over-cautious selector, blessed
with a houseful of boys, has gone down. And
it is through ignorance of the other provision
that many another selector has struggled to
find employment for his family on the limited
home selection, though it would have been far
better for them all if he had set up the lads on
neighboring country, where he could still have
kept his eye on them and given them his advice,
and at the start an occasional job.
♦
Writes “ Spartan ” :
Dear Bulletin, —The “ yellow agony ” is severely felt
at Texas, on the Dumaresq, the finest tobacco-growing
district in Leperland. Some IS years ago the settlers on
this river found that they could grow very high-class
tobacco-leaf on its adjacent alluvial flats ; but, not satisfied
with a fair thing, they leased their land to the Chinamen
on the share system, the land-owner getting a quarter of
crop as rent. Result was that the Chows swamped the
district, and in a couple of years grew so much tobacco
that supply exceeded demand, and prices, of course, fell.
Meanwhile, many people, attracted by the success of the
industry, settled in Texas district mostly without
means, but hoping to get a start with the first crop,
and the state of affairs there at present is conse-
quently deplorable. Last year’s tobacco crop was
three times what was required by the manufacturers,
who are, of course, therefore fixing their own price. Many
selectors with large, unsaleable crops of leaf on hand are
on the verge of starvation, and scores of families in the
district do not know where next week’s rations are com-
ing from. Government will do nothing, and I should not
be surprised to see the men of the Texas district make an
anti-Chinese law of their own. “God helps those who
help themselves.”
Nelson (Queensland’s Hugh, not Emma’s
Horatio) must have read his constitutional
history through cronk eyeglasses. He says :
The British Constitution is not founded on abstract
rights, but is based on the principle that each branch of
the Legislature shall have the power of preventing- any
particular class from obtaining an undue preponderance
of influence and power, so that the interests of all classes
alike will have an opportunity of being protected, con-
served, and developed.
Take the last clause first—about all British
classes alike having opportunity of being cod-
dled—and conpare it with the fact that none of
the lower classes possess any share in the
franchise. Then test the value of the “ prin-
ciple that each branch of the Legislature shall
have the power of preventing any particular
class from obtaining an undue preponderance ”
by examining, in the light of history, that
alleged principle’s workings. For centuries
until within the memory of persons still living
a “particular class” a very particular
class —the so-called nobles, wielded an immis-
takeable predominance. Anyhow, they mono-
polised every office of honor and emolument in
Church, State, Army and Navy. They laid a
tax on the industry of the people, levied it for
their own uses and called it rent. Besides
plundering the people, they purloined much
church property and pilfered many a perk of
the Crown. Nothing came amiss to them. And
they did their villainy in the name of Statute
Law. To-day another “ particular class,”
the Plutocrats, exercise the predominance by
means of the other branch of the British Legis-
lature. Under their rule, to the Plutocrat
goes the profit, the interest, the rent —the
whole swag. To the Plutocrat the inventor is
bondsman—the producer drudge. Below the
drudges are the statutory paupers and the
Submerged Tenth. All these, the exploited
producers and artisans, the drudges, the
paupers, the submerged—many millions of
them—daily curse the “principle” by the
operation whereof their interests are hugh-
nelsonically “ protected, conserved, and de-
veloped.”
+
Premier Nelson (Q.): “There is little use
creating a Federal Senate and then frittering
away its power by providing for deadlocks and
things of that kind.” Nobody could give the
case away much more wooden-headedly than
that. All the ideas for settling deadlocks con-
sist in referring the matter, in some form or
other, to the popular will. The people may
decide in favor of either House, therefore the
provision for deadlocks “fritters away” the
power of cne House just as much or as little as
the other ; or, in other words, it strengthens
each House against the other and doesn’t
“ fritter ” at all. Nelson assumes that the
Senate will naturally be an ox-headed institu-
tion which the people will, as a matter of
course, decide against every time, which is not
at all what is intended. Further, he assumes
that if the Senate hasn’t power to create dead-
locks it will be of very little use—which is also
very rough. He doesn’t contemplate a Senate
which will be a valuable constructive body, and
possess the confidence of the people, and lead
public opinion ; he only looks forward to a
large, square dab of mullock with a mission to
block things, and if it isn’t allowed to block
things then what use will it be ?
—
The other day, after a Lucknow man had been
found guilty of receiving stolen gold, a large
policeman was allowed to lumber into the
witness-box and allege, apparently as an aggra-
vating circumstance, that gold-stealing had
been going on at the Lucknow mines for five
years. The law was badly shocked to hear
that the evil was so great and so long-estab-
lished, and it expressed its opinion of the
enormity of the case by a sentence of three
years. It didn’t even ask the policeman how
he knew his alleged knowledge. Nobody, it
would appear, was ever convicted of stealing
ore from Lucknow before. Nobody was ever
found with any ore, which was proved to be
stolen, in his possession. The management
simply says that gold has been habitually
stolen, apparently on no real legal evi-
dence apart from the fact that it thinks
the returns should Jie larger than they are,
and assumes that the difference between the
gold which iB there and the gold which
it thinks should be there has been stolen.
And the police, apparently, know just what
the management tells them it thinks it knows ;
and Chief Justice Darley knows what the
policeman tells him on the evidence of what the
mine management fancies it is aware of, and
comes down like a ton of bricks on his prisoner
in consequence. The policeman didn’t pretend
to assert that he knew the prisoner to have been
concerned in these alleged robberies, which
were alleged to have gone on for five years, so
it is difficult to see why he was allowed to drag
them in at all. And The Bulletin badly wants
to know what kind of a police force it is that is
fully aware of a crime going on upon a large
scale right under its nose, and yet takes five
years to secure a conviction ?
O’Sullivan, M.L.A., and others contend that
the election of the Federal Senate by provinces
entirely as one electorate means necessarily the
election of rich or greatly-boomed men, “ who
will be strongly conservative.” Australia
affords but one example of such voting, and
rich men did not then figure strongly in the
returns. Politicians in the front rank, or, from
the O’Sullivan standpoint, “greatly-boomed
men,” possess natural advantages and deserve to
possess them, as against the sleepless activity
of the local town-pump member. O’Sullivan
himself used to boast that Gladstone couldn’t
beat him in Queanbeyan. That’s just what
United Australia should endeavor to make
possible.
“ Mars ” to The Bulletin :
Failing the polite attentions of the Civil Service Board,
N.S.W. M’s.L.A., with a desire for economy, might keep
an eye on the military estimates when they appear. The
Assembly, when it insists upon a reduction in the “ war”
vote, generally takes the advice offered to make the reduc-
tion in a lump sum, the items being apportioned by the
authorities. It is significant that the rank-and-file stand
all the retrenchment, which rarely touches the gilded
warriors at Vic. Barracks. A visitor at this establish-
ment, or a reader of the army-list, is paralysed at; the
number of majors, colonels, &c., there is to such a small
force. In view of the fact that a lot of these highly-paid
officers seem to have nothing to do except practice unjust
economy at the expense of the partially-paid non-coms, and
privates, some enquiry ought to be made as to their use-
fulness. As redundant colonels I might mention the
A.A.G. and the A.Q.M.G., whose duties in each case could
be performed by a warrant-officer —except that portion
which consists in attending social “ functions.” Another
colonel is boss of the riding-school; his duties could
surely also be performed by a smart non.-com.— only the
latter might not be such a distinguished ornament at the
Hunt Club meets. There are 22 officers connected with
the Permanent Artillery—about 500 men ; 14 could not
only do the work necessary, but they could still have time
for polo, &c. A lot of the gentlemen on the “ staff ” get
allowances for horses—used on an average two hours per
annum for military purposes. It’s a scandal that so much
money is spent at the head of the military department,
while the main body of the force is being disorganised by
cheeseparing retrenchment.
There is another side to every question, how-
ever. In this case it is as follows : When war
comes this way, as it must some day or other,
it may be necessary to rush 20,000 or 50,000
raw recruits into the ranks of our lit Lie army
if there is to be anything like a decent defence.
And if N.S.W. hasn’t good officers to lick them
into shape there will be trouble. If the pre-
sent lot are really good officers, then it is w ell
worth paying their salaries, so that they will
be on hand when the emergency comes. The
only question is—are they ?
Postage on N.S.W. newspapers is the direct
reply to the Government statement that the
province can’t afford to surrender State school
children’s weekly threepennies. But even
though this measure of educational justice
were secured, as it now seems likely tq be,
without any conditions, still postage on
New South Wales newspapers should be in-
sisted on. Freetrade should demand it, as the
tax is the price of services rendered by the
State to a particular class of traders, and Pro-
tectionists should demand it for that reason
and for the additional reason that it is a plank
in all existing Protectionist systems. The little
start which the late Chief-Justice Martin,
when a politician, gave to Protection, set out
postage on newspapers as one of his first prin-
ciples. And he carried it, too, as part of his
Protectionist scheme in 1864. The country
then was not ready for Protection as a policy,
but even on the rejection of the other parts of
the scheme postage on newspapers was re-
tained. Lang, urged on by the Freetrade press
•—then, as now, not genuine, but self-seeking
in this department of Freetrade ethics—moved
to abolish the postage, but failed. In 1869 J.
F. Burns carried a motion directing the Go-
vernment to bring in a bill for the abolition of
the impost, and the Parkes Government of
1873 took the postage off. It is well-known
that, with the exception of Dr. Lang, the prime
movers in freeing newspapers from postage
lived on the crumbs of notoriety and
fame which the powerful and widely- circulating
Freetrade press of Sydney city dropped
day by day in their path. Hence the Freetrade
press was absolute master of the situation, and
not only itself indulged the instinct of self-
seeking advantage, but imposed the preserva-
tion of that advantage on its political tools.
Freetrade politicians subsidised out of the public
coffers a Freetrade press for the journalistic
service that press, widely disseminated, was
able to yield in stemming the tide of the op-
posing political system. N.S.W. Leg. Assem-
bly is now in a better position to treat this
question independently than any of the Parlia-
ments that have preceded it. A call for a
straight - out vote on postage or no post-
age would have in its favor, if prin-
ciples be followed, a solid Protectionist
vote, a solid Labor vote, and, at least, two-
thirds of the Freetrade vote. For the reasons
given all these votes should go to the right.
This is the time for a combined demand to be
made, and a list of voters for and against placed
before the country.
The other week, Bananaland Parliament
made a bigger ass of itself than usual. A bill was
introduced giving the Minister for Education
power to omit certain subjects from the school
curriculum, and introduce others (unspecified) at
pleasure. It will scarcely be believed that the
bill was passed with very little difficulty. The
ostensible object was to allow the Education Act
to be amended in the direction of introducing
superior education into the State -schools, but it
leaves the Act open to be tampered with * y every
fad-ridden Minister m turn. And they've all had
fads so far.


Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only £l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
NO BOOTS
MORE SERVICEABLE
Than Callaghan Boots. We think we know
all the world’s High-Grade Boot or Shoe
Manufacturers, and we BUY FROM THE
BEST of them only.
Our knowledge of the ins and outs of shoemaking, based on long
experience, enables us to judge quality with certainty, and you may
confidently rely on our assertion that more serviceable Boots cannot
be found
THAN CALLAGHAN BOOTS.
Ladies’ Kid, 14/6, 16/6, 20/
~ Patent Leather, 16/-, 19/6, 21/-
Callaghan & Son,
895 Gkoh.gr Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen’s Calf Lace, 17/6, 20/-, 26/-, 28/6
add -/9 post.
add 1/- post.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
NEW YORK
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT:
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £18,202,081
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company :
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors ;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life;
an income safe beyond peradventure. form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years,
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager, at the
Company’s Building, Martin’s Place , Sydney, or at any
of the Branch Offices—
-289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
lii Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
You will see yourself in
our photographs. They
are likenesses that your
friends and relations
will recognise. We spare
neither trouble nor ex-
pense to please you.
Call and see the beauti-
ful specimens of our
work
PortraitQ
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor no stair*.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits, \
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- (
ment in Permanent Bromide or (
Opal. Any styleorpose. Noextras)
7/6
If
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Ant Majesty's „.. “Two Little Vagabonds.”
Lyceum “Fallen Among Thieves.”
Tivoli Rickards’Variety 00.
Criterion. The Biosrraph.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess. “The Gay Parisienne.”
Royal , “ Mrs. Quinn's Twins.”
Bijou Performing Horses.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra . “ Cinders.”
A strong company and good management
have invested the “ Two Little Vagabonds ” with
a glitter that isn’t quite all their own. There
are traces of “East Lynne” in this drama, and
faint memories of Little Eva, and an almost im-
perceptible flavor of “Jo ” —who likewise had a
dreadful korf. The story begins with a wife and
a loving but jealous husband, who is suddenly
convinced on the worst possible evidence that his
child is the unlawful offspring of the other fellow.
A Bill Sikes person burgles the house just then,
and the father hands him the infant with strict
instructions to drag it up as a nameless criminal
of the deepest dye. The son does more credit to
his dragging-up than might be expected. He
conceals his identity by mixing himself up with
Sikes’s other boy—a waif with only one lung, and
a cockney accent, and a fearful bark. This other
waif isn’t explained or accounted for, but there
are vague hints that the sister of the injured wife
really did go wrong with the man that the wife
was supposed to have gone wrong with, and that
they had a child, and as this child is never ex-
plained he may or may not be the Jo with the
one lung. The writer’s impression is that he
isn’t.
* * * *
Thereafter the mother and father part,
and wander round crying separately for their lost
offspring. And when they find B. Sikes, and he
hasn’t the real boy at hand, he naturally sells them
the scrap with the lingering lung, and this worn
fragment is taken to a mother’s bosom, and goes
to bark out his last days in luxury. But circum-
stances reveal the real boy ju.st when the bogus
one is coughing more dreadfully than usual, and
about this time the Bill Sikes person and his con-
federates grow desperate and break out into melo-
drama of a furious description. They kidnap the
father, who has called to complain of having a
sham consumptive sold him for <£3oo, and, when
the real son rescues him, there is an exciting
escape over the adjacent roofs. Then Sikes and
co. burgle the house with a view to re-capturing
the son, and they murder the consumptive boy to
make him keep quiet. And there is a spectacular
finish while the re-united family weeps around
the bogus son who had enjoyed his cough on
their premises for one short week, and
the consumptive dies of a complication of
troubles, including a blood-stain on his shirt, say-
ing beautiful things in his last moments. The
drama doesn’t give way to uncalled-for cheerful-
ness even once in its five acts. It starts with the
horror of Titheradge giving away his baby son to
B. Sikes. It wades through tears and woe as the
pale mother wanders round for seven years crying
for her child, and the pallid father does the lost
soul business up and down the earth, and the two
waifs are horsewhipped by Sikes. And it ends
with chastened woe as the waif with one lung,
and that a very bad one, remarks on his death-
bed that he never knowed any real mother worth
speaking of. The grief of the audience goes up all
the time in a thick steamlike washing day, and
when the hired opera-glasses are handed back it is
necessary to drain the tears out of them into a
bucket.
* * * *
With a bad co. the “Two Little Vaga-
bonds ” wouldn’t be worth much ; with the strong
combination at Her Majesty’s it is a thing with
good points about it. Titheradge’s fine acting
rescues the horrid father from much of the
obloquy that would otherwise fall on him. Miss
Emilie Hughes is very real and very clever as
the wronged mother, and Miss Lily Titheradge,
as the larger vagabond of the pair, is a
very big success. The Bulletin doesn’t know
anybody who could be a more satisfactory
vagabond than Miss Lily, whose performance
is good all through. The other vagabond—the
one whose lung has been lost in the dragging-up
process—-is played by Miss Florence Terriss, but,
though she does that tired little philosopher very
well, she hardly takes the audience by storm, as
Miss Lily does. Circumstances have cast Howard
Vernon in a dull brown character as a lame
ruffian of no special account; and Sweeney,
Patten, Percy Clifton, Miss Julia Merton and
Mrs. Maesmore Morris do the rpst of the work
respeotably. Mr. Patten is mainly a beautiful,
ordinary captain, in brown boots ; and Mrs. Morris
is a vision of loveliness, who doesn’t act so badly
as The Bulletin expected. How badly this paper
expected her to act is a secret which has been
enclosed in a sealed packet, to be burnt by
the writer’s executors in the presence of three
reliable witnesses.
** # *
Frank Harvey’s “Fallen Among Thieves,”
which unfolds its moral tale this week at Sydney
Lyceum, is a new drama of that old school which
has been a good deal superseded of late years by
the blood and crash military spectacle. It begins
on an English farm at Xmas with holly about—
the farm where the daughter of the old solid
British turnip-raiser lives in innocence, and
watches the brown cow ambling across the
meadow. Then the usual serpent arrives from
London in a top hat, and persuades her to fly with
him. The glossy, top-hatted serpent of the old
style always comes from London, and it is an
understood thing that the person from that city is
invariably filled with the worst intentions. As a
natural consequence the girl “falls ” with the old
moral thud, and the crash of a broken command-
ment is heard all over the house. She is taken to
the gilded halls of vice, and the lady covered with
jewels who runs the establishment proves to be
her long-lost mother. And after that they
repent together, and lead a precarious exist-
ence in barns and gaols and attics till the
old agriculturist takes his daughter back, and she
is happy again in her old home. The brown cow
ambles across the paddock just as it used to do,
and the returned prodigal wakes in the morning
in her little white bed in her old room with the
china Agger on the mantelpiece, and peace descends
with a wallop on the premises.
* » # *
These are the main features of the drama,
but sundry casual thrills are thrown in. The
mother dies forgiven, and her grave makes a green
hump in the little churchyard. The glossy be-
trayer is shot by his fellow miscreant in the
exactly similar top-hat, and apparently nobody is
scragged for the crime. A comedy sailor, who
becomes engaged to the pretty servant, is chiefly
remarkable for being called Jack, whereas he
might have been Algernon Howard Cbol-
mondeley. On the whole, this paper likes the
new drama better than it expected, mainly because
it is so calm and restful, and the good people are
so good, and the bad people are so bad, and every-
thing is so orthodox all through. King Hedley,
Boothman and Harry Shine carry the piece along
manfully; Miss Maud Williamson does the
prodigal mother remarkably well, and Minnie
Brandon does the prodigal daughter moderately,
and pretty Edith Barrow makes the servant-girl
an oasis in the great plain of moral orthodoxy.
The einematographe, which prefaces the show
proper, is itself good value for the money, and the
management announces that the “ Prairie King ”
—that big, dazzling horse-sensation, with the
broken bridge in it —will follow.
* * * *
The variety show with which Rickards
recently opened the Palace has resumed business
this week at Sydney Criterion. The Bulletin
sat in judgment on it some weeks ago, and found
a verdict to the effect that it was a decent
variety show, and that verdict still stands. The
Biograph comes out with a new series of pictures,
most of them novel and some of them interesting.
Phil Newbury is a powerful addition to the
musical part of the programme —in fact, Newbury
is good enough to be a whole musical programme
by himself ; and Miss Fanny Wentworth is still,
in this paper’s opinion, the only amusing lady
monologue entertainer of its acquaintance.
* # # *
Sydney Tivoli is still alive and prospering,
but the Palace has suddenly shut its gates of
gilded splendor with a loud clang, and the present
writer, who is beastly tired anyhow, doesn’t know
for certain when that fretted portal will re-open.
The Royal also closed its older and much plainer
door decisively at short notice, and at time of
writing Geo. Rignold was doing a season at New-
castle, with vastly better success than he met with
in Sydney. After that, he goes North. The
Opera House has gone out of business in an unob-
trusive fashion, and horse-tamer Smith has de-
parted, and the recent Sydney show-boom is evi-
dently over.
* * * *
■Florence Schmidt, who has made up her
mind to flit to Paris early next year, will begin
her farewell next Saturday in the Town Hall.
For this concert she is announced to sing some of
the best-known soprano arias from famous operas
and the programme is strengthened by several
good names.
* * * *
Professor Bristol’s company of Educated
Horses took the sanded stage at Melbourne Bijou
on Saturday night, and will perform nine times a
week until further notice. It is an excellent per-
formance of its kind. The animals, as animals,
are polished ar.tists. In their own horsefleshly
sphere, they achieve a Brough and Boucieaultian
success, and the Professor, who has educated them
all--from the low comedian mules, the flying pony
Jordan, and the lightning-calculator horse, down
to the docile quadrupeds that walk through minor
parts—is evidently a man to be respected. The
show seems to cry aloud for a strong, distinctive
title, but under any name it would smell of stable,
and impress the truly horsey soul. Whether the
novelty will catch on at the Bijou is another
question. The present pitch seems quite lacking
in hippodrome sentiment, also the fact that the
public confuses this horse show with an unsimilar
show run by a different class of professor only a
few weeks back is an unlucky circumstance for
the management. Kennedy, who used to be a
mesmerist, is controlling the business. The comio
mule was, perhaps, one of Kennedy’s subjects in
its previous existence.
#* * *
“ A Royal Divorce ” retires from Melb.
Princess’s on Friday, after four weeks of pros-
perity, and “ The Gay Parisienne ” will gambol
on the site of Napoieon’s vanished greatness.
Miss Ada Reeve, who played Julie Bon-Bott
throughout the London season of “The Gay
Parisienne,” has been specially engaged to do it
again, and Mr. Bert. Gilbert will join her in a
first Australian appearance. The company other-
wise is about the same as that which set the musi-
cal comedy spinning in Sydney not long ago.
** * *
The Alexandra’s latest weekly issue is “ A
Fatal Tune,” and Augustus Glover plays the
name-part. For reasons too numerous to mention
Glover disguises himself as a crushed tragedian,
and runs the real murderer to earth with the dole-
ful strains of “Auld Robin Gray,” which go
straight to the guilty person’s conscience, judging
from his expression of pain inside. In the last
act Glover administers such a severe dose of
“Auld Robin” that the other fellow dies, un-
happy in the knowledge that he slew the wrong
seducer, and made no difference to the woman he
was jealous of. Miss Rosa Conroy, Frank Nor-
ton, Miss Ada Lawrence, Edwin Lester, and a
well-behaved company extract considerable excite-
ment for the masses from “A Fatal Tune.” A
grand production of “ Cinders ” is due on Derby
night.
** * *
“ Johanna,” which has supplanted its
twin-sister “ Jaqueline,” at Melb. Royal, seems
more or less a change for the better. The heroine’s
long-lost parent is, in this case, a torn and tattered
mother with an utterly abandoned hea'd of hair,
whereas the stray relative in the previous tragedy
was a mere Italian nobleman whose appearance'
shocked no one. Johanna’s mother can claim to
be the most unaccountable and entertaining
dramatic incident on record. She obtrudes her-
self upon the privacy of a pawnshop at the
moment when her artless child is about to
marry the proprietor and start housekeeping
as Mrs. Harris. Mother produces the pawn-
ticket issued by Harris, long ago, in acknow-
ledgment of Johanna having been put up
the spout, and when the number of the ticket
is announced, as though it had drawn a first
prize in Tatt’s sweep, the discomfited Harris puts
his face against the back of the counter and groans
inwardly. Johanna, meanwhile, hugs the frowsy
apparition to her heart, saying, “ Mother, take me
away, do take me away ” ; and, in the absence of
any sort of opposition from Harris, the two
females leave that unprecedented pawnbroker to
his bitter reflections.
• * * •
Crushed by the blow, he doesn’t even rouse
himself to prevent Harry Roberts from “ shak-
ing ” a frock-coat an 1 bell-topper out of stock.
However, after a further period of despair, Harris
proceeds to burn Johanna’s marriage-settlement,
and is on the point of burning his will (by which
.£50,000 is bequeathed to Johanna aforesaid)
when an absurd villain, who has - somehow
become entangled in the mystery of Harris,
fires a fatal shot through the window.
Harris was not a particularly uncivil person, as
pawnbrokers go, but his decease gives pleasure to
all. It is, in fact, such a fortunate occurrence
that Nemesis refrains from waiting on the crime,
and the culprit, instead of being hanged, is peace-
ably ejected from somebody’s drawing-room by
Roberts. “Johanna” is a cheerful drama, quite
apart from its pawnbroking phases.
* * * *
Maggie Moore and Harry Roberts —he will
soon have acquired a lighter touch than any come-
dian in Australia, native or foreign—play sundry
scenes in a breezy, picknickian spirit. Also Miss
Laura Roberts looks nice, as usual, and several
other people succeed in taking themselves seri-
ously, which is a creditable feat, anyhow. J. P.
West, as Harris, the Monte de Piete man, deserves
special credit for his efforts in this direction.
“ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins ” is the next piece on the list.
** * *
The Cinematograph at Melb. Opera House
will (D.V.) produce the Derby upon the sheet
next Saturday, about six hours subsequent to the
victory of Aurum or the ’orse that beats him.
The recent striking display of Caulfield Cup pro-
ceedings has created a new affection for the cine.,
and during Cup week the sheet will be the centre
of attraction. To-morrovv night (Friday) the Sel-
binis make their last appearance in Australia.
** * *
The Axemen’s Contest is about to rage in
Melb. Exhibition grounds for several days and
nights. Local inhabitants who, as a rule, know
very little about this wholesome form of enter-
tainment are herewith enjoined to roll up and
mark the difference between domestic wood-
chopping in the back-yard and professional log-
smiting for cash prizes. An ordinary axeman can
never imagine the utter foolishness of himself until
he witnesses a Tasmanian champion on the job.
The Lynch Family Bellringers, with a
little variety show attached, will return to Melb.
Athenaeum Hall on Derby night, and make musib
at that respectable establishment until Nov. 9.
Editor Bulletin, — Re your statement that
Rev. David Bruce was a relative of millionaire
Berry, and got a good hoist when Berry died, let
me say that Dr. D. B. was not the slightest rela-
tive to the “ rich man who died.” —Z.
Cable printed by both Hobart dailies—
Mercury and Tas. News
COUNT TOLSTOI SERIOUSLY ILL.
Count Leo Tolstoi, the eminent Russian novelist and
social reformer, is seriously ill. He was born in 1828, and
was a friend and comrade of Peter the Great.
. N.S.W. Friendly Societies’ recent Hos-
pital-Sunday demonstration made as goodly a
show as usual, but there was more cry than wool
—total about £125 ! In fact, there are general
signs of the slump that inevitably comes sooner or
later to everything that is as much overdone as
has been the Hospital-boom in N.S.W.
A second edition of “The Law of the
Press,” a publication issued tinder the auspices of
the English Institute of Journalists, is in prepara-
tion ; and Mr. Frank Williams, of Wagga
(N.S.W.) Advertiser, will be glad to receive on
behalf of the authors any information relating to
the laws and practice of Australian journalism
which local pressmen may be able to supply.
A pension or lump sum for Graham Berry
is a certainty. Nobody, The Bulletin hopes,
will oppose it, not even those who are disgusted
with him for his lapse into a shabby mock aristo-
cracy, and refuse to recognise in the ennobbled
Imperialist the Democrat who once so manfully
fought scented Privilege and embastioned Mono-
poly, He went beyond the Victorian people
when he took the reward of political flunkeydom
from London. But Berry will be rewarded for
what he was, and forgiven for what he is.
Yic. : “ Graham Berry’s knighthood was
just the one thing that put him out in this general
election. The tar-brush. The mark of the
British Elite And Shoddy Titledom. Opening
the campaign for the election of ’94, he got out
flaming bills headed ‘Sir Graham Berry.’ The
knowing East Bourke burghers said, ‘That
.will block you, safe as houses.' Whereupon he
knocked off the title and hastily renewed the
bills, with plain ‘ Graham Berry,’ not even
Mistered. Then came the question whether he
should drop the title in standing for the Federal
Convention. He decided not. He came round
to his bold burghers and said, ‘After all it
don’t matter.’ ‘Well, just you see,’ says one.
He persisted this time in placarding himself 1 Sir
Graham Berry.’ Let Turner store it up and
remember the old farce called ‘ My Turn Next.’
Ah, Berry remembers now his advice to Deakin
not to take the title. The East Bourke Repub-
licans would have put him in.”
The overwhelming majority for Frank
Madden indicates that Melbourne’s Eastern
Suburbs electorate is as much devoted to Fat Man
to-day as in the time when Gillies planned it out
for his own constituency. Madden is essentially
a member for Fat. Kew and Camberwell, the
principal pair of eastern subs., vote for him not
on account of his violent Tory sentiments (which
have often seemed abominable to his own side of
the ’Ouse), but because he is a brother to his
Waxellency the deputy-Governor, and, therefore,
a “respectable” person. Caulfield and other
horsey outlying districts support him because he
is a Y.R.C. Tory, the horsey soul being mostly
undemocratic. Thereabouts he travels to the top
of the poll on his turf ticket. Nobody considers
F.M. on his political merits or private reputation.
The National Ass folks and the national horse
folks identify Frank with Fat Man and vote
accordingly. His case is quite different from that
of Gillies and Murray Smith, who rank as “ sound
Tory ” politicians
M‘Gowen, leader of the N.S.W. Labor-
party, asks that 48 hours per week shall be recog-
nised as the maximum in the public service. To
which Minister Jacob Garrard objected, on the
ground that “Government should not pay more
nor give greater privileges than private employers,
because that would be unfair to the employers.”
But does the hazy Jacob mean that the Govt,
should keep abreast of the best or the worst kind
of private employers ? The cases which M'Gowen
pointed out as the worst examples were gaol-
warders, letter-sorters, and tram and railway men.
There are no private employers running gaols and
post offices, anyhow, so there is no private standard
to go by. Therefore, should these state servants,
in fairness to the private employe, be brought in
line with the bank where the hours are about seven
per day, or the non-union bakery where they are
13 or more ?


R. BELL & CO.’S Vestas
—ARE—
. . . British VcstaS.
Aus. I
Rkps. j
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
**tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - JS3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
JTredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.’
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Mb&bournb ; 14 Ourrie-st., Adelaide.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
SIR JOHN
POWER S Whiskey.
A us. )
Re) is. f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
“GOOD AS GOLD.’
MOD'S SULKIES
AND THE NEW
Easy guckboard.
75 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
PERTH —Robt. Wolfe, Murray-street..
GERALDTON —A. Meadowcroft, Marine Terrace.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Treasurer Fysh, in forecasting a surplus of
£62,290 for 1898, remarks proudly that this will reduce
the Tasmanian deficit to £281,645. The Bulletin rises to
state, with profound regret, that it will do nothing of the
kind ; it will only reduce the deficit to somewhere about
£679,000. Fysh only takes the cash overdraft into ac-
count ; the other part of the deficit —the part that is
covered by Treasury bills and stock —is judiciously dropped
out of sight.
* * * *
According to latest returns, N.S.W. pays about
£3 13s. per cent, on its public debt; Victoria, about £3
16s. per cent. N.S.W. reduced its average by borrowing
8J millions since the interest-rate went down to 3 per
cent., while Victoria only borrowed two millions at the
new rate.
* * • •
The relative debts of the seven provinces are an
interesting study. The order of the provinces, in differ-
ent years, putting the one with the biggest debt per head
of population at the top of the list, and the one with the
smallest debt at the bottom, was as follows :
1861. 1871. 1881. 1891. 1897.
Victoria Maoriland Maoriland Q’nsland Q’nsland
N.S.W. Q’nsland Q’nsland S.A. S.A.
S.A. N.S.W. S.A. Maoriland Maoriland
Maoriland Victoria Victoria Tasmania Tasmania
Q’nsland Tasmania N.S.W. N.S.W. N.S.W.
Tasmania S.A. W.A. Victoria W.A.
W.A. W.A. Tasmania W.A. Victoria
The most remarkable feature in these lists is the way
Victoria has worked down from the position of the most-
indebted to that of the least-indebted province, and how
Queensland has worked up from nearly the best position
on the list to the very worst.
* * » *
The Colonial Bank (Melb.) improves, though
gradually. The profits for the half-year ended 30th
September, 1897, are £3312, whereas last half they were
only £3043, and at 30th September, 1896, they were £2004,
which showsa large improvement. During the half-year the
Colonial has collected £33,000 in calls, and it has wiped
off about £50,000 of its reconstructed deposits, reducing
them to £1,436,732. This is a very small reduction, still
it is a move in the right direction. On the other side of
the _ case the business appears, so fat, to be about
stationary. Note circulation has decreased by
over £10,000; bills in circulation by £35,000; and new'
deposits are £42,000 less than they were six months ago.
Probably the net result is that things are better, still
the improvement is very slow.
The writing-off of lost capital is still postponed.
The profit for this and several previous half-years has
been applied towards writing-off losses, but still it is
estimated that £480,561 of capital will have to be can-
celled before things are straight, and as even now, despite
the vigorous collection of calls, there is only £474,000
ordinary capital paid up and available for writing-off, the
operation has necessarily to be postponed. Moreover,
the old shareholders are going broke and forfeiting
their shares very rapidly—the forfeited capital now
amounts to £137,000, and includes 35,492 shares, nearly
one-fourth of the whole concern. Therefore, the
loss to the shareholders who remain will be all the greater,
and the Colonial, when it gets things fairly disentangled,
will be left with an ordinary capital almost too small to be
worth mentioning. Meanwhile, the £480,561 loss is put
down as a debit balance as the most logical way out of the
difficulty, and is being slowly wiped off out of profits. If
there was any prospect of the good times coming back, it
might be totally extinguished in this fashion without any
formal cancellation of capital; as it is, the process of
getting square is rather slow. One open question
is whether even the proposed writing-off of the
whole paid-up ordinary capital is sufficient to cover
losses. The earnings are barely equal to £2 4s. per cent,
per annum on the preference capital alone—that is to say,
assuming the writing-down process was completed, the
Colonial would claim to be a solvent concern with a
capital (all preference shares) of £304,000, and yet would
be earning, on this half-year’s figures, less than 2J per
cent, thereon. And this despite the fact that it only pays
21 per cent.—the lowest rate going—on its reconstructed
deposits. If it paid 4£ per cent., as the National and
Victoria do, it would show a loss of £ll,OOO On the half-
year.
In short, the problem is : The Colonial claims
that its preference capital is practically intact, yet
though it gets four-fifths of its deposits at an amazingly
low rate—even assuming that other banks pay only 3 per
cent, on an average, the 2J4 per cent, rate gives the
Colonial an advantage of £7lBO per annum—it is earning
less than 2J per cent, on the capital which it says is intact.
Assuming that a bank, with all its bad debts written off,
and getting its deposits at the very moderate rate of 3
per cent, can realise one per cent, on a very moderate capi-
tal of £304,000, which doesn’t seem much to ask, the
Colonial should earn about £4600 per half-year. And it
certainly doesn’t-
* * * *
The National Bank (Melbourne) continues its
steady improvement. The profits for the half-year are
£18,276, as compared with £14,712 last half-year, £11,707
at September, 1896, and £10,523 at March, 1896. The
latter represented dead low-water mark ; at March, 1894,
the best half-year after the reconstruction, the profits
were 1 31,000, and from that point they dropped continu-
ously for two years till they looked like becoming wholly
extinct. Since then the earnings have steadily increased,
while the saving of interest by the repayment of the
reconstructed 4J per cent, deposits has also swelled the
profits. The usual 5 per cent, dividend on preference
shares (£7645) is paid, and the balance, with previous
accumulations, leaves £41,841 at credit of profit and loss.
The profits are about £ll7s. per cent, per annum on the
entire capital (£2,010,549), and the National will have to
get the half-year’s net revenue up from £lB,OOO to over
£50,000 before it will have earned even a 5 per cent
dividend for its ordinary shareholders, so the prospects
of the latter crowd are sombre indeed. At present,
after the preference people have got their dividend, there
only remains enough to give the ordinary shareholders
about £1 ss. per cent, per annum, and under these
conditions the ordinary shareholders feel very
ordinary. There is no visible probability that
the National, with its capital raised from £1,000,000
to over £2,000,000, will ever be able to pay the
glorious 16 per cent, dividends it used to revel in; in
the best boom days, its biggest year’s profit was £ 166,000,
and, even if it cot back to that figure, it could only pay
8 per cent, at the best. Also, with its present <. arnings of
£33,000 a year, it will take a very long time to get back
to that figure.
The National looks very solid, however, despite
the smallness of its earnings. During the past half-year
it has reduced its reconstructed deposits from over
£3,000,000 to £1,650,000, and a few more months should
see them wiped out altogether. It has cash and liquid
securities to the amount of £2,196,947, which is equal to
32 per cent, of its liabilities to the public. This item
shows a decline of £660,000 as compared with last half-
year, and deposits have decreased £l,loo,ooo—mainly, no
doubt, through the release of £1,350,000 of the recon-
structed money. There is only one feature in the balance-
sheet which excites suspicion or calls for serious explana-
tion.. Last half-year the holding of Government and
municipal debentures decreased by £493,000. This half
it has further decreased by £173,000, so the National
has evidently been selling out on a very large scale.
Almost all Government and municipal securities have
lately been at a high premium, and if that premium is
included in the profit, it may easily be that the ordinary
earnings of the business haven’t been increasing nearly
so much as appears on the surface of things.
* » * *
The Permanent Trustee Co. of N.S.W., which
looks after the interests of t he widow and orphan at a very
moderate rate, realised £1671 profit for the year up to
30th Sept., as compared with £1035 for 1896, so the im-
provement is a very handsome one. A 5 per cent. div.
absorbs £1250, and the other £421, added to previous
balance, leaves £1251 to credit of profit and loss.
♦ * * *
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Associa-
tion (Melbourne) for the year ending 30th September,
1897, realised £555 net profit— this after allowing £403 for
depreciation. As 1896 showed a profit of only £B5, and
1895 a loss of £197, while in 1894 there was another loss
of £204, the improvement is a very large and solid one.
The net profit, it is true, equals barely 2 per cent, on
capital, and there is no dividend, and the shares (£1 paid
up) which boomed up to 58s. 6d. in February, ’9l, are now
too painful a subject to mention ; still things seem to be
distinctly on the mend. The co. now manages to earn
£1979 for the year by an expenditure of £2769, so the
trustee business only leaves a dead loss of £790, to be made
up out of the interest earned by the investment of the
association’s own capital. The investments earn nearly 4 j
percent, all round, so apparently they are good securi-
ties and worth the value set against them, or something
reasonably near it. The great disaster of the year was a
legal decision which held the co. responsible for £2749
trust money deposited in two unfortunate banks, and if
the appeal to the Privy Council goes wrong it will make
a heavy loss on one of .these items (City of Melbourne
Bank deposit, £1441). Probably this loss and the costs
will swallow up another three years’ profits.
f * f y
Tooth and Co., Limited,, joint-stock beer con-
structors, Sydney, show a half-year’s net profit of £35,574,
against £42,555 for the dry half of the year, and £35,772
for the half ending September, 1896. A dividend of 7 per
cent, absorbs £31,500 ; £5OO is added to reserve (making
it £75,000); and £2500 written off plant.
* * » *
The S.A. State Land Bank balance-sheet shows
that it has got through the first complete year with £686
to the good. As the business necessarily started in a very
small way, the earnings are correspondingly small, but
the fact that there is a profit of any kind after paying all
preliminary outlays looks well. The institution had ad-
vanced £231,000, up to 30th June ; its expenses were but
£3509 for the year; and the interest in arrear was only
£l3 12s. which says a great deal for the management so
far. Very few privately-managed banks make so good a
showing in their early stages.
* * * *
There is a lot of pathos in some balance-sheets
nowadays. That huge, London-managed pastoral cor-
poration, the Union Mortgage and Agency Co. of Austra-
lia, announces a year’s profit for 1896 of £9087, equal to
19s. 6d. per cent, per annum on capital. And its offshoot,
the huge Australian Estates and Mortgage Co., earned
£2414, equal to 4s. per cent, per annum on its capital
of li millions! It all looks like a picture of an ex-mil-
lionaire prospecting for crusts in a dust-box.
• * * *
All Melbourne is now ringing with the story
of how a remorseless attorney took down the spendthrift
signer of a big promissory-note.
» * * •
The number of undefended debt cases in the
Perth local court is significant. One recent morning
there were 64 of them.
* * * *
O. H. James, the Father of Smellbourne’s land-
boom, was, for years, a rather scandalous non-insolvent,
but, in his new character of insolvent, the man with the
orthodox beard promises to be a more extraordinary
person than ever. A while back, his estate was com-
pulsorily sequestrated at the instance of somebody, who
would fain have fetched C. H. James up for examination
in the court. Thus far, he has avoided filing a schedule
by the simple device of making himself scarce, and his
counsel, with fine legal effrontery, states that the missing
man doesn’t care a boom for the court. “ Everyone knows
why the schedule is not filed,” says barrister Duffy.
“ The insolvent is quite willing(!) to file his schedule,’’’
but he declines to move at the instigation of any accursed
creditor who “persecutes” him. The persecution of O
H. James ! !
• * * *
The landing of German beet-sugar at so low a
price in Sydney is causing the Bananaland planters to
quake. They now begin to see that their only hope of
securing the Australian market lies in joining hands with
the Federationists.
* • » *
Big row. in an Australian life-office over the
death of a magnate who had lately taken out a heavy
insurance. The row arises out of the allegedly-fishy cir-
cumstances under which the risk was passed.
* * * *
The managing clerk of a big Australian usurer
is dying in a lunatic asylum. For weeks prior to his being
put away his mania was trying to odculate to what
amount a £5 loan (at his employer’s usual rate of interest)
would reach if unpaid for 100 years. The appalling huge-
ness of the amount totalled for even ten years is
have unhinged his mind, and it is doubtful if he could
ever have arrived at the amount for the full period except
with the aid of logarithms.
* * * *
Part of B. H. Prop, ’s new concentrating-mill
was set going this week ; and the new British works are
also ready. Also, there is a great activity in the con-
struction of buddies for re-treating the slimes, and gene-
rally there are indications that the directors are convinced
they will have to depend upon the mechanical process for
some time yet. Hancock, after whose designs about half
the mills are built, claims to have, during the last few
weeks, made important improvements in the construction
of the hutches. Indeed, the concentrating process has
been so improved that already it bears little likeness to
what was done at the South when the first jigs were set
in motion, three years ago.
* * * *
The results from zinc-concentrate shipments
from Broken Hill have exceeded expectations, and con-
signments from the B.H. Prop, and Block 14 have now
been sent to port.
* * * *
Acting presumably on the detectives’ advice
the Broken Hill Proprietary 00. puts up its offer of
reward in connection with the mine fire to £9OO, in addi-
tion to the Govt.’s £lOO. Also, while the Govt, offers a
free pardon to any accomplice, the co. offers a free
passage to any part of the world to the man who gives
information which will convict the supposed incendiarist.
By the way, the extremely casual Brunker, in the Govt,
proclamation, recites that “ the said fire resulted in the
death of three men.” No doubt it did, indirectly, but the
jury which “ sat on” the three men was blocked from
inquiring into the cause of the fire by the intimation that
the men were not in the mine when the fire broke out
that, therefore, they were only in the same position as a
fireman who is killed after having answered a call to an
already burning’ building. As to the reward, it is worth
noting that it is by no means certain that incendiarism
was the cause ; no jury has found to that effect even. But
if it wasn’t incendiarism it was accident ; and accidents of
this sort mean lax supervision ; and lax supervision means
■. So, in the circumstances, it is just as well to
suggest incendiarism, anyway.
* * » *
The last manager of the long-abandoned Burra
Burra (S.A.) copper-mine, which was supposed to have
given right out, reported that there was a sulphide
deposit in the bottom, and it is now intended to test the
deeper ground with a diamond drill. It seems a good
gamble.
• • « »
Burra Burra, N.S. W. : Crosscut from the 200 ft.
level still in good sulphide ore. Shares creeping up, and
now is about the only time calls can be made with some
certainty of their being paid.
* * • *
An effort is being made in N.S.W. Parliament
to place copper in the same category as other metals that
may be mined on private lands. Why it was ever omitted
is impossible to understand, unless one takes a trip West
and notices the quantity of copper land held by M’sL.C.
• * » •
The writer’s old friend and favorite—North
Nyrnagee and the Sabbath tipster:—“ An excellent
report has been received from the mining manager. He
writes most hopefully of the property, saying it contains
no less than four distinct lodes. He is sinking a main
shaft, and, in his examination of the old workings, came
across an untouched lode at the end of a drive, which he
describes as being so valuable that he feels confident
future developments in it will disclose something good.”
It will probably soon transpire that the old co. abandoned
this mine because it did not want to he worried work-
ing so many rich copper lodes. That, too, seems to be
the trouble with the present holders. Before a pick was
put in the ground things were booming, but now so many
lodes have been found, “ so valuable, etc.,’’that shares can
be had at less than half-price.
» * • *
Another good lie—and nine-tenths of all pub-
lished mining news consist of lies : —“ Stated that an
influential syndicate has made an offer of £215,000 for
the Overflow mine, but it has been refused. The Nyngan
Observer says they hold out for a quarter-of-a-million.”
Ye gods! And paid-up shares five shillings or so.
Gerrout!
* * * *
Palkner’s mine, Pambula, N.S.W., reported for
non-fulfilment of labor conditions. Nothing this, when
you are used to it; but Bull and others interested in Aus-
tralian mines, and resident thousands of miles away, get
a nasty shock when anything of this sort happens.
* * * *
The public will soon know something more
definite about the Mt. David gold mine, N.S.W. Next
week the 10-head battery makes a start, and the running
of an additional 20 heads is promised in two months.
This will tell a tale, whether the lode when taken its full
width—from 6ft. to 12ft. —will average an ounce to the
ton, such as reports and small crushings indicate, or
whether the previous owner, Crozier, before selling,
gouged out the best parts of the lode in thin streaks,
leaving by no means ounce “ tack.”
* * * •
Elsewhere appears the ahridged prospectus of
the Booths United G.M. Co. in 60,000 shares of £1 each.
The owner of the property, who had paid £3OOO in cash,
will receive his money back out of gold to be won ; hut
no cash brokerage has been paid, and the whole of the
£7500 raised goes to working capital. The company has
secured a 40-head battery and concentrating machinery ;
and it is estimated there is an immense amount of 6dwt.
crushing stuff which can be put through at Is. per ton.
254 tons treated at Clyde (N.S.W.) returned 7620 z.
* » * *
Royal Standard, N.S.W. —62 tons, 98oz. } and
div. reduced to 6d. What’s up ?
* * * *
From Pambula : “At Jingera, developments
are somewhat slow from the want of local treatment of
ore. The silver ore being shipped away every month by
the Jingera Mineral Proprietary is very rich. There are
thousands of tons stacked at grass, which should give a
handsome return when a plant is erected that will treat
it on the ground.” It was exactly for mines such as these
are alleged to be that works like those at Illawarra have
been erected, at enormous cost, and, if it won’t pay mines
not far from one of the best harbors in Australia to ship
ore away to such w r orks, the chances are that the mines
won’t pay to work at all.
• * * »
N.S.W. Mines Minister Smith defends the
action of his department in sending out circulars in sup-
port of a mining manual to be issued by one Critchley
Parker, who combines mining with society journalism, on
the ground that one of the Australias had subsidised the
work to the extent of £6OO and a free railway-pass.
Stated that £lO will cover the cost. The Bulletin
declines to believe it. Have not these circulars been sent
all over the world? If so, the mere gumming of the
envelopes would have cost a tenner. Is it not well known
that other similar works are being prepared by really
competent men, including the financial editor of Sydney
D.T. ? Were not the sample proofs of the way in which
mining cos. would be listed in the book taken from
Skinner’s Manual? That Mr. Critchley Parker’s will be
a modest publication by an extremely modest author is
indicated by the sample cover which has on the side and
on the back the name, Critchley Parker, in gold lettering !
* * * *
Although manager Look, of the Wentworth
mine, has managed to sneak in about 100 men from
Bendigo, it will be found a poor victory when all is
reckoned up. They are to receive higher wages than
those offered the old hands, and are to be fed and housed
free of charge until things are in a settled state. Lock,
too, is likely to suffer somewhat from the isolation of the
stand he has taken. Generally speaking, the big-mine
managers of N.S.W., whether representing English or
local Australian co.’s, are not anxious to reduce wages to
£2 2s. a week. It is recognised that good miners are
worth something more than that, and indifferent men are
dear at that wage. In some of the shallower mines at
Bendigo it is the custom to work 455. and 355. men toge-
ther, and no doubt the 10 men got over are of the latter
standard. The men on strike might as well throw up the
sponge, and accept the consolation that neither Lock nor
the Wentworth Co. will make much out of the victory
* * » *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* * * *
W. R. Lawson, in the Contemporary, predicts
a cold day for the silver-mine holder. The chief buying,
he says, must come—at least, has for years come—from
the East. India is the largest consumer, notwithstanding
the closing of the mints. “China seems to have taken
in the first seven months only £109,308, as compared with
£603,000 in the corresponding period last year. Bad as this
is, Japan beats it with a decline from > 832,000 last year
to £40,000 this.” He argues that China will go in’ for
paper. It is quite likely, though, that the figures as
they stand are misleading. For instance : The silver
savings of the inhabitants of India are estimated at
1,312,500,0000 z. In famine-time hitherto much of this
has been taken to the mints ; hut, the mints being now
closed, much of it has probably been exported during
the recent famine to the nearest silver-using country
where a market for it was open. All the same, “ Sinking
Silver ” is a very formidable array of figures and deduc-
tions.
Klondyke is a. “ fair terror.” At latest a drink
cost 2s. ; bread, baoon, and cup of tea, Bs. ; bed, 65.,;
waits with one of the 50 or 60 dancing-pavilion houris,
. • we ";ere on the jump with the rest of the boys
JP J" e Palmer River shanties, you could dtmce with the
Murrumbidgee Barge,” or even with “ Port Wine Liz "
or the “ Long-Handled Shovel,” for nothing more than a
liquid-refresher at about every second turn-round.
* ♦ • *
In Westralia, as in the Eastern provinces, prose-
cutions for breaches of the Mining Act and regulations
have a habit of breaking down with astonishing regu-
lanty The manager of the Goongarrie goldfields, just
charged with a neglect which caused the loss of a man’s
J“ e > S'pt' away on the objection that it had not been shown
that the field was so gazetted as to bring it within the
section.
* • * •
The most gorgeously-coloured eulogium of Kal-
goorlie up to date conies from the State geologist of
Colorado, who lets himself loose about being “wearied
walking through miles of richest ore, in veins of immense
width, with almost illimitable possibilities.”
* * * *
Good reports are wired re the alluvial rush at
Kanowna, W.A. Upwards of 1000 men have already
gathered there. The depth runs from 20 to 50 feet, gold
being m some eases marvellously rich at the bottom. The
run has been proved for a mile, and much of the ironstone
found amongst the cement is good enough to crush. Tub
Bulletin hopes it is all true.
* • * *
“In the Bendigo-Coolgardie the Bendigo holders
a mine which, if they would only show the energy
they have always shown with regard to their own mines,
would to-day be returning 6d. a month in divs. The
manager has done all that is possible, but is ap-
parently hindered in some way from opening the mine up.
With a vigorous policy of development, within three
months the shareholders would be receiving the above
dividend,” says N.S.W. Mining Standard. This co. spent
over £20,000 in development, erected one of the first
batteries on Coolgardie, kept the mine gfoing for four
year with numerous calls, never getting within the shadow
of a div., and now it is thus accused by the only alleged
mm mg journal of Australia.
* * * *
The S. A. Government cyanide plant in the Mac-
Donnell Ranges, in the centre of Australia, is still
1 -f i a to get sufficient water have so far
failed. Now it is being shifted seven miles, to an existing
well.
* * * •
An abridged prospectus of the Southern Long
Tunnel Gold Mine Co. appeared in last week’s Bulletin.
The property consists of 53 acres at Rifle Butts Gully,
Walhalla, 22£ chains to the south of the Long Tunnel
co. s ground. 696 feet of tunnelling have been driven
with sufficiently encouraging results, and it is proposed
to erect a 20-head battery to crush stone from 400 ft. of
backs already in sight at No. 3 tunnel. From a total
issue of 40,000 shares of 10s. each, vendor asks for 14,000
paid up. 26,000 shares offered to the public at Is. on
application and Is. 6d. on allotment ; £l5OO to cover cash
payment for the work already put into the property, and
all expenses of flotation, leaving £1750 to the credit of
the co. Prospectuses obtainable from W. H. Vivian,
Stock Exchange, Sydney, or J. H. Butler, 66 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne.
* • * *
A funny little gamble in Mount Deddick shares
is being worked by a group of Melb. jobbers. Mount
Deddick is a property which, lurking in one of Gipps-
land’s darkest places, affects an air of awful mystery. The
Argus for a long time quoted it as a gold-mine, but lately
it has figured as a silver-lead mine, and possibly it will
next chip into the copper-boom if the game can be kept
going. But the name, Deddick, suggests a funeral in the
near future. The Bulletin has, as yet, ascertained nothing
authentic about Mt. Deddick.
• * • *
A Gympie correspondent calls The Bulletin’s
attention to the fact that a recent week’s crushing on
that field totalled 65500 z. for 2462 tons, dividends for
same week being £13,700; and, in further mentioning
that the South N.Z. Junction recently dropped on to
7280 z. from 46 tons, remarks that, “ patchy ” as Gympie
is considered, it ought in these circumstances to receive a
lot more attention from Southern speculators. But
Southern mining investors—though they think Gympies
all right as a stamping-ground for retired practical
miners, who, being on the spot, can best tell when to get
in or out—don’t cotton to the lottery business. They
prefer to this “mining-consultation ” kind of thing to have
to deal with a big, well-defined lode, where there is pro-
mise of definite, if small, returns. A low-grade reef with
something like certainty ahead is more in their line than
the chance of patches, however rioh. Foramininggamhle,
however, you can hardly beat Gympie.
• * • *
“At time of writing,” says a Bulletin corres-
pondent, “ a big law-suit seems almost inevitable between
the Tas. Government and one or other of the gridiron
railway syndicates. The House will probably attempt to
smoothe things over by repudiating Ministerial promises
to the Northern co., thus conserving the Great, Western
co.’s interests, but that the Northern co. Will tamely
submit to being choked off Mt. Lyell without even test-
ing the strength of some of Braddon-Fysh’s notoriously
shipshod legislation is too much to expect—of a syndi-
cate.”
* • * *
The country between the coast and Mount
Lyell (Tas.) threatens to be gridironed with railways.
The latest proposal is by a small syndicate to run a line
from Deloraine to Rosberry, there joining the Emu Bay
line. No promoters’ shares or other boodle. The motive
may be found in landed interests.
• * * •
Big things said of North Mt. Lyell, Tas. A
conservative estimate discloses a million’s worth of ore in
sight. An easy route found for the railway. Two ore
bodies—one the eastern, 50ft. wide, and the-western 30ft.
Enormous deposits of high-grade copper ore, with gold
and silver ready for the smelters, and when thev are
ready shareholders need have no fear of the result.
Claimed that the ores are richer than those of Mt. Lyell.
But the lode is not nearly as big. The present eo. has a
capital of half-a-million, and Bull for 200,000 shares finds
a working capital of £105,000.
• « * »
The Bulletin is waiting for the syndicate to
come along and put the whole of the Tasmanian flyspeek
through the smelters. It would pay handsomely—if the
native brass of its Douglases and Dobsons didn’t prove too
refractory.
* » * •
On one of the Hampton Plains (W.A.) alluvial
rushes breaking out, the H.P. co. sent a man down to
turn the gold-seekers off the block. He arrived in time
to peg out a well-situated claim for himself, and as he saw
he had no show of getting the men to clear, he told them
that if they let his claim alone while he went back and
reported to the co., he would make no attempt to shift
them. He made his report and returned, no doubt in-
tending to put men on his claim or to sell it. He found
a great number of men there, and his own claim pegged
out into four, each of which was being industriously
worked. He then decided to use his authority to turn
everybody off, but no one would shift; and next day the
Coolgardie paper said : “Mr. has given the men
leave to work the ground.” Later on it was decided to
charge each man working on the block ss. per month, and
a few weeks ago collectors were sent round to gather it
in. One weary old man, on being asked for his ss. said
nothing, but picked up his traps and walked off for Cool-
gardie with a sad, tired look.


Artless Sydnej
D.T. advt.
A T . — Pri-
vate Board and
Residence, buggy.
Mrs, .
d.
ORIENT
>—-< CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WE-VR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 408-
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
\ G.P.O. /
SYDNEY.
“ CORTO ** ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOB\CCO -6d. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations ,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
[?]letin
COGMAG
Stated that Gov. Buxton meditates re-
turning to England before another year is up. He
has not hit it with local society, has quarrelled
with several politicians, and is generally supposed
not to be on speaking terms with a very prominent
Minister of the Crown, whose wife was ignored
in connection with a social function at Govt.
House.
* * * •
At the Mayor of Adelaide’s ball no ladies
from Govt. House were present—a fact, which has
greatly ingratiated H. Ex. in civic circles. Dr.
Leith Napier was dressed as a fireman —an appro-
priate rig, say his medical enemies, who declare
that he is getting ready for the Future,
* * * •
S. A. Judge Boucaut’s liver was in bad
order, the other day. A boy named O’Brien
escaped from custody recently and made for his
home (where his mother, it is alleged, was lying
ill), and was arrested next morning. Sentence
five years hard labor, first three years in irons , and
first month in solitary confinement ! O’Brien has
yet to be tried for a subsequent escape from
Adelaide Gaol, so that he will probably get life
and floggings for that in December.
* * • *
The Chinaman, See Chong, who was tried
for, and convicted of, murder at Bundaberg (Q.),
and who subsequently suicided, had no lawyer to
defend him on his trial for his life. He did not
understand the English language, and the Judge
who sentenced him said the interpreter employed
by the Crown in the case seemed to know as little
English as the prisoner.
THE COUNTRY EDITOR’S “START."
(Editor of BIG SCRUB BUNYIP, who has just circularised his list of dead-heads to pay up or be
struck off, is interrupted by the noisy entrance of Mr. M‘Cocky, who has had the
BUNYIP “ on the nod” since its start, six years ago.)
MR. M'COCKY: “ Never did I expect to receive such a letter as this from you! Never did I
think you could be so ungrateful to ME, one of the first to take your paper and give
you a start!”
Gov. Brassey wrote a letter to Chief Jus-
cice Madden to sooth the injured feelings of his
ex-Waxcellency re the .£lO a day which the Old
Man of the Sea told a Herald scribe he has to
pay to the Acting-Governor when he (B.) goes
away on holiday. Madden professes not to be
annoyed. But why should he be ! The Bulletin
has a notion that the sensitiveness of exalted per-
sonages on the subject of their “screw” springs
less from pride than from conscience pricking
them with the thought that they don’t earn it
The man who honestly earns his money doesn’t
mind anyone knowing that he gets it. Indeed, if
it is a big sum, he is apt to be rather proud of it.
But merely (alleged) ornamental persons squirm
on the subject of their wages. They have a sneak-
ing fear that they don’t deserve any.
* * * *
The notorious Thriftiness of a certain Aus-
tralian Governor comes very hard upon The Bul-
letin. Every time the old gentleman shows the
most ordinary and pardonable (not to say praise-
worthy) regard for his financial interests, a
hundred correspondents bombard this scurrilous
journal with paragraphs to the effect that His
Excellency is an outrage on sassiety. The latest
crime charged against him is in connection with a
forthcoming fancy-dress ball. “The waiters and
attendants are to be faked-up for the occasion by
contract,” it seems. And why not? There's no
fault to find with a contract under the circs., and
The Bulletin declines to point a finger of scorn
at any imported capitalist who conducts an
occasional burst of extravagance on commercial
principles.
• * * *
The exploits of the Jackdaw of Rheims
have been eclipsed by the magpie of a Queensland
coast town. The rector of the local Anglican
Church, preaching there on a recent Sunday, feel-
ingly announced that on that day he celebrated
his 19th anniversary as pastor of the district, and,
saying that he was growing old, perorated on his
approaching demise and the severance of the holy
ties which had bound him to his congregation.
Hereupon one of his daughters sobbed aloud in
church and was carried out in hysterics. Another
daughter followed suit, shrieking aloud and faint-
ing in the pew. She was also gently carried out.
After these scenes one could have heard an ele-
phant fall in the sacred fane. The pastor was
affected to tears, and the congregation looked as
solemn as a cageful of boiled owls. But the good
pastor’s favorite magpie came to relieve the pain-
ful tension, and change the spirit of the scene.
Perching on one of the open windows the bird
trilled forth shrilly a full verse of “ There’s nae
luck aboot the hoose.” The effect was electrical.
Every head was buried in a handkerchief, a wild
tittering arose, and the service closed abruptly.
* * • *
If Sydney Sunday Times isn’t bent upon
ruthlessly stripping us of the last rag of our illusions
about lovely women, why does it let loose the lady-
scribe who so gaily gives her sex away over its
personal cleanliness by talking of bathing as
though it were a new idea and an item of luxury,
and solemnly descanting on “ the proper time to
take a bath ? ” Even if, as the ingenuous penlady
complacently admits, women will invent all sorts
of excuses “where cold water is concerned,” she
might have allowed the male miscreant still
to suppose that the objection is, not to the
water, but to the coldness —instead of nakedly
forcing upon him the .obvious inference from her
assertion that “every one of us should take a bath
of some kind every day.’’ The male ruffian, as a
rule, doesn’t need to be reminded of that little
matter, and deluded man would have much pre-
ferred to remain in ignorance of the fact that his
divinity—upon her own sweet showing—appar-
ently wants washing a good deal more than her
worshipper.
* * * *
Dr. Macgregor, M.L. Inspector of Prisons,
&c., states as an interesting fact that he knows of
a lialf-imbecile girl who has had, up to date, five
“ illegitimates ” by different fathers, and who is
likely to “keep on producing them.”
“ Timi,” on “ Let him marry the girl” :—■
Years ago a great, hulking brute in M.L. ravished a
decent, pretty little seamstress whom he had met casually
in a lonely spot. Police heard the screams, and arrested
the man in flagrante delicto. The ravisher had an influen-
tial brother, and, though committed for trial, the criminal
was bailed out. Sundry clergymen got at the girl and
induced her to marry the accused, and a nolle prosequi
was entered. Within four years the poor little woman had
prosecuted her strangely-acquired husband for several
brutal assaults. I was in court twice and saw the
bruises, so I know. Yes, “ Let him marry the girl ” !
* • • *
Apropos the censorship of literature by
N.S.W. gaol-officials, it is stated that in the Q.
penal establishment at St. Helena the library
edition of Shakespeare has “ Venus and Adonis ”
and “Tarquin and Lucrece ’’ excised, while
“ Pericles, Prince of Tyre,” remains in its original
and undiluted shape in the volume—which opens
of itself, from constant usage, at act 4 of that
play. How perfect that censor’s knowledge of
English classics must be! The Bible is also
admitted holus-bolus !
* * * *
A very big black snake had a narrow
escape, recently, from biting the ‘ ‘ special ” of a
Sydney daily, who is “doing” the Clarence dis-
trict. In blissful unconsciousness of its danger,
the reptile spent the night in bed with the press-
man.
Uloola : “ ‘ Bungo’s ’ par. in a re-
cent Bulletin recalls that I once heard
a * Harmy ’ captain remark (after read-
ing the story of the devils that were per-
mitted to enter the swine when they
were ‘cast out ’of the madman): ‘ Athe-
ists and unbelievers make a point of
asking if the owner of the swine was
compensated for his loss. Now, we
learn that at that time swine was an
illegal business.’”
Wollongong (N.S.W.) churches have been
endeavoring (by special prayer !) to get the
Almighty on the side of the Government’s badly-
received Kembla harbour proposal, as against the
Illawarra harbour scheme. The Opposition should
follow suit. A tug-of-prayer would be an interest-
ing novelty, and the defeated supplicators could
always put the blame on the Devil.
* * * *
The gushing gabble indulged in by the
bookish clique of Melbourne in re the proposed
memorial to Stevenson, recalls Dr. Johnson’s
comment upon the man Benson, who placed a
memorial to Milton in Westminster Abbey. “He
has in the inscription,” said Johnson, “bestowed
more words upon himself than upon Milton.”
The speeches thrown off the chests of Fitchett.
HARD TO SHIFT,
MRS. FLYNN: “An' has himself gone to worrk this
marnin’, Mrs. Quinn? Didn't the boss give
him the sack yesterday?”
MRS. QUINN: "Shure, he did; but he don't want
to be givin' a man the sack ivery day!”
Gyles Turner, Boldrewood Browne, and Professors
Morris and Tucker, gave one the impression that
they wanted to exhibit their own critical quality
far more than to praise Stevenson. By the way,
Mr. Boldrewood Browne, in now daring to talk
publicly about anything connected, however dis-
tantly, with the South Seas, evinces the possession
of a magnificent nerve.
* * * *
When Captain Sturt, in 1829, navigated
the Murray to its mouth, he buried a bottle con-
taining documents in the sandhills near where
Goolwa now stands. A. T. Margarey, who was
Calvert’s agent in connection with the recent fata
A Recovery
FOR THE BULLETIN
svY2»\c.ked cjou whe.r\ iKe merry
Wen! down the lighted Kail;
ill met Mour Kappu witching djar\ce ,
/ f air belle of all the ball
Aud wble uou da.r\ced b banele^k
n glee ’
Umlove-lorrv mood ] staked
fkougKr ty=>w Kappy will ke be
, Wko wirvy her for kb bride 1
JLI 2 watched cpu dcinnggapper, wl;en
f J Y°d fared od lamb,
ym, fjKree of a fair-Biz.ed Ker\
• And galantine and 'kamj
I J n L d r k ? a ,i m g1 e r ? rr L v
W KyhicK up cjour lighi
If repair,
Y (nlrvd gave me back, mvi hear)'
V.H.Y
SUS SALVATOR!
[Lines to the Kameruka’s pig which swam ashore with a life-
line from the wrecked vessel and thus saved the lives of
all hands.]
O hand me the shwate Harp of Erin this minute !
To other dumb craturs let bards tune their lay !
The watch-dog, the horse, the gazelle are not in it!
The rint-payin’ gintleman’s hero to-day I
For years you’ve been misunderstood, under-rated,
Regarded as useless until you had died,
With rubbish and ridicule always malthrated,
Until, as a carpse, you put on lots of “ side.”
Through life, sure, your ways have been terribly mirish,
You’ve met all your woes wid an ear-piercing squeak,
But in Death you have always been splindidly Irish,
Rewardin’ your slayers wid plinty of “ cheek.”
In the distant Green Isle, by the ample fire lyin’,
You dozed in the fragrance of turf from the bog,
While your masther your merits as footstool was tryin’—
But now, by St. Pathrick, you’ve “gone the whole
hog.”
Whin the storm-beaten ship on the reef came a crasher,
You tuk, widout Cavill, the life-line ashore ;
No hero, as yet, has done deed that was “ rasher
But you’d saved the lives in a “ cabin ” before !
From the pluck of the pig let a lesson be taken,
No parson or praste taches moral more high :
He was riskin’ his life to be “ savin’ their bacon ”
The bacon they’ll ate just as soon as he’ll die !
MALVA.


; HARRINGTON *
( V PHOTO - OUTFITTERS V\
U6KING S- SYDNEj :
m
&
t*a
*y.
Arp... \
/ FflOAi^
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
£XPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms —FREE.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station ami Out-door work our Silk STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNT'"AST aE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION -
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed Eyes, Dimness of
Sight, Granulations, &e Recommended by the Lead-
ing Sydney Oculists. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney. Open all
Night—also Sundays and Holidays.
The spirit of the age—whisky.
One or two Northern papers are express-
ing serious doubts as to whether the tick really
has abandoned the Western country and the stock
become immune. On one or two stations in the
Mitchell district the pest has reappeared, and the
cattle are suffering terribly.
The Folchi affair is America’s newest sen-
sation. Folchi is a poor painter, who bolted with
the lovely daughter of Don Carlos. They got to
New York, incog., but had to reveal their identity
to the police, through being robbed of a valise,
containing all their money. The N.Y. Herald
offered Folchi £l2OO for an article, but he refused.
He is coining money as a portrait-painter. His
wife, the Princess, has taken a billet at a fashion-
able milliner’s, and works 10 hours a day making
bonnets.
Liv/erpool at) d Loodoo
# (Sfobc loS6raoc€ Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummins Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; anC
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia —
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
exploring expedition, is now organising a party
to go and search for this bottle. As they will
never be more than half a dozen miles from a pub.,
there is not much danger in the enterprise.
• * • *
It is a beautiful modern custom in Melb.
for the employer to deduct a small sum from his
employes’ wages every week as a hospital contri-
bution. Could not the idea be extended so that
tenants could deduct, say, Is. a week off the rent for
the same charitable purpose, and borrowers take
a hospital contribution off the quarter’s interest ?
It's just as well to go the whole logical hog when
one is on a charity errand.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I was at Melb. Collins-
street Baptist Church the other night when the
Indian mission held a farewell meeting ; 35 mis-
sionaries were being sent at a cost of .£7OO.
(Joining out, I watched th-- congregation, and not
a single penny did the wretched, half-starved
woman, who sells matches on the steps, get out of
the whole assemblage of nearly 1000. <£7oo for
Indian souls, and not a cent, for starving Aus-
tralians’ bodies. —M‘G.
* * » *
Williams, the half-caste lately sentenced
to death at Mudgee, N.S.W., began life as a
shepherd at Merrendee, near Mudgee. He there
became associated with a woman, and, while
living with her, her daughter (by her previous
husband) had a child, of whom Williams was
reputedly the father. These two, mother and
daughter, continued to live with him, and each
raised a family. Sixteen years ago a clergyman
interfered, and persuaded Williams to marry—
leaving him the option of choosing between mother
and daughter. He took the daughter, and the
prosecutrix in this case was one of the offspring of
that marriage.
* * * *
" The Chinese consider they should be given
representation on Premier Reid’s new charity
organisation committee. If one section of givers,
then all sections of givers should have representa-
tion.
* * * *
Cause and effect. The Adelaide gaol-
breaking trio, recaptured near Blanchetown,
escaped from the local lock-up by knocking a hole
through the cell wall «ith a bucket-handle.
“Constable Shanks had supplied them with water
twenty minutes before they broke out.” Exactly.
Had he supplied them with beer they would
probably have stayed quite contentedly in quod.
Water - drinking is responsible for many mis-
demeanors.
* * * •
The usual weekly earthquake struck Wel-
lington (M.L.) a little worse than usual the other
day. Some strangers fled into the street, and
camped out there for several hours, and a, foreign
lady who was in a bath when the convulsion came
was so badly scared that she bolted with nothing
on but one small boot and a large sponge. But
the old residents take it very much as a matter of
course now. It is 40 years since anybody was
killed by a Wellington earthquake, the victim
then being a German who had a large mirror
shaken down on him while in bed and his system
filled with broken glass and quicksilver.
* * » *
Chief Justice Darley, at Dubbo Circuit
Court, the other day, vindicating the character of
police, whose evidence had been aspersed: “If
N.S.W. pclice err at all, they err in favor of the
accused.” Yet the C. J. is supposed to speak from
the Bench with gravity, and at least an average
amount of knowledge of his subject.
• * » *
The Melb. detective force is just now
agitated less by the pursuit of the wicked than by
fierce anger against a scion of the family of the
respected local chief of police. Young Mr. C. H.
Chomley has written a story for the Argus, which
he begins by the following expression of opinion
upon the men commanded by his pa:—
I have been induced to write this story, not because I
pretend to any skill in the use of the pen, nor yet be-
cause, as some might think, I am a detective by profes-
sion ; it is a profession, in fact, for which I entertain but
small regard, since it involves, upon the part of those who
wish to succeed In it, a surrender of the attributes which
distinguish honorable men for those more appropriate to
a crafty savage, or wild beast in pursuit of his prey.
* * * *
Items from recent Christian Endeavour
conference in Melbourne. Rev. J. King: “An
effective part of Christian Endeavour work is
prayer and an assiduous collecting of funds.”
Rev. J. Nicholson : “ Endeavourers should give ;
the usage of antiquity favoured the bestowal of a
tenth in God’s work.” Rev. Hitchcock : “They
should try to make up their minds to give a penny
a week to the cause, or even a penny a day.”
Rev. Watsford : “ There were plenty of men and
women waiting to take up their cross if there were
any funds to send them forth.” The chairman :
“ It was pitiful that God’s work should be crippled
for want of a little money.” In short, “Gib it
tixpen’.”
Told in Sydney military circles that two
officers high in the service recently had a scrap by
night in a lane off George-street—the question at
issue being the inevitable gilt haired charmer. The
onlookers’ joy rose to concert-pitch when the senior
officer pranced round menacingly and vociferated,
“ Don’t you dare touch my cap, sir. Don’t dare
to lay a hand on me.” But the other fellow did
dare, and after that the language settled down to
plain blanky mingled with the explosive puffing of
the angry militaires when they came up to
breathe.
* * * *
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” —Yic. Government
House.
With a view to—several things—
Sydney press has carefully pasted in its
collective hat a list of the solicitors and
barristers who are most frequently asso-
ciated with obviously speculative libel-
actions against newspapers.
THE SENSATIONAL ADELAIDE STALLING-CASE.
The accused, Nixon, Mrs. Nixon, and her friend , Addison, chairman of the State Bank.
The other day business was stopped in
Melb. City Court by the hoarse and irreverent
guffawing of some desperado in the passage.
Panton, P.M., arose to his greatest altitude and
almost shrieked at the nearest constable : “ Bring
them in, sir ! ” and then his Worship sat back
glaring, awaiting his victim. But the policeman
returned, pale and trembling, to say that the
culprit was Nicolson, P.M. Panton was flabber-
gasted. Bring him in !” he said, with the accent
of a man who defies you to obey him. The other
P.M. was not brought in. But had it been a lay-
man, particularly a layman in a shocking hat !
* * * *
In Bourke-st., Melbourne. Local resident
to tanned youth in new slop suit : “I say, young
man, be shy of that fellow you’ve just parted with,
he’s one of the smartest and most daring spielers
in Melbourne.” “ Oh,” said the party from out-
back, “ I reckon I know about as much as he
does. He’s done me for my two pound watch, but
I got at him for this.” And the back-blocker
gleefully exhibited a £5 note on a bung and buried
bank.
TO ERR IS HUMAN.
NEW-CHUM (after chasiny emu two miles) : “ Shoo!
I’ll make you fly!”
Melb. Argus, in a highly-appreciative
article on the local d’s. engaged running down the
baby-farmers :
At one time they believed they might be able to go
further than mere abandonment. They thought they had
a reasonable prospect of proving the existence of another
Mrs. Makin or Mrs. Knorr. But in this they were disap-
pointed. They could get no evidence of murder against
anyone.
“Disappointed” is good. The detective never
forgets the duty he owes the hangman.
* * * *
W.C.T.U. —Water and Cold Tea ’Uinbugs.
* * * *
Holdar M.: “Am slightly shocked to find
a giddy sheet like Le Charivari harbored by
Sydney School of Arts. Such il-‘lust’-rated
events, f’rinstance, as ‘ Les bienfaits de la repopu-
lation,’ surely escape the ponderous and very
English committee’s vigilance.”
Albury, N.S.W., thinks its site entitles it
to be the Federal capital. Putting aside the fact
that other places have claims a d d site better,
the only point in Albury’s favor is that its summer
climate wouldn’t be bad training for the tempera-
ture of the great Federal Capital.
* * *
Street humor. Male and female tandem-
cyclists are now hailed by Sydney gamins with
“ Hullo, Jenkins ! ”
One of the passengers from the wrecked
steamer Kameruka, saved by the pigs swimming
ashore with a life-line, ate bacon for breakfast
after reaching Sydney. Man’s ingratitude !
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“ Pedagogue ” to The Bulletin :
In N.S.W. Public Schools, when an inspector happens
to have a fad about the “ journeyings of St. Paul,” chil-
dren are compelled by their teachers to get up batches of
such long-tailed words as Iconium, Thessalonica, Pam-
phylia &c., and this the inspector considers a “ good les-
son in geography ! ” As it is at best ancient geography,
and not preceded or supplemented by any more of the
sort, and there is not a single map of ancient geography
in any public school whereby to locate the “names,” it
looks rather as if the gentlemen in question enjoy the
sonorous roll of the big words and the impression of vast
learning they convey to the unsophisticated youngsters.
» * • «
“ lii London St. Pancras Vestry the spread
of typhoid and diphtheria is coped with by the
health officer on systematic lines,”
writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent. “ Each medical practitioner
is paid 2s. Gd. for reporting any
case of either he may encounter :
and in addition, for cases of
doubt, is provided with a tin
_ box contain
ing two glass
phials. In one
is a metal lint brush
for picking up the throat-
deposit and submitting for
vestry examination as to
diphtheretic germs, and
in the other a capillary
tube for taking up a
drop of blood from
a pricked finger
when typhoid is
suspected. In
24 hours the
vestry advises the medico the result of the ex-
amination. Many and many a life would have
been saved in Australian cities, especially from
diphtheria, had such a system been in force here
years ago.”
* * * *
At Lyttelton (M.L.) recently the embalmed
body of an old lady encased in a leaden coffin was,
in accordance with the terms of her will, taken
out to sea and dropped overboard.
* * * «
W.A. can beat even N.S.W. at grand-
mothers. The record Westralian granny lives in
Perth, and achieved the distinction at the early
age of 25!
* * * *
Sydney Stipendiary-Magistrate Smithers,
just returned from Japan, brings with him, he
says, “ a crowd of personal recollections, to detail
which would be a heavy task.” Most men who
visit Japan do bring away personal recollections
which they are not at all anxious to discuss in
general company. King Jack Want’s affection
for the chrysanthemum appears to be getting so
infectious that “ holiday * will probably soon be
an unknown term to N.S.W. officialdom. “My
annual Japan ! ”
One big Melb. brewing concern alona
sent 800,000 bottles of ale to Mildura, the
“ prohibitionist ” town on the Murray. No
wonder the river steamers bring away cargoes
of empty bottles from the “club ” that is run
in the settlement.
It is actually cabled that Queen Victoria
has donated <£so (7Ad. each) for the rebel of
the 1600 sufferers by the typhoid epidemic at
Maidstone. When Prince Tummy of Wales got
over his attack of fever the people of England
squandered many thousands sterling upon a his-
toric thanksgiving service and the usual loyal fire-
works.
InaN.S.W. minor court case, resulting in
a verdict for about <£so, the successful client was
charged =633 costs “as between lawyer and
client.” The client, in the course of business,
passed the solicitor’s office a couple of times a day,
and, being on what he thought friendly terms, used
to put his head round the door and ask : •“ Any-
thing fresh ? ” or, “Are you rubbing it in?” or,
“When’ll you jug him?” and now he discovers
that these several freaks of badinage are entered
up as “To consultation with Mr. , 6s. Bd.”
There are cheaper commodities in the world than
an attorney’s friendship.
* * * *
Southern lawyers, gossiping over drinks,
lately discussed a big divorce-case. There are
several (mostly-married) cos. who shine high in
the social firmament with lustre resplendent.
They are said to have each offered hubby thou-
sands if he will forego his pound of flesh,' but he
is so wealthy that he can afford to despise even
such a bribe, and swears he will have his bond.
Englishmen do take their pleasures sadly.
The Queen rides not to fields of war
Like Joan, to force our foes to flee ;
Her woman’s heart is bleeding for
The sacred cause of charitee.
Since England first to greatness woke
No monarch reigned so kind —amid
Some sixteen hundred stricken folk
She lavishes full fifty quid.
The wisdom of her men of State,
The glory of her warriors,
Did little Britain staunch, elate,
Defy the wrath of Emperors ;
But this—this is a deed apart 1
Our Queen, she makes a regal bid—
Out of the goodness of her heart
She lavishes full fifty quid.
Shame to all scoffers at command
And terrorising anarchists,
She openeth her queenly hand
(She looseneth her royal fists).
We told our joy in thousands’ worth
When Tummy’s life was spared, we did,
And she—acclaim it o’er the earth—
Sbe flings to us full fifty quid !
T.D.


6
)
\SNN\
EViilpwij
j^lM-youd
eh
© ©
>
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
GREAT ARE SOME
PHYSICIANS.
BUT FAR GREATER ARE GOULD’S
TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS,
FOR THEY CURE AFTER PHYSICIANS
FAIL.
So say the people ? The great surprise of the present
day, and one who is most to be pitied is the man with a
weak stomach and a sluggish liver, and who can’t eat
this, and can’t drink that, is miserable and feels disagree-
able, broods over nothing, and can’t see enjoyment in
anything; sympathy is a nuisance, and friends a bore ;
one day a big appetite, and next day sorry and a great disin-
clination for food. Such is exactly how thousands of
people feel in this colony, and you are likely one of the
thousands. Up to a few years ago stomach and liver
troubles were almost unknown ; but to-day it is the ex-
ception to find one who has a good, strong digestion. In-
numerable cures have been tried and tried by sufferers
without avail, that is up to a short time ago ; but now,
owing to the efforts of some physicians in the United
States, a cure has been discovered which not only tones
the digestion and stir* up the liver, but the blood is
cleared of taint and face pimples, heart palpitation, con-
stipation, piles, &c., speedily become a thing of the past.
This preparation is put up in the form of small pills for
convenience sake, and are called Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver
Pills.
You will very likely say, Oh ! this is another patent
medicine. This is true to a certain extent; but not a
patent medicine as the term is usually used. Gould’s
Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are a pharmaceutical preparation
the formula of which has been improved on, until now a
preparation has been gotten which will bring joy and
happiness to many a home in Australia. Price, 2s. 6d. •
six bottles, 14s. 3d., from chemists and storekeepers or
from the Australian Branch of the E. A. Gould Sons and
00., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 26, 1897.
My Dear Myee—-
A real live prinoe, although a dusky one, is a
Sydney lion just now. He is Kadavu Levu, from
Fiji, tall, muscular and handsome, according to
white notions —except, perhaps, for his nose. He
was schooled in Sydney, and speaks English well.
Dressed in blue serge and brown boots, he looks a
swell, and, as he is a cricketer, he is constantly
taken for the not-yet-arrived Ranji. At Rush-
cutters Bay Oval, one day last week, his
play was closely followed by interested onlookers,
who took him for the other prince.
Ada Reeve, with her frank and boyish-looking
hubby, Gilbert (described as “the coming Fred.
Leslie ”), has been in town for the past week, ex-
hibiting some pretty frocks and Bond-street hats.
The latest things in millinery are bright and
jaunty, also shrunken in size, compared with the
style before last; but they are sensational, perpen-
dicularly instead of horizontally, as the “ ribbings ”
run up into high bows-and-ends, which it is the
triumph of the hat-artist to get more lofty and
more rampant at every effort. Ada (the original
Gay Parisienne) and her husband are so much
alike that they might pass for brother and sister.
The youthful pair, who came to Sydney to rehearse
with the “ Parisienne ” orchestra and co., created
a most favorable artistic and personal impression
at Her Majesty’s.
How’s the following for a descriptive title?
“Honorary representative for N.S. Wales of the
Associated Board of the Royal Academy of Music
and the Royal College of Music.” It beats
“ President of the Brick Lane Branch of the
United Grand Junction Ebenezer Temperance
Association ”by half a line of type. Having taken a
long, deep breath I go on to remark that it belongs
to Mr. H. Levy, who, in his capacity as above,
dealt out per post vast quarter-acre allotments of
pasteboard adorned with an embossed lion and
unicorn and much copper-plate wordiness, to a
select crowd which met Mr. Lee Williams and Mr.
S. Aitken, officials of the above many-worded
musical schools, at the Oddfellows’ Temple, last
Wednesday evening. Those two gentlemen
have arrived to hold exams, throughout Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. The party was an
extensive dress-and-diamond parade, as the invi-
tation-list took in the Nicest both socially and
musically. Between the two there was a percep-
tible difference in the gowning. The Potts-
pointers wore their most elaborate confections, and
the St. Cecilias were artistically negligent. The
fashionables were dressed and the musicians were
clothed.
The giving-out of medals and awards in connec-
tion with the above exams, happened at University
Hall on Friday afternoon, and was a most tire-
some function. All the speechifying was on that
wearisome altitude called “a high level.” Gov.
Hampden, who did the handing-over, remarked
that he didn’t know a note of music ; Chancellor
MacLaurin said ditto; and the speakers all
referred to a federated musical association
throughout the great empire, and how it would
strengthen the bonds, &c. And the only joke that
sent a quiver through the crowded hall was the
good old chestnut about bagpipe music ; the loud
tiring-off of that hoary-headed Joe Miller about
bagpipes proving as effectual as swords in routing
the enemy. The distribution was evidently hur-
riedly got up, as some of the certificates were
neither dated nor signed by examiner and local
representative. Miss Elbe Butler was adjudged
most worthy of the gold medal for piano playing.
The Boys’ Brigade had its annual outing in
Govt. House grounds last Wednesday. The boys
met at the offices in Elizabeth-street, and “ pro-
ceshed ” along through the city, scrambling for
coppers thrown by bookies who were at Tatter-
sail’s, and yelling familiar street ditties. At the
gate His Ex. received his small guests and speechi-
fied briefly, eliciting shrill cheers of thanks for the
Brigade’s hon. treasurer, Mr. J. R. Fairfax, who
had helped to fix up that afternoon’s picnic.
After that the youngsters fell to at various games,
unawed by a throng of fashionables, assembled by
invitation to help the party along. The Austra-
lian street urchin has but one title for all grown
men; they are all “Mister” to him. But the
language wasn’t particularly unbearable except
from one unknown young picnicker, whose vitriolic
remarks caused him to be summarily dropped out-
side the railings.
Since not even Presbyterianism’s worst enemy
can accuse it of a predilection for being “ bossed,”
there are likely, I hear, to be high-jinks in
Woollahra Presbyterian congregation over the
managing committee’s recent ukase that pews
must be upholstered, if at all, in the “ style and
color ” affected by a certain prominent and well-
gilt member of the congregation.
Considering that Saturday was an off-day, there
was a very fair attendance at Randwick races.
The grand-stand seemed to be mostly occupied by
folk from behind the footlights. A manager’s
wife wore one of the numerous envy-stirring crea-
tions acquired by her on her recent visit ’Ome ;
with her was a girl with hair draped full over
each temple, and airy embroidered muslin. A
black gown encrusted with silver sequins glittered
like the spangled heavens. The starter’s wife had
a black muslin gathered with tangled white. G-.
Lauri was original in a long frock-coat and in-
congruous tile of soft felt; Fannie Wentworth
was in white with indigo hat; J. C. Williamson
was on the lawn, also other well-known faces.
Sassiety was sparsely represented.
Canvas-town at Stanmore is in full swing.
The Seventh Day Adventists are holding their
annual mild religious razzle after the manner
of the houseless patriarchs. On Saturday
which the sect keeps holy as the Sabbath, there
were special shivoos in the shape of extra meet-
ings in the large assembly tent. The dwellings
are neatly ranged in streets, and the streets are
named. Visitors, of whom there were swarms on
Sunday, gazed curiously into the shops and
houses of the camp, and were invited in by
families with extra-swagger habitations, while
sisters who had no reason to be proud of the
adornment of their temporary homes, let down
the hessian portals against intruding eyes. No-
body found out exactly why the Adventists had
gone into camp or what their tenets are, except
that, by regarding Saturday as a close day for toil,
they wisely insert two holidays into every week.
The wheel-race, at the S.C.G. on Saturday
afternoon, attracted a large crowd. In the throng
on the stand was Mrs. Platt-Betts, wife of the
record-breaker, in an early-Victorian bonnet.
There were many examples of the scoopy head-
gear on the fairly-dressed occupants of the ladies’
stand, some very pretty, but the faces underneath
didn’t all follow suit. The paint on some of the
women’s faces was inches thick. With unskilful
daubers the recipe was to make an obtrusive dab
of rouge on each cheek-bone, and then dust over
with flour.
The present employer of R. D. Fitzgerald (the
Adelaide coachman who has just become heir to a
substantial legacy, and the succession of the
baronetcy of De Ros) is Mr. J. H. Howe, the
Federal delegate ; during the Convention the for-
tunate Jehu was in Sydney with Mrs. and Miss
Howe. The legatee has had a career —the usual
adventures of one of the legion that never was
“listed.” But he is not the only gone-under aris-
tocrat suddenly brought to the surface. The late
Earl of Limerick was getting timber for the Chil-
tern (Vic.) mines when his wife became a countess
and his son Lord Glentworth ; they screwed and
pinched in cheap Jersey till the estates were free.
Spiers and Pond’s former waitress, Mrs. Au-
gustus Perceval, now Countess of Egmont, made
a lucky dip in the matrimonial lottery bag when
she married “Gussy.” Tiresome folk are bound
to use her name to point the moral that barmaids
and waitresses always make sensationally rich
matches. In point of fact, as the new earl was a
common working person when she joined fortunes
with him, it was a very fair deal. But now, by a
surprising turn of the wheel, the ex-sailor, ex-
fireman, ex-hotelkeeper, becomes owner of one of
the “ stately homes of England,” with ever so
much a year, two or three titles to choose from,
and the hereditary right to make laws. Born in
Maoriland over 40 years ago, he is the first Aus-
tralasian contribution to the House of Lords.
The Two Little Vagabonds began their career
on Saturday to a large and sniffing audience.
You want to take your very largest handkerchief
to this drama, which reduces every women to a
moist and flabby state. One girl on Saturday,
after she had damped her own cambric, had to
borrow one from a friend to mop up her tears.
Compared with the “Two Vags.,” onions aren’t
in it as tear-raisers. Between sobs, I noted that
even the gowns were watered.- Mrs. Morris looked
gracefully lank in black moire. Also, Miss E.
Hughes can wear that sombre hue better than any
other color. Wally’s limbs are well-nourished for a
vag’s., and suggest great bicycling possibilities.
Lily Titheradge (Dick) takes off half-a-dozen years
with her skirts and looks a pretty little Arab of
ten. In the audience Dick the first was sitting,
and many pros, were present; a stage-box held a
lately-waned star and her party, while most of
the rest of her co. decorated the stalls front row.
The Society of Artists has been drawing the
public to its show by throwing in music and light
refreshments. A bright evening gathering was
undertaken by Mrs. J. Caro and daughters, when
the tiny stage was utilised for the first time in a
musical scene, “ The Blind Beggars.” On Friday,
in the Opera House, the new and original farce,
“ Nancy’s Nuptials,” by W. Beattie, will be played
for the benefit of the society. In this playlet,
which is in rehearsal under a professional eye,
there are several skits on some of the local painting
and musical dons.
Yon can now have jewellery made while you
wait. Mr. C. Stockle, with a reputation as a
“ lightning gold-wire artist,” gave an exhibition
of his art to some invited guests, at the Empire
Hotel last Wednesday. With a coil of glistening
wire and some small pincers he rapidly curled up
all sorts of fanciful devices—brooches, hair-pins
and bangles. Each lady-guest had her own name
presented to her written in wire inside of three
minutes. The artist’s most elaborate efforts are
plush-backed portraits of the Queen and the
Premier, which latter is a faithful likeness, eye-
flass and all, and every hair in the moustache
ristles accurately.
Bombala possesses a quadrille club which de-
serves record for an original idea carried out at the
wind-up hop of the season. A beauty-com-
petition was held and settled by referendum
among gentlemen, who midway in the festivity
plumped in favor of a belle arrayed in pale
blue and yellow satin peppered with spangles.
To her that hath shall be given ; a brooch marked
the decision in the damsel’s favor. It would have
been more consolatory to have given the trinket
to the lady at the foot of the poll; only she pro-
bably wouldn’t have claimed the badge. And
what a lively time the partners of every girl save
one in the room must have had for the rest of the
evening!
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Disconsolate parties will be numerous on the
night of the forthcoming Brassey costume ball.
Already tales are told of elaborate dresses ordered
by expectant guests who haven’t yet received the
necessary pasteboard. Two friends, when the
shivoo was first announced, arranged to go as the
rival Queens, Mary and Elizabeth, and selected
four damsels each as train-bearers. The robes are
all ready, but, alas, neither of their Majesties has
been invited, and some of the train-bearers are
also left out in the cold.
“ The Brasseys’ fancy-costume ball threatens to
be a garish hen-convention, with only here and
there a man to face the music. The more retiring
sex doesn’t take kindly to picturesque disguises,
especially when it is expected to compete against
professional mummers, who live by making objects
of themselves in public. Also, Cup-week is con-
sidered to be a most unsuitable time for the
pageant. No far-sighted man cares to book him-
self for a gay-and-festive character on the off-
chance that he will succeed in backing the winner.
And, if they were all to go as the Melancholy
Dane, the effect would be depressing.
“ All the Govt. House lackeys at the coming
fancy-ball are to wear old French dress, so as to
provide a correct milieu for Louis Seize Brassey
and his Marie Antoinette. Like most latter-
day entertainments, the vice - regal festival
promises to be purely spectacular. Lancers
are already being arranged with an eye
to scenic effect and members of ‘Versailles,’
‘Stuart,’ ‘Juliet’ and ‘ School for Scandal’ sets
already oross swords with co-dancers re clashing
colors and cuts. Questions such as ‘ Who is to be
Romeo?’ cause trouble too, and everyone pri-
vately accuses her dearest friend of having selected
the one role on earth most utterly unsuited to her
style. To begin with, ‘Mine Host’ himself!
What is the resemblance between Louis the
Martyr and Baron Brassey ! Sounds like a
conundrum which most people would promptly
‘give up,’though a historical pedant might point
out that both of these heroes loved his fad (mak-
ing crazy locks in one case, running his yacht into
tight corners in the other) better than sticking to
his own paid-for trade.
“Soft-hearted spectators, who only sniffed and
felt chocky when the beasts breakfasted off the
newly-engaged couple in the ‘ Sign of the Cross,’
regularly snort and blubber over the wrongs of
poor Josephine. As a consequence of such weep-
ful productions, the atmosphere of the Princess’s
begins to feel damp and depressed, full of histri-
onic ‘ farewells to the dying and mournings for the
dead.’ Altogether, the ‘ Gay Parisienne ’ will be
as welcome to theatre habitues as a sunny day in
bronchitis-season.
“ Maggie Moore, at the Theatre Royal, as street-
singer Jac., is plumpest when hungriest. Later
on, lifted into the lap of luxury, she * fines down ’
fast and furiously, with improving fortunes ; but
just after her adoption into upper circles, before
the thinning process has had time to start, she
goes ruralising in a trailing pink wrapper (of all
garments in the world) and a huge cooking apron,
and in a lonely blackberry thicket might easily be
mistaken by a terrified urchin for the ‘ fat lady ’
escaped from some circus.
“‘The Daughters of the Court’ gave their
annual High Court entertainment last week in the
hall attached to a Melbourne tabernacle, Mrs. Dr.
Bevan figuring as Lady Superior or Chief Dame
of honor. This gilt-edged institution, which was
probably intended to develop into a sort of saintly
Primrose League, has a beautiful motto and a
feeble pulse. The daughters undertook, in the
first instance, to ‘ Do a good deed every day, and
speak ill of none,’ but, judging from Mrs. Be van’s
icy reception of their obeisances, they must have
broken the pledge all round. The idea of bring-
ing a lot of women together in order that they
might cease from passing the usual remarks upon
one another was not a very brilliant inspiration,
anyhow.
“ Coroner Youl, quite unknown to his large
assortment of children and grandchildren, left a
widow to mourn his loss. He married the lady
in Sydney some 15 years ago, without spread-
ing the fact abroad, and when he returned to
Melbourne he didn’t care to spring a second Mrs.
Youl upon his admiring relatives. The lady, for
her part, seems to have been quite happy in the
secret marriage arrangement. She enjoyed a
small villa residence in a quiet neighbourhood,
and the jolly old coroner was a welcome visitor.
When at last he died, with a smile on his face, he
was thinking, perhaps, of the surprise in store for
his wife’s stepchildren. Not an unpleasant sur-
prise when they come to consider the matter
critically. But a staggerer, all the same.
“ The ‘ Cottage Cookery ’ yarns, by Rita, which
popped up periodically in Melb. Herald, are now
issuing in shilling book-form from Geo. Robertson
and Co. It is a meaty little volume, full of dis-
cursive wisdom and solemn reflections on woman’s
inhumanity to her dyspeptic husband; the
fact that the first edition sold out in four days
strikes criticism dumb. ‘ Cottage Cookery ’ seems
to be the kind of volume that Dora Copperfield
might have regarded without dread. Perhaps the
secret of success in Rita’s doctrines is a liberal
infusion of things generally known and too often
overlooked, as, for instance, ‘ No religion teaches
that it is necessary to bring the same joint to have
the same blessing asked over it two or three times.’
A much-married man thinks very much in this
strain when he mutters ‘ grace ’ over the cold
mutton. The sight of his silent sentiment in cold
print on a bookstall persuades him to invest a
‘ bob ’ in one more appeal to Maria’s better nature.
Maria may, perhaps, be influenced by the card-
board exterior of this shilling shocker, which is a
bright cabbage-green. Every bad cook adores
cabbage.
“ The evils of golfing have not been fully recog-
nised yet, but are coming gradually to declare
themselves. Quite lately a Melb. lady golf en-
thusiast noticed that her right hip had become
much larger than her left, so much so that when
she wore a tightly-fitting “tailor’’gown the de-
formity was clearly noticeable to all. Several
over-golfers thereupon discovered that the same
calamity was descending upon them, the swing of
the club while playing producing a marked en-
largement of the right hip-joint. Many fashion-
able dressmakers have consequently received orders
to insert a layer of padding over the left hip of
their golfing customers’ race-gowns to equalise
the size of each side of the figure. Golf seems to
be the only hidden power except the ocean—
which can make a woman careless as to her per-
sonal appearance. A group of female golfers,
after a wet afternoon’s play, whereat they have
been wet to the skin six or seven times, is a
deplorable sight. Such a group was on Caulfield
railway-station lately. The colors in their hat-
bands had all run—and made dreary little rivulets
over their straightened ‘fringes.’ Their wet,
flappy skirts clung round their muddy boots, and
their talk was all of ‘ holes ’ and unskilful ‘ mark-
ing.’ and other mysteries which they discussed
with much enthusiasm. They were all damp but
dauntless.
“ The sleekest and most ‘ popular ’ shepherd of
a very big Australian city is a snob of the very
first water. Visiting at the residence of a pluto-
cratic disciple to pay his oily respects to the dear
ladies, or meeting them in the public street, the
good man ignores the presence of any inferior
female who, in the character of governess, hired
companion, or nurse, stands around. Such people
have no existence as far as this representative
soul-saver is concerned. They neither rent pews,
nor drop half-sovereigns in the plate. Their con-
dition is menial and they interest him not.
“Following in the footsteps of the clever little
German-Yankee who makes thousands a year by
painting fashionable London beauties—and other-
wise—in miniature, a Melb. girl, Miss Norris, has
successfully studied the art and set up a studio in
the city. Though but a few months have elapsed
since she made her start, and as yet she and the
new ‘ ivory craze ’ are little known here, orders
begin to come in to her very freely, and she cer-
tainly produces exquisite little pictures. She has
lately a very dainty pair of portraits of
Miss Elliot Page and ‘ Mommer ’—the latter has
® e ® n beautifully set in an entourage of turquoise
and brilliants, by the way. Mrs. Potter and
Ivyrle Bellow, as Romeo and Juliet, make a dainty
brace of pictures, which the originals admired
very much, and generously offered to accept—as a
gift. Julius Superbus in toga and peplum is
another successful miniature, the likeness in this,
as in the others, being very cleverly brought out.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Our Bleeding Country!
Sydney Sunday Times makes the following
calculation of the cost of the tremendous arbi-
tration case, M'Sharry v. N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners :
Mr. Barton (arbitrator), £27 10s. a day, five days
per week for 14 months ... £8 250
Mr. Bruce Smith (for Govt.), 20gs. per day and
sge. for a junior ... ... ... ‘ ... 8,250
Mr. O’Connor (for M'Sharry) 25gs. a day ... 8,260
Mr. Delohery, junior to Mr.' O’Connor, at 7gs. a
day ••• ... ... ... ... 2,100
Conferences (at least two a week), at 5 guineas—
Mr. Smith ... ... ... .. g2O
Mr. O’Connor ... ... j" 620
Ditto for juniors ... ... ... ... 500
Total £28,590
Then a low estimate for attorneys, &c., is £5OO, and
£2OOO for shorthand-writing- and typewriting, &c., making
a grand total of £35,590. If it cost that for 14 months, on
the same ratio three months longer will add £7555 to the
total, or £43,145. Special trains and other incidentals
are not included in these calculations, so that altogether
±50,000, or one-third of the amount at issue, will pro-
bably be involved in expenses.
The fees M‘Sharry pays are his own business ;
but those the Govt, pays are grossly extrava-
gant considering time and ability involved and
work done. A District Court Judge—sav
Judge Murray—at £l5OO a year could surely
have managed the whole business admir-
ably. The same paper calculates that the
disgraceful N.S.W. Public Works Committee
(Messrs. T. T. Ewing, chairman; H. Clarke, C.
A. Lee, J. L. Fegan, T. H. Hassall, G. Black,
F. A. Wright and F. Farnell, representing the
Assembly, and Messrs. F.&T. Humpliery, J.
Hoskins, C. J. Roberts, W. J. Trickett and D.
O’Connor, representing the Council) costs the
country not less than £7OOO a year.
There are two “ sectional committees ”
travelling the country at £3 3s. per day
and expenses (besides Parliamentary salary),
and the remainder usually sit four days
a week in Sydney at £3 3s. per sitting. Who
would be “unemployed” in the face of these
figures ? And just let any level-headed man of
affairs who knows “ the run ” of Sydney cast
his eye down the list of the Public Works Com-
mittee personnel and say what would be the
value of such men’s time, and how far their
abilities would be relied on in any commercial
capacity !
♦
Cancer mortality has increased in England
during the last 50 years from 1 in 129 of the total
mortality to lin 28. In Paris cancer is estimated
to cause 1 in every 20 deaths.
In J. Morrissey, the new member for
Rodney, Vic. Parliament has secured a person-
ality. Morrissey is an orator locally reputed to
be able to talk all the venom out of a mountain-
cat and argue a bull-pup off a bone. His head is
the most striking head in the new Parliament —a
very round skull set upon a tall, battered pillar of
a neck, and a face like that of a Roman emperor
on an old, time-worn, bronze coin. He promises
to be a joy for ever to the caricaturists.
The'unfortunate Lucknow strike is practi-
cally ended, and the victory is with the manage-
ment. Every person of reasonable foresight
reckoned that it was almost bound to end that
way, because the management almost always wins.
There were a good many reasons for the result.
The first one was the steady influx of the multi-
tudinous “scab,” from Bendigo and elsewhere;
labor is never well-enough organised to prevent
a steady influx from somewhere in such cases, and
this was one of the dangers that loomed ahead
from the first. The long and mysterious delay of
the Government in issuing the Wentworth lease
left the big co. wholly exempt from labor condi-
tions for the greater part of the time the strike
lasted, which was also an important advantage.
The back-down of Minister Smith, who promised to
oppose the demand for exemption, but didn’t do
it, helped the co. a good deal, and the partial ex-
emption which it secured—possibly thanks to the
caving-in of Minister Smith—practically settled
the matter. The pathetic elements of the tail-end
of the conflict are the efforts of the union leaders
to keep up hope when there is no hope left, and
the undisguised joy of the Sydney daily press at
the collapse. In this case, the allegedly demo-
cratic Daily Telegraph and the Tory Star are
on the same side. The D-T.’s democratic senti-
ments are good theory, but they never stand the
strain of actual practice. Possibly, however, for
a concern bossed by a magnate of the old sweating
Sydney Bus Co., it is as democratic as could be
expected.


__ • •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
H. SQUIRE & CO.,
PbotograpbK Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM FOR 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Bach.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
uT»‘»u
iIHI
At*
nil
!."iir
r az
w
m
l!Lllillllli"i
LLUi
umm -a*
Mil!!!
’k"
*M«|
nn
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- • - LIKE CHAMPAGNE
W. BALCHfN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Curious coincidences. The first white
child born in Botany Bay was named Rope. One
of his grandchildren was afterwards hanged.
Frank Smith, late M.P. for Balmain
(N .S.W.), who “ went down ” in the building-
society smash, is editing a paper in the Rhodes
interest in South Africa.
Belmore, of 30 years ago, is the only
N.S.W. Governor who left a bequest to Sydney
University. He bequeathed =£3oo towards a
department of agricultural chemistry.
The danger of the hardened business man
getting out of harness. John Bridge, after devot-
ing a life-time to building up the big wool
emporium known by his name, takes his first
holiday—and his last.
Interpreter (to Hebrew punster-politician
Zox): “ Are you in favor of a tax on pork, old
Jew-boy?” Zox: “No, dear friend; but lam
strongly in favor of a heavy tax on hogs who grunt
at public meetings.’’
Graham Berry received the news of his
defeat at Brunswick as though it crushed him.
He reeled when told the numbers, and muttered
“ After 40 years ! ” as he left the hall and entered
his waggonette to be driven home with one of his
family, who shed copious tears.
Ex-Premier John Colton, who introduced
Kingston into S.A. Ministerial life, and who was
rewarded with a knighthood five years after when
his protege became Premier, is in a hopeless state
of feebleness. He was 74 years old in Sept.
A Windeyer fairy-tale. In a Wagga
(N •S.W.) criminal case, a witness for the accused
used the phrase, “ The news reached me,” pro-
nouncing news “nooze.” “Come, come, my
friend,” said the gentle Judge, “ you anticipate.”
In view of all the little stories told about
him, Gov. Lamington’s refusal to “ whustle on
Sunday ” to the Sydney reporters causes no end
of amusement in Brisbane. But both the stories
and the refusal are thoroughly Scotch (vide Bobby
Burns).
Ed. Bulletin, —Duncan Gillies is not a
Northumbrian, and, I believe, never saw Northum-
berland. He is a Glasgow man, and was educated
at the High School, in that smokeful city. His
father was a decent, dour market-gardener, a few
miles out of the city.—Glesca.
Arthur Streeton, now settled in Chelsea,
the stronghold of studioism, does not seem to care
for London and the Londoners, and probably
regrets the deflection of his original intention to
luxuriate in the lotus-eating life of the Greek
Isles—which would recall Mosman’s Bay every
fine day.
Duffy relates that Gurney Patmore, the
poet’s brother, edited the Argus awhile, and com-
plained therein that Duffy, as Lands Minister,
gave too many Irish names to places. Duffy
asked Aspinall : “Is that so ? ” Aspinall: “ No,
not half enough, but it would have been all right
if you called one Patmore. ”
“ Roman ’’-sounding names are common
enough in Australian parsonical ranks. Anglicans
of Sydney diocese include Patrick Flynn, John
Moran, Joseph Mullens, John O’Conor, and
Daniel Murphy (begorra !) ; Presbyterians, Patrick
Fitzgerald; and Wesleyans, Joseph Monahan,
James Nolan, and Bernard Kenny.
It. D. Reid, the ex-uiember for Toorak
who has left politics for good, was, years back,
contesting West Bourke as a Berryite. He was a
good singer, and it was his custom,
when his bucolic audiences tired of
politics, to treat them to some of the
ditties of the hour. Gisborne,
Hanging Rock, and the whole of
the townships had been success-
fully carried by Reid’s deep
basso when the party, none
of whom were well ac-
quainted with local topo-
graphy, pushed along the
road to Lancefield, where
they held a magnificent
meeting. Over 100 farmers
and townspeople attended,
and both the candidate’s
political arguments and his
top notes were applauded
to the echo. “ Well, I think
Mr. Reid ’ll get the Lance-
field vote all right,” re-
marked his satisfied secre-
tary to the landlord of the
pub. where they adjourned.
“He might,” responded
that individual, “if he
wasn’t standing for West
Bourke; for yersee, sir,
Lancefield ain’ 1 ! in that elec-
torate at all.”
Holdar M. : “Was fas-
cinated to-day by the spectacle
of a horny - handed Sydney
worker wearing a monocle. Won-
dered whether the glasswas a political
barometer. ” Apropos —about the queerest '
place in which The Bulletin ever saw a monocle
located was in the eye of a long-ago policeman in
charge of the Melb. police-van.
It is a little - known incident of Ben.
Tillett’s career that he was once subscribed ,£450
—for the purpose of a health trip. The cash was
paid over, but Tillett’s trip seemed to hang fire,
and at last it seemed so “strong” that the com-
mittee began to inquire whether he had “ blewed
it ”in riotous living in the metropolis. The result
was to show that the £450 had been paid by Tillett
into the funds of the Dockers’ Union.
Bear Bulletin, —Will you let me tell that
Dr. Evans story, I think more effectively, “as it
was told to me.” To illustrate his particular
point by a historical parallel, Dr. Evans had
begun a sentence, “ I remember, Mr. Speaker, in
the days of Queen Anne,” whereupon a member
interjected : “ Aha ! Doctor ! we have learned
your age at last! ” “ Mr. Speaker,” continued the
Doctor, with withering emphasis, “ a scholar, sir,
is the contemporary of every age.”— Historicus.
John Harper, the newly-appointed traffic
manager of N.S.W. railways, was a country jour-
nalist some 30 years ago. He worked with th»
versatile Garnet Walch on the Cumberland
Times of that day, when Parramatta cherished the
noble ambition of leading literary Australia.
Harper now draws £9OO a year; but it is ques-
tionable whether £9OO a year with the knowledge
that a man is a good traffic manager brings as
much joy as a third of that income with the fancy
that he can write poetry.
Many of Premier Seddon’s friends say
that he will take the Agency-General. None
know better than the herculean Richard that Wel-
lington political life killed Atkinson and Ballance,
as it must kill every man who fairly breasts the
collar in the short awful three months’ session in
which Maoriland does its legislating for the year.
Why, look at the press-gallery death-roll of the
past few years—Searl, Vesey Hamilton, Crago,
Dix, and Bond —to say nothing of the many good
men it knocked out.
Ex-Chief-Justice Lilley was once trying
a libel-case in Brisbane in which “Bobby ” Byrne,
of Figaro, was defendant. Lilley’s son was coun-
sel for “ Bobby,” and, noting the coincidence, a
witness for plaintiff passed the following lines
around :
Lilley was the father,
Lilley was the son,
Lilley would much rather
That “ Bobby ” Byrne won.
But Bobby lost.
Adelaide society is in a flutter over the
unexpected luck of a local coachman employed by
Conventionist Howe, M.L.C. The lucky young
man—R. G. D. Fitzgerald by name—received a
cable advising him that he is now heir to the
Barony of De Ros, with Irish estates worth £l5OO
a year. Local society has hitherto only viewed
this young man in the light of a common coach
man with a straw in his mouth during his “ off ”-
hours, but the Adelaide papers now describe him
as a fair-haired, blue-eyed London Journal
vision, and heaps of maidens now nightly dream
of being the Baroness De Ros.
Banker Henry G. Turner, having com
pounded some unusually bad poetry, assumes a
superior position in literature in Melbourne, and
no affair of letters is complete without his little
say so. At the recent meeting re the Stevenson
memorial, this cash-book critic compared the
South Sea work of Louis Becke with that of
Stevenson. Stevenson “ could not be cavilled at,
while Becke described mere carnivals of drink,
and gore, and dissolute life.” Becke describes
South Sea life as he knows it, and as Stevenson
did not know it. Stevenson was a most fascinating
writer, but, so far as the South Seas are concerned,
he was a cockney who, as it were, put his savages
into kilts. Anyhow, literary criticism from the
platform of the Wesleyan Sunday-school superin-
tendent is not worth a cent. Becke is an artist,
and it is not his fault that the missionaries have
not left the islands in such a condition of blessed-
ness and peace that chronicles of South Sea life
might be eagerly sought after by Sabbath-school
librarians (old pattern).
TWO PARTICULAR.
“Do you mind meeting me in the conservatory,
Miss Flutters? I’ve something very par-
ticular to say to you.”
“Oh, certainly! And I've something very par-
ticular to tell you —please don’t forget to
bring a couple of small bottles and two glasses
and remember the wire nippers.”
“ THE BULLETIN’S” VERY AMATEUR
ART-GALLERY.
RISING IN THE WORLD.
“ Women are gradually rising in the world, and
will soon displace those that are now at the top of
the tree,” says an axefaced lecturess of the W.O.T.U.
Had she seen some of the village-settlement women
of Victoria out on a moonlight night, she would be
quite sure of it.”
The first intimation received by Chief
Justice Way that he had been called to the Privy
Council was in the shape of a cipher telegram.
Thereby hangs a tale. Dailey, Q.C., long ago,
owned a certain walking-stick, soon after becom-
ing possessed of which he became Privy Coun-
cillor ; later, he gave it to Alfred Stephen, who
subsequently acquired a similar distinction. When
Stephen died, he left the stick by will to Way,
who had received no previous intimation of his
intention. The earliest cable notifying Way’s
appointment came to Adelaide while he was
absent, as a guest of Admiral Bridge, in Hobart.
When the message reached Hobart, Way was in
bed and asleep, and the Admiral took it to his
room and gave it to him, waking him up for that
purpose. Way read it, blinked, scratched his
head, read it again, and then exclaimed, “I’m a
Privy Councillor ; look ! ” The Admiral perused
the telegram, but was bewildered until he had the
virtues of the wonderful stick explained to him.
William Davis, one of the ’9B rebels
whom a contingent of Hibernians propose to
honor in a few months, set up a cottage and
smithy on his arrival in Botany Bay, at the corner
of what is now Grosvenor and Harrington-streets.
He made pikes in the ould sod, but devoted him-
self to the manufacture of more peace-loving imple-
ments in his home. A French priest, having put
in from a surveying vessel, said Mass in Davis’s
cottage. This is supposed to be the first Mass
celebrated in Australia, no priest who was a
British subject being allowed at the time to so
officiate. On the spot on which that cottage stood
St. Patrick’s church now stands, and it is believed
the altar is in the same relative position as when
improvised nearly a century ago. Further, they
are priests of a French order who now own the
church and the land. William Davis lived to be
78, and was buried in the old cemetery in Devon-
shire-street. Davis was never tried before a court
in Ireland. He was simply arrested, carried on
board a convict-ship, and dumped down in Sydney
Cove. To do the old man justice, however, he
never said he didn’t make pikes for the “ bhoys.”
“ The poison works.” Writes a pressman
to The Bulletin :
The Right Honorable Sir George Turner has lost much
of the sweet simplicity of speech and manner that be-
longed to plain George Turner, of the wide-awake and
goatee times. He doesn’t know' it, hut he has brought
back with him a distinctly Hinglish flavor, which hangs
about him most unpleasantly. He spreads himself:
speaks patronisingly of his colleagues ; commends their
loyalty, and altogether bears himself with opera-bouffe
regality. Speaking of the Postmaster-General’s mission
to the Postal Conference in the States, the Right Honor-
able told his audience, at the St. Kilda meeting, that “ he
had sent Mr, Ouffv,” &c., &c. Speaking of Mr. Best’s
inspection, as Minister of Lands, of the Mallee country,
he said “ I sent the Minister,” &c. His mates are getting
fidgetty under this patronising attitude of their Right
Hon. boss. Duffy’s Celtic blood (“ and spinal marrow'”)
rebels against this cool assumption of the “one and
indivisible” attitude —by the Right Hon. George. If
there are rows and splits in theXlahinet shortly (Duffy
don’t matter, of course), they will arise, not so much from
diversity of opinion in politics, as resentment against the
“ rank ’’-smelling meanness and methods of their newly-
anointed boss. It is always the w r ay. Give a nigger a
shirt-collar or a plug-hat, and you ruin him. Heap titular
honors on an honest democrat, and, at best, you convert
him into an asinine compromise—neither fit for company
upstairs nor in the kitchen below.
Tara : “ Duffy’s Autobiog. exudes with
malicious hits at O’Shanassy, who did not have
the opportunity of hoarding up his revenge
for 30 or 40 years. Contrast manly, up-
standing Big John —who looked you
straight in the eye, and hit out straight
from the shoulder—with this miser-
able, asthmatic Duffy (now 83),
who always went shambling
along, with his eyes on the pave-
ment, muttering, and shaking
his head. He never could
stand up against O’Shanas-
sy’s tongue, but slinked and
docketted his malice, & la
Greville.”
Journalist : “More
about Richard Egan Lee,
of our profession. He
struck Bendigo just when
the Independent was hard-
up for a man, and was sent
to a big loyal meeting at
night. He left his brains at
the Shamrock, or somewhere.
But his report appeared. The
Independent had to apologise the
day after to pretty well all the
speakers for putting in exactly
what they didn’t sav. It was iust
such another masterpiece as that
celebrated invention of Dick’s : —
W. Gr. Grace’s letter on Aus-
tralia.”
A Parkes story, told by
Sydney D.T. : —“ Some re-
porters went to interview
the old man at Balmain
late one night. Being
shown into the room
where he lay, restless and
irritable, the reporters be-
came unavoidably apologetio,
and one of them said: ‘ I’m very
sorry that we have to disturb you
so late at night, Sir Henry.’ ‘So am
Hi! ’ said Parkes, as he turned his face to
the wall, and went to sleep.”
The late John Sheehan, of Maoriland, had
a pretty wit. Meeting “ Hughie ” Mcllhone,
once a well-known political wire-puller in Wel-
lington, he enquired the reason of the latter’s
presence at the capital. “Oh, I’m here just to
see how the world wags,” replied Mcllhone, and,
as he spoke, a palpable earthquake shock oc-
curred. “ There she goes then,” said Sheehan.
Crown Prosecutor Wade is not the only
“ possible ” for the N.S.W. District Court judge-
ship to be vacated by Judge .Forbes. The friends
of (senior) Crown Prosecutor Merewether put in
claims; and a more likely man still is Acting-
Justice Frank Rogers, who has never been quite
able to pull his old private practice together since
he stepped down from the Presidency of the Land
Appeal Court.
“ Dipso ” on an Adelaide veteran :
“Passed in his checks,” William Holden, the oldest
newspaper-hack in Australia, aged 89 years 6 months.
The writer knew Mr. Holden 18 years ago, when he
(Mr. H.) was a sprightly youth of 71. Swedenborgian
was he, and as decent a superstitionist as ever falls to
one’s acquaintance. Used to be a raging smoker; but,
suddenly, about 25 years ago, gave up the pipe. That
was on a “ Fourth of July ” day. So he celebrated the
Fourth annually afterwards bv laying in, on the eve of
its coming, a stock of clay pipes and a roll of tobacco.
WE LIVE IN HOPES.
“As a result of inquiries he is making, the
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture may determine to
establish a Women’s Agricultural College.”
At sparrow-chirp on waking-, he lighted up, and smoked
and smoked and smoked and smoked, pipe after pipe, all
the day, bar meal-times (for which leisure he had that
day small appetite !) until he smoked himself to sleep at
night. Then, no more tobacco for a year. His room at the
S.A. Register (Adelaide) office on Fourth of July was a
levee chamber Holden was a Parliamentary reporter in
the old days of Adelaide, before the Hansa'iid time, and
when the gallery-men used to knock off work just when-
ever they pleased. “ Mr. Speaker: I see the press re-
porters have gone away, and, therefore, I move that the
House do now adjourn,” was a common occurrence
then. Holden was pensioned off (in a manner of
speaking) in a sinecure as editor of “ The Riddler ” page
of the Observer (weekly of Register). He had a childish
delight in puzzles and small wit, and also a curious habit
of proving geometrical problems, by outting paper into
shapes according to scale, and thus demonstrating that
such and such an irregular polygon was equal to such
and such regular figures. When the writer fare-
welled him in ’B2, he had strong notions of becoming a
vegetarian, if he really wasn’t one. A good, clean,
wholesome old fellow, with a head that required a 7t hat
(concerning which his stock wheeze was—“Mine’s a head,
not a pimple ! ”), and yet had only a vast accumulation of
mediocrity in it. Old Holden ” he was to all who knew
him.


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is. perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, Georgetstreet, Sydney.*
72
Mr. R. MACANSH, Commercial Hotel, Murrum-
burrah, writes : “ I could not sleep soundly, and the
result was that I felt tired and low-spirited all day. I
suffered intense pain in the chest after eating 1 , and
sickness after meals was a common occurrence with
me. I heard so much of Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” that I
was induced to try it, and now you may add my name
to the list of former dyspeptics who have been com-
pletely cured by that wonderful remedy.”
LOASBY’S “WAHOO price 2 6 every-
where, or post free from
Loasby’s “V/ahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
“ TWO GOOD Tzxnxras ”
. . Madk in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire gaUCC
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
For Soups, Fish, Chops, Steaks, etc., HOLBROOK’S SAUCE is the most DELICIOUS, the
CHEAPEST, and has the LARGEST SALE of any Sauce in the World. HOLBROOK’S
PICKLES are selected ENGLISH Vegetables, prepared in PURE MALT Vinegar, and can be had
in Onions, Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow from all first-class Grocers.
Agent for New South Wales: ... ... ... Mr. Jambs 0. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Agents for Victoria: ... ... ... ... Messrs. Wm. Peterson & Co., Mblbournb.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from, the use of the new Vegetable Anti-Rat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLINE
REGISTERED
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
It is the only safe cure for CORPULENCY. It also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
according to directions. Males and females have lost from 15 to 20 pounds a month, and kept in splendid health.
Stout people who pant and grow red in the face when walking up stairs, up inclines, or attempt to run, get rapid relief.
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a course of this remedy.
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing the fatty tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy and light.
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entiieU
vegetable fat-reducer known.
can be obtained from all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, 35., 55., and 125.,
in tablet orliquid form The largest, bottles or boxes are equal to six of the small size.
Aboriginalities.
The Maori shearers on the Chatham
Islands lately struck for higher pay. Here is their
little song:—
This is the notice to all the sheep stations on the Chat-
ham Islands, Maori and Europeans. We have highed the
price of shearing to £1 a hundred and tucker. It got to
be good, and also to the pressmen Is. lOd. a bale. The
fleece picker 6s. per day, half-day, full-day, or overtime.
The cooks 7s. per day, shepherds 7s. per day. The men
who is shearing for 16s. Bd. per hundred. If the master
of tile place hopes to get the £1 a hundred men he has to
sacks the man who is shearing for 16s. Bd., and then the
£1 a hundred men will shear. If the master of the shed
find fault with one of the shears, and the shears also find
fault with that man the boss has rights to sacks him and
he has to be paid at once. If the shears do not find fault
with that man he will stay and shear. If the boss do not
agree for him to shear the whole gang will leave and the
boss must pay them for the sheeps they have shorn. If
one of these men who has signed this notice has rights to
make this man pay £5. If he does not pay the ±5 the
rest of the party has a right to take his goods or stock till
they get their £5 worth. This law is for this year and the
year coming.
If the stockowners yield there will be another rise
next year ; also the employment of “white-legs”
will be shortly prohibited.
Omega : ‘ * One of the tricks shearers resort-
to to get away to another shed without being
blackballed in the one they leave : In a shed near
Moree lately, a shearer showed the boss a telegram
telling him his mother was dead. ‘ Don’t believe
it,’said the boss. ‘Oh, yes,’put in the shearer’s
little brother ; ‘ she is. She’s been dead two
years, sir.’ The boss discharged that shearer,
and, finding out where he was going, wrote ahead
and had him blackballed.”
» * * *
E.S.S. : “On D Downs (Q.) during
the late shearing, black gins were employed
_“picking-up.” In that delightful district a man
is nobody if he hasn’t a gin all to himself. “ White
Marys ” are scarce, and the black article is the
substitute. She is won and lost at cards, and her
gallant cavalier will fight stubbornly for the honor
of his lubra. I heard a drover at Nacundra, Wil-
son River, praising a knockabout of a few days’
acquaintance to a local resident. “He’s a hard-
working cove, anyway, an’ a real decent feller.”
“ That pudden-’ead ! ” said the local man, con-
temptuously; “why, he’s got no gin 1 ” That
settled it.
* * * *
Finger-post on bush road—“ 9 miles lo
W station —20 miles for those who can’t read.”
* * * *
Some bush almanacs.—Old shepherds and
boundary-riders in the far bush use strange de-
vices to keep tally of the days of the week. I saw
one with two jam-tins and seven white pebbles,
and the first thing he would do on upending him-
self in the morning was to transfer a pebble from
one tin to the other. When one tin contained
seven pebbles it was, in his own phraseology, the
“day of the big tuck-out, and plenty shut-eye.”
Another old chap
useda circular board
divided by grooves
into seven parts, and
a piece of pointed
deal, pivoting from
a nail in the centre,
was shifted one
groove every morn-
ing till Sunday was
reached. Most pri-
mitive and laziest
of all was a board
about the size of an
ordinary plate, hung
over a shepherd’s
bunk, and each
morning, on rising,
the owner scratched
a mark on it with a
piece of charcoal,
and washed it clean
on Sunday evening.
—E.S.S.
Some W.A.
names probably
“lay over” anything
else of the kind in
Australia or else-
where. E.g. Koo-
rarawalyee, Woo-
dooginangin, Dogo-
dogaring, Boordun-
koobing, Chowder-
doc king. Fancy
being born at Woo-
dooginangin, loving
a girl at Koorarawal-
yee, and throwing
her over for one from
Chowder do eking,
removing to Dogo-
dogaring to bring
up your family, and
finally dying in the
odour of tindog at
Boordunkoobing.
What a life ! What
a life !
* *
“ I had been
under the impres-
sion,” writes a bush-
man to The Bul-
letin, “ that every tribe in Australia wore
some kind of loin - covering till I went to
the Maranoa and spent a fortnight with a
tribe above Merrivale station. All were stark
naked, men, women and children ; and the
gins and plump comely maidens would squat
before me, or join me in any kind of game, with-
out the slightest sense of shame. They were
splendidly-made women, healthy and cheerful;
and the men were fine, muscular fellows. Butthey
were victims of opium, and when they become
opium-sick nothing is held sacred by them that
will buy a smoke. One old fellow offered me the
‘ missus ’ and two daughters for a shilling. When
hunting, the men wear belts round their naked
waists through which the spare boomerangs are
thrust, and pocket-knives are carried by closing
the blade on a tuft of hair on their head.”
* • » *
They were four old whalers—looked like
Druids, who hadn’t had their usual wash. Their
combined ages must have totalled 280, and they
sat in a row, on a form, like mutes. A stranger
was standing at the bar, over his glass, when one
old Druid arose, touched him on the coat, and
said, ‘ ‘ Any chance of a job on the station this
year, boss ? ” Stranger smiled, and paid for a
pint. The old fellow sat down, waited till the
stranger’s back was turned, then poured a share
down each old mate’s throat. Stranger saw him
in the mirror, and said, “ Why don’t you let them
bum for themselves ? ” “ Lord bless you, sir, they
wouldn’t cadge off you, sir—they were gents once
—I never was. They’ll drink your health, sir ”
and they did.
* * * *
‘‘ Had a pretty close call, the other day.
Riding from Lismore to Ballina, was overtaken by
a fearful storm. It became pitch-dark, save for
the lightning, which was remembersome. Horse,
scared and unmanageable, got off the road,
amongst the trees, and an awful flash struck a big
gum-tree just in front of him, splitting the tree to
the roots. As the halves swayed apart the terri-
fied beast plunged straight through between them,
and, just as he landed on the other side, the
halves came together with a snap, gripping three-
fourths of his tail. I had to get off and cut it
to release him. After that, I thought it good
enough to turn back.”—E. J.
* * * *
S. : “A run of luck. In ’B5 two men were
working an old mine on the new rush in Cassilis
district, Gippsland—Peters and Samson. Peters
was a one-armed man. One morning he let his
mate down the shaft, the Blucher, 60ft., and the
latter was overcome by the foul air. Peters could
offer no help, so mounted their pack-horse and
rode helter-skelter for assistance. About a mile-
and-a-half down, the horse ran him into a tree,
broke his leg, and fractured the remaining arm.
Bennet, a splitter, found him lying helpless,
heard his story, and set off in turn to fetch men
from a small rush. Bennet was drowned attempt-
ing to cross the Wentworth River. Peters was
found next day by an Omeo man hunting cattle,
but he only lived long enough to tell his tale again.
Samson was found dead in the shaft. Bennet’s
body was recovered a few days later. A run of
luck ! ”
* * * *
David Carnegie, just returned from an ex-
ploring expedition in the dead, dry, and dreary
N.W. of Westralia, thus describes his way of
getting water: —“We carried out the one plan,
always, and it was this : For hunting purposes,
the natives burn large patches of spinifex ; the
smoke from these fires can be seen for some dis-
tance, and frequently I have counted as many as
five in a day. Choosing a ‘ smoke ’ —if possible, on
A MINING ITEM.
FRIEND (to new-arrival) : “ Would you like to do some luck-shooting? ”
THE SPORTSMAN : “ But where are the bucks? ”
FRIEND: “ Oh, you'll always had them round about silent batteries.” —(Then
Johnnie-come-lately proceeded to shoot Mrs. Murphy's goat.)
our general course —we would steer for it, and
when it died down, as it would in the course of a
few hours, we continued in the same direction
until the entire distance was traversed and we
reached the burnt ground. We would then spread
out, pick up tracks, and, if possible, catch a native.
This we were generally fortunate enough to
manage, though only at the expense of great
patience and much labor. Often as many as four
days would elapse between the time of our sight-
ing the smoke and catching a black. We found
them (the blacks) quite friendly—chiefly owing to
their small numbers, there never being more than
eight in a camp, all told—though inclined to be
‘ cheeky ’ when they had only one of us to deal
with. Some would lead us to water at once, while
others would take a day or two to mate up their
minds.” Good phrase !
• * • •
Mt. Perry (Q.) has lived in fear and
trembling for several years on account of a mur-
derous Kanaka hermit, whoresided in a bandit’s
retreat in Teningering scrub and lived on salted
CHEEK!!!
WHALER : “ Say, mister, why don't you call your
dogs off? ”
FARMER: “ Well, I’m blest if that ain't cool. Do
you think I want to spoil them dogs?”
white man—baby preferred. His drink was boil-
ing blood out of a skull-cavity, and be was known
to be Bft. high and powerful as an ourang-outang.
Volunteers rolled up to capture the demon, dead
or alive. They bound themselves with awful
oaths not to return until he was laid low or made
prisoner. Affecting were their farewells to their
loved and dear ones, and the local priests and
parsons blessed them, and all the tearful maidens
and slobbering matrons in the township kissed
them good-bye, and saw the cavalcade over the
first ridge. Strategy was their plan of campaign.
They planted a blanket and rations in the scrub,
and ambushed like a half-moon. The ruse suc-
ceeded. The demon came, and 14 stalwart white
men fell on him and bound him. He cried. He
begged for mercy, and asked to be allowed to read
a chapter of the Bible before being murdered. He
was a poor, miserable Bst. 21b. “boy,” sft. lin.
high, a Christianised Kanaka, who had four acres
under maize and sweet potatoes in the heart of
the scrub. Jubilee medals were distributed among
his bold conquerors.
* * * •
The New Teacher: “You are late, my
boy ; what is the reason ? ” Boy : ‘ ‘ Please, sir,
I’ve been after the cows, and couldn’t come
before.” Teacher : “ I don’t think I can take that
as an excuse. What’s your name ? ” Boy :
“Bull, sir.” Teacher: “H—m, I’ll let you off
this time, but try and not be late in future.”
* * * *
Four Australians on the boat at Dieppe,
returning from a visit to Paris : “ Well, ’ow did ye
like it, George?” was asked of one of them.
“ What did you think of the Louvre, Notre Dame,
the Eiffel Tower, and all the rest of it ? ” “ Oh,
pooty fair,’’said George, dubiously ; then, bright-
ening up—“ I tell ye the best thing I seen in the
’ole show was yistiddy; when that ’orse run away
’n went slap into the corner of a ’ouse ’n broke ’is
neck.” “My word, yes,” chorused the other
three, “that was good.” Travel improves the
mind.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —This is a free eountry,
is it? Well, the other day I happened to be at a
well-known station (in the Hall and Gilbert dis-
trict) when roll was called for shearing. Among
those present was a storekeeper, canvassing for an
order for groceries, but not a man was game to
speak for himself or his mates, although the
difference between station and store prices stood
thus :
Station. Storh.
Black sugar, lb. 2)4 (yellow.)
Tea, 2/6 I/-
Matches, 1/- per doz. 4d.
Pickles, 1/6 per bottle 9d.
Jam, lOd. 4d.
And so on right through the list. This with a
railway-station 20 chains from the shed ! I re-
marked : “If he won’t let the storekeeper supply
you, ask him to lower his price to the storekeeper’s
level.” “We daren’t do it,” was the solemn
reply; “he would sack everyone of us, or make
things so hot that we’d be glad to quit. He’s a
perfect dog to work under —speaks to us like dogs.”
—Bak.
Capt. M‘Kay, Moreton Bay pilot, who
lived for many years in the South Sea Islands,
lately got a letter from Sooah, a Malayta salt-
water chief, commencing—“ Dear captain, I write
these few lines ” and continuing in genuine
schoolboy fashion. Just fancy a picturesque old
cannibal descending to this sort of thing !
S.S. : “The
meanest man I
ever knew was
a bush-publi-
can near St.
Arnaud, Vie.
Jne day
O’Toole dis-
solved three
packets of salts
in a pint of
beer to frost
his bar-win-
dows, and,
having complet-
ed the job, left
f 1&» Dilly containing
the resiuue of the salted beer
on the form in front of the
house. A dusty, an-
guished ‘traveller,’
swag up. comes along
and stands for a
moment before the
pub., wondering if
it is worth while
trying to get a
drink out of
O’Toole with-
out parting
his last 4jd.
Suddenly h e
spots the billy,
investigates,
and then as-
sumes possession. The
beer is down before he
has time to taste it, but
when he does taste he
grabs himself, and leaves
for further back, with
the intention of dying
under a fence as peaceably
as circumstances will per-
mit. But the publican is on
his track, and runs him to earth half-a-
mile out, and returns, after much bullying and
bad language, with the swaggy’s That is,
3d. for the beer and l-gd. for the salts.”
* * • *
Dear Bulletin, — Cheek ! I was making
a drain for a cocky in New England. Last week
while sitting outside my camp at dinner a magpie
dropped on my left shoulder and snatched a piece
of damper out of my hand. — Tim Bobbin.
* • * •
“Scotty the Wrinkler ” on the Papuan
fever question :
If the “ Voice from Papua” is of opinion that acclima-
tised Queenslanders would stand New Guinea better than
fully fed and blooded men from the South, so am not I.
In the Indian Mutiny, the Jacks, Micks, Taffys, and
Sandys could always knock out the native and Eurasian
troops in the hot weather, with perhaps the exception of
the Ghoorkas and Cabulees (hill-men). The Kanakas go
down before the whites (but they are cheaper by the
bundle or gross). I contend that the deaths on the
Palmer were principally among the Cloncurry and Ethe-
ridge pioneers, and the N. Queen-landers generally, be-
cause they were under-fed, over-tea’d, super soda-and-
acided and salt-horsed. Well do I remember a ghost of a
Bananalander at tne Conglomerate rush saying, “ I wonder
how you Southerners would have stood the hardships of
the Cloncurry ? ” This set up my back, because the man
was like two yards of pump-water. “Why, you remnant
of a physiogram,” said I, “ who looks best men, you and
your mates or the skipper and I ? I don’t believe you'll
live another day.” Next morning his tent was closed,
next evening four posts and single rail ; £5 for the digger
out of the 16oz. of gold he had in a shammy. Verdict :
Death from Palmer ; but my rider was, “If the packers
bring apples, plums, currants, preserved potatoes, any-
thing, over and above flour, tea and sugar, buy them and
eat them, even if you spend your last div. in doing so.”
Twenty years after I am still alive, and my battling weight
is list. 71b.


FRANZ JOSEF
pilseivter.
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
DISEASES OF THE EYE.
A most valuable remedy for inflammations,
blight, pearl or film, &c., is now being placed
before the public; it is known as “ Professor
Thomson’s Eye Water,” the sole right of which
has been purchased by Mr. Albert Sharp, of 257
George-street, Sydney, the proprietor of the
“ Cannalin ” pile remedy. Mr. Sharp has some
wonderful testimony of cures it has effected, and
being inexpensive (Is. 9d., 35., or ss. Bd., post free
to any part of Australia), it will come within the
reach of every sufferer.*
Warner’s Safe Cure Is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.
SoftCaQVaS Shifts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per 14-dozen th rough -
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. EIRE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
DUN
RFT€R
months of waiting we have at last received some shipments of the famous DUMLOP Cycles,
consisting of Racing Models only, but we are promised consignments of Roadsters by an
early boat.
There is certainly no other cycle that has attained a world- wide reputation such as the
_Junlop Cycle has secured in the few months it has been before the public.
The manufacturers of the Dunlop Cycles did not leave anything to chance when setting
out their plans. The ruling idea from the start was. “We must build the best bicycle ever
made.” To do that it was necessary to secure the most skilful designers, best machinery, able
mechanics, and reliable material. Having command of ample capital, there was no hitch in
these respects, and the result is that the public is constantly being astonished to hear of
more wonderful records made on
"DUNLOP” CYCLES
WITH DUNLOP TYRES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
393 GriOROB Stbbw,
SYDNEY;
139-141 Elizabeth
Street,
MELBOURNE;
Rondlk Street,
ADELAIDE;
Hay Street,
PERTH ;
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE ;
Christchurch,
Dunedin,
Charters Towers,
Warrnambool, &c
32 \ MILES m ONE HOUR
Had never been accomplished on any style of bicycle till J. W.
STOCKS, mounted on a “DUNLOP ” CYCLE, accomplished
the stupendous feat of riding 32 miles 448 yards within the 60 min.,
on the Crystal Palace track, London, which
. . . IS WORLD’S RECORD! . . .
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Camile : The Bulletin took it for granted that
Prendergast’s programme was that of the Tocsin, because
he is apparently the working-boss of that paper, and his
name is on the imprint. A Trenwitli Higgins Ministry,
when it comes, should be about the best democratic
Ministry' in the seven provinces. But the struggle was
between the Turner-Isaacs crowd on the one hand, and
the Gillies-Carter-MTntyre-Madden-Sinith lot on the
other, and, when the party-system narrows the thing
down to these two alternatives, The Bulletin isn’t taking
any Gillies-&e.-Smith R.R.: Pun about surplus received
with grief G. Y. Knowles : Par. viewed with suspicion.
Still, the amount of illicitly-coined silver afloat in Spain
is said to run into millions, and it may be so in India also.
A.C.S.: Eight long pages of dreadful poetry and blots
about Reid. This is only a newspaper —not a paddock.
Lignum: Ancient. ..'...Charity : Uninteresting mis-
print. .... Yarra : Possibly Renvo : Will tauten-up
and use. Miles I.: Off to Hades at 500 miles a minute.
G. M‘A. : Flat as a fly under a steam-roller .... R.S.
(Ad.) : Timid little item squashed .... R.E.D. : No particu-
lar capacity V.K. : “Farmer” not up Democ :Not
usable as put N. : Weakenough—and “ dawn” doesn’t
rhyme with “ scorn.” Experto : Do you see any green
in the office eye? P.A.M. : D.A.M A. P. : Flat echo
of “ John Anderson.” F.R. : Sorry unusable ; returned.
Micky (Mackay): Can’t answer queries at length.
There is no fault to find with “Jude the Obscure” on
the score of artistic decency .... Tramp : Thin as the
average half-century spinster—and we hate counting ribs.
. .E. 8.0. : Will tune-up and use H.E. : Sketches won’t
do G.C.S, : Ditto L.C. : Suggestions unavailable.
.... Lorig-Un : Have handed your note to delinquent ar-
tist Arthur T.R. (M.) : They don’t look very promising.
... Billybong (Mourilyan): They are chestnuts ! Tim :
Yes, it tickles one, the glibness with which the Sydney
military reporters write of “N.C.O.’s’’and “D. A. G.Q.M.’s,”
and all the other abracadabra with which the warlike
ironmongery business surrounds itself W.M.F. : Verse
below .... Juvenal : Sans satire E.M.P. (Q.) : Long for
merit A. A. :No interest F.S.F. : Very little attempt
at a very' large subject R.T. : Thanks Alone : Don’t
remember “Sphinx.” T.H.B. : Declined Bunya :
Dull lies—and a dull lie is as unreasonable as a bright
truth F.L.T.W. : Idea good ; sorry verse too crude.
You will probably do good work in timj ... Dash : Funny,
but unusable in present form Brolga : Small par. only.
Wai Wei: “ Initiation ” too steep. Some pars, usable.
Will consider suggestion .... Ti-Tree : Good character-
sketch, but verse not up ... Olennell : Sorry not in our
line G. Strachan : “Legend,” factory-made; ‘Wily,’
better, but hardly interest enough .. Jack-o-Lantborn:
Totally un-Bulletinesque G.M. : Vigorous—but what’s
the use of nine long verses all to the effect that the poli-
tician is a “blanky fraud,” and a “bloated bloke,”
and a “bloomin’” something else?” J.R. (Glebe):
Hardly' worth space B.E. : Jack’s tale of how he
shipped by the good barque soinething-or-other for some
place, and met bad weather in latitude blank, and after a
while got into port, and then shivered his timbers, and
went on the grog, and dashed his tarry toplights, and
shipped again on the good barque where the biscuit
wasn’t up to much, duly received J.A.P. : Poem about
how Brunker went to heaven rejected—mainly on
the score o mprobability Quiz : Wail arrived.
Ernest B. Very old Family Herald hunk of
mirth C. Howard: “ Cross-Creeks ” not quite up to
standard .... Ezrom: Unpublishable. Yarns which turn
on one man saying to another with much blanky that his
father and mother were not married are generally unpub-
lishable R.R. : Smart anecdotes, but only fit to be re-
lated confidentially to a bagman in the middle of a
deserted selection Comquat : You mix up Williams,
Laseelles and Taverner until it is impossible to say which
you are cursing at J.F. (Cathcart) : More unpublish-
ableness F.K. (B.) : “Dreamt” sent for illustration..
Medano : Berry’s first portfolio was that of Treasurer
uniter Macpherson in 1870 ; he was seven times in office-
three times as Premier, and he was also Agent-General
and Speaker Potstick : We-I-1-11-1 !1! C : Twenty-
two lame verses saying that. Mildura wasn’t so good as you
expected E.N.D. : Not much account Belper : New-
chum shot at wild pig and missed. That’s all. Present
writer has seen several hard old chums all blaze away at
one pig and miss .. Singer : Jokes to hand J. 8.D.:
Seizure of a donkey in India for debt is off our beat
The Cherub: One will do .... Risk: Size has very little to
do with the safety of a life-assurance society ; a very
large one may be a great deal better or a great deal
worse than a small one, or else just as good. Still, we
don’t like the society you name, for a number of reasons.
Vishnu : Too large a question. It would take many
hours work to collect that information from the im-
perfect returns available L. O’N. : Joke with “ damn ”
in it received.... Mil: Joke with “blanky” in it to hand.
Lyre Bird: “New Explosive” won’t “gooff;” some
of the others acceptable E.N.D. : What were they?
Mend : Bulletin doesn’t want things already sent to
other papers, and systematically deletes matter which it
sees in print elsewhere Phil M. : Yes, got the photo,
butit was too mixed-up to reproduce. Otherwise, would
have gladly printed it Erusie : Isn’t it! Why the
Rand is now producing gold at the rate of a million
sterling a month ... F.W. (Union) : Your letter is clearly
a “have.” As the world knows, the old gentleman was
not a barrister, but a small trader. .X.Y.Z. : “Curtius”
will use. “Regina” old Canterbury: The Sydney
branch of the A.N.A. —president, B. B. Nicoll. These be
thy gods 1 ... A.M.B. : Write something interesting about
him and it will be printed. This paper doesn’t live on
formalities—on chronicling that certain people are alive
or that they are dead F.C.D. (Tas.): Considering.
..' J.C. (Liverpool): Sorry unsuitable .Crom-a-
boo : You looked out of a window and saw a Chow with
a cart of vegetables, and a white boy collecting rubbish
out of a dust-box. Hence you infer that the Chow is
always ahead through industry, &c. We looked out of
another window and saw Jimmy Tyson (worth, say,
£2,000,000) also a Chow trying to sell six spling callot for
2d. Hence we inferred, &c., &c Bung Eye : Story
about Dennis and Mike asking after each other’s health
to hand Jew’s Harp : No, you won’t twangle in “next
issue.” E. A. Flower : “ What should we think of
you?” Well-think you weren’t quite such a fool as
your letter makes you out Gumbo :No literary' value.
W.F.W. : Too nebulous and enigmatical. Readers
like to have some notion of what a writer's driving at
A.E.S. : Shouldn’t recommend you to persevere. _ Slight
improvement, but long way to leeward yet .... Native J. :
You haven’t the commonest kind of observation or you
wouldn’t speak of “ them cards ” and make a doctor say
“ he didn’t see no wound.” E.J. : If the Commercial of
Australia doesn’t know its own notes when it sees them
Low does it expect the public to know them V ... Adelong:
There is nothing to which any, save the ignorant, could
possibly' ta’ -'. exception in the wording of N.S.W. Health
Departments circular re the prevention of hydatid
disease Pakeha : Please send address for return of
MS. Jimmy B. : Don’t care for ... Belshazzar: Pass,
Belshazzar No. 8: Wants finish .... A.G.A. : “ Han-
rahan” far too long for merit No. 9: Worthless
M.F.S. : “Dull as—Sheol with the fires out.” Maori-
iander : Not up R.F.C. : Ditto Mena M. : Sarcasm
as well-concealed as a pretty girl on the front seat of a
tram Budgee : Storytelling isn’t your line J.J. :
Little humor Threadbare: Verse also ... Thomas D. :
Can’t risk unless verified W.D. (Brisb.) : Belated item.
Gemini: Not up J. East: Bit too mechanical
Xerxes : Sorry won’t do Alex. L. : Too stiff J.H.C. :
Unusable T.M.D. : Some force ; not enough Vonk. :
Unusable.
The sewerage branch of N.S. Wales Public
Works Department is considering a proposal to
provide 30 pumping-stations, with motive-power
electrically conveyed from a central generator.
In this issue appears the portrait of the
well-known Sydney pianiste and composer, Miss
Maud FitzStubbs, whose “ Heather,” “Orlando,
and “Bridal” waltzes have attained a celebrity
not confined to Australasia. During Miss Fitz-
Stubbs’s short visit to London, also, she was
received with a favor which promised for her a
Miss MAUD FITZ-STUBBS.
Photo., Elliott & Fry, Baker-st., Lond.
complete success should she finally decide upon
taking up her residence in the old world. Another
waltz from the lady’s accomplished pen is shortly
to be published by Messrs. Paling & Co., and from
Ist November onwards Miss FitzStubbs will be
nightly heard, in conjunction with other first-class
artists, in a series of 15 popular concerts at Syd-
ney Exhibition Building.
The Singleton (N.S.W.) people have been
quite upset by the vagaries of a cow which has
been milked continuously for seven years, during
which time she has had but one calf; she is now
giving 16 quarts of milk per day. It has been pro-
posed to exhibit her at 6d. per head, the money to
be devoted to the funds of the surrounding
churches.
Sydney Public Librarian Anderson is back
from his jubilee holiday (on full pay, and £2OO ex-
penses) with the astonishing information that the
cataloguing of his libi’ary is comparatively well
up to date. Also, Mr. Anderson is graciously
pleased to approve of the British Museum. “ The
British Museum commanded Mr. Anderson’s ad-
miration on account of its fine body of experts and
its valuable work.”
Hotel cooks’ wages in West Queensland —
whites, 15s. a week; Chinamen, £2 a week !
Alleged that the only thing which will
effectually repel the mosquito is the Norwegian
birch-bark oil, “ which is used for scenting Russia
leather.” So the Muscovite aroma is “made in
Norway ? ” Apropos, oil of lavender is also most
effectual; but when, in Australia, you ask at the
chemist’s for it you get 75 per cent, oil-of-turpen-
tine almost every time. Wanted badly—an
efficient adulteration law.
On the “Banjo’s” authority, travelling
stock do sometimes get a spread on them which
the lawmakers did not contemplate—especially
where the grass is good or where water lies a mile
or two from the route. But, for a while, the
drover-man in the N.S.W. West will have to be
careful, and all through a Water Rights Act, now
just being put into operation. Tanks and dams
handy to stock-routes are being “ licensed ” to the
run-holder —and the traveller who thereafter takes
of that water runs the risk of “ falling in ” badly.
The Australian Disease.
Our Australian climate soon upsets the liver.
The uniform cry on every hand, young and old, is:
“I am bilious to-day.” The softening influences
of a warm climate tax the liver severely, and few
escape occasional s'ymtoms of exhaustion, even
upon a slight effort, going up a hill, a stairway, or
even an incline. Indigestion, heaviness, and full-
ness of the stomach, especially after eating; un-
usual langour during the day, singing in the ears,
blurred eyesight, and loss of appetite, or, still
worse, a fear that kinds of foods others enjoy will
distress. Loss of energy and vitality and desire
to enjoy life’s pleasures, or wish to combat its
trials, result from a torpid liver. Warner’s Safe
Cure never fails in these eases. It. B. Treacy a
well-known and highly esteemed Sydney business
man (52 Pitt-street), writes : “For some consider-
able time I suffered from both liver and kidney dis-
ease. A few months back I began using Warner’s
Safe Cure, and I am pleased to say that I have felt
much better ever since. In fact, I can affirm with-
out hesitation that my health is now better than
it has been for at least twelve months previously.”
Not a miracle —just another cure.


TRAFFIC IN BABIES.
J(Ci)c
The arrest of
Mrs.* Fuller did not stop child abandon-
ment, for there have been one or two eases
since, but the veil disappeared, and the old
plafl. of leaving the children on doorsteps or
.churches with notes which commend them
to Providence has come into vogue once
more.
tCtournrf Over flection s
. J —*->'—
the sveccess/ul Joarty
Celeb ha t~tng~ //$ yea. t Victory?
(O)
/own s Jounyesl'.- &a.&/es
c/o grow linden caUacges /
(&n<d See.
fie had been subjected to personal abuse, to which J
even the most waspish would not for a moment
s,n *- • ® r - Rontoul, on the*\>ecaaioD re-
ferred to, had attacked Mr. Hoatson personally,
twL» alB ° ***** ** With * Btron ff denominational
— -J3eiSa.n, on 7£entoza.l.
Owing to the recent disbandment of the
ItupertswoocJ battery of Horse Artillery
the Goifrument has been obliged to fail
.back-uj2.4p..the - police to furnish
the escort of H.s Excellency the Governor
at the opening of Parliament next week.
In reply to the abovementioned charge
permit me to challenge Dr. Bevan to prove
his words, and to quote my utterances
which he has ventured thus to describe. I
hereby affirm his assertions to be abso-
lutely untrue, and ah. utter misrepresenta-
tion of the treatment Mr. Hoatson re-
mxvL-.
AtifoVz fo ia. I on*.
vW\WA
U-£~ Si V/tS /^7/Tci
(Tfi/c zc ?&. S~*icZr ~70 s'n cs-ea s&z
~ 7>//?e />£>/>*/at- s-erfiectT
'j/ ?o/ ~7y e
irts/7/u/-,'t>n/?
"Wosy.^'
**»o
Mow 7/tese C/et-/cs
Lo\fe on.e ffriot/jeff
&tr &!mes ~7/iet’/- manne/-
c?/S&ern &/jng- ?najS%e a.
Tfs/f/e emfi/xul~/c .
r e'i h
( 1"* T/7
,h 7
4>
4#
•«mi^£ S i a,,) i t,M J2 ght , *»OW.WJS the
4 ™? l he should release his lips in re*
to the question of religious instruction
in the state schools. Generally speaking, the
th enghfe-thatr-fche proper
'TO ,* 0 B lv « *his religious instruction to the
children, of the community tvas for the
?“»,»!■ ° [l^ Tge » noble, and
RoizUjftaas
'Z'VZen ~AAe GAe/uhic TAoc/of- „/
-Z 7 / 1/*/ fit t'jS' A<3 3 Ztr /- o TyL fA /*
~IA/s ltitle ynif-acle.,
»z .tilsTL7T./14. yyi
UnU be so neoce '/A.a.l-
- Aea-aAtnor cv-ill
jn«/~ Ae ■n eecZecZ.
/
A**'
./*‘ L
t <r
4 r
'"“A.
■A BRAKDY.IOYJJG BURGLAR,
made captive by aujohoxl
hS Ko ' d ,?; tudB - t>« n «h of keys, five cham
besed revolver, and a Motile of brandy
f he made*
‘[lot 9 f retalm - fl £'*sj ferVhad druak <|S
jSAolA's y/te 7/me~7o cdtck‘e?rif jf
TA Art 's 7A* 7?„ve.
WAen~Gnr>* A/^etes tmt*&<fiVrt£*
- ‘f****'■£ ?'“*'*, Sf+AtiAn.e
C°&ne. /t, ~fozArn. f o*~ /■ec/-ea.^w r _ <
77* ~th«L AcLt-Aa-zt- Y/m*..
MELBOURNIANA.


“ The celebrated astronomer, Mr.
Rudolph Falb, prophesies that at nine
minutes past 3 on the evening of 13 Novem-
ber, 1-899, the woTld will come to an
end This catastrophe is to be caused by
the same comet which appeared in 1866,
when it was stated that it would collide
with our planet.”
A FEW THINGS WHICH RECONCILE US Tp_THB_jAWEIIL CALAMITT.
Gullem : “ I see by the papers that the end of
the world is coming in '99.”
Stowitt : “ I don’t believe it! ”
Gullem : “ That’s ’’what astronomer Russell
says.”
Stowitt: “What.l Russell? Then let us.pre-
pare for the worst! ”
The devout man who burns unut-
terable incense in his back yard on
Sunday mornings.
Ditto his oat.
The idiot who asks “ Is it hot enough
■ for you ? ”
h
(ad
The cracked chapel-bell
which jangles at frequent
intervals on Sabbath days.
Hie bofctle-oh fiend.
My neighbor’s dog.
The maiden next door with a
“ Voice ” and a “ Future.”
Wbaooe . “ Nbw let’s see ; what
shall I call this disturbance 1 I’ve used up
fall the names in the Greek dictionary —urn I
Plain Bill is good enough ! ”
AN ANTICIPATED RUSH.
The Old Man : “Now, how in Sheolam I to find room for all these peoplel"
tHWGNANT British Subject (knocked into
space by a piece of comet)': I sweat,
by Jingo, I'll have damages out of some-
body for this ! ”
The place where the
collision will take place
will be fenced in, and
windows commanding, a
view of the same will be
let at fancy prices to
dukes and Chicago per-
sons.
. g V ch A ur , ch P ro l»i:ty will hold ite own
• lectW A boom is anticipated in plate oob 1
SIGN OF THE TIMES.
Real-property w;ill dppreciate very copskfesalllj
daring, next two years.
The. press reporter who will sit upon a
damp cloud" and write the whole affair up,
•and he will oall it “ Shocking Accident ip
.icare-typs;
THE END OF THE WORLD—13 NOV., 1898.


The degrees conferred by Sydney Univer- A Richmond (Melb.) grocer labels some of
*ity from its establishment in 1852 till the end of the goods in his window thus :—“ Soft Sope, 4id.
’96 were: M.A., 256; 8.A., 851; LL.D., 26; tin; Blew, Id. ; Kostic Soda, 4d. tin.” And yet
LL.B., 57; M.D., 37; M. 8., 108; Ch.M., 75; ’ some people want, the Bible to displace the spell-
8.50., 24; M.E., 3; and 8.E., 37. Total, 1471. ing-book in State schools.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
THE NINTH REPORT OP THE DIRECTORS
—OF —
THE COLONIAL BANK of AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
fo be presented to the Shareholders at the NINTH ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING, to be held at the Bank, 126
Elizabeth-street, at noon on THURSDAY, 28th OCTOBER, 1897.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Ninth Report, with a Balance-sheet and Statement of
Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended 30th September, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, and tax on
note circulation, the net profit amounted to £3312 7s. Id., as shown in the balance-sheet.
The difficulties referred to in the last report with regard to the adjustment of the amount paid up on the ordinary
shares preparatory to the application to the Court for the reduction of the bank’s capital have not yet been fully over-
come, but the application will be made when the directors are in a position to do so.
The active business of the bank continues to increase, and, as the general outlook in the country districts is satis-
factory, further improvement may be anticipated.
During the half-year Rir Rupert T. H. Clarke, Bart., has been elected to fill the vacancy on the board caused by
the death of his father, the late Sir \V. J. Clarke, Bart.
The Ninth Ordinary General Meeting of shareholders will be held at the head office of the company, 126 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 28th day of October, 1897, at noon.
By order of the board.
Melbourne, 19th October, 1897. SELBY PAXTON, General. Manager.
Statement of Assets and Liabilities of the above-mentioned Bank.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank on the 30th September, 1897, were as follow :
BALANCE-SHEET of THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
For the Half-Year ending 30th September, 1897.
. Dr. £ b. d. £ b. D.
To Proprietors’ Capital, viz. :
31,184 Preference Shares paid in cash to
£9lss 304,044 0 0
125,000 Ordinary Shares,
paid-up to £3 ss. per
share, representing the
paid-up capital of the
Old Colonial Bank of
Australasia .. .. 408,250 0 0
Calls on 125,000 shares at
£2 per share, £250,000.
Calls on 105,522 shares
at £2 per share,
£211,044; total,
£461,044. Instalments
not yet due, £179,016 ;
calls in arrear, £12,447
ss. ; amount owing in
respect of forfeited
shares, £80,898 18s. 9d.
= £93,346 3s. 9d. =
£272,362 3s. 9d. ; calls
paid in advance,
£16,452 15s. =£255,909
Bs. 9d. Amount of calls
actuallypaidincash.. 205,134 11 8
611,384 11 3
Less 35,492 shares for-
feited as above .. 137,462 1 3
473,922 10 0
£777,966 10 0
To Notes in Circulation 92,339 0 0
To Bills in Circulation .. ~ .. 101,805 19 9
To Government Deposits—
Not hearing interest .. .. .. 39,295 18 3
Bearing Interest 249,264 16 6
To Other Deposits—
Not bearing Interest 407,674 16 1
Bearing Interest—
New Deposits .. .. 106,133 8 6
Deferred Deposits .. 1,436,732 4 0
1,542,865 12 6
To Interest accrued thereon and Rebate
on Bills Current 20,124 7 0
To Contingent Liabilities, as per contra.. 31,100 7 6
£3,262,437 6 5
s. d.
Cr. & b. d.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal 369,873 14 2
By gold and silver in
bullion or bars .. .. 10,427 19 11
By Cash at Bankers .. 21,560 17 10
By Balances due from other
Banks 25,385 13 4
By Notes of other Banks .. 916 0 0
By Bills and Remittances
in transitu .. .. 63,485 19 2
By Stamps 681 8 9
By Government Debentures at face value
By other Debentures at face value
By Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank premises at cost to New Bank..
Other Real Estate at value
Shares in other Companies
By Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts
By Bills of Exchange and Promissory
Notes discounted, not included in above,
exclusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts
By chattel property at value
By Advances, Bills of Ex-
change, and Promissory
Notes, treated as bad, and
intended to be writt jn off
capital .. .. .. 483,873 14 0
By less Profit and Loss .. 3,312 7 1
By liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra..
492,331 13 2
1,000 0 0
124,313 16 9
184,343 18 1
73,229 4 6
17,660 11 0
1,531,783 14 5
322,424 16 2
3,687 18 0
480,661 6 11
81,100 7 6
8,262,437 6 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Current Expenses (including Salaries,
Rents, Repairs, Stationery, etc*).. .. 20,404 17 11
To Bank Note Tax .. .. .. 879 0 S
To Balance .. ... „ _ .. 3,312 7 1
£24,596 6 3
By Gross Profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on de-
posits, and rebate on bills current .. 24,698 6 3
£24,596 5 S
W. BOULLY,
FRED. H WILSON, F.A.LV.
r Auditors.
HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Mouth Organs (J tone), from 6d.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. QSeen-st., Woollahra,
H
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
21s., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra. |
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
HOWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
HOWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American.
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOW ARD’S Saxhorns or E Elat Tenors, bras
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposi
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The onl
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney
Hotels.
ISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND
should note that the
. Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
0. FOX, Proprietc'
R. H. Smith, M.P. for Bowen (Q.), de-
clares that 75 per cent, of the aborigines in his
district have been killed by opium.
The prophecy that Michael Bavitt would
split the Irish camp in Sydney into two factions
looks to come true. The Green and the Evergreen
are already “out.”
W E ,
“ “ !IVm r nTr , <~c»
beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying from us
~. ir ? t he J' wi *l saVe dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manufac-
turers—not dealers.
OUR BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards £ll
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
dash rail and lamps, £7lss. Our Special 3 SPRING STICK
SEAT SULKY, silver dash rail splash-baards and lamps £8
17s. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps
£2l. ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather’
including break and lamps, £26. LADIES' PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. *
All descriptions of Saddlery and Ilari ss at lowest possible prices
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney,
Send for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney.
STEEL FOR SHARPENING KNIFE, FOR BAKER’S PATENT
BOUNDARY RIDERS’ SHEATH, No. L
BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Riders’ Sheath Knife,
and Steel complete, for sharpening, No. 1.
Sheath is fitted with Loops for Belt or Saddle.
per Set complete (contains
Knife, Steel and Sheath).
No. 3.—Plain Leather Sheath, and Ebony Handle
Knife and Steel ... ... ... ... 5/- (post free)
No. 2.—Brass-capped Sheath, Knife Handle
mounted at shoulder, Smooth Horn Handle
Steel 7/6
No. 2, P. & T. —Same as No. 2, but with large
Picker and Tweezer in Handle of Knife ... 10/6 „
No. I.—Oriental Design, as illustration, with Brass-
capped Sheath, Knife Handle mounted each
end, Fluted Horn Handle Steel ... ... 10/6
Any of the above can be supplied with FORK at 2/6 extra : or with
FORK and SPOON, 3/6 extra. POSTED, without extra charge, to
any address in the colonies for NETT CASH with order.
Testimonials from New South Wales, Queensland, New Zealand,
Tasmania, etc., may be seen at No. 3 Hunter-st., Sydney.
P ne them ' — U .I enclose cheque for two of your Boundary Riders'
Knives and Steels in Pouch, the same as the one I got from you for
which I paid 7/6 ; I find it the very best knife I have ever handled for
Bkinning, both for Bhape and the stuff in it. ”
Another:—“ The sweetest cutting knife I ever used.”
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d.j & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial.
Proprietors: QOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENQ.
Sole Agents tor New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
3Y ROYAL WARRAKTT of ARROIKTTMZEKTT to “ THE QUBEHr.’'
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE
99
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
Schweppes
SODAWATEE, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
n
n
c
<?
u
10-
JO
V/
r%J
1
<r
V
¥
\
m«tc.
GUINEA-
JT GOLD’
Cigarettes


COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
/4
i
as
M Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
“To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“Gentlemen, —
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it. —Yours, &0.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
toatic
FISHER’S
—IS THE —
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Fauldino & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwadb & Co.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrpbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €ri)brocatioi?-
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red. & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool-marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide.
Representative : J. 0. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
PCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Peafoess
and HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Relieved
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Ahead Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Msssrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd../
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOOU. Bov RU UolKoorna. Vic
m
m
mm
&
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United. Typewriter
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE—362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper.
Send, for particulars of tree Trial.
& Supplies Co.,
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LAUNCESTON— Hedley Button.
London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Cellular
Athletic
Shirts.
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling,
Boating, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/- and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
. . Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New
Add ress:
73 & 75 King Street,
(near York Street),
Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
-V-
-m
>
HIIICROBERTSOn'B CfiEUlinß KM-
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath .
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
D
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Sc Stores.
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Works:
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31,1897,
and March 81, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers » £1 is. „
Cloth Bound Books £lOO
SE
THIS
TOPTORTIQN
'GHrtOAPf t
Mr DOES
A WOMAN ,
’LOOK old ""
SOONER THAN
Full particulars, Rules, &c., i
be obtained by application to
0
circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
BURGESS BROS., HOBART,
j, mckenzie & co., launceston.
Inlii
IHI Nl o£ dO^UJ/j
9HVOIO
d d J
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Hone j(ule f o
637-639 George Street,
- Syrtney.
They are the Best Is Books
IN ‘THE WORLD.
£OST FRIR Is. 2d.
'TK
tkv SIC
OQ
s
co/,,uts affurtfla-euabtnMt
***•*&?
JihUttt &<?„ Thtßkx*,Oolite* &r«t.Mr)fcMri!t
Price
V- ,
each
Allan’s Australian
... Music Books.
EACH BOOK comprises 32 pages of full-size
Music, carefully selected and edited, and free
from the errors so often found in cheap public*
tipns of this class.
The Latest Nun'Jjers
are THOROUGHLY UP-TO-DATE, and this
SERIES STILL MAINTAINS the LEAD
among Is. MUSIC BOOKS.
COMPLETE LIST EORWARDED EREE.
No. 39. No. 39. No. 39.
Popular Marches for the Pianoforte.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 39. Contents :
1. The Washington Post Sousa
2. The Liberty Bell Sousa
3. The Yale March Van Boar
4. The Boomerang March from “Lelamine ” ...
Moulton
5. March in Scipio Handel
6. March from Masaniello Auber
7. Manhattan Beach Sousa
8. The High School Cadets ... ... Sousa
9. Trauermarch (from The Leider) Mendelssohn
10. Trilby Polka March Svengali
11. March in Fidelio Beethoven
12. Rakoczy March Neumann
No. 38. No. 38. No. 38.
16 EASY PIANO DUETS,
Arranged Without Octaves.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 38. Contents:
1. “ The Irish Emigrant ” Barker
2. “ Annie Laurie ”
3. “ The Last Rose of Summer” ... Moore
4. “ What are the Wild Waves Saying” ...Glover
5. “ Ring the Bell, Watchman ”
6. “I Dreamt That I Dwelt” (“Bohemian
Girl ”) Balfe
7. “ Within a Mile of Edinboro’ Town”
8. “Ye Banks and Braes ”
9. “ The Blue Bells of Scotland ”
10. “ Scenes That Are Brightest” (“Maritana”)
Wallace
11. “ The Old Folks at Home ”
12. “ The Campbells are Cornin’ ” ... Bishop
13. “Home, Sweet Home”
14. “Robin Adair” -
15. “ Rule Britannia Arne
16. “ God Save the Queen ” Bull
No. 37. No. 37. No. 37.
CONTAINS
Ninety-Four Hornpipes, Reels, Jigs, Country
Dances, Barn Dances, Schottisckes, Sco.
Including all the Well - Known and Popular
Melodies.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 36. No. 36. No. 36.
Six Favourite Pianoforte Duets.
No. 36. Contents:
Stephanie Gavotte Czibulka
Wilkommen Gavotte Kluss
Weber’s Last Waltz
The Merry Peasant Schumann
Minuet Boccherini
Spring Song ... ... ... ... Mendelssohn
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
ALLAN & 00. Proprietary Limited
COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
$
It m
to
Special •
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is known too well,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
/Lsk for the famous Billy Tea and see that
YOU GET IT.
Gramma beats all other meals for Porridge.
HCW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ESTABLISHED 1845. PURELY MUTUAL.
Assets - - £38,513,664.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA
(With Power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, &c.):
The HON. SIR JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
G. C. WESTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street Sydney.
■ THOMAS P. PURYES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY • CO.,
Furniture & Fin e Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georg? Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
TOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE
fi
OUR CHIEF.’
. THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. delegate J. T. Walker denies the
report of his intended retirement from the Federal
Convention.
Old Robert Stout, the leopard of Maori-
land politics, is now described by the local Tory
news-sheets as a teaching member of a “rising
young democratic party.” !!!!
West Melbourne contempt for newspaper
advice was expressed in a large majority vote for
Dr. Maloney, the one candidate whom both the
Age and Argus had delighted to dishonor.
Brisbane Courier is loud of late in its
admiration of Maoriland legislation. Also, the
Courier talks much of the need of a Liberal-
party in Bananaland politics, and so forth.
Portent ?
Marie Corelli : —“ .... the magnifi-
cent institution of Freetrade, which has resulted
in a vulgar competition of all countries and all
classes to see which can most quickly jostle the
other out of existence.”
Melb. : “ Although the law prescribes no
cabs at elections, it is simply evaded, and they
flew all over tli city in legions this general elec-
tion day. It is illegal to engage them, but they
give their services for nothing, and get a douceur
of £l. A candidate could repudiate the lot, if he
liked.”
Of the “tickets” for the Vic. elections
the most disastrous was that containing the
names of those “selected to receive the support
of the Vic. R.C. Defence League.” Of all its
“min” only 19 were elected, and of these the
only new men are r| 'outcher, Moloney, Stapleton,
and Morrissey
Bryan O’Loghlen, who goes back to Vic.
Assembly, was instrumental years ago in having
defined a knotty point in Imperial Parliamentary
law. Members of the Commons must vacate
their seats if they accept office under the Crown.
O’Loghlen had been elected for Clare (Ireland),
but being appointed to the Vic. Attorney-General-
ship the Imperial Committee of Elections decided
that that was tantamount to accepting an Imperial
office, and declared the Clare seat vacant. Num-
bers of constitutionalists shook their heads ; but
the decision stands.
Acting-Premier Tozer told Q. Par-
liament the other day that Jap. immi-
gration had been practically stopped by
the new passport system. Next mail-boat
brought a number of Japs, without pass-
ports, who landed just the same; and a
later boat dumped down 50 with passports
—as if the passport made a bit of differ-
ence to white Australia ! No fear ! the
Japs, don’t establish a first-class line of
steamers, and give champagne banquets at
which the Hon. Swelled-Head Byrnes
wishes them luck on behalf of Kanaka-
land, without intending to make that line
pay—pay with freight and pay with pas-
sengers. And, as for preventing one
small brown toe of one small brown
Jap. from reaching this country, Premier
Nelson’s diplomatic moonshine would as
soon make ice-water flow out of his favorite
Glenhaggis whisky-bottle.
Four S.A. Ministers are in favor
of the Labor-party’s proposal to absolutely
stop the sale of public lands and adopt
the leasing principle entirely. The others
are hostile or doubtful, so the Govern-
ment has decided to make it an open
Juestion. That good old crusted Tory,
ohn Downer, is bitterly indignant at
this, and says the perpetual lease system
is reverting to one of the features of the
barbaric ages. Certainly it was a feature
in some places in some parts of the bar-
baric ages, but that doesn’t prove that
it should be abandoned. Other features
of the same barbaric ages were food,
clothes, boots, religion and marriage, and
if a thing is necessarily wrong because it
was practised in the dark ages, then
ugly, good-humored John Downer should
be a naked atheist with a concubine.
And the spectacle of a Tory objecting to
anything because it is old and rests on
a fine, solid, well-established precedent
of long ago, is rather ridiculous.
The latest news from Queensland is that
the Federal Enabling Bill is not to be introduced
this session after all. No particular reason is
assigned, except that Queensland has got no soul
or patriotism or sincerity—has got nothing, in
fact, except the wobbles in both its political feet.
Parliament will probably meet again early in the
year, and then, if the Q. Government goes straight
for the first time, there is a chance of getting the
measure through and the delegates elected about
two months after everything is over. But—
“ Nevermind ! have a whisky ? ”
Among the candi-
dates for Vic. Parlia-
ment this election was a
mining-man, who con-
siders that the Shiels
divorce-law stops far
short of publio needs, and
it was an incident of the
battle of ’94 which so con-
vinced him. Having
long ambitioned M.L.A.-
ship, the speculator had
spent a couple of years
in working up a constitu-
ency-paying guineas to
football clubs and regu-
larly attending A.N.A.
meetings, &o. But Pat-
terson’s dissolution came
suddenly, while the ambi-
tious one was at distant
Kalgoorlie. As nomina-
tion day was fixed, a few
friends wired, asking his
intentions. The prospec-
tive candidate replied :
“ Going to the poll; will
return at once. Will
wire deposit to wife.”
This satisfied the friends,
who formed a commit-
tee, spent the absent
man’s money lavishly on
beer and advts., and had
things well forward by
nomination day. Then
it was that the leading
spirits waited upon Mrs.
Candidate, and were
“knocked silly” by the
lady remarking : “ I
won’t let my husband
make such a fool of him-
self. He has too much to
do already without your
electioneering rubbish.”
The chairman scratched
his head. ‘ ‘ But, madam, ”
he urged, “your husband tells us that he has
sent you the £5O for his deposit.” “Yes,” re-
turned the lady, “and it’s been put to a much
better use than it would be wasted over your elec-
tion nonsense.”
Evidently even the Argus had no idea of
the strength of the white-waistcoat vote at Toorak.
In the latter days before the election it filled its
columns with eloquent appeals to the Stomach
party to vote as one large corporation for Gillies,
and not let the Liberal candidate get in by the
splitting of the Tory vote. And the event proved
that the Liberal candidate hadn’t a dog’s hope,
however much the Tory vote was split between
Gillies and Bryant. If the Stomach party had
put up three candidates, the lone, lost Liberal
would almost certainly have been lost just the
same.
HE KNEW HIM.
MRS. BALLYHOOLEY (to the lodger): “Now, Mr.
Sparkins, what do you think my dear Tommy
will he most fitted for when he grows up? ”
MR. S. (who knows the dear child) : “ Fit for anything,
my dear madam.”
An Early Closing Bill is, perhaps, th e most
difficult of all measures to engineer through Parlia-
ment. In Q. Assembly Labor-member McDonnell
wanted to omit wholesale houses from the opera-
tion of his Bill—without which amendment
(Tozer asserted) the Bill could not possibly pass
the Upper House. Whereupon the House rejoic-
ingly rejected the amendment. It was next pro-
posed to omit all the small “ one-man” shops. The
House acquiesced, and then wanted to include bar-
maids and waitresses in the list of “ early-closers. ”
And then confusion smote the legislators. .
BUGOLIG.
MR. COWMAN (from out west, inspecting bird-fancier's window, where a
canary is marked £1 1s.) : “ What, a guinea for a thing like
that! Why, Billy, we sell geese at four bob a pair.”
No reform of N.S.W. Leg. Council should
be accepted by the people unless payment of mem-
bers be made to apply to that body. One-half of
the “side” councillors wear they put on because
of not being hired. And, besides, if they work
their claim for pay should be taken as established.
Hunk of wisdom from squatter Murray,
M.L. A. (Q.) :
It would be better to force a man to live in an electorate
six months after recording his vote rather than six months
before it, so as to make him feel the effect of his action.
Very often he does feel it even now . . . for
straight politics often signify “ sack.”
Trenwith gains—in power, logic and popu-
larity. He had far and away the biggest and
most sympathetic meeting of any candidate, even
reckoning in Turner. At his opening meeting,
the big Richmond Town Hall was packed, stand-
ing-room being unobtainable even on the plat-
form ; and then hundreds went away.
Dear B., —Your correspondent speaks the
truth about employment by Melb. Met. Board of
Works. I can now get a job as soon as anyone
conditionally on my being R.C. This will be
denied, but I hold the proofs. At present lam
not taking any sewerage, whether Roman or
Boynesome. I prefer tamer colors and mates. —
Hiram Abiff.
Why does not some N.S. Wales M.P.
move that the nameg of all non-official persona
who use N.S.W. railways free shall be printed
weekly in the Government Gazette ? Late
events indicate that the Railway Commissioners
are practically powerless against a Ministerial
request, or debit the pass to an account which is
never liquidated.
For several months past the Maoriland
Government has been receiving applications from
people who reckon they can qualify under the
promised Old Age Pension law. About 5600
applicants have already passed muster, and the
total number will probably reach 8000. At 10s.
per week each that will mean a pension-list of
.£208,000 a year.
The other day a Queensland Labor mem-
ber’s pet bill came to grief in his temporary ab-
sence, and a murmur went round the Chamber:
“He must have gone out for a drink.” A very
similar thing happened a few days earlier through
the absence of a large, well-developed Tory, and
then the sympathetic murmur went round : “He
must have run after a girl.”
What is the real value of the Vic. Catholic
vote? In Prahran, Gray carried it in ’94, and
beat the Tory by 306 out of a total of 1868 ; the
outsider at both elections may be neglected. The
week before last, out of 2152 votes, Gray’s majority
over the Tory, who this time carried the R.C.
vote, was 474. It seems to show that, in the
secret balloting - chamber, polities come before
religion. *
Jonas Levien, M.L.A., of the great Mil-
dura Joint-Stock Stink, Limited, had the brassy
effrontery at the late Vic. election to assert that
the Mildura laborers were not paid because the
Government seized on the £3OOO intended for their
wages. In the bad old days the Mildura Co.
owed £BOOO to Govt., but, finding that £3400 was
due for wages, Govt, offered to take £3OOO in set-
tlement provided the Mildura Co. paid its
laborers out of the other £5OOO. And Jonas
Levien’s plea is that the Govt, should have
knoeked-off the whole £BOOO so that the co. could
pay £3400 wages out of it and have the rest for
itself.
The declaration of Opposition - member
Fraser (M.L.) that the purchase of Bushy Park
by the sons of Minister M'Kenzie was a perfectly
square transaction, and that the M ‘Kenzies got
the property simply because they were the highest
tenderers, knocked a lot of the vim out of the
Tory party. Fraser is a Tory with a clean record,
and his exoneration of the hated crowd opposite
counts for a great deal.
In reply to the assertions of Vic. Scrip-
ture League, the electorates have returned 5i
members dead against Bible-reading in school*,
24 nominally in favor (with about eight separate
and irreconcileable “views” as to brand and
method), and 20 who have not declared either way.
Thus, so far as State authority goes, the youth of
Victoria are safe from contamination by Onan,
Lot, David, Mrs. Potiphar and co.
Ed. Bulletin, — Apropos the N.S.W.
Estimates. Civil servants who got the “ wink ”
that they were down for increases are now asking
how far the powers of the Public Service Board
extends. The triumvirate were appointed by the
Reid Govt, to have full control of the working of
the departments, and Reid and party com-
placently tread on their own tail by striking out
the Board’s recommendations.—O.l.C.
Despite all the statements about the ab-
sence of political excitement, 182,000 Victorians
went to the poll at the late election, against 135,000
in 1894. Yet 1894 was the year when Victoria
rose up in a blaze of excitement and fired Patter-
son and Carter into oblivion. The Liberal party
scored 50,000 more votes this time than it did
three years ago, while the avowedly Conservative
vote has diminished since 1894 by nearly 5000.
More Government-by-Contradiction. Pour
out of five Tasmanian Ministers promised the
Emu Bay Railway co. certain concessions. The
odd-man-out is the Attorney-General, who says
the promised concessions are illegal. Yet, if the
House carries a no-confidence motion, out goes the
Attorney-General with his colleagues. Clark
solves the difficulty by resigning on his own.
Otherwise he would have to help the Ministry to
defend the act which he says is illegal.
Foster Rogers, who went out with a loud
crash at the Vic. election, was the gentleman who
wanted a daily Hansard, also to have it posted
gratis every day to every elector in Victoria.
There are about 250,000, and in a session of 112
working days, which is not uncommon, the State
would have had to print and hump gratis to all
the remotest parts of the country 28 million Han-
sards. Poor Rogers never could quite under-
stand the contumely that was heaped on his great
idea.
“A BIT OF A STAGGERER."
(Sketch in Oxford-street, Sydney.)
Agent-General Play ford does not smile on
ex-journalist Govett’s mission to London as
hawker of S.A. State Bank bonds, and there was
a stormy interview when the latter arrived in
London. Playford sensibly points out that there
will be no margin for profit after 12s. 6d. per -6100
is paid for remittance to Adelaide, to say nothing
of the cost of remitting interest to London, and
finally sending back the principal when the loan
is paid off. As Playford has great influence over
Kingston, not unlikely Govett will be recalled.
But why couldn’t Acting-Premier Holder do this
little sum in compound addition himself before
Govett started ?
A well-known Northerner has recently been
at newspaper-war with that accomplished .Tap.,
Mr. Satow. The Caucasian pen-man argued that,
inasmuch as by the treaty of ’5B every British
subject in Japan must, when travelling, be pro-
vided with a. passport and accompanied by a
policeman, therefore the Japs, in Australia have
no right to grumble at restrictions laid on them
by Australian legislatures. Whereupon Satow
rejoins that his countrymen would feel highly
honored if they were trotted round under the
guidance of the police ; that Japan treats the
foreigner thus as a mark of distinction, &c. Evi-
dently the Jap. is no mean casuist.


Maoriland Labor bodies are agitating to
have Ships, while discharging cargo, brought
under the provisions of the Factories Act.
The new W.A. Attorney-General, Yio.
barrister “ Bob ” Pennefather, is best remembered
in Sydney as the defender of Cordini, tried for
murder before Judge Windeyer. Pennefather
“ stood up ” to the Judge in court—partly because
he was a gritty little man anyhow, but also
partly, no doubt, because he was a Victorian
barrister who didn’t appear, and didn’t expect to
appear, every day in a N.S.W. court. Any
barrister game to try and take a bone out of Judge
Windeyer’s mouth while the Judge had it pinned
down with his forepaws and was “ doing a gnaw,”
was bound to make some sort of a mark.
HEART it HAND
BRAND
OTjO
JOHN HUNTER
AT ALL HIS .
ESTABLISHMENT?
THE
FAVOURITE
FASHIONABLE! IN STYLE
ELEGANT IN SHAPE
EXCELLENT IN WEAR
AND IN FRONT OF ALL
EUROPE AN OR AMERICAN
goods at LOW DOWN P RICE
EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace ..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
and also at his Branches in the Oity, Suburbs and
Colony.
JsP 6 *
f%P A NOVELTY!
ff ALL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS!
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
1 Obtainable of Chemists, .
T 1 Stores, Perfumers,
is. or direct from. -
Streep
Child-Flogging in “Sunny N.S. Wales.
ATNarandera, N.S.W., last week, R. A. Thomas,
local manager of the A. J.S. Bank, was charged
with ill-treating his nursegirl, a motherless
child 10 years old. Medical evidence showed
that the child had whip or strap scars over
her back and legs. By way of variety, a laundress
testified that the child was put under the shower-
bath for half-an-hour on a very cold morning.
Defendant (who denied undue severi y) engaged
all the lawyers in the town, but the residents sub-
scribed to bring one from Wagga to prosecute.
Some cheerful evidence (from Nakandera Ensign,
Oct. 22,1897): —
Police Court. Thursday, October 21,1897. Before Mr.
G. Martin, P.M., of Wagga. Charge of cruelly illtreating
a child. Reginald Archibald Thomas, bank manager of
A. J.S. Bank, Narandera, was charged on the information
of Senior-constable Bowman with having between the 15th
of May and 12th October, 1897, wilfully illtreated Sarah
Blakely, a girl about 10 years and 9 months, and such ill-
treatment has resulted in bodily suffering to the said
child. Mr. Coleman, of Wagga, appeared for the prose-
cution, and Messrs. VVillans, with Messrs. Robertson and
Hegarty, and Mr. Quirk, for the defence.
Dr. G. Watt deposed: . . . The child was well-
nourished; her back, right arm, buttocks and legs showed
signs of bruises varying in age from four weeks to as many
months ; several bruises on her back and abdomen had
been caused probably by a strap, while many of the others
seemed to have been caused by an instrument with a
rounded edge ; wales on the flesh showed, and the skin in
many places was broken ; there was a clean cut on scalp
of head of old standing ; the right eyelid was bruised by
knock or blow, and skin slightly cut; a mark the size of a
shilling was on left buttock ; two or three skin ruptures
appeared on the abdomen ; etc. . . .
Dr. W. H. O’Neill corroborated.
The child, a bright-looking little girl, was not sworn,
but instructed by the P.M. to tell the truth. She said her
name was Sarah Blakely ; had lived with Mr. Thomas for
over three years -at first, in the bank in Temora ; I used
to mind the baby and do work about the house ; remem-
ber the hospital ball, about four weeks ago, on a Thurs-
day ; about 4 or 6 o’clock I saw Mr. Thomas, when he
came home; I was downstairs, in the toolroom,
and he called me upstairs; Mrs. Thomas was out;
Mr. Thomas was standing in the hall, and he
asked if I had soruhbed the room I had been
ordered to do by Mrs. Thomas ; I told him yes. He took
me to the room and rubbed his hand on the floor, and
asked me if that part was done ; I said yes. He said I was
telling a story, and told me to go and find the whip. I
went and found it and brought it to him ; he then told
me to get undressed, and I did so ; then he beat me with
the greenhide whip. 1 took off all my clothes except my
boots and socks. He beat me in the bedroom. I had been
beaten with the same whip before ; he used the whip for
playing polo. . . . My mother died six years ago, when I was
four years old. Don’t know where father is. Mr. Thomas
took me after mother died and kept me ever since. In
reply to the P.M., the child said while she lived with Mr.
Thomas she was treated fairly well. Once Mr. Thomas
told me to get into the bath ; that was last Monday week,
while he was there in the bathroom. I got in ; the water
was cold ;he had the whip under his arm at the time. I
was in the bath about a quarter of an hour and was very
cold. ...
Margaret Keegan, laundress, deposed that she had been
washing at Mr. Thomas’ house last Monday week ; the
little girl present was there ; I saw Mr. Thomas come in
and call the child, who was in the bathroom. This was
about half-past seven in the morning; he told the child
to go to the bathroom and undress, and I heard him tell
her to turn on the shower. Ten minutes afterwards I saw
Mr. Thomas come from the yard with a greenhide whip
in his hand and go to the bathroom. Heard the child
crying ; she was in the room half-an-hour, and the shower
was turned on her all the time. It was a very cold morn-
ing ; when she came out her body was all blue and all
drawn up with the cold. . . .
Mr. Thomas deposed : I am manager of the local branch
of the A. J.S. Bank. The girl Blakely entered my service
two or three years ago, forget the exact date. A friend
in the Temora district asked me to take her as her father,
who was blind, could do nothing with her. During the
time she went to school with his own children and was
treated exactly as they were. Her general character was
very bad, lying, stealing, and disobedience, in conse-
quence I found it necessary to chastise her with a strap.
I did not strip her . . . never kicked her.
Mrs. Mary Thomas, wife of defendant, deposed : The
girl Blakely has lived with us for about three years ; her
general conduct has been mischievous and untruthful ;
she has been treated the same as our children in all ways,
amusements included. Mr. Thomas has chastised her
when I was unable to do so. He did not punish her
excessively. . . .
The Bench fined defendant £25 and costs.
Judge Gibson recently sent a poor wretch to gaol
for three years— not for stripping a 10-year-old
motherless girl and beating her till the blood came,
but for stealing a ninepenny tin of baking-powder.
But he was not Respectable.
Commemoration of ’gB
On behalf of the ’9B Commemoration Committee, we
hereby invite Irishmen and their descendants of every
shade of Irish political belief, and also ladies of Irish
birth or descent, and all sympathisers to attend a
PUBLIC MEETING
to be held at the GUILD HALL, Castlereagh Street,
(between Park and Bathurst-streets), SYDNEY, at 8
8 o’clock on
Tuesday Next, 2nd November,
for the purpose of taking steps to honor during the
coming years, the memory of ALL the heroes of the ’9B
struggle in Ireland, including the celebrated Wicklow
Chief, Michael Dwyer, William Davis, and the other Irish
Insurgents whose remains rest here. (Signed)
CHARLES W. MacCARTHY, M.D., Chairman.
JOHN SHEEHY, Hon. Sec. (pro tern.)
ROID EBROOFINC
Ip.
/j
/
C 0
&
ft-
■ miiBERQjPISg
I
r
m
?Pf^B
KRTOB
mim
1
: ; :i -
N
pilN f
RUBEROID
DAMP-COURSE
BU,l olN<3
PAt> Eft.
AGENTS EJ?ich&C?24426GXonneus7 SYDNEY.
m
VioliQs.
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
AGto HarpS.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
floOtl) NarnjooicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordeoos & CopcertipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
(aOitarS &
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStofyS & PolypbooS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Baod loStrCin)€OtS of all kio^s
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
non
M'li'iiV'iii'ife'- ’Y" - ' o-* ’H
■H
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS.
i/wr£L>
established ,a^
338 George-street, Sydney.
For Dunlop*
Tyres.the best
RIM ISTHE
DunLOPv
WELCH,
' Dun lops:; ;
First in 1888
.FOREMOST
EVER
1. NITT-JETTS
WRITES s
“ In all my World’s Records
against the Watch I have
ridden
Dun lqp Tyres
and have found them eminently
satisfactory for speed work.
“ The machines I have
brought with me for my racing
season in Australia are allotted
with
Duniop Tyres
“I am glad of the oppor-
tunity of testifying my appre-
ciation of so excellent
a tyre as the Dunlop.” C
DUNLOf\
Tyres?
perfectedVt>
FOR CARRIAGES
OF ALL KINDS
"ALL
ABOUT
r D UNLOP
T YRES”
[gratis 5c post free


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REUIICEH RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (liimited).
74 CASTLBRIiAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over ,£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hen. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.a
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S Harrison, Esq. F. W. Utiier, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The 'lank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879,
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
THE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUITER, BLIGH & CASTLEREAGU STS,
SYDNEY.
©•• © • ©
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIAN LAND AGENCY.
The under-signed has now opened a department for
the sale on commission of land at Perth. Send particulars
as to price, &c. No sale, no charge. Immediate loans on
deposit of deeds. ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Valuator under R.P. Act, 250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THEDMVERSAL LAND -
—AND—
- DEPOSIT BAM LIMITED,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Fixed Deposits received for a term of years at liberal
interest.
Advances made on Freehold Securities, Bills Discounted
on deposit of deeds, and all financial business transacted.
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Business Announcements.
J)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
Ss. 6d , 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
FREE-ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d,2256d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, i 765, 90s, 1355, and
150 s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 255, and 30s : Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, 75s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney;
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1873.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and niients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Bathe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rfIHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies' Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,705,363 13 5
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 44,636 6 7
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tu'kett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chiet Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addisiori. South Australia (Adelaide). with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office- Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. „ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
-THE-
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors :
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. - .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3.000,000
rs . L
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4. 1 0U,000
Paid-up ~ .. £2.9*4,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Tbornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gvles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Con>pai>y
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital. . .£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—Kiemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Mokeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 267, G.P.O.
Clarice & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
ee on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
VVARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Friday, October 29, 5 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, Nov. 2, 5 p.'n.
A.e, Friday, November 5, 5 p.m.
Peregiine, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2 p.m
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
ESPERANCE Bay
Gabo, Tuesday, Nov. 2, 6 p.
Aire, Friday, November 5, 5
(Cargo only.)
V 3
ALBANY
BUNbURY
FREMANTLE
GER\LDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, Nov. 2, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Laura, Saturday, October 30, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tuesday, Nov. 2, 5 p.m,
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS &c.
Leura, Saturday, October 30, 2 p.m.
"Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily
LOWEST i'l ltltEM' FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G. P. 0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet,
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particul rs apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
—VIA —
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TvESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER.
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
gibes, bright & co., managing agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide.
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, i' 1 "
M.l&ourna Or, Testing & Technical OheUlistS,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers .
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. boll fQg.
DICKSON &. BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposit.s Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C
o'" s** 5 **
J Af>
■4/y f
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo(from Sydney) Friday,
October 29.
S.S. Innatnincka (from Sydney)
Tuesday, November 2.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney;
Friday, October 29.
S.S. Innamincka (from
Sydney) Tuesday, Nov. 2.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
October 30.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Franklin, Tuesday,
November 2.
Rest Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YIJILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMi-ANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Marseilles. ** Will leave at 4 p.m.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker g go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Eoyal Mail Line
—TO—*
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), F"I, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers, Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE —Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare —London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney:
JOHN SANDERSON'& CO„
111 William-street, Melbourne: or
GEO. WILLS & CO..
Grenfoll-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67105. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney. ’


fldams’s Hotel and garble Bar
and
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
()•
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
0
Hotel and Cafe have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
, room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depat, 484 GeoFge-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of tho world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as with'buying them from dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra.
long and plated. All
wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rath workmanship.
Wi Ires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo nad m walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastnis and patirae. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of los3 in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
HUNTER’S EUR AND A
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce.
PURITY,
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
in
this
New Sauce,
it being
A Purely Fruit
and
Vegetable
Condiment.
HI
Wmi
PAPAIN.
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
ATTENTION! DYSPEPTICS.
Indigestion is at the root of more than half of our present day bodily ailments,
accentuated, as it is, by the almost universal habit of stomach drugging. Simply
stated, these distressing symptoms and their consequent evils are directly due to the
inability to properly digest the food consumed. No amount of medication can aid this
most vital and important function. The proprietors of HUNTER’S PAW-PAW
FRUIT SAUCE, knowing that their Piquant Relish contains a large proportion
of PAPAIN (the most active digestive ferment known to Medical Science), claim
that DYSPECTIC TORTURES are entirely BANISHED by using their sauce
at meal times, besides which, its palatableness greatly enhances the enjoyments of
the table.
Manufactured only at Hunter’s Steam Preserving Works,
CAIRNS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Hunter’s
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from all the leading WHOLESALE GROCERS, and from all the
leading RETAILERS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
J. BA.RRE JOHNSTON & CO., 20 Loftus-street, Sydney.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Loco m o t i veSf
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 4d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Pates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoQ N.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.
158, ISO, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
Church-street, Parramatta,.
9
Your Attention !
Most Important!
T ='REMIN<STON
TYPEWRITER
OUTNUMBERS AS 3 TO 1
THE COMBINED FORCES
OF COMPETITION.
IT KEEPS PACE
with every discovery in Typewriting machines, and
combines every known improvement up to date.
The Proprietors purchase and patent every important idea in connection with
Typewriting machines, and the NEW NO. 7 is protected by
SEVENTY-SIX DIFFERENT PATENTS.
I 9 all Speed CoptcSts
the REMINGTON has come out “top.” Why? Because it is so easy
to manipulate, the mechanism being more simple than on any other Type-
writer, and more especially because the Key Board of the REMINGTON
has only 26 Keys to do the same work that other Typewriting machines
require 52 (!) to perform.
STOTT & HOARS, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
FREE, C\GkRS
RHMMIH
KMillEKi
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
Poker Macb'Ocs
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES.
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS
Best Value in New South Wales. .
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brush ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIEE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MANILA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
SST Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
RELIEF
from
COUGH
HAYMANS
MIL
m
m
m
IN
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Cough.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price is. ijrf. and 2s. 9c l.


Packets
■s c r^L
tm^%i4LJCARS
Pt/Auf*
ka matpzs
O "Pga y/v/lDj,
//lanulaaured by k
YER swnzwwo
Is.
Beeston-Humbers, at N.S.W. Wheelmen’s Car-
nival, won five first and two second places.
■» • * *
Last Saturday, on Sydney Cricket Ground
track, Platt-Betts cut the N.S.W. mile-record down to
1.45; and Dunlop tyres won almost every event in the
afternoon’s racing.*
* » * *
The Brassard badge, which carries =£s per week
salary, and which is held by Forbes, the M.L. rider, is on
view in the Sydney window of Massey Harris and Co., by
reason of Forbes riding the firm’s brand of bike.*
* * * *
Piles and How to Cuee them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depot for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
“SANTAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous,
Does Not Stain Linen,
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,"
free on application,
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
*****
RED BIRD.
Tf>U
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch— 64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and |
Depots )
Everywhere.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
“Under the best apple tree are found the most
sticks and stones.” We desire to warn the public
against many so-called cycle-agents, who are deliber-
ately circulating false reports against “Bed Birds”
in order to further their own ends. They stop at
nothing to turn the inexperienced cyclist against our
goods, and from the reports which have come under
our notice, we conclude that some of the trade are
making it hard work to pay expenses, and are find-
ing considerable trouble to sell against Red Birds.
Experienced cyclists who know the value of a good
machine, have almost invariably selected the Bed
Bird, which accounts for the large number which can
be seen in all parts of the country.
One of the great features of the new Red Bird is
its bottom bracket. It is a triumph of modern skill
in cycle-building, and is a. feature as far ahead of
bottom brackets on other cycles as the pneumatic
tyre is ahead of the solid. The two cups which form
the bearings are turned from the finest grade of steel
possible to manufacture. They contain ten 5-16 balls.
Each cup is threaded to a steel sleeve or barrel which
adjusts inside the bottom bracket proper, and is held
in place by two bolts.
With the bearings, it is only necessary to oil same
about twice a year, as they are thoroughly dust-proof
and oil-retaining, the balls running in a continuous
oil-bath.
With other cycles it is almost impossible to get a
perfectly true chain-alignment, whereas the chain and
the bearings, with the aid of this most important im-
provement, can be adjusted to 1-1000 part of an inch.
Our lines for the present season will suit all classes
of customers. Terms. Cash.
Red Birds will continue to sell at £26 10s. £25 10s.
Ruby Rims, better than any
other high-class wheel .. .. £2l os. £lB 18s.
Black Birds, thoroughly high-
grade wheel at cheap price of £l6 10s. £l5 os.
All the good points of bicycles are not confined to
one wheel. There are wheels and wheels, so there
are distinguished features in each.
The Red Bird combines more practical, progressive
improvements than any other cycle. Light, swift
and rigid, it is pre-eminently the wheel for racers and
road riders. Its past record is convincing proof of
the strength and easy-running qualities.
The new model is improved beyond all others. If
you have not examined one, it will pay you to look
up the nearest agent.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Oalcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Good racehorses are undoubtedly scarce in Aus-
tralia for the present—so scarce that, if the Carbine of
1890 were going for this Melbourne Cup with XOst. 71b. on
his five-year-old back, The Bulletin would reckon him a
real certainty, in a turf-way of speaking. With one pos-
sible exception, all the first-class Australian-bred horses
that competed for classic honors in ’96, ’95 and ’94, have
gone wrong or left the country. Therefore, the two or
three best three-year-olds of this season would have had
first claims on Cup consideration but for the handicapper’s
precaution in givingthem burdens heavier than youngsters
are ordinarily able to carry home. Aurum has Bst. 61b.—
half a stone more than Newhaven landed 12 months ago.
Amberite’s penalty brings him up to Bst. 41b. Although one
or other of them the writer prefers Aurum —will probably
kin the Derby, victory in either case cannot be accepted as
a “ straight tip ” for the Cup. On the other hand, should
they get beaten, or even “ split,” in a fast run Derby race
by anything that is lightly handicapped for the
Cup—say Manfred, Clarion, Majestic, or Virtue — then
the unexpected one will seem to have a 5 to 1 chance
to do what Newhaven and Auraria did of yore. At time
of writing, the Derby doesn’t seem likely to yield a
new Cup favorite. Eirids-dale, a promising outsider,
is not entered for the big handicap. Majestic is. This
I fine, massive colt was lately backed at Caulfield by the St.
Alban’s stable, and there may have been a fair excuse for
; his poor running. If the writer were compelled to back a
three-year-old for Melbourne Cup before the Derby is
fought, he would take Majestic on spec., at a long price.
Passing to the older horses, the writer will jump
to the conclusion that Ayrshire, Wait-a-Bit, Parthenopseus
and Positano are less likely to stay the distance than
Coil, Delaware, Toreador, Devon, The Merry Boy, Fucile,
and Trent. Ayrshire swerved, as though beaten, at the
finish of the Caulfield Cup race. Wait-a-Bit gives the
impression that he has trained “ off ”-a-bit. Partheno-
pseus has never been regarded as a real stayer, and when
his late owner was disappointed in his hope of bringing
off the Caulfield Cup coup he let the horse go to auction.
Positano’s appearance suggests that a doubtful leg, or
something else, has prevented him from being wound up
to the pitch absolutely necessary for a Melb. Cup win.
This is a more important point than his horrid temper.
As a possibly first-class horse, the English-bred
Positano, with only 7st. 71b. to carry, would seem to have
the Cup at his mercy if he were a proved two-iniler, but
he isn’t. On paper he should beat Coil and Delaware for
the Melbourne Stakes (1J mile) next Saturday, but, also
on paper, Coil and Delaware should heat him. The
writer reckons that one of the aforesaid three will win the
Stakes, and that victory in Coil’s case would label him
“ very dangerous ” for the Cup. Whereas Positano or
Delaware could win the 1J mile race without earning a
right to the same label. Meantime, the writer, preferring
this pair of unproven stayers to Toreador, Devon, Merry
Boy, Fucile and Trent, on the ground that they have
higher-** class ” credentials, and are more favorably handi-
capped, will take Coil to beat them all and attempt to
show reason for the faith that is in him.
Coil, as a two-year-old, and again last season,
was an unreliable performer, like his rival, Newhaven,
but occasionally he stood out from the common herd as
a racehorse of real merit. He didn’t show any of New-
haven’s brillianoy, nevertheless he was good enough to
run third for the Newmarket Handicap (9st. up), and win
the Australian Cup from a moderate field. This season
Coil has out a respectable figure on five occasions, and in
his latest performance, a ten-lengths victory in the Caul-
field Stakes, he looked very like a triton among minnow’s.
Probably he has improved, as a racer, with age, and is
getting the better of the constitutional weakness that
made him a very in-and-out customer in his younger days*
Abercorn, the sire of Coil, had a tendency to softness
until he touched his fifth year. The weak spot was
transmitted to his offspring, perhaps. Anyway, the
writer will adopt the weak - spot theory, and give
Coil credit for having grown much stronger, internally,
since he carried Bst. 91b. into fourth place for the Sydney
Cup, last April. Seeking a reasonable “ tip,” rather than
a mere guess, for the Melbourne Cup, one can find nothing
as good as Coil. He ought to go near it. Patron, in ’94,
looked much the same thing on paper as Coil looks to-
day, and Patron won his Melbourne Cup pretty easily.
The conclusion of this long sermon is : Coil to win, fol-
lowed by Delaware, Positano, and- one or more of the
three-year-olds.
Symmetry, with fair luck in getting away,
should win the Maribyrnong Plate scramble.
» » * •
On the principle that “nothing succeeds like
success ” The Bulletin prints a metrical tip for the ’97
Melb. Cup from “ H. 0.,” who here tipped Amberite for
Caulfield :
“ Believers in Cup omens (writes R.W. to The
Bulletin) may find an alphabetical promise of Auruin’s
success in the present fashionableness of the letter ‘ A ’
and its general luckiness. The name of the winner of
Caulfield Cup began with A—and was of gold-colored
significance besides. Look at the run on that letter just
now among theatricals and singers—taking the fair sex
alone. We have Ada Ferrar, Ada Willoughby, Ada
Reeve, Ada Humphreys, Ada Crossley, Addie Conyers,
Amy Sherwin, Alma Grey, all of whom have done well
this year. Is it because the unpretentious little name
‘ Ada ’ means good fortune that so many professionals
have adopted it ? ”
* * * •
The Vic. lady who decided that she would
“have nothing tc do with those low racing-men,” who
owned a Caulfield Cup favorite which she had drawn in
Tatt’s Sweep, was perfectly furious when she learned
after the race that the low racing men had elected to
spin for Melbourne Cup, in which their chances of get-
ting a cut in at the sweep money was "better assured.
* * * *
A Melb. civil servant tipped and backed the
seven winners on the card on the first day of Caulfield
meeting. He won £5O on Amberite. A shilling invested
on Carbineer, and played up on the other six winners,
would have brought in £41,000.
» » » *
At race-time, the hotel with a barman who can
talk horse and “has information,” does better business
than the hotel with a beauteous barmaid who tries to
push a sweep along.
* * * •
S.A. cycling officials were not blameless in the
Martin business. They called up Plugger Bill for sus-
picious riding in the mile event. When Bill explained
that he was exhausted from riding a 101-gear instead of
his usual 96, they exonerated him. When the Murkan
came out a quarter-of-an-hour later to ride in the final of
another race, he was peremptorily" ordered off the track.
Martin was very indignant at this showing-up before the
crowd, and he denied the power of the league to call him
off without reason. Apparently the officials, as well as
Martin, made fools of themselves.
Apropos Bill Martin’s 14 days “ without the
option ” at Adelaide police-court and his six months’ dis-
qualification by the league. The Plugger has “ a set ”on
Adelaide officials. On one afternoon, owing to “rumors”
that William meditated a visit, several officials spent some
hours in the league strongroom. “ I don’t know what’s
come over William lately,” said his Yankee trainer. And
it really does look as if the iron-jawed one has got a men-
tal kink somewhere.
Martin’s special victim in Adelaide, Ridley,
was laid up for a week with two black eyes and a battered
nose and ears. Martin’s grievance against Ridley goes
back to September last year, when Ridley was one of the
Judges concerned in disqualifying him. Another official,
one of the referees, also complained that William as-
saulted him. “Did you see him kick me?” said the
assaulted one to a bystander. “If he didn’t I shall be
only too durned glad to do it again ! ’’ rejoined the gentle
William. Offer declined.
* * * *
Maybe Bill Martin has cycled himself on to the
verge of mental aberration. The ordinary road biker
acquires a “face”—the gin drinker gets a liver—the
cigarette smoker a particular affection of the lungs, or
heart, or something. Why not a “ plugger’s brain ” ?
* • * «
Plugger Bill having been “ sent up ” for 14 days’
hard labor, the question arises as to what the aforesaid
hard labor will consist of. Plugger is palpably unfit for
office work, and to set so famous a man breaking stones
would be blasphemous. Now, the treadmill seems to be
just the thing. Good results for the authorities—good
cycling condition for Bill. Talk about home trainers !
Bill will ask for the treadmill, sure.
* * * *
At N.S.W. Wheelmen’s carnival proceedings
began with the Lap Handicaps, which catch on as well as
they deserve. The crowd cannot be expected to get
delirimn-tremens over second and third-class dashes.
The d6but of Platt-Betts was nothing to get upon the
roof and rave over. The chubby young cockney has cer-
tainly a supple movement which was never seen before in
Australia. Phatt-Betts should be sent back to England
\\ ith the next shipload of prime beef, or else be asked to
ride in matches. This country is too tired to watch
record-breakers. The only public interest taken in track-
cycling is in racing. Direct competition between man
and man—that is the human interest of the thing. Other-
wise, you might just as well watch a paddle-wheel
revolve.
The Rev. W. Martin not being there to regulate
matters was a bit of a damper to the carnival; especially
when the final of the one-mile Scratch Race was ordered
to be re-run. Had the strong pluggerwon it instead of
Walne, the League Racing Board might now be all planted
behind its Ma or up the nearest drain-pipe, whilst Bill
tramped round and snorted for gore. All save Megson
grafted out their gall in the first finish ; yet, when ordered
to re-ride, only one man demurred. And all he said was
under his breath, “ Strike me, yous is blanky strong.” In
the re-ride Green got the jump, but was caught by Megson
and tied for first place.
• * • *
There are 400 entries for the coining axemen’s
contest at Melb. Exhibition Grounds 160 from Tasmania,
over 50 from Westralia, and about 180 in all from N.S.W.,
Victoria and Maoriland. The Glenelg steamer brings a
load of logs from Tasmania—the high-school of axeing
education —and “ all the champions ” have undertaken to
chip into the great Carnival chop.
» * • *
Great preparations are being made for the axe-
men’s competition aforesaid. Friday, 20th, is the first
day, but the world’s championship event takes place
on Cup-night by electric light. Tasmania is running
the show and sends along a score of champions in ground
and lofty r chopping, and many topsaw.vers, and about 60
wood-jambers besides. Melb. spielers expect a harvest.
* * * *
The great George Gitfen—let every base varlet
kneel at the mention of the name—refused to play for
S.A. and Australia against Stoddart and co,, it is alleged,
because Major Wardill refused to agree to his demands
for expenses. Further, George is credited with being
much annoyed because S.A. Cricket Association didn’t
include him among its latest list of life-members (which it
certainly could have afforded to do). The writer firmly
believes, however, that if Giffen stands down it will even-
tually prove a grand thing for S.A. cricket, for numerous
reasons known to every local cricketer.
* '* * *
Stoddart and co. are expected to arrive in Mel-
bourne per Adelaide express on Cup-dav—just in time to
get to their hotels, freshen up, and be at Flemington
to see (?) win. If a foreign army were to attack
Australia, they’d time the invasion so as to see Melb. Cup
—and, probably, depart satisfied if they got on to the
winner.
« * * *
Young Trumper is batting in great form—B3 on
Saturday week, run out, and last Saturday 123, caught by
a brilliant catch off a fine stroke. The fine play Saturday
after Saturday by such Sydney colts as Trumper, Pye,
Poidevin, Hopkins, Austin, Noonan, and Farquhar, will
make the picking of the N.S.W. representative team par-
ticularly difficult.
* * * *
George Giffen’s little brother Walter made 127
in a club-match in Adelaide, Oct. 16, by really fine
cricket, and will probably be in the S.A. team for the
match against Stoddart and co., commencing this Thurs-
day (28th)
* * * *
Not unlikely S.A. will shake up Stoddart and
co., who will be in poor form, with but two days’pre-
liminary practice. Jones is in great bowling form, and
Darling, Lyons, arid Hill have already all made good
scores in club cricket.
* * * *
The opening ceremony of the League of Vic.
Wheelmen’s splendid rooms was a miserable travesty on
the alleged democracy and brotherhood of cycling, which
the cycling press is so loud in trumpeting. The shivoo
was attended only by a handful of league members, ad-
mitted by invitation ticket. Outside a score of the most
prominent Australian racing men gloomily passed the
time on the footpath, while Acting-Gov. Madden and a
score of the league elect were participating in the cham-
pagne within.
One of the drawbacks of the league’s premises
is the presence of several religious cranks—relics of the
days when the Y.M.C.A. owned the building, who stand
in the street and make personal remarks about the souls
of the passers-by. This evangelical gang was on the spot
when Gov. Madden arrived, and one of the comihon or
garden league members, mad at not being invited, worked
off a joke on the unsuspecting C.J. Madden having
arrived, the joker stepped up to him with such a confi-
dent air that the visitor at once put him down as an
official, and when he was solemnly led up to a monkey-
bearded gentleman with a hymn-book and assured “ This
is Mr. Salter, the vice-president of the league, Sir John,”
he grasped the evangelist warmly by the hand and said,
“ Pleased indeed to meet you, Mr. Salter.” It took the
real secretary about ten minutes to sort things out, dur-
ing which t'mi the chuckling avenger escaped. Mean-
while the gorgeously-tailored Salter was glaring on the
doorstep.
* * * *
Even the presence of Dr. W. J. Barry, the
giant English athlete and amateur champion of the world
at “ heavy weight athletics,” failed to draw more than
1000 payers to the Vic. Amateur Show, at St. Kilda, last
Saturday. The rain was no doubt partially responsible,
but it is the wretched management of past amateur
meetings that has sickened the public. The events this
time were, as a rule, fairly handicapped and contested,
and instead of the crowd having to wait until a dreary
three-mile walk was fought out, two courses were
arranged, so that the walkers would be battling on the
inner while cycle sprints were taking place on the outside
track.
Dr. Barry had a soft thing in the hammer-
throwing contest, in which he flung a 161 b. knapper 119 ft.
9in., apparently without effort, the next best man scoring
only 86ft. The previous Vic. record was made by W. J.
Doolan and stood at 93ft. Bin. In putting the weight
Barry tossed 161 b. of cold iron 36ft. 4Jin., D. J. Bevan fol-
lowing with 33ft. 9Jin. A trifle over 6ft. 4in. high and
weighing 17st., Barry was the feature of the afternoon,
and received a real ovation. He is an Irishman (of course),
and scored first at Queen’s College, Cork, where he was a
fellow student of Collins-st. surgeon O’Hara, of stoushing
celebrity.
Bevan, the runner-up in the weight-throwing, is
a tip-top all-round athlete, and, though he unfortunately
excels at no one branch of sport, would probably take down
any other Australian amateur in a “points” contest em-
bracing all departments. On Saturday he won (more by
good luck than good management) 120yds. hurdles cham-
pionship and (on its merits) the long jump of 21ft. lin., a
Vic. record. On lepping this distance, Bevan’s pictur-
esque “ old man,” the Melb. divine, stepped up to his red-
headed progeny and kissed him vigorously, to the great
borak of an irreverent gathering.
In the cycling events, Park proved himself the
boss amateur of the lot, and the real owner of the
amateur championship—a fine record for a man who
never crossed a bike until eight months ago. A lawyer
by occupation, Park has, in his spare time, succeeded in
acquiring the fine, easy, swinging gait of which cham-
pions are made, and he is probably as speedy a cyclist as
the fallen amateur, Berry. Defeating Reynolds, of M.L.,
by a clear length in the mile championship, Park started
for, and won, the half-mile handicap from scratch, after
which he came out for the five-mile championship. A
splendid race home took place between him and Rey-
nolds, the two leaving the field standing, and the Maori -
lander only squeezed in front by a tyre.
* * * *
The nine professionals of Stoddart’s team, while
in Melbourne, will stay at the White Hart Hotel, opposite
Parliament House, 10 or 15 minutes through gardens from
the M.C.C. ground. The pro’s of last English team put
up at the same ancient hostelry. The “gentlemen’ will
probably camp at Menzies’, but people are wondering if
Prince Ranhitsswiftly will be invited to isolate himself at
Government House.
» * * *
The first decent wrestling-match that has hap-
pened in Melbourne for years was witnessed by a big
crowd at the old Victoria Hall, the other Saturday night,
when Jack Graham, the veteran champion middle-weight,
and Lucifer, the young and elegant athlete, who looks
like a muscular Greek god fresh from a .Turkish bath,
hurled each other about the premises for the champion-
ship and a stake of £5O a side. The result was one of the
most interesting exhibitions of muscular strength, manual
and pedal dexterity, and scientific scrambling that the
present writer has ever seen. Graham is certainly the
better wrestler, as the term is conventionally understood,
but he came into the arena with a corporation like that of
Ephraim Zox, and with 40-odd years on his shaven head,
whereas the other was as firm and white and clean-limbed
as a marble Athenian, and is probably under 30. Lucifer
is a contortionist, and is the American person who gave a
strong-man turn with the Firm’s last panto. Lucifer’s
methods quile disconcerted the veteran wrestler, who
imagined he had him on toast several times, when the
former would suddenly split himself down the middle,
and, straddling over the stage with the two halves of him
sticking out in different directions, defy the animated
steam-crane on top to up-end him ; whereupon Graham
would take a heart-broken survey of the human problem,
and regretfully abandon the struggle. It was like a hip-
popotamus wrestling with an anaconda. Lucifer secured
the first fall with a neat hamrnerlock, arid Graham got the
second. The third was unattainable, apparently, and the
referee announced a draw after two hours’ hefting and
heaving ; whereupon Lucifer challenged the champion to
a pully-hatrl to a finish, and Graham was understood to
accept the invitation. If the tug comes off its ould be
a popular spectacle, as Lucifer's comic relief is as shriek-
ingly funny as it is scientifically effective.
A FANCY.
“ O, tell me, tell me what to back,’*
The festive widow cried.
Her weeds are now a rusty black,
And she is wicked-eyed ;
Her sweet intent to be embraced
’Twas not for me to foil,
In serpent style, around her waist,
I said : “I’m fond of Coil.’’
“ I cannot tell you what will win
Nor what will get a place ;
The * Lamb ’ that bookies love to skin
May carry off the race ;
Thousrh Positano prove a * pot,”
Perchance he’ll overboil,
And Aurum, with the weight he s got,
Can hardly beat the blessed lot—
I’d rather go for Coil.
“ Big Delaware seems w'ondrous fit,
I’m well aware of that;
And Taylor’s sweet on Wait-a-Bit,
The bay from Ballarat.
Cook’s Merry Boy good work has done,
And thriven on the toil;
But, since you bid me name the one
That I expect to take the bun,
I'll put a name to Coil.
“True, Ayrshire’s fast —but does he stay?
Fucile’s a Carbine horse ;
Dark Trent is built the proper way
To last a trying course ;
And Titan’s brother, Toreador,
Makes light of heavy soil;
Whilst Key—but, as I said before,
If I’m to have a lucky * drore,’
The winner must be Coil.
“ Young Manfred oft has brought to grief
His backers (I’ve been there) ;
Yet he might win—the craven thief—
With many lengths to spare.
If sturdy Devon's not too old
He may secure the spoil;
Of True Blue tales are sometimes told,
But, all the same, my bit of gold
Will take its chance on Coil.
“ Turf-tippirig is a foolish thing
That mostly breeds remorse,
Yet fancies in the vernal spring
Will turn to thoughts of ’orse.
When Ikey Mo, next Tuesdaj’ morn,
Sets up his loud turmoil,
I’ll back the son, by Copra borne
To brave old father Abercorn —
My fancy turns to Coil.”
Melb.
E.F.
All the year he makes pretence
At Australian defence,
Though of fighting anyone he’s got no notion,
And the secret of his pride,
In the squadron on the tide,
Is the thought that Britain rules the mighty ocean.
The initials, you can guess,
That he loves are H.M.S.,
And his love of lace to landsmen’s very filling;
And he prates of “Britain’s sons”
(They’re the men who clean the guns,
And who turn out now and then to do some drilling).
He has officers and men,
And he sees ’em now and then,
If they’re not upon some very distant island ;
But he knows that loads of grease
Keep the guns in climes of peace
And the “ safety ” of the great Australian dry land !
But arrives the time at length
When the squadron in its strength
Comes together from all kinds of curious places,
And Port Phillip smiles to see,
At its annual horsey spree,
Britain’s bulwarks betting madly at the races.
For the tar that they call Jack,
Though he may not know a hack
From an elephant, has saved a bit of money,
And h«- flings it night and day
When he lands in Hobson's Bay—
Jack ashore’s a youth that’s very, very funny I
Then, when past and gone the Cup,
To the rope that’s all rolled up
Britain’s bulwark once again is quickly hurried,
Or, he sits on it and dreams
As the squadron slowly steams
To a specklet when the Carnival is buried.
There’s the tip for 1,2, 3 ;
Though you don’t yourself agree,
Learn it off and then recite it to your neighbour; ’
There’s Fleet Admiral’s pride and joy,
And Jack Tar, The Merry Boy,
And the Coil of rope that’s emblem of his labour.
H.C.


Amusements.
J 3 RINUESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS I
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as NAPOLEON.
Miss ADA FERRAR as JOSEPHINE.
“A. Royal Divorce.”
A Veritable Sensation Created by the Tableaux,
yg?" SATURDAY, Oct. 30—“ The Gay Parisienne.”
FRANK THORNTON.
|3F" OIST T OUR.
ADELAIDE, BROKEN HILL, Etc.
EIGHT WEEKS.
UNITED AUSTRALASIAN AXEMEN’S
ASSOCIATION.
SEVENTH GRAND CARNIVAL will OPEN at the
Exhibition Grounds, Melb.,
On FRIDAY, 29th OCTOBER, at 1.45 p.m., when the
World’s Champion Axemen and Sawyers will Compete
Entries best on Record (Total, over 400).
PROGRAMME FRIDAY, 29th OCTOBER.
Amateur Chopping Match, 20 starters ; Maiden Sawing
Match, 10 starters ; Champion Underhand Chop (from five
colonies), 14 starters ; Double-handed Sawing (attempt to
lower World’s Record by champions) ; Seven other Events
with large fields.
Also NOVEMBER 1 and 2 (Cup Night, by Electric
Light) 3 and 5.
Most Unique, Novel and Exciting Contests ever
Witnessed. 0T ADMISSION-ONE SHILLING.
H. A. NICHOLS ... Manager.
rpHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of the OLD FAVOURITE,
MA66IC MOORC.
SATURDAY, 30th OCTOBER, AND CUP
WEEK,
First Time in Melbourne,
Mrs. Q6iOQ’& TwiijS.
Victoria Racing Club’s . .
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY ... • ... OCT. 30.
CUP DAY NOY. 2.
OAKS DAY NOV. 4.
STEEPLECHASE DAY ... NOV. 6,
Accommodation for Thousands.
The conveniences for the comfort of visitors to
Elemington now surpass anything in the world.
Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion
Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE. .
UJolf Dmerican High ]|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. *3T Everything fancy but the price.
English American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
0
MACKLIN
HENLEY
GBIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD; also
The Interchangeable.
■These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
OYER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
(aRCVILLC
BICYCLES.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4|in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New .£l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
TCrocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STERLING CYCLES.
rjiHE Ladies’ STERLING is so graceful that
it is distinct from all others, and is acknow-
ledged to be the easiest running machine
built. Which accounts for the fact that more
Ladies’ Sterlings
tfere SOLD in AUSTRALIA LAST YEAR
than ALL OTHER makes combined.
STERLING P€POT:
76 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing FriendsT
DOUGALD LENNOX, - of Glasgow, lately
residing at 10 Tebbut-street, Leichhardt,
some time in F. J. SMITH’S employ. Money
awaiting you, communicate with HARRY
SCOTT, Wynyard Buildings, Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
Amusements.
FLOR€NC€ SCHMIPT
—AT THE—
Towo Hall, Sydney.
SATURDAY EVENING, 30th OCTOBER.
Assisted by—Herr VOLLMAR, Mrs. F. J. REILLY, Herr
STAEDTGEN, Mr. WOODHOUSE, Herr SCHEIN-
PFLUG, and Mr. CHAS. HUENERREIN.
Miss SCHMIDT will sing-
The famous mad scene from Donizetti’s opera, “ Lucia”;
the “Bolero,” from Verdi’s “ Vespri Siciliani ”;
“Melancholy” (Chopin), “Good Morning’” (Greig),
and the “Air de l’lnfante,” from Massenet’s “Le
Cid.”
ONE THOUSAND CHAIRS AT ONE SHILLING.
Seating Plan and Tickets, 3s. and 25., at Nicholson’s
Pianoforte Warehouse.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
EVERY EVENING ! at 7.45 EVERY EVENING 1
“ROMANY R YE.”
A GREAT AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
Supported by his Powerful Dramatic Company.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box plan at Elvy & Co’s,
George-street. M. MARCUS, Acting Manager.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING at 8. SATURDAY MATINEE at 2.
The Sensational, Sympathetic, Successful Play,
“Two Little Vagaboods.”
By Geo. R. Sims and Arthur Shirley.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of Messrs. MacMahon.
6TH WEEK 6TH
Of the New Policy—Popular Plays at POPULAR PRICES.
ENORMOUS AND ABSOLUTE SUCCESS
Of the Latest London Success —the Intensely Interesting
and Powerful Play, entitled
FALLEN AMONG THIEVES.
Which will be repeated till further notice.
ADMISSION—2s, Is and SIXPENCE.
TIVOL I T HEATRE, SYDNE Y.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Joseph—The Waldrons—Ettie- Tom Wootwell
Miss LILTAN TREE.
EMILY LYNDALE. THE 3 AVOLOS. FRANK YORKE.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
rj«HE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Managing Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
The HAYTOKS. The SELBINIS-8.
The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee Pictures
CHAS. COGILL. J. W. WINTON. ATHAS & COLLINS.
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON.
And the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, & 6di Plan at Allan’s, Collins-street.
Matinee Performances every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
XXXXXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX-XXXXXXX
xxxxxxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
TX7E have much pleasure in informing the
’ “ General Public that we are enabled to offer
them this season, the choicest assortment of
Xmas and New Year Cards
it has been our happy lot to handle.
The VALUE this year is extraordinary, and the
QUALITY of the Cards highest procurable.
The following is an Advance Price List: —
PACKET CARDS.
The “ IVY SPRIG ” Packet of 12 Xmas and
New Year Cards, post free, 3d.
The “ROSE GARLAND” Packet of 25
Xmas and New Year Cards, post free, 9d.
The “EMPRESS” Packet of 50 Xmas and
New Year Cards, post free, Is. 3d.
BOXED CARDS.
A choice assortment of Autograph Cards—lo
Cards, with envelopes, at Bd. and Is. 3d., post free.
The “STANDARD” Box of 20 choice Cards,
post free, Is. 6d. The “FINE ART” Box of 12
Cards, post free, Is. 6d.
LOOSE CARDS.
6d., Is., 25., 35., 45., 55., 65., 9s. and 12s. dozen,
post free. We are most careful in selecting Cards
for our Country Customers. We take care to send
them well assorted.
Photographic Views of the City, Suburbs, Gar-
dens, Harbor and Mountains, 6d. and Is. each.
In Calendars for 1898, as usual, we are in ad-
vance both as regards variety and price. Prices
from 3d. to 7s. 6d. each. Post free.
Turnover, Drop and Block Calendars in Scrip-
ture, Poetical, etc.
Collins’ Diaries for 1898 from 6d. to 4s. each.
Please note: —Xmas Cards posted not later than
Nov. 15 arrive in London in time for Xmas Eve.
HORDERN BROTHERS, Direct Importers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), SYDNEY.
XX
; xx
xx
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxxx
Amusements.
g ALON CINEMATOGRAPHE,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE NEW ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A POSITIVE SENSATION.
OVER TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND VISITORS
TO DATE.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 a.m. Onward.
J. MAC MAHON.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, 30th OCTOBER,
THE EVENT OF THE SEASON.
First Production in Melbourne of the Highly Sensational
Drama, in 4 Acts,
“ CINDCRS.”
By Blanche Lewis.
NOTE THE PRICES —ls., 2s. and SIXPENCE.
Box plan at Glen’s. Day sale at Bentwitch’s.
TJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the sole direction of Prof. T. A. Kennedy.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING, at 8.10 Sharp.
Prof. D. M. BRISTOL’S
Marvellous Educated Horses, Ponies Si Mules.
PRICES—2s. and ONE SHILLING.
Family Matinees Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
at 3 p.m.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
Latest Novelties >0 Dian)o&d RiOgS-
Quality, Finish, & Durability Guaranteed.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s, £5,
£7 108.
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
18c. Buckle.
1 Fine Diamond, £2.
1 Fine Sapphire, Rub}' or
Opal, £1 15s.
POST FREE.
18c. La Farisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
18c. Band.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/-. Ruby or Sapphire,
30/-, 45/-, 60/-. Opal or
Pearl, 25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
18c. Gipsy.
3 Fine Diamonds, £2 55.,
£3, £4.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opal
or Pearls, £1 155.,
£2 55., £3.
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s., £5,
£7 10s.
Send Size of Finger by a Piece of Wire or a Hole in Cardboard.
WE HAVE 1000 OTHER DESIGNS OF RINGS IN STOCK.
x Ut
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
League of Wheelmen.
Summer : Cycling : Carnival!
AGRICULTURAL GROUND,
SATURDAYS, OCT. 30tb ai)d NOV. 6tl)-
PLATT-BETTS, World’s Record Breaker;
AINSWORTH, English Amateur Champion; and
RELPH, Australian Record Holder.
£3OO - GREAT SYDNEY WHEEL RACE - £3OO
SCRATCH RACES. PACED RACES.
HANDICAP RACES.
Reynolds, Green, Megson, Walne, Forbes, Body, Tebbutt.
Agricultural Ground— Saturday, Oct. 30 & Nov. 6.
The Young Lady who would go
to a Dance.
“I went to such a delightful dance last night,’’
said a young lady, by name Miss Elsie Kelly, of
42 Palmer-street, Darlinghurst, thereby disclosing
the fact that life still contained pleasures and com-
forts for her. “But,” continued she, “less than a
month ago, however, I never expected to be able
to dance again, as I was suffering most virulently
from a fearful attack of anaemia that threatened
to cut my existence short. You see, I’m in my
teens, and am consequently at an age that is criti-
cal to all Australian girls. My trouble began
from indigestion in the most cruel form. With-
out apparent reason, I found myself forced to live
on small pieces of toast, water biscuits, bovril,
and such light food, and even the digestion of
these occasioned me the greatest pain ; so bad was
I that I was even unable to take vegetables. Ex-
cessive palpitation of the heart also distressed me
acutely, and this became so exhausting that even
if I merely went up the stairs (a short flight) my
heart would beat with such terrific force
against my side that I could hear it plainly, and
I was always compelled to sink into a chair for
several minutes to recover my breath, and till
the excited heart-beating quietened somewhat. I
was even unable to walk up the hill on the east-
ern portion of the Domain, near Woolloomooloo,
without support. My kneecaps swelled to an
extraordinary size, and sharp, shooting pains
would dart persistently down my legs if I essayed
to walk; the agony was unendurable as if I’d been
struck with red-hot iron rods. Erequently I was
compelled to put my legs off the ground onto a
chair so as to ease the awful pain in my knees. If
I did go for a walk, when I returned, after suffer-
ing excruciating agony all the way, I would be
quite unable to sleep—an unprecedented occurrence
with me. At times, also, I was attacked by
headaches, my face was always pale, dark rings
came like stains under my eyes, which lost their
lustre. I was totally unable to ride my bicycle. I
had always a nauseating taste in my mouth, and
my gums turned to a peculiar white colour. My
breathing was forced and difficult, while I always
felt so ill, so tired, and so thoroughly 4 done-up ’
in every way that I could neither go out nor re-
main at home with composure. These fearful
sufferings continued for three weeks, and my
mother, in a frenzy of fright, consulted a well-
known doctor. ‘ It’s anaemia,’ he said, * and that
is a terrible complaint. Her blood is poverty-
stricken, and likely enough this is the first stage
of consumption. ’ My mother suggested a trial of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, as she
had heard a most satisfactory account of them ;
but the medico merely shrugged his shoulders,
looked imperturbable, and remarked, depreciat-
ingly, ‘ Try them if you like ! ’
“ 4 She did like, and that, probably,’ said the
young lady, with a flash of spirit, 4 is the reason I
am here to-day in perfect health to tell you all
about it. I took the pills according to directions,
and shortly afterwards a change for the better
resulted, whilst a little later on I found myself
wholly and totally cured. Pains, puffiness, heart-
palpitation, indigestion, headaches, sleeplessness,
the nauseous taste in my mouth, the restlessness
and the constant feeling of despondency, were all
swept from my system. The blushes came back
to my cheeks, the sparkle to my eyes, the spright-
liness to my step, the buoyant feeling to my heart,
the dark circles disappeared from under my eyes,
and my gums regained their natural color of red.
In short, I was a new person, better and stronger
even than before I had been ill. This is the first
time I have ever had sickness in my life, and I
only hope that if I should ever fall ill again I will
have this complete, wonderful and sovereign
remedy with me.”
Mrs. Kelly corroborated every word that her
daughter had said, making many kindly references
to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, which
she assured us she would recommend to all who
came within her reach. Mr. Kelly, who has a
host of friends, is well and favorably known, es-
pecially in maritime circles, as the head stevedore
of the North German Lloyd Steamship Company,
Limited.
Miss Kelly’s words clearly show that her cure is
permanent. These pills are not like other medi-
cine, and their effects are permanent. They act
directly on the blood, and thus it is that they are
so famous for the cure of anaemia and rheumatism,
weak heart, scrofula, consumption, chronic ery-
sipelas, and to restore pale and sallow complexions
to the glow of health. They are also a splendid
nerve and spinal tonic, and thus have cured many
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxia, neuralgia, St.
Vitus’ dance, and nervous headache. They are
sold by chemists, and by Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Company, Queen's Place, Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box
or six for lfis. 3d., but are genuine only with full
name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
See that your chemist does not substitute some-
thing just as good when making your purchases.
The just as good kind cost him less money, and he
is looking out for his pocket, not your health.*
Before Starting;
52
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic
A Sure Remedy for Sea-sichness.
Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2a. 6«3L. and -Sts. Qc3L ALL COLONIES
Also at this
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.


In the...
Rain Storm
the man got very wet. The wetting
gave him a cold. The cold, neglected,
developed to a cough. The cough
sent him to a bed of sickness. A dose
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, taken at
the start, would have nipped the cold
in the bud and saved the sickness,
suffering, and expense. The house
hold remedy for colds, coughs, and all
lung troubles, is
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
JDr. «T. O. Ayer <& Oo. ;
LOWELL, MASS., U. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
Ladies.- Call and
see our CHEAP
M ACHINES,from ‘2os
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
I etc. ——
S. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
ROYA T ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents in Australia for
STURTEVANT’S FANS,
FOR BLOWING, EXHAUSTING,
VENTILATING, &c.
MINING MACHINERY
and MINING SUPPLIES,
—INCLUDING—
Dick's Celebrated Frue 8s other Vanner Belts.
Please A ote Our New Address:
74 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
435 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
IQUOR
HABIT
L
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed,
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled! INFIRMARY open
) Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
The greatest joke of the century is the fact
that a German Court has just “ sent up ” a press-
man for eight months for reflecting on the char-
acter of —whom do you think ? Leopold, the King
of the Belgians !!! He lives in Brussels, but you
can smell his reputation in Sydney,
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the, natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
High rents do not stop a Chinaman from
securing a piece of land that suits him. Tobacco-
growers pay =£l and 30s. per acre rent for land the
freehold of which probably did not cost the lessors
as much, and at Botany (Sydney) .£lO and even
£l5 per acre is paid as ground-rent for choice
gardening land. During a drought, about three
years ago, some Double Bay Chinese gardeners
proved, in connection with a claim for compensa-
tion, that they were making 7s. per week out of
one plot 40ft. square.
All old convict-settlements seem to be
specially cursed. Up Scone-way, the flies are
playing havoc with the sheep, and good old
Wingen Abbott works his cyclostyle in the same
unhappy district. Perhaps the Shearers’ Union
is in some way responsible for the plague—both
plagues, in fact. Port Arthur reeks with melan-
cholia ; Macquarie Harbor owns a dangerous bar ;
Hobart has Dobson ; Norfolk Island is ruled from
Sydney ; and Sydney has Brunker. And so on,
and so on. How the shadows of the system
cling !
The life of a M.L. gum-digger is a fair
training for Sheol. 111-fed, ill-housed, charged
six times to n-prices for necessaries by the store-
keepers, digging hard all day, scraping hard at
night (when there’s any gum to scrape), and
having to be pretty lucky to clear expenses by 2s.'
or 3s. per week. Yet, amongst the followers of
the woeful industry, are doctors, lawyers, ex-
Imperial officers, and the flotsam and jetsam of
society in every variety—including, according to a
Bulletin correspondent, at least one clergyman
and no less than three baronets.
D. Healey’s new Star game does great
credit to the Sydney inventor’s industry and
capacity. The star is a kind of five-headed
domino, and the addition of three heads gives j
the game an enormous variety of new and interest-1
ing combinations, of which the mathematical
validity is guaranteed absolutely. The new game
seems calculated to drive more people along the
flowery problem-path that leadeth to insanity
than the fifteen puzzle or pigs-in-clover—which is
saying seven volumes for it.
A Forward Step. —One commission
charge to large and small consignors is taken in
the wool-selling business by Pitt, Son, andßadgery
Ltd. The characteristic equity of this is self-evi-
dent, and will be appreciated.*
“The tools of the Australian bushman/
writes H.F. to The Bulletin, “ receive little
outside attention, and no maker specially caters
for him. The axes, invariably American, while
no doubt suited to the soft timber of that country,
are seldom of the right temper in the blade, and
always too long in the handle. You never see the
knob left on a bushman’s axe ; also he breaks out
every alternate tooth in the cross-cut saw, and
finds it cut better, and draws out his wedges
thinner and longer, so that they enter more easily.
There is no doubt that hardwood needs special
tools, and there seems a good opening for a local
firm who will study the trade; for, as matters
stand, buying new tools is a lottery, and a tool
that will stand is valued at treble its store price.’
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. fid.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gaorge- st„ Sydney
ASCOTTE
o
o
<
CQ
o
*—
Lu
h
u) 'O
a) O
ooX
MASCOTTE
MASCOTTE
mm.
Combines Strength, Purity and Solubility. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing.
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING* & HEAETHFOE BEYERAGE,
(Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: « We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
fi
ii
BBS
1207
I «
■■l2oB
403
126
Jk M W
Ml fill Wl
125
127
IBS
234
078
■.r-
-56
57
4
*
B 2
—THE—
Australian
N eedlewood
Pipe Go,, Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Maite the
Sweetest & Cooled Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRAD &
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
y IUSTBALIAV
XEEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234— 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Oaso of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
£1207, 7/6 1356, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
i<JW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchuroh.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
Victoria—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzbi, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
THE
• Plum ’
PfD
THE
‘ Plum’
P ENTLEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Of" Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price -f Razor, in strong leather case, 103. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle' 1 in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
■■■■■mnunßOßaH mmmmammmmmmmamtßmmm
the most delicious sauce in the world.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OP BOTTLES
sold annually.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2 - each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIUOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOE STREETS, SVDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
9
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The Aged.


HERR RASSMIJSSEIT
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GKORGB STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tlje ALFALINC H€RBAL R€M€DI€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, 1 consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn.— Dear
Sir,--I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R»ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
l have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
In the bush. —Yours very truly, B. t-UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Lexer, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
Btreet, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
fhe efficacy of your alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Bady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
•eagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning:, Western Australia.
To Herr hapmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friehds, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERYIN.
Important.
aaraj:
aoiAav
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH,
tort Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to be, yours truly’,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Mist
Florrie Graupner, the great actress)-writes as follows:
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9,3/97.
Dear sir,—lt gives me great, pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may’ say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood, Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your A lfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9,1897.
Dear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and yrnur Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that f was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Your?
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S A LEA LINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED
. TWO GOLD
EuALS
0P?
of
LINE PILLS?
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD k NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaliue Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutelv free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Rair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most, perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt, is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one. F
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HFRR RASSMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book;
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
REM-DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his II ad Office or r ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE:
547 George Street, Sydney.
/riterco loni al
Branches :
fr. i j f Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
I Queensland { charters Arcade.
I New Zealand :
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
South Australia :
Adelaide —154 Rundle Street.
Victoria :
Melbourne —150 Bourke Street.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Fremantle—-Henry-street, next corner of Hay-street.
Kalgoorlie^—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


Publications.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 Gkorqß Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers,
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
/lain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Soods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
KL
¥3?
n
k
TIIAMOND SONG- BOOK.
..600 SONGS, WORDS, and MUSIC, complete,
the greatest collection of songs ever bound together
between the covers of one book. National Songs of Every
Country, including War, Patriotic, Comic, Sentimental, &
Other Songs. Many old-time favorites long since out of
print, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the songs for a stamp. This wonderful book will be sent
(post paid) throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d„ from
ANGLO AM. PUB. CO., Box 1163 G.P.0., Sydney.
Stamps 2d extra. Agents wanted.
books” books, books.
fTAVING PURCHASED TWO EDUCA-
. TJONA E EIRRA RIES, numbering 4840 vols.,
containmgf the best editions, also keys to Mathematics
and Classics used in all Universities, Colleges and Schools,
attention is drawn to Teachers that they can procure any
book at nearly half-price— namely, a ss. book for 2s. 6d.,
posted 35., and so on in proportion ; also, 515 Novels
(Colonial Library) by the best authors. Cost 2s. 6d. My
price, 1/6. Posted. R. W. SKINNER,
. . The Noted Second-Hand Bookseller . .
lO5 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
WANTED Complete Files Bulletin —lBB4,
1886. Apply, A. 8., Bulletin Office.
TTENRV FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,"
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” "William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Rallo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “L,es Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanstqn Street, MELBOURNE.
“Friends no Longer.” S0 B ™^uf 1 '
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
6«t. cacli, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE.
Public Notices.
milE OVERFLOW SILVER-MINING COMPANY. No
Liability. Applications are invited for the position
of Cyanide Manager and Assayer at the above company’s
mine, Bobadah. Apply, stating qualifications, experience,
and salary expected, and enclosing copies of references
to R. N. KIRK, 16 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
PFAHLERT’S HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
I take this opportunity of thanking my Patrons for their
Support during the past seven years, and beg to notify
that extensive alterations and additions are now being
effected by Messrs. Douzans Bros., contractors. I trust
due allowance will be made for any slight inconvenience
that will necessarily arise while the work is being pro-
ceeded with.
I have every confidence in stating that, when the im-
provements are completed, PFAHLERT’S HOTEL for
Cosiness and Comfort will be unrivalled in any large City
in Australia.
Due notification will be given of the time Visitors can
be accommodated.
J. LICHTSCHEINDL,
PROPRIETOR.
jiOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
Of the
BOOTH’S UNITED GOLD MINES COMPANY NO
LIABILITY,
Coolac, Near Gundagai, N.S.W.
CAPITAL, £60,000, in 60,000 shares of £1 each.
80,000 shares are offered to the public at 2s. 6d. per share
on application, and 2s. 6d. on allotment.
30,000 shares, fully paid-up, are to be held by the vendor.
The whole proceeds of the sale of 30,000 shares, without
any deduction whatever, will be placed to the credit of
the company for the purchase of battery and plant, and
for working expenses of the mine, as the vendor under-
takes to pay all brokerage, and preliminary expenses of
flotation and formation of the company, but as a consider-
able sum of money has been spent in securing and open-
ing up the properties, he is to receive, in addition to the
30,000 fully paid-up shares abovementioned, the first gross
returns from the crushings until the value of the same
amount to £3OOO.
DIRECTORS :
T. H. Thompson, Esq., M.V.1.E., Ballarat; Geo. O. Kelly,
Esq., Toorak; Wm. Hordern, Esq., 99 Queen-street;
J. F. Neave, Esq., Ohanceiy-lane; James Don, Esq.,
Ballarat.
BANKERS:
The Bank of Victoria Limited.
SOLICITORS : -
Messrs. Madden and Butler, 406 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
CONSULTING ENGINEER :
A. H. Merrin, Esq., M.C.E. (Lecturer on Mining,
Melbourne University).
BROKERS:
O. Van Assche and Hordern, 99 Queen-st., Melbourne.
SECRETARY :
Alfred Pfaff, 409 Collins-st., Melbourne.
This company is being formed by Mr. Alexander John
Miller to acquire from him, on the terms stated, certain
mining properties about four miles from Coolac railway
station, which is distant about 16 miles from Gundagai,
New South .Wales. These consist of a claim known as
“ Booth’s Reward,” which is an area of 35 acres recently
acquired by the vendor from the former proprietors (Mr.
Miller’s contract in relation to this acquisition may be
seen at the office of the Solicitors), and also an adjoining
claim of about 40 acres known as “ Mount Morgan,” ap-
plied for by Mr. Miller himself, as well as a further area of
20 acres, which, if obtained, will give the company
an area of about 90 acres, extending over country
which, according to the reports of Messrs. W. J. Wright,
A. H. Merrin, M.C.E., and R. H. Hamilton, obtained by
Mr. Miller, and which may be seen at the company’s
office, has been proved to be highly auriferous, with every
facility for being profitably worked if sufficient capital be
expended for providing the battery and other necessary
plant.
On the Booth’s Reward two shafts have been sunk, No.
Ito a depth of 140 ft., disclosing a large ore bed, from
which 254 tons have been taken, yielding an average of
Boz. per ton. Three hundred tons more of mixed ore and
mullock have been raised, and lie on the surface, giving
an average assay value of loz. 9dwt. 16gr. per ton. No. 2
is down to 105 ft., and is connected at this depth with No.
1 shaft. At the mouth of this shaft there are about 700
tons, showing 15dwt. sgr. per ton. On the Mt. Morgan
property a large amount of prospecting work has been
done by sinking numerous small shafts, and cutting
trenches and costeens, from nearly all of which good dish
prospects can be obtained. It is estimated that there are
on this property fully one and a quarter million tons of
crushing stuff, which could he put, through the battery at
a very small cost for a return of not less than fldwt. per
ton.
Steps are being taken in Adelaide to re-
establish the medical school on a decent basis.
Both the profession and Premier Kingston have
come to their senses, and are joining in the
aiithem~-“ Don’t shoot, Colonel, I’ll come down.”
The struggle over the validity of ex-
Treasurer Ward’s re-election to M.L. Parliament
is becoming an interesting complication. The
M.L. Act says that “ the seat of any member
shall become vacant ... if he is a bankrupt,”
&c. Ward is a bankrupt, and his seat became
vacant. Then he was re-elected, and as he still is
a bankrupt it certainly seems that his seat again
becomes vacant. Until he obtains his certificate,
m fact, it appears that every seat he gets becomes
vacant again as soon as he gets it, and re-electing
him is only pouring Ward through a sieve to no
purpose. Ward’s friends try to read the Act that
he only vacates his seat when he becomes a bank-
rupt, and that having, become, one and resigned
the matter ends there, but the letter of the
law is against them. Meanwhile the struggle to
keep the discredited Joseph in Parliament is
doing the Seddon Government no end of harm.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Premier Nelson, of Queensland, advances
it as his tired opinion that the selection of the
Federal capital must not be left to the Federal
Parliament, but must be done by the Convention.
In that case so much the less hope of having any
Federal Parliament. The chance of getting the
Federal capital in “our” province is one of the
big prizes in the Federal gamble, and the average
person doesn’t take tickets in a sweep if the
big prize is allotted in advance and the other fellow
has got it. Nelson also wants the financial
question settled by the Convention, and the sur-
plus allotted among the provinces. The probable
result would be that the only provinces which
would want to go in at all would be the one which
secured the capital and the one which reckoned it
had got ahead of the others in the rush for the
surplus.
III!
Telephone, S 6 KOG A 7? All—connected with Sydney Exchange.
n The ‘ Licit Hou.se Hotel,”
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes. LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH, On the Banks of Botany Bay
toftv ■•„ T t HE , fATOEEPB HEALTH RESORT. ...
I.o* BEDROOMS, and Luxuriously FURNISHED DRAWING ROOMS, READING ROOMS BILLIARD
_ ROOM and BATH ROOMS. ’
s&pss -sssa
B-ttoJfX.iSblin? Complaints), only on. minnf, walk to. hoW. Ftohin, .nd
Terms: From 25j- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
—°r York Street, Sydney.
The National Sank of Australasia Limited.
THE NINTH REPORT OP THE DIRECTORS
OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
t 1 " 6 * lo^618 aS obows in connection with the business of the bank for the
1116 previous hah-yfa” 6 ”*’ P . aid and aCCrued ’ rebate ; &C - amounted to
Total
Deduct note tax paid in Australia and income tax in great Britain
Leaving available ..
which it is proposed to dispose of thus, viz.
Dividend at 6 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Carry forward to next half-year
4
23,565% 2
£45,027 3 6
3,185 19 7
£41,841 311
£7,644 10 0
.. 34,196 13 11
the half-year! U? ° f the bank nOW stands at £2 - 010 > 549 6s - 3d - being an increase of £45,182 S^effiduring
The long-dated fixed deposits have been reduced from £3 015 563 10s 9d tn f t sttt - ~
cnnS e »Sy.®„“ EAL MEE ™° be hcW ” "meW, WnoveWbe® fKC” tKSfta.,,
By order of the Board of Directors,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited, Head Office, MelbournJ Manaffer '
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET for the Half-Year ending Sept. 30
Including London Office to August 28, and Western Australian Branches to Sept 13 1897’
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES. 1 ASSFTS * ’
1897,
Dr.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,678 Preference Shares,
paid in cash to £lO ..
250,000 Ordinary Shares,
paid-up to £4 per
share, representing
the paid-up capital of
the National Bank of
Australasia
Calls made on 250,000
shares, at £3 per share,
£750,000 ; calls in ar-
rear, £45,230 13s, 9d.;
amount of calls actu-
ally paid in cash
To Notes in Circulation
To Bills in Circulation
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest..
Bearing interest
305,780 0 0
1,000,000 0 ft
704,769 6 3
2,010,549 6 3
282,901 12 6
479,092 19 2
49,326 14 5
278,569 0 10
„ 327,895 15 3
To Other Deposits—
Not bearing interest.. 2,109,388 2 10
Bearing interest .. 3,366,415 7 9
To Interest accrued, and Rebate on cur-
rent bills
To Balances due to other Banks ..
To Profit and Loss Account..
5,793,699 5 10
48,463 13 6
141,615 9 8
41,841 3 11
£8,798,163 10 10
To Contingent Liability, as per contra .. £192,492 0 0
Or. g
By Coined Gold and Silver
and other coined metal 1,364,808 11
By Coined Gold in transitu 150,000 0
By Gold or Silver in bul-
lion or bars .. .. 28,915 12
By Cash at Bankers .. ] ,000 0
By Government, Munici-
pal, .and other Public
Stocks, Debentures, and
Funds
By Notes and Bills of other
Banks
By Balances due from other
Banks. 58,14116
By Bills m transitu .. 229,293 3
368,436 19 1
6,351 4 10
By Real Estate, consisting 1 of bank pre-
mises, at cost to the bank
By other Real Estate, at cost to the bank.
less £103,968 12s. written off
By Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts
By Bills of Exchange and Promissory
Notes discounted, not included in above,
exclusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts
By Duty Stamps
2,196,947 7 5
457,121 19 3
445,190 3 0
. 4,566,517 6 3
1,129,«50
3,336
£8,798,163 10 10
By Liability of the Old Bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain Shire and Mu-
nicipal Debentures (Victoria) sold in
London, and which are being duly pro-
vided for by sinking funds, in terms of
the Act authorising their issue, £115,100 ;
and liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit and drafts, £77,392,
as per contra £192,492 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 107 Branches,
and nine Agencies £53,156 17 7
To Note and Income Taxes 3 i«5 19 7
To Balance 41,841 3 11
£98,184 1 1
By Balance brought forward .. £23,565 15 2
By Gross Profits, including recoveries, less '
rebate on bills current, interest paid and
accrued on deposits, repairs to premises,
and rent 74,618 6 11
£98,184 1 1
;heOffida t l O Rep l ?rt UditorS ReP ° rt th ® Directors ’ Statements, to comply with the Companies Act 1896, appear
JOHN O. ADDISON, Assistant Chief Manager.
MINI
PIPES.
warranted
Finest fland-made BRIARS.
Bafyd lostrOrpeots •'
At Immense Reductions!
W. H. GLEN and CO.,
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY,
ARE now Selling MUSICAL INSTRU-
MENTS ol ALL KINDS
AT LESS THAN COST PRICE
FOR CASH ONLY.
A Few of the Lines Now Being Offered :
GAUTROT’S B FLAT CORNETS, new model,
30s. and 355. each ; usual prices, 60s. and 70s.
GAUTROT’S E FLAT CORNETS, 50s. each ;
usual price, £5.
GAUTROT’S B FLAT and C BASSES, 575. 6d.
each ; usual price, 90s.
GAUTROT’S D and E FLAT ALTOS, 425. each ;
usual price, 80s.
GAUTROT’S G TROMBONES, 475. 6d. each;
usual price, 90s.
LECOMPTE’S ALTOS and CONTRALTOS,
355. each ; usual price, 80s.
BESSON’S 10 and 12 Guinea CORNETS for 100 s.
and 110 s. each.
GAUTROT’S A, B FLAT, and C CLARIO-
NETS, 455. each ; usual price, 84s.
FLUTES, 4,5, and 6 keys, best English make,
95., 9s. 6d. and 10s. each.
FLUTE FLAGEOLETS, 4,5, or 6 keys, 11s.,
12s. 6d., and 14s. 6d. each.
VIOLINS, good models, from 15s. each.
VIOLIN CASES, from 6s. 6d.
VIOLIN BOWS, from ss.
VIOLIN, BOW, and CASE, complete, for 21s.
ACCORDIONS, Imperial, 15s ; steel reeds, 17s 6d.
CONCERTINAS, 20 notes, 55., 7s. 6d., and Bs. 6d.
CONCERT and ELEGIE ZITHERS, in casq.
complete, 555.
AUTO-HARPS, 3 bars, 19s. each.
AUTO-HARPS, 6 bars, 255. each.
BRASS and WOOD INSTRUMENTS by all
the PRINCIPAL MAKERS,
And all other MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and
SUNDRY GOODS,
AT
EQUALLY LOW PRICES for CASH ONLY.
Catalogues Gratis to any Address.
Instruments Sent to any part of the Australian
Colonies at above Prices.
All Country and Intercolonial Orders must be
accompanied by a remittance. We make no charge
for packing or delivery at Melbourne railway
station or wharf.
W. H. GLEN and CO.,
272 and 274 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE; and
359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
Y Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.,
can BE COMPLETELY CURED by
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace:—
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Fitzroy-
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain an)- relief from others,
was completely cured by me 15 months ago, and
has kept in better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
was cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs.. Nicholle, near comer of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
Acknowledgments.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago and double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried dootors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief froirj the first
suppiy of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—-Heleg Exstrom, McCracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick :—Rheumatism 10 years, years
on crutches, and for two years had not walked at
all; all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless ; life made miserable ; ease pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Under
my remedy, contractions come out. Can walk
without aid of crutch or stick ; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
Ihis purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. I
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any colony, ill.*
What is Health?
Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Paradh,
F TZROV. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.


Per s.s. Duke of Buckingham,
Indramayo, Darmstadt,
Argus,
AND OTHER STEAMERS.
FINRCy, ESLCS & CO.
HAVE RECEIVED A FURTHER
197 Packages,
Making 852 Bales & Cases
OF CAREFULLY-BOUGHT
SUMMER GOODS,
COMPRISING
THE LATEST NOVELTIES from BRITISH,
CONTINENTAL and EASTERN MARKETS.
DO NOT BE MISLED !
Adopt the True Test —COMPARISON-
YOU WILL FIND
Best Values and Largest
Assortment by Far
—AT—
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.’S,
BRISBANTB.
MELLIHS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Haikdkesseks and
To the Trade.
WIGHIAKKKS
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inaiarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG- <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
SICiNETW^??£I
©wW? Aj
} M
V
-M
O
y^
r
> D
\
3:
■ ozm
o
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here."
German Tourist: “Zen vyf You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other Tobacco.”
FTIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
How it is done in Germany. From Ber-
lin Police Gazette, July 2:
Under the name of Elixir Godineau, a remedy recom-
mended for an®mia lias been adrertised and sold. Its
price is 20 marks (£1) per bottle. On analysis it has been
found to contain 2 per cent, of meat-extract and some
syrup. The public are informed of this, and warned
against purchasing it.”
“Mr. Fergus Hume, to be quite frank,
has no more style than a bill-broker.”—-Academt
(London).
Sentiment and business from S.M;
Herald : „„„
RETURN OF THE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN.
THEIR DOINGS IN ENGLAND.
The Mounted Riflemen return to-day. . . . They
have witnessed tho power of that wonderful sentiment
which the late Henry Parkes felicitously termed the
“ crimson thread of kinship.” . . . The very horses
which they will ride cannot fail to remind us that they
are similar to those which were sold by the members of
the contingent in England at an average over £4O a head.
Never mind about the “crimson thread;” let us
give praise that the horses were sold.
Melb. : “Duffy, touching on his slight at-
tempts to practise at the Bar, reminds us how
evanescent is fame in that walk. Fellows towered
so by head and shoulders over all that he is per-
force remembered while Madden, Purves, Holroyd,
Williams, and so’ on are in the land of the living.
Banco made all Fellows’ celebrity—the tip-top line,
of course ; but at nisi prius he was nowhere beside
Ireland, Aspinall, Michie, Dawson, Wood, Mart-
ley, and even others. Michie is only a survivor,
but Dennistoun Wood is a sturdy relic of brilliancy
in all but the first rank. The blarney of Billing
may preserve his memory somewhat as a fly in
amber, while verdict-getters like Sewell and Chap-
man have sunk in oblivion. Looking for some-
thing else, I have just turned up Michie’s speech
of 40 years ago in George Milner Stephen v. the
Argus, covering a page. What fire and power !
What pace! Duffy, Parliamentary colleague of
both, says Michie equalled Disraeli.”
Ed. Bulletin,— lll old Parramatta ceme-
tery last month I found a dilapidated, square,
sky-facing tomb with a most interesting inscrip-
tion, which I subjoin. Time and weather are
gradually rendering the writing illegible, but it
would not cost much, if the work is done at once,
to give the memorial another half-century’s in-
telligent existence. —-C. R Wilton, Adelaide,
Oct. 10.—
SACRED
to the memory of
AUGUSTUS THEODORE HENRY ALT
who died Jan. 9, 1815, aged 84 years
late Surveyor-General of New South Wales at the first
settling of this colony, which situation he held till
superannuated.
He served as Lieut, in the Guards in George the Second’s
Reign.
Was aide-de-camp to Prince Ferdinand at the battle of
Minden and Capt. in the Royal Manchester Volunteers at
the siege of Gibralter under General Elliott where he
distinguished himself in a most gallant manner.
He died universally regretted by all his friends, who lost
in the Baron a most Complcat Gentleman and a man who
never tolc an Untruth to the injury of another man.
This Monument is erected by his nephew
MATHEW BOWLES ALT
Lieut, in his Majesty's Royal Navy as a Tribute of
Gratitude to His Respected Uncle.
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A. #
Pompous Dr. Evans, in the first Victorian
Parliament, asked, “ Mr. Speaker, do I see a Pitt
on the Government benches?” Attorney-General
Dick Ireland : “No, but I see a cunning old Fox
in Opposition.”
CHISEa
GrO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. G«I.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindiri & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
A BOON to SYDNEY
J
y/E
"3
b
o
G>
\fA
Centennial Insect pouider.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers — Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MFG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
OF VITAL INTEREST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “WORDS OF
WISDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Thousands have been
PERMANENTLY CURED after trying all
other means. If you have been humbugged and
disappointed, write to-day for the Book and 5000
testimonial letters, posted FREE, SEALED and
WITHOUT MARKS.
Address : ' DR. IRVING CO.,
Corner HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Amies
m
-EOK-
infants,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
"PAKRoT
SWpTur
\foUNDC
(bUGMS (pL?S £c J
Beware of*
Imitati®^S
MELBOURNE.
00 YOU
A
POST FRi-E
WATCHES-CLOCKS-JEM/ELLERY-BIRTriDAY*
WEDDiINIG Z CHRISTENING PRESENTS
H-MeWMAH- 1755177-ELIZABETH 5T‘
OPPOSITE G:P,O.
MELBOURNE.
Whitehead’s *.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store: Washington-st., n nrv , » TT
near Druitt-stree't. UUXUJJaIIy .
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
■Doclalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
nodalla T3acon.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
| gocLa.l la Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY. *
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
And Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. Mills.
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Suffer rs from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing- cough, difficulty of breathing’, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject tc
colds on the cbj?st it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No houseshould be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
certain.
“Mr. W. O. HEARNE.- Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘Bronchitis Cure,’ J got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night, sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured roe, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria,.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its disiinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 5S
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. fid. : large, 4s. fid. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. DOLUS rmWNE'S
f HLORQgyME
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
;he Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN*.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure ail NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
hv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tive Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will prompt!v
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout. Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.-
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NciVo6& WcakfycSs - - -
AND
Ccrebro-Spioal Piscas*!,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention this paper when writing.]


A CASE IN WHICH SEVEN
SPECIALISTS FAILED.
NINE MONTHS’ AGONY IN THE MEL-
BOURNE HOSPITAL.
OR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS FOR PALE
PEOPLE TO THE RESCUE.
(From the Melbourne Advocate.)
Dave Kirk, the well-known and highly-popular
hero of the cycle track, was, on the Btn October of
last year, training in the Scotch College Grounds,
Melbourne, when, all of a sudden, and without
any warning, the tire of the leader broke, and
becoming at once entangled in the wheel, brought
the rider to the ground with terrific force. So
great was the impact that not a single limb or
member of the unfortunate cyclist’s frame escaped
serious injury. In all haste the victim was re-
moved to the Melbourne hospital, more dead than
alive, and quite unconscious from shock and
hemorrhage. A hasty examination of the
patient by the medical staff of that institution
showed them that the case was a most serious one,
and the grave looks of the surgeons in attendance
plainly indicated that they entertained but the
slightest hopes of the unfortunate young man’s
Doctor
recovery. AH that the resources of that fully-
plenished hospital could command were brought
into play for the relief of the patient, but the
gravest fears were felt as to his ultimate safety.
The external injuries were not, after all, the most
serious—the symptoms of serious internal injury
to the nervous system were all too patent to the
practised and expert eye of the medical faculty.
80 serious, indeed, was the case of Dave Kirk
considered, that an eminent surgeon who called to
see the patient declared it as his opinion that the
patient would, in all probability, never rise from
his sick bed. There poor Dave lay, betwixt life
and death, for about seven weary and exceedingly
trying months of pain and suffering, unable to
stir hand or foot, unable to move from side to side
—a victim of hemorrhage, spinal disease, pleurisy,
dysentery, complete paralysis of the body, and
last, but by no means least, locomotor ataxy, a
fearful complaint, which utterly prostrates the
human frame and destroys the power of the will;
so much so that the common functions of nature
are performed by a power absolutely extraneous to
the will. An idea of the dreadful injuries sus-
tained by the patient may be gathered from the
following details gleaned from Kirk by our repre-
sentative. His left heel had to be removed, and
32 stitches were inserted in that part of his
foot, 18 being placed in his right leg. The knee-
cap was smashed, and had to be lifted. Alto-
gether seven surgeons had to do with the sufferer,
Pale
who was reduced to a very weak and almost ooma-
tose state after nine operations had been performed
on him. Mortification set in in parts of the lower
limbs, and artificial means had to be employed to
draw off the urine. The system was washed in-
ternally four times every day with water and car-
bolic acid, the stomach being cleaned out by means
of a tube. Injections were also largely employed.
This was a most singular case, and one which
must have afforded ample play for the physician’s
skill and experiment, yet it remained for Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills to effect a radical and com-
plete cure.
THE BRIGHT SIDE OF THE PICTURE.
AN ASTOUNDING CHANGE.
After seven months of bed-ridden existence in the
Melbourne General Hospital, Dave Kirk left that
institution with faint hopes of ever being able to
get about without the aid of crutches, with all
hopes vanished as to his ability to again enter the
cycle arena and carry off once more those brilliant
laurels which were at various big wheel gatherings
wont to be his, for he was Victoria’s largest scratch
crack.
In May last Kirk’s friends, being impressed by
the numerous authentic and spontaneous testi-
monials from persons of both sexes, of every age
and condition of life, and in all parts of the world,
recommended a course of the now world-famed Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People as a last re-
source. Marvellous, but true, as may be learnt
from the patient’s own lips, no sooner had he begun
to take these wonderfully curative pills than
Kirk experienced palpable relief. To let him de-.
scribe himself the returning powers to his limbs
and nervous system generally : —“ Gradually the
sense of numbness began to disappear, and the
extremities acquired by degrees their wonted
healthy glow and warmth. While under treat-
ment in the hospital the sense of feeling entirely
disappeared, so much so that when the surgeons
would put a needle into any part of my body I
was absolutely insensible to the fact. To be sure
of the absence of the sense of touch, the doctors
would conceal my vision, and then question me as
to the part they were piercing ; but my answers
clearly proved to them that I was absolutely bereft
of all sensibility !
“ After a month’s trial of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I was able to throw aside my crutches. But
one of the most powerful effects of the pills was
the restoration of functional health. Bowel
troubles had been a terrible trouble to me ever
since the day I met with the accident. Regu-
larity in this direction was perfectly set up, and I
am now, after four months taking of these pills, in
the enjoyment of perfect health.” It wanted no
assurance of this, as those who had seen the sub-
ject of this narrative are not slow to express their
Burprise at the picture of health and almost com-
pletely resuscitated power of body and mind pre-
sented in the person of David Kirk.
But perhaps the most demonstrative proof of
the absolute numbness and absence of all feeling
in the patient while under treatment in the hos-
pital was the fact that, although he received a
shock from a powerful galvanic battery —a shock
so strong that the operator declared it to be half a
volt more than he had given to anyone in the in-
stitution for 40 years—Dave Kirk was utterly un-
able to feel its effect!
A PRACTICAL ILLUSTRATION OF
RESTORED VITALITY.
A few days ago Dave Kirk, who, by the way, is
to be found at his hairdresser’s and tobacconist’s
establishment, 471 Elizabeth-street north, caught
sight of a certain individual to whom, it seems,
he had let out one of his bikes on hire and
who is said to have been possessed of so bad a
memory that he forgot to return the machine to its
owner! As showing the restored strength and
vigor of the erstwhile bed-ridden man, Kirk made
a dash, and a hand-to-hand struggle ensued. His
opponent was a powerfully-built fellow, and a much
heavier weight than Dave. Blood flowed freely
on both sides, but Dave proved one too many for
his man, and with a dexterous effort managed, un-
assisted to get him into a cab, and took him uncere-
moniously off to lay a charge against him. That
was, perhaps, the mostpracticalevidenceof restored
vitality that could well be given on the part of
the cycle champion. Naturally enough, the thou-
sand and one chums of the once-thought dead, but
now very much alive, cyclist are loud in their
praises of the world-famed Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and whenever Dave goes out he is beseiged
with congratulations on his regained health. In
common gratitude, the athlete never fails to give
the whole credit of his recovery to that wonderful
remedy discovered by Dr. Williams. Moreover,
Williams
Kirk is able to trench a large garden at home, and
walk two miles daily to his business place.
EXTRACT FROM THE MELBOURNE
“ARGUS.”
“ Everyone has heard of Kirk, the crack racer.
About a month ago he met with an accident
whilst training, and has been in the Melbourne
Hospital ever since. The medical authorities say
that he will never ride again, as his spine has
been so badly hurt that he will likely be paralysed
for life.”
EXTRACT FROM THE “HERALD.”
“ Dave Kirk, residing at the Coffee Palace,
Victoria-street, North Melbourne, sustained
severe injuries through falling from his bicycle
while training on the track at the Scotch College
ground. The tyre of his bicycle burst, and Kirk
was thrown violently to the ground. He was re-
moved in a cab to the Melbourne Hospital.”
The latter extract appeared in the Herald on
the afternoon of the accident, October 9, 1896.
The former appeared in the Argus about a month
later, after the physicians and authorities had
placed him under treatment, and discovered that
his injuries had resulted in paralysis, spinal disease,
and locomotor ataxia, and that he was entirely
beyond their aid. His case was accordingly, by
the physicians who examined him, pronounced in-
People.
curable, and they told poor Kirk that he would
never rise from his bed again.
Pale and Sallow Faces.
DIZZINESS, SHORTNESS OE BREATH.
HEART PALPITATION, Etc.
This world is full of suffering and unhappiness.
In every walk of life may be seen young girls,
pale, sallow, and nerveless, the victims of troubles
peculiar to their sex, from which they suffer
m silence, and with the mistaken notion that there
is no help for them. Their lives are made miser-
able by headaches, dizziness, palpitation of the
heart, shortness of breath on the slightest exer-
tion, an indisposition for either work or pleasure,
and frequently a feeling that life is but a dreary
burden scarcely worth preserving. To all such we
say take hope ; there is a cure for your trouble,
and it is within your power to be bright-eyed,
rosy-cheeked, and happv. Dr Williams’ PINK
PILLS for PALE PEOPLE will restore your
lost color, correct irregularities, and bring baok
health and happiness. In proof of this assertion
read the following testimony from those who have
suffered and found renewed health through this
marvellous medicine: —
Miss Alma Millar,of Upper Southampton, ISI. 13.,
says : “ I scarcely know when my illness began, as
my mother was unable to work, and most of the
duties of a large household devolved upon me, so
that I felt that I must keep up, but I kept getting
worse and worse. My appetite failed, my com-
plexion became sallow, and my eyes sunken. I
was troubled with dizziness, shortness of breath,
and palpitation of the heart, until I would almost
suffocate. I was also troubled with a terrible pain
in the side. I could not go upstairs without rest-
ing, and was so afflicted with headache that my
life became almost unbearable. At last I was
forced to give up and keep my bed. My friends
feared I was going into consumption, but recom-
mended one remedy after another, which, how-
ever, did not help me. Finally I was induced to
try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and in less than
three weeks I was able to leave my bed, and after
using the pills a few weeks longer, I feel that I
am as well as ever I was. My appetite has re-
turned as well, and my strength and general
health are in every way restored. I feel that in
bringing this subject before the public I am only
doing justice to suffering humanity, and hope that
all afflicted as I was will give Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills a fair trial. ”
Sciatica—A Complete Recovery.
Mr. Ernest Buckhold now resides at 226 George-
street, Sydney. He is 51 years of age. Mr.
Buckhold has not always lived ashore; for 32
years he followed “a life on the ocean wave.” He
has had many trying experiences, and to face the
dread terrors of the deep on more than one occa-
sion. The story of his miraculous escape from
death is one full of interest, particularly to sufferers
from sciatic rheumatism. Here is his statement:
—“ I arrived in Sydney in May, 1896, from Japan,
suffering severely from pains in the right leg. The
trouble increased daily to an acute stage. I as-
cribe the malady to exposure and wet feet. The
pains were first in the hip, and occasionally shot
to the calf and the foot. I had no peace or rest
night or day. I could not sit down to a meal, but
had to lean heavily against the table. The pain
took away all desire for food, and I could not
Pink
sleep. I had to leave the ship, and take to bed at
Ashfield. I got worse, and was bed-ridden, and
in great agony for three months. My hip grew
out, and the joint bone in the back protruded. I
endeavored to get about the house with the
assistance of two sticks. But it was a great
struggle to move, and caused excruciating pain.
I could not bear to put the foot to the floor. Two
months afterwards, in September, I had to take
to bed again, and for 70 nights morphia was in-
jected. I remained in bed till the 31st December
last. In January of this year, the E. and A. S.S.
Company granted me a passage to Japan.—This
was done with the hope that the change would
effect a cure. Five days after leaving Sydney the
full fury of the malady returned. In fact, it was
worse than ever. I was unable to go to the table
for food, and would rather go without a meal than
walk a short distance. The perspiration would pour
out of me with the pain, which doubled me up. The
slightest movement meant indescribable torture.
Yet, there was no cessation from suffering while
I kept quiet. When I arrived in Japan, I thought
to take a position at Kobe, but I found that the
incessant pain incapacitated me for any work. I
was compelled to return by the Australian, and
arrived in Sydney on the 13th May last, a physical
wreck and a bag of bones, and with undiminished
pain. Two days later, I purchased some Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. This was a
critical moment, and I despaired of recovery. I
Precious.
was like a vessel suddenly taken aback ; every-
thing seemed against me. I followed the direc-
tions for taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
after using three boxes I felt much improved. I
continued with the fourth, with happy results. I
had four pills left from tjpe sixth box when I had
become perfectly strong, healthy, and robust. I
can now walk any distance without fatigue, and
suffer no pain whatever. My appetite is keen.
The recovery was gradual at first, and then rapid
towards absolute cure. I began the pills on the
15th May, and put the unswallowed four aside on
the 14th June. I have taken none since, for mv
health has been thoroughly re-established. I
arranged with Captain Legg, of the s.s. Thornley,
to go as chief steward as far as Adelaide, to as-
certain how I would get along on a sea voyage.
Well, the work was hard and the weather bad,
and my feet and clothing were often wet, but I
fared first-class and suffered no ill-effects. I re-
turned to Sydney on the sth July by the A.U.S.N.
Company’s steamer Waroonga in perfect health
and strength. I now feel fit for any work.”
“ Yes, I passed through twelve months of un-
speakable suffering, which I am sure would have
been averted had I known of the extraordinary
efficacy of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People. However, I trust my experience may
bring hope to the hearts of others suffering from
sciatica. ”
An Enervated System Revived.
(From the Cart/i'ON Gazette, Melbourne.)
Mr. A. Bayers, of 57 Adam-street, South Yarra,
is, perhaps, one of the best known mining men of
Victoria. It would be a difficult thing, in fact, to
6T
find any mining
centre where this
gentleman has not,
with more or less
success, assisted in
the development of
Victoria’s golden
treasures. At Bal-
larat, Sandhurst,
Maldon, etc., his
name and person are
familiar. While
awaiting fresh op-
portunities, and at
the same time re-
cuperating there
is nothing so wear-
ing on the system
as a life on ’Change
—he has been so successful in the later respect
that one of our representatives, visiting him on
business, could not help remarking it.
“I feel better now than I have for many years
past. The last two months my whole system has
been retimed—wound up to concert pitch, as it
were,” was the reply.
“ You suffered severely ? ”
“Yes, but not so much physically as from an
entire absence of tone in the system. I could
transact my business fairly well, but the continual
excitement of over three decades of mining life —
prospecting, promoting, speculating, and Exchange
life—had told on me of late years. The Bystem
had run down ; that was about it.”
“ Why not have visited a medical man and
secured a tonic ? ”
“ I did ; several doctors agreeing that it was a
tonic I required. But they failed to supply that
much-needed mental and, also, physical bracer.
They supplied plenty of them, both in quantity
and variety, but with no appreciable benefit —the
least business-effort bringing about a recurrence of
the all-overish feeling.”
“ What do you attribute the change to?”
“ Well, a barrister-friend of mine, a great suf-
ferer from paralysis, mentioned to me the immense
benefit he had experienced from a course of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and, some
two months since, I invested in a couple of
boxes.”
“ How did they pan out ? ”
“ Much better than some of my mining specs.—
like pure gold. A few boxes strung me up pro-
perly, my appetite improved, and work (before a
heavy task) became a pleasure.”
“ Taking them still ? ”
“ No. A few boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
did for me what pounds’ sterling worth of doctors
stuff failed to accomplish.”
“ You are perfectly satisfied of the merits of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for purifying the blood and
as a nerve tonic ? ”
“ Certainly. For retoning a system run down
by overwork or mental anxiety, they cannot be
beaten, and I lose no opportunity of so informing
my fjiends.”
Pills
A Safeguard against Headaches.
“ Merrylands,” Barradine Creek, _
Via Marrabri and Pilliga.
To the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s-place, Sydney.
Sir,
I have much pleasure in ordering another box
of your wonderful Pink Pills. I can safely say
they are a wonderful medicine ; from the use of
them I have derived great benefit. I have
already had two
boxes of your Pink
Pills, and lam now
ordering a third;
but I can already
testify as to the
good your Pink
Pills have done me.
The first box I re-
ceived in the sum-
mer months, dur-
ing which time I
suffer extremely
from headaches,
etc. Last summer
I en joy ed splendid
health, being never troubled with either pain or
ache.
Priceless.
I heartily recommend them to all sufferers as
being a really good medicine. Enclosed find 2s.
9d. in stamps for another box of Pink Pills.
You can make whatever use you think fit of this
testimony.
Yours respectfully,
ELIZABETH FORREST.
*
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People have
cured paralysis, locomotor ataxy, rheumatism and
sciatica; also all diseases arising from impoverish-
ment of the blood, scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexions, general
muscular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,
all'forms of female weakness and hysteria. These
pills are a tonic, not a purgative. They are
genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams 1
Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by
chemists and storekeepers generally, or the Dr.
Williams’Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney,
will forward, on receipt of stamps or post order
one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 15s, .‘id.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
' BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
TT. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 1/5
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
SpriQg BOds BOrst
MARK FOY’S.
A RIOT OF LOVELINESS.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUC
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO.. SYDNEY.
-poi^eyr
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
<{{JLowv\Qfir
by tlje.
7**o ICAL?
FRO/A
FK IL.
MOTELS
Spirit
Business, Bobbery, etc.
A strict observer of Jewish religious cere-
monies, feasts and fasts is a money-lender who returned
to Australia in time to take advantage of the Day of
Atonement—and, coincidentally, to cater for the many
co-religionists who depend on him to finance them during
the racing-boom. His strength amongst the borrowing-
division of the sporting community is largely due to his
having both backers and layers under his thumb. Backer
A has lost, say, £lOO to Bookie B on Saturday, and cannot
face Monday’s settlements. Both are clients of the
financier’s. He lends Backer A the £lOO for the week for,
say, £lOO. The £lOO lent to A is repaid to the lender by
Bookie B the same day in settlement of perhaps £5O,
with which the money-lender had started the bookie’s
“ bag ” two days before. The next Wednesday perhaps
the Bookie B gets hit, and has to borrow from the
financier at high interest enough to pay the Backer A,
who in turn repays the usurer’s loan to him (A) of the
previous Monday, and so it goes on. A good game !
Mein Vrendt, make your schildrens shtudy de compound
inderest table !
* * * *
On the lower parts of the stone-walls of a re-
constructed Southern bank are sculptured a number of
open-mouthed lions’ heads. About 30ft. above each of
these hungry-looking carvings are human heads with
most mournful expressions. The sculptors, who did the
work 20 years ago, had rare prophetic instinct, and
apparently intended the animals’ heads to depict the
bank’s directors of to-day, but present facts justify a
little more misery in the expression of the faces of the
shareholders evidently represented above.
* * * *
The next time Sydney needs a high city official
it should import one from Glasgow—a city which has
more practical acquaintance with the municipalisation of
public services—gas, water supply, trams, hydraulic power
and the like—than any other town on earth.
• • • *
Re Sydney tram-fare changes. If The Bulletin
were going to open a shop on a tram-line, it would take
good care to bargain for a clause abrogating the lease in
the event of any detrimental alteration in the price of
locomotion.
* * * *
The yarn told by the ‘Lucknow Co.’s labor-
agents to explain away the odious house-searching pro-
vision : “ See, it’s this way. In ordinary circumstances,
when suspicion is aroused—and you know the stone’s so
very rich—why, a search-warrant would be got and a
police constable would execute it. That means gossip
and all sorts of unpleasantness. As it is, the provision is,
if necessary, enforced without any fuss, and nobody’s the
wiser. So you see we adopt this measure just out of
respect for the men’s own feelings."
* * • •
Bendigo Miners’ Association carried a motion
that no action be taken with regard to the Lucknow
strike. Thereupon an agent of the co., who was seeking
labor in the district, apparently reckoning that he had
fallen among pals, sent in a request that he might be
permitted to address a meeting of members which had
been called for a Saturday evening. The committee
invited the agent to talk to itself, but barred the general
meeting against him And apparently he pleaded so
well that at the general meeting the members of the com-
mittee got the old motion rescinded, and, further, carried
a motion authorising a ballot as to whether £lOO should
be sent to the strikers ! Likewise, the Broken Hill miners
have relented, and promise help.
* * * *
Gold-stealing is said to be rampant at Kal-
goorlie, on suspicion of which a well-known mining
manager has just dismissed men from a local bat-
tery. The plates running from two battery-boxes were
almost barren, while the others were covered with
heavy amalgam, and the whole battery was crushing
from the same mine—Horseshoe. A mighty hard thing
to stop gold-stealing in mines where there is much to
steal. The Bulletin’s remedy might be tried : Let the
onus rest with all miners to account for any gold found in
their possession, and not with managers to prove that it
came from any particular mine. Miners working for
wages should be content to rub along without gold in any
form but sovereigns.
* * * *
Last year Lansell, by far the biggest holder in
the Great Southern mine, Bendigo, offered to bond it to
Mactear, the South African cyanide and mining expert,
who, however, was not on at the price. The mine had
struck the new run of gold, but was not opened enough
to see the extent. It has since paid in divs. about double
the money then asked for the mine.
* * * *
In Melb. police force are men who lend money
in small sums at heavy interest by the month to their
comrades. Apart from the extra money numbers of the
foorce earn as tailors, cobblers, &c., not a few' draw rents
from property, equalling, if not exceeding, the amount of
their pay ; and two, at least, are said to make small books
among their comrades on the leading Vic. racing events.
More than one Melbourne police official has substantial
interests in ponv-racing stables.
• * * *
A Maoriland brewer, who had settled in Mel-
bourne, told a Bulletin man that since he had come to
the smellful city he had learnt to brew a beer 30 per cent,
cheaper than ever he had believed it possible. “ But,
then,” he added, “ they’ve got a population in Melbourne
who never knew good beer.”
* * * »
Many people in Melbourne know who the
potentate is who won’t cut his loss on tobacco, but he
goes one better than hanging on to the hopeless 11-years-
stored weed. He has on hand over 40 gross of common
spectacles, costing 10s. 6d. a dozen, which he brought to
Melbourne when he landed here in 1849 ! They are now
worth 18s. 6d. a gross. He imported printing plants in
’6B which cost him £12,000 at the time, but are now
worth perhaps £6OO. Rather than sell at a penny loss, he
is actually trying to sell both stocks at cost in London,
where the plant would scarcely fetch the price of old
iron, and the specs, would not realise the value of the
metal rims. Clearly a bad spec. !
* * * *
The man who doesn’t take or give tips is finding
it phenomenally hard to do business in N.S.W. contract-
ing circles since certain English firms spread tentacles
around. Some high officials, controlling big contracts,
could tell queer stories of the way they have been
“ approached and some won’t, for they have met the
approacher half-way. There is an odour about one or
two recent transactions “strong as Death and deep as
Hell.”
* • * *
An amusing thing lately took place before Kal-
goorlie (YV.A.) Licensing Bench. There were many appli-
cations for publicans’ and provisional licenses—all opposed
by a solicitor on behalf of the L.V. Association. It was
pointed out by solicitors for applicants that the actual
names of those opposing should be stated. The Bench
concurred, and the names of most of the leading local
publicans, with the addition of “ and others,” were given.
Now, several holders of wine-licenses had joined the pub-
licans in forming this association, framed (in part) to keep
up a monopoly, and one of these wine-men was now apply-
ing for a publican’s license. He confidingly imagined
that, since he belonged to the guild, his application
would, anyhow, not be opposed, especially as several of
the members had signed the advt. affirming him to be “ a
person of good repute,” &c. When the solicitor read out
the names of his opponents, however, there appeared
amongst them several who had signed his advt., and he
found himself in the novel position of having uncon-
sciously joined his friends in feeing a lawyer to oppose
his own application ! The kind “ friends,” of course, had
not expected that their names would have to be dis-
closed in court; and the fat in the fire has been frizzling
ever since.
* * * *
Howe, one of the Con ventioners, and chairman
of B.H. Junction directors, was much disgusted when,
after travelling up to Newcastle, he was met at the Cockle
Creek (Ashcroft sulphide process) works with the intima-
tion that visitors weren’t allowed over the works except
on production of an order from the London board 1
This lias lately been the experience of several people.
Certainly Howe is a Junction man j and the Camden
syndicate, which has a big say in that mine, has also a
big say in a rival works.
There must be money in the glass-trade when it
pays men to go round the mullock-heaps and corporation
tips, turn them over with pick and shovel, and cart away
broken glass, as they are now doing round Melb.
* * * *
Something is said in newspapers every day re
the operations of the Bull exploration cos. who have
mines and representatives in Australia ; now, the Ex-
ploration Co. of Australia is in process of incubation. It
is to have a very large operating capital, and its own
examiners, consisting of several of the best-known Aus-
tralian mining men. The founders have been prominently
connected with the formation of similar organizations else-
where, and the fixed determination seems to be to keep
good mines and the money made out of them in the
country, and to exercise much more than ordinary judg-
ment and discrimination in selection. It has adopted the
name of the boss mining body of the world—the Explora-
tion Co.—which has missed many a good mine but never,
or hardly ever, got hold of a bad one, and can reckon its
profits by millions. That co. has operated successfully in
Australia.
• * • •
A rumor which keeps rising periodically from
nowhere in particular concerns a possible gold rush in
China. Probably it will come by-and-bye. China is
notoriously a rich mineral country, and a big gold-find is
more than possible as the while man eats his way further
and further into the interior. As likely as not it will be a
very big find—and then there will be a rush which will
trample Joss underfoot, and bang Confucius endways,
and knock spots off Buddha. The one thing which would
shake up the great mummified empire and blow the dust
of fifty centuries off it would be a gold scurry like that of
early California.
*- • * *
The rush of stony-brokers, who wish to avoid
the terrors of the new (Vic.) Insolvency Act (which comes
into force Ist Jan.) has not yet set in. A little more pub-
licity as to the stringent provisions of the Act would cause
an unprecedented rush to the Insolvency Court before
the end of this year. Gentry with doubtful settlements
on their wives are hereby specially urged to hurry up.
“ Now is the time of grace. Now is the day of salvation.”
Never to occur again.
• * * *
Coffee-growing, according to a Ceylon expert,
should simply boom in Northern N.S.W. The few trees
he met with have been producing more than five times
the average Ceylon yield, at which rate he estimates a
return (with 1200 trees) of £2OO per acre.
* * * *
Johannesburg butchers are erecting cold-storage
chambers, and contracting to supply dealers with as
many thousand carcases of imported mutton as they can
take' at an all-round rate of 5Jd. per lb.
* * * *
A bad item for Queensland planters. In Java a
disease has appeared that attacks the roots of the cane.
The roots rot and the canes die. Cause unknown ;no
known remedy ; the planters are helpless. At all events,
this will relieve the monotony of the tick question.
* * * *
A great cattle-artist’s game in Queensland is to
take out a miner’s right, and, on the strength of that,
graze cattle on large areas of proclaimed goldfield, thus
evading the payment of rent. A determined effort is,
therefore, to be made in the Assembly, under the new
Land Bill, to have goldfields areas placed under the juris-
diction of divisional boards. But how will this clash with
mining legislation ?
Bunny, the miner’s friend! Farmers and
squatters in Cassilis district, Gippsland, are terrified to
find the rabbit dropping in and making himself at home
at last. Hitherto the greater part of Gippsland has been
immune. Prospectors, however, hail bunny as a good
friend, and, considering the monotony of ’possum as a
steady diet, this is not to be wondered at. Besides,
bunny’s burrow proffers hints and indications that often
save the experienced prospector much slogging.
An English exchange avers that Premier
Turner started to learn bike-riding at a time when
he had a severe cold, and that every time he
sneezed he fell off. Which explains why the
bikists’ ranks don’t include a certain Right Honor-
able.
The Anglican Bishop of Christchurch
(M.L.) is credited by an English paper with
having made a sewing machine for his wife, and
with being clock-mender-in-ordinary to the settlers
in his diocese.
According to Singleton Argus, N.S.VV.
military authorities recently expended <£lo in
deciding who should pay for 17s. 6d. worth of
injury to a rifle. Three Muswellbrook officers
were provided with first-class return railway-
tickets to enable them to attend the portentous
enquiry at headquarters. “ The great art of how
no* to do it ” again !
The climate of Western Queensland is “a
caution ”at times. The other day at Longreach
(Centralia) the thermometer ran up gaily to 105°
in the shade. Then a hot wind-storm came along
and skinned the iron off some of the principal
buildings. And, shortly after, the night-tempera-
ture dropped down to 45° at a jump. And all this
occurred at the fag-end of Sept.
And so those children of grace, Parson
Boyce, and Clark and Cook (the prohibitionists),
have gone down, in N.S.W. Assembly, before the
spear of that son of Belial, the beer-loving Cope-
land ! How grog-secretary Bevill will chortle m
his exceeding glee, and poke borak at the array of
sour and intemperate puritans, who made the
awful mistake of boasting before they had. put off
their armour ! Macaulay, writing to his friend
Ellis concerning the wrath of the Tories on the
carrying of the Reform Bill, said : “ And the jaw
of Peel fell; and the face of Twiss was as the face
of a damned soul; and Herries looked like Judas
taking his necktie off for the last operation ’—a
par. which, if Clark and Holy Joe and Boyce were
substituted for Peel and Twiss and Herries, would
just about meet the present attitude of the leading
N.S.W. teetotallers towards Copeland’s version of
Local Option.


Are you blessed with
Boys ?
i IF SO,
Our Suitable Suits
a Strong at Knee and Stout
at Elbow, to tit 8 to 12 years,
half-guinea,
are well worth seeing at
Hordern Bros., Pitt-street (Only)
(Economy is Nature’s first law).
P.B. & N.B.—We have also School Saits al n Crown (os.).
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
6D-
£
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons, ,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
m
m.
m
wm
I
W
m
* - V
r
w
m
m
l
i
i
■//////////////,
7/m
{{ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
The Orthodox.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To my—unduly biassed—view,
Some folks I know
Seem somewhat quaint, no doubt ’tis true
To them I’m so.
They shine in every gracious deed
(If not in looks),
And every evening they read
Improving books.
lo mix the Bible they are prone
With all their views ;
And spend much cash to make them known
To the Hindoos.
Much sympathy they always find
For folks o’ersea ;
It grieves them much to see how blind
Is the Chinee.
The story-books they read evoke
No thoughts of guile;
And if they ever make a joke
They do not smile.
In all their ways they take much care
As if they had
A notion that—like eggs—they were
Turned quickly bad.
They gravely preach that Kingdom Come
Most men must miss ;
They think the hard-won bliss of some
The sum of bliss.
The soul set free from out its dust
They seek to guide ;
It seems as though they cannot trust
The Other Side.
. And yet they’re happier far than I,
For as they go
They trouble not'of Whence or Why,
But know they know.
If right or wrong, they spend their day
Sans care or doubt;
And, if they’re wrong, it’s likely they
Won’t find it out.
Unpatriotic, they despise
Our sun-swept strand,
And seek, beyond our star-strewn skies,
A Better Land.
And that is why our folks, they grieve,
Are lost to grace :
Australians cannot well believe
In such a place.
They tell me sadly that I may
Not meet them there;
But then, such is my reckless way,
I do not care.
Sydney.
ZEF.
A Lady at Shingle Hut.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Ribbone had just arrived.
She was the mistress of the local school, and had
come to board with, us a month. The respective
parents of the score of youngsters attending the
school had arranged to accommodate her, month
about, and it was our turn. And didn’t mother
just load us up how we were to behave—particu-
larly Joe.
* * * «
Dad lumbered in the usual log for the five,
and we all helped him throw it on—all except the
schoolmistress. She would have injured her long,
miserable, putty-looking fingers ! ' Then we sat
down to supper—that old familiar repast, hot meat
and pumpkin.
Somehow we didn’t feel quite at home ; but
Dad got on well. He talked away learnedly to
Miss Ribbone about everything. Told her, with-
out swearing once, how, when at school in the old
country, lie fought the school master and leathered
him well. A pure lie, but an old favorite of Dad’s,
and one that never failed to make Joe laugh. He
laughed now. And such a laugh ! —a loud, mirth-
less, merciless noise. No one else joined in
though Miss Ribbone smiled a little. When Joe
recovered he held out his plate.
“ More pumpkin, Dad.”
If wnat, sir ’! ” Dad was prompting him in
manners.
“If?” and Joe laughed again. “Who said
‘ if ’ ?—I never. ”
Just then Miss Ribbone sprang to her feet,
knocking over the box she had been sitting on,
and stood for a time as though she had seen a
ghost. We stared at her. “Oh,” she murmured
at last, “it was the dog! It gave me such a
fright ! ”
Mother sympathised with her and seated her
again, and Dad fixed his eye on Joe.
“Didn’t I tell you, he said, “to keep that use
less damned mongrel of a dog outside the house
altogether—eh ’—didn’t I ? Go this moment and
tie the brute up, you vagabond ! ”
“ I did tie him.up, but be chewed the green-
hide.’’
“Be off with you, you ” (Dad coughed sud-
denly and scattered fragments of meat and
munched pumpkin about the table) “ at once, and
do as I tell you, you ”
“That’ll do, father—that’ll do,” mother said,
gently, and Joe took Stump out to the barn
and kicked him, and hit him against the corn-
sheller, and threatened to put him through it if
he didn’t stop squealing.
He was a small dog—a dog that was always on
the watch—for meat; a shrewd, intelligent beast
that never barked at anyone until he got inside
and well under the bed. Anyway, he had taken a
fancy to Miss Ribbone’s stocking, which had
fallen down while he was lying under the table,
and commenced to worry it. Then he discovered
she had a calf, and started to eat that. She didn’t
tell us though—she told Mrs. McPherson, who im-
parted the secret to mother. I suppose Stump
didn’t understand stockings, because neither
mother nor Sal ever wore any, except to a picnic
or somebody’s funeral; and that was very seldom.
The Creek wasn’t much of a place for sport.
* * * *
“I hope as you’ll be comfortable, my dear.”
mother observed as she showed the young lady
the back-room where she was to sleep. ‘ “ It ain’t
s’ nice as we should like to have it f’ y’; we hadn’t
enough spare bags to line it all with, but the
cracks is pretty well stuffed up with husks an’
one thing an’ ’nother, and I don’t think you'll
hnd any wind kin get in. Here’s a bear-skin f’
your feet, an IVe nailed a bag up so no one kin
see min the morning. S’ now, 1 think you’ll be
pretty snug.
The schoolmistress bast a distressed look at the
wa ( .ving bag-door and said,
“ Th-h-ank you—very much.”
\V hat a voice ! I’ve heard kittens that hadn’t
their eyes open make a fiercer noise ; but then, I
suppose, a voice like the last wheeze of “the
dying poet is a sign of brains and breeding in a
young lady.
* * » *
Mother must have put all the. blessed
blankets in the house on the school-teacher’s bed.
1 don’t know what she had on her own, but we
only had the old bag-quilt and 'a stack of old
skirts, and other remnants of the family wardrobe,
on ours. In the middle of the night, the whole
confounded pile of them rolled off, and we nearly
froze. I).i what we boys would—tie ourselves in
knots and coil into each other like ropes—we
couldn t get warm. We sat Tip in the bed in turns,
anil glared into the darkness towards the school-
mistress’s room, which wasn’t more than three
yards away; then we would lie back again
and shiver. We were having a time. But, at last,
we heard a noise from the young lady’s room.
We listened all we knew. Miss Ribbone was up
and dressing. We could hear her teeth chattering
and her knees knocking together. But, then, we
heard her sneak back to bed again and feit disap-
pointed and colder than ever, for we had hoped
she was getting up early, and wouldn’t want the
bed any longer that night. Then we, too, crawled
out and dressed and tried it that way.
* * * *
In answer to mother at breakfast, next
morning, Miss Ribbone said she had “slept very
well indeed.”
We didn’t say anything.
She wasn t much of an eater. School-teachers
am t, as a rule. They pick, and paw, and fiddle
round a meal in a way that gives a healthy-
appetited person the'jim-jams. She didn’t touch
the fried pumpkin. And the way she sat there at
the table in her watch-chain and ribbons made
poor old Dave, who sat opposite her in a ragged
shirt without a shirt-button, feel quite miserable
and awkward.
For a whole week she didn’t take anything but
bread and tea though there was always plenty
good pumpkin, and all that. Mother used to
speak to Dad about it, and wonder if she ate the
litule pumpkin-tarts she put up for her lunch.
Dad couldn’t understand anyone not eating pump-
kin, and said that he'd tackle grass before he’d
starve.
“And did every’see such a object?” mother
went on. “ The hands an’ arms on her! Dear
me ! why, I do believe if our Sal was to give her
one squeeze she’d kill her. Oh, but the finery and
clothes ! Y’ never see the like ! Just look at her ! ”
And Dad, the great oaf, with Joe at his heels
followed her into the young lady’s bedroom. Man ’l
—will you ever understand Eve? Will she for
ever fool you and make of you even a greater
jackass than God Almighty originally framed you ?
.But I forgive Dad ; he needed variety.
Look at that !” —pointing to a couple of
dresses hanging on a nail—“she wears them on
week-days, no less; and here (raising the lid
of a trunk and exposing a pile of clean and
neatly - folded clothing that might have been
anything, and drawing the articles forth one
by one). Look at them ! There’s that —and that
—and this—and ”
“ 1 say, what’s this, mother? ” interrupted Joe,
holding up something he had discovered.
“ And that—an’ ”■
“ Mother ! ”
“ And this
“Heigh, mother?”
“Don’t; bother me, boy, it’s her tooth-brush,”
and mother pitched the clothes back into the trunk
and glared round. Meanwhile Joe was hard at
his teeth with the brush.
"’Oh, here,” and she dived at the bed and
drew a night-gown from beneath the pillow, un-
folded it, and held it up by the neck for inspec-
tion.
Dad, with his huge, ungainly, hairy paws
behind him, stood mute, like the great pitiful
elephant he was, and looked at the tucks and the
rest stupidly. “ Where before did y’ever see
such tucks and frills and lace on a night shirt?
Why, you’d think ’twere for goin’ to picnics in,
stead o’ goin to bed with. Hero too, here’s a
pair of brand-new stays, besides the ones she’s
on her back. Clothes ! —she's nothin’ else but
clothes. ”
Then they came out, and .foe began to spit and
said he thought there must have been something
on that brush.
Miss Ribbone didn’t stay the full month—she
loft at the end of the socond week ; and mother
often used to wonder afterwards why the creature,
never came to see us.
STEELE RUDD.
It is a stock-story down at Fiji how John
Hennings and Silas Page, two Levuka magnates,
once made a journey in an open boat to Suva—CO
miles at least. They were both in the provision
trade, and each had relied on the other to bring
the provender for the trip. When tiffin-time
came each gravely produced a bottle of pickles—
that s all.
It is told of a Melbourne suburban girl,
unwed and encumbered with a baby (quite a little
Ol } e > by the way) that she interviewed a lawyer
with a view to obtaining maintenance. “And
who is the father ? ” she was asked, and the simple
creature answered: “Well, I’m not sure, but
we’ll take the case to North Melbourne—Dr.
Lloyd’ll know.” Every woman in quest of 7s. 6d.
a week likes to appear before Dr. Lloyd.
A pretty bit of disloyalty from the Tory
Saturday Review
Among th e o°ns e q uenc es of possessing a Koval family
which has been made in Germany must be numbered the
pinchbeck importance conferred upon .every sausage-eat-
ing beer-bibber who chooses to forsake his fatherland, and
claim our too catholic hospitality.
The occasion of this snarl is the grovel which that
learned toady, Max Muller, is writing in Cos-
mopolis about “ Royalties” he has known.


AN INVALID FOR FIVE YEARS.
Pale, Emaciated, No Appetite,
COULD NOT WORK.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Cured Him.
Edward Graham, Collingwood, Melbourne, Victoria, writes
Gratefully of His Cure.
"In 2890 I had a severe attack of typhoid fever, and for nearly five
years after the fever left me was a confirmed invalid. I had no appetite;
became pale and emaciated, and was unable to work. I tried various
remedies but found no relief until I began taking AYER’S SARSAPA-
RILLA. This medicine greatly improved my appetite, restored my liver
and stomach to a healthy condition, and now my food digests perfectly
and I am better than ever I was in my life. For this I am deeply grate-
ful, and take pleasure in making known to others the value of your Sar-
saparilla.”
The wonderful success of the great blood purifier
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
has led to numerous imitations. The name—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is
prominent on the wrapper and is blown in the glass of each bottle. Re-
fuse all substitutes.
Highest Awards at the World's Great Expositions.
THE LAST OP SIX.
PRICE Is. ... ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
s“^
A
x^T
\\v\i
Leading Hotels.
Visitors to -
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centra
of City, First-class Board and .Residence j£l pei
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
QTXIESIESIsr’S HCOTBX.,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
JT. MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform hii
friends and the general public that he has taken th«
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
- - V
TPSI^
iRE - HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Term .s :
{
From 10s. per Day, and
•£2 IGs. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
BOOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
THE 6RANO CENTRAL
&FO«n« 9.R0.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
__ OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E STOYE,
Maiusbr. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
OTICE
MELBOURNE
TO
VISITORS.
WIMI’OLK’B GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st.., Toumsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
TOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
„.. Differs that he is skill conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on acoount of its central position—
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
e&lW's
T?°ftJ' hous a n, d Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Paha in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
. Liddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Coe-*irecess, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed bleep, and all Nervous and Trembling- Sensations Ac THE FIRST 00*31?
TOl GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES Ttefe nfieUon. Evel" suffeSS S
rrtTSa one 0X ese an< i will be acknowledged to be 44 WORTH A.
li U XJM a*A A BOX.
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; resto-’ing the long-lost Complexion ; bringing haek the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’ s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ONI, Is I£4, and 2s 9d each.
m
T>OGK OF NATUKE
“ —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By D*. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac's Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Arrk Mouret's Sin ; Tiie Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk Aiiout the Human System, new
edi tion, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wkddb*, by Paul de Kook, post free, Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
Sd ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, hy G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptambron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted hook, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marria&b As It Was, As It Is, and As it Suoule
Be. hy Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, 1/6 post.
Amativenbss, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Maria Mosk, Is 6d ; post, Is 9d.
The Sbrpbnt Tempted Ber: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbassoo’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Ktiqub te : ai ties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Fata, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tins Works of Rabklais, faithfully translated from
Ike French, unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor<s. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate On« s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book. Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
amplified, for home and public amusement, Is: Dost
free, Is 3d.
The Skcrst of Bkaoty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Tbli.ino Book of Fate, Dreamer's
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
Tub Wife's Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
Mow to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRAM SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
CJbeap Book Depot,
1« PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
NOT SUITABLE.
Cashier : “ Your services are no longer required.”
Engine-Driver : “ What have I done ? ”
Cashier : “ You’ve only killed one man this year, and your work doesn’t
give the line enough free advertising. You’ll have to get out ! ”


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—OOMFORTOJQ
COCOA
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ox-dinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
/--THE-'
Ballet (Sirl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free Xh*
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ARK —
\Y. MAMMATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF—
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
/SPOONS & FORKS
[ AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, IVEELBOXIRME
83 York Street, aYDKTEY.
WortWgtoo POnjpiog Eogiije Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SIIUPSOn. Brotliers. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON,'
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N
_
Victorias WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
Hew Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stooh:.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)—92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA,
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBjUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agoxxf Evex-ywHer-e. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
4
N€W!
rnzmm
5^
TOR THREADING PIPE.
08TER PITEDT MSIME DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
Witli Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
ANDLES AS
I ORDINART
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
One stock will tliread and cut oft from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - -
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s Baking
Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete
Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5
each, complete.
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7losea complete
8 Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip snap action
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £6, reduced £2 7s Gd each, complete ’
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements with cartridge
machines ami cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £4 15s each, complete. ’ s
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price £l5
reduced £5 5s each. ‘ 1 ’
6 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very best quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 15s
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Pair Trial given with every gun
Boi)OiOgtoi)’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Boi)OiO£too’S PillS.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver.
Us* Q Box.
