

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. <3K WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
& CO.,
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers & Iron & Metal Merchants,
Have a complete Stock of Shelf Goods, and every other description of Hardware.
Our Kindred Houses are —
BRHCOE and CO., Melbourne ; ARTHUR BRISCOE and CO., Dunedin ; _
BRISCOE, MACNEIL and CO., Wellington; and WILLIAM BRISCOE and SONS, London.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
A
Yj
% 5
$
<RAc><A«ocK>
c* *^cu
» s ■%
J??
K
v
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbrnt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Matiikr
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Eleorical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Engineering and Electrical
EXHIBITION.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
*
Wonderful Show of the Latest Inventions
in Electricity and Modern Engineering.
Take your CHILDREN and you will not
regret it.
We have a Show there, and it may
interest you.
J- C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERTS’
Wine and Spirit
Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
TEACHERS’ HIGHLAND CREAM WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
GLENLIYET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart 5s 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE EOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, •■“•USEES' STS
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
w*
(3 f fore vijihnj fhe Qfy wrirero the Manager for
(?rd of Tariff, (prrejpondence promptly attended To r
Lennon’s Hotel,
BXUSBA.3XTX!.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
' WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE - -
6ros^o©rHot^l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDKTEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
THE WOBLD-BHNOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
m
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISi & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch -16 Carrington-street,
WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
&T Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
—-J^S-
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
THE:'HORNSBY AKRO YD'
FIXED
AND
PORTABLE
Both First Prizes RASE(SiooJ
R L°Grantham
Henry Simon,
MEADOWBANK,
THE LEADING MILLING ENGINEER,
(Branch or Manchbbtbr Firm)
Has recently been appointed agent for the HORNSBY
AKROYD OIL ENGINE.
FROSSARP’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKET* OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol 18.— No 916. J
[Saturday, September 4, 1897.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE ROBERTSON & CO., i;
George Street, Sydnet.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d. •;
TALES OP THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin), by Price Waning ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d. . aA .
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. ofl.,
posted, 2s. 10d.
Write to vs for any Boole or Magazine you want. ■ J
AG. STEPHENS,
• jyTERARY AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal
All work involved between Author and Pub*
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P.O SYDNEY-
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
SINCE
THE DAYS
0F SOLOMON
Wisdom has not been exclusively confined to
the Jews, although that great race retains a
fair share of the commodity.
IT IS A SIGN OF WISDOM TO
SMOKE
CAMEO CIGARETTES
Why? you very properly suggest. Well, because
[To be continued in our next.]
THE BED PAGE OF AUSTRALASIAN NOTES AND QUERIES .
[lt ia desired to oolleot information from all manner of
readers and observers on all manner of curious and in-
teresting subjects. A not-exolusive preference will be
given to notes and queries especially Australasian, or kin
with Australasian, in their origin and reference —parti-
cularly to those dealing with aboriginal life and language,
natural history, white-Australasian language, customs,
exploits and typical developments, characteristic old-
time anecdotes, and so on. Brevity of statement is
essential. Writers must observe the'ordinary correspon-
dence conditions. The help of BullsriN readers every-
where is asked in recording some of many valuable facts,
impressions, or experiences which may otherwise be lost
to our country. Notes may be forwarded on any interest-
ing topio—not necessarily relatiug to something already
in print. Queries may be suggested; and any relevant
information will'be welcome in reply, even if not precisely
answering. Contributions must be endorsed ‘Notes and
Queries,' and if dealing with matters previously referred-
to the number of note or query and date of issue must be
added. All references to books should state title, author,
publisher, date of publication, place where published,
and pages quoted from ; and all records of personal
experience should give date and place of occurrence
(province, district, miles from nearest post-town), and
other helpful details.]
3. —Whistling Spears.
Spears whistle and spears don’t. It all depends
on the shape and make of the weapon, and the
manner in which it is thrown. A straight,
smooth, inflexible spear, thrown so that it has an
even course, and but one motion, makes no noise
—unless it passes very close to the ear, when the
swish of the wind may be heard ; but a weak,
pliable spear must certainly make a sound on
account of its quivering motion through the air.
Crooked and knotty spears will also whiz. In
like manner a short straight stick thrown end on
to the ground, so that it will revolve endwise in a
straight course, will cause a loud whirring sound.
A rough stone or pebble will make the same
sound; but a very round, Bmooth one is silent
until it has touched something.—E.S.S.
There are spears and spears; ears and ears!
‘Scotty the Wrinkler ’ gives the scientific reason
why spears make a noise, which is practically
(from my standpoint) that ‘Nature abhors a
vacuum’ and, consequently, Dame Nature,
being essentially feminine, emits a little shriek
or whistle when assaulted by the aforesaid
vaouum at the tail of the spear. It _is
» fact beyond controversy that all missiles
and projectiles are accompanied by a sound more
or less audible during their flight. A case in
point. I was in charge of an exploring expedition
in the days when Cairns and the Hodgkinson
were just in the egg. We had passed through a
part of the Trinity Bay coast country with-
out coming into close quarters with the
natives until we reached one of their winter
camps -on the high bank of a river, several
large grass-thatched huts being an interesting
and conspicuous feature. The tribe vacated the
camp on our approach, and we left the place,
making for the plains without disturbing their
goods and chattels. On the skirt of a broad plain
fwo blacks were seen making signs which we
interpreted as pacific responding in similar
terms; but immediately we with our horses
oarae near them, they scuttled away time
after time until our patience was exhausted.
The physical conditions of the country being
unfavorable to an ambush, I offered _ to
¥ake an individual attempt at an interview.
he rest of my party then walked slowly away,
and, as they retreated, the two blacks (abso-
lutely naked and waving their hands with ges-
tures of amity) approaohed the spot where I re-
mained mounted upon my horse. The grass was
short —a little above the knees of the two niggers.
Phey were apparently unarmed —no oover for
other members of the tribe being possible for at
least half a mile; so I allowed the two to get
within forty yards of me. My rifle rested in the
* bucket,’ and my revolver in its holster, as I cer-
tainly had no reason to suspect treachery of any
kind. Suddenly, as if by preconcerted signal,
each black made a quick, upward move-
ment of the right foot, lifting to the right
hand a spear (which had been trailed along
by the toes, concealed by the grass). The
two spears were thrown fair at me (unfair, I
■aid) at the same moment. I threw myself quickly
backwards on my horse’s back, and the spears
passed within a few inches of my body. If no
other spears in the world whistle, I solemnly
swear these two did —and so did I, with relief,
when I got away ! The rest of the story has no
ooncern here; but I brought those two spears
back with me—they were of beautiful workman-
ship, as is the case with all the coast weapons of
Central Q. ; and were each barbed with about 20
stings of the sting-ray or stingaree.-
SAQOHS.
L. FKRD.
This extraot applies
The ’ shrieking shrapnel,’ of whioh one reads in the
description of every battle, did not sound to me so much
like a shriek as it did like the jarring sound of telegraph
wires when someone strikes the pole from whieh they hang
(writes a correspondent of the ‘Times,’ who was at the
Velestine fight between the Greeks and the Turks). When
they passed very Close, the noise was like the rushing
that rises between two railroad-trains when they pass
each other in opposite directions and at great speed.
After a few hours, we learned by observation that when
we heard a shell sound overhead it had already struck
somewhere beyond us. which was comforting, and which
is explained, of course, by the fact that the speed of the
shell is so much greater than the rate at which sound
travels. We found the bullets much more disturbing ;
they seemed to be less open in their warfare, and to steal
up and sneak by, leaving no sign, and only whispering as
they passed. They moved under a cloak of invisibility,
and made one feel as though he were a blind man in a
game of blind-man’s-buff, where everyone tapped him m
passing, leaving him puzzled and ignorant as to whither
they had gone and from what point they would come
next. The bullets sounded like rustling silk, or like
humming-birds on a warm summer’s day, or like the wind
as it is imitated on the stage of a theatre. Anyone who
has stood behind the scenes when a storm is progressing
on the stage knows the little wheel wound with silk that
brushes against another piece of silk, and which produces
the whistling effect of the wind. At Velestino, when the
firing was very heavy, it was exactly as though someone
were turning one of these silk-wheels, and so rapidly as
to make the whistling continuous. —X. A.M.
This disoussion closes with the affirmation that in MI
probability any object moving through any medium
causes a sound-vibration or a vibration akin to sound-
vibration. A paper-boat floated by a zephyr is as noisy
in proportion to its size and speed as a line-of-battle ship
propelled by 15,000 h.p. And it is likely that Lorenzo
was right—
• There’s not the smallest orb which thou behold’st
But in his motion like an angel sings,
Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubim }
Such harmony is in immortal souls;
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
Both grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.’
Even in vacuo, despite ‘Scotty,’ the ether-disturbance
set up by a moving object probably makes a noise audible
by ears like those of Balder, who, as Norse legends
declare, could hear the grass grow.
Still, in any fair connotation, a * sound ’ is limited
by the range of vibrations which the best human ears
oan distinguish—and at the best times ; for the power of
hearing not only varies in different persons, but varies
from time to time in the same person according to phy-
sical condition. It is quite evident that the passage
through the atmosphere of a spear must cause sound-
vibrations, which will be audible or inaudible according
to the strength of the vibrations and the keenness of the
observer’s hearing. And obviously a thin, rigid spear,
cleaving the air with the least possible shock, is lees
likely to cause audible sound-vibrations than a thick, or
flexible, or barbed spear—just as a narrow-stemmed
torpedo - boat will out through water with hardly
a ripple as compared with the waves sent wallow-
ing from a bluff-bowed collier. Obviously, again,
the question whether any particular spear whistles is
settled by one person with ears keen enough to hear, and
not by fifty people whose ears are so dull that they do not
hear it. But this much is certain : the whistle (i.e., the
sound-vibration) is there; and, if we do not hear it, the
fault is in ‘ this muddy vesture of decay.’
39. —The Australian Flag.
The Australian flag was the emblem of the
‘Australian League,’ whioh sprang from ‘the
most important- colonial agitation of modern
times,’ the agitation to effect the abolition of the
transportation of conviots to Australia. Harsh
and unnatural indeed, at this time, was the voioe
of the British authorities. Tasmania was told
that millions had been spent in preparing her for
convicts : did her free inhabitants expect that at
their asking transportation should cease? Colo-
nies established as free might fairly object to the
influx of criminals ; Tasmania could not—convict-
ism marked her birth, and a foul oversea prison she
must remain. In her weakness she stretched forth
her hands to her sister provinces, asking for sym-
pathy and help. Nor was the appeal made in vain.
Her delegates came, and found Australia united
to face a common danger. As ‘ the beginning of
the end,’ the * Australasian League ’ was founded
at Melbourne, February 1, 1851. ‘lmmediately
on signing the league, a spleudid silken banner
was unfurled. It displayed the Union Jack on a
rich mazarine ground, with golden stars repre-
senting the Southern Cross, with the words,
“Australasian League, Victoria. Established
1851.” ’ Let one of the delegates, John West, the
historian of Tasmania, tell what followed The
mayor and corporation of Melbourne . . . pre-
sented the Tasmanian delegates with an address
... A banner, bought by general subscription,
was committed to their charge as a present to the
colonists of Tasmania. The ladies of Victoria
graced the ceremony of presentation. In giving
this beautiful emblem of Australian reunion,
“Gentlemen,” said the mayor, “I pray you to
receive it in the name of the people of Port Phil-
lip, and may it remain nailed to the mast until
the oolonies are emancipated from convictism.”
“We accept it with gratitude,” they replied,
“ may the flag which adorns it ever float above us
in mild sovereignty.” ’ The Tasmanian delegates
returning home, ‘ the banner entrusted to their
care was publicly delivered at a meeting, of which
Mr. Dry was chairman;’ and, says West in a
footnote, ‘the Raven, Captain Bell, was the first
vessel that carried the League flag, now floating
over every sea.’ (West’s History of Tasmania,
vui. i., p. 309.)-
VILLA-MA-NATA.
40. — Geographers’ Eccentricities.
The mistakes made in current geographies of
Australia, even of the latest date, are somewhat
amusing. For example, the description of N.S.W.
in a ‘ General Geography ’ by Hugh Robert Mill,
published by Macmillan and Co., commences :
“The parent colony of New South Wales has a
name disliked by the inhabitants, who wish to
change it for Australia." Certainly one distin-
guished citizen, no longer with us, wished to call
it Australia, but, so far as is known, nobody else
From a * Manual of Australasian Geography,’
published by William Collins and Co. : ‘ The
Lachlan, which rises in Queensland, and enters
N.S. Wales under the name of the Barwan.’ This
mistake would be pardonable in the case of a small
river, but not with regard to the Lachlan. This
book has a number of other minor errors, nob im-
portant enough to cull.
From ‘ A New Geography,’ by A. Sutherland,
M.A., published in Melbourne: ‘Every river
brings down a very small quantity of salt with it,
and the salt which Cooper’s Creek brings down to
Lake Eyre has been gathering for many centuries,
so that the lake is now intensely salt.’ This is
probably the most astounding and romantio theory
concerning salt lakes ever printed, and may rank
with Hans Andersen’s fairy tale, ‘ Why the sea is
salt.’ Sutherland, by the way, is very shaky all
through. ‘ The Victoria River in Northern Aus-
tralia flows into Cambridge Gulf.’. (?) The Great
Dividing Range ‘ runs from Princess Charlotte
Bay close to the eastern coast, through Queens-
land,’&c. The Great Dividing Range, as most
people who are interested in the matter know,
turns abruptly south of west, skirting the heads
of Carpentarian waters. The nearest point of its
approach to Princess Charlotte’s Bay is 300 miles
as the crow flies. Sutherland also states that the
G.D.R. is 2000 miles long. Considering that it
girdles three-fourths of the continent, GOOO would
be nearer the mark.-
-Wombat.
41. — Gibbets.
In a recent note on Villon it was queried whether
the accompanying illustration of an old French
gibbet was more or less imaginary. Some of
these structures used to be of quite important
architecture. In Violet-le- Due’s ‘ Dictionaire
Raisonnde de l’Architeoture Fran§aise ’ there
are several illustrations of gibbets constructed
of substantial masonry columns elevated on
a similar foundation. A double row of strong
timbers was placed across the top, from which
the victims were suspended by chains. They
remained there till they fell to bits, or till
their places were required for fresh candidates,
when they were cast into the common receptacle
for such rubbish in the centre of the monument.
The centre of this was a sort of charnel-house,
reached by a door in the foundation. In Hugo’s
‘Notre-Dame,’ speaking of the fate of Quasimodo,
it is said that long years after a skeleton of a
deformed nature was found clasping another,
which seemed that of a young woman —a curious
point being that the neck of the deformed one did
not seem to have been broken. They were found
in the pit, where La Esmeralda had been oast,
and where the faithful dwarf had found her and
died in her arms.-
WESTRALIAN.
42. —The Ball before Waterloo.
‘ The historical ball on the eve of the battle of
Waterloo.’ This erroneous phrase occurs con-
stantly in newspapers and magazines. The pro-
gramme of the Waterloo week was as follows :
On Thursday, June 15, 1815, the Duchess of
Richmond gave a ball at Brussels, to which many
English offioers wer<j invited, and from which they
went away in the early dawn (the sun must have
risen about 4 a.m.) to join the army. This is ‘ the
historical ball ’ so often mentioned and immor-
talised by Byron in lines which innumerable
schoolboys have learned to recite. On Friday,
June 16, there were two battles —one, English v.
French, at Quatre Bras ; the other, Prussians v.
French, at Ligny. On Saturday, June 17, the
English and Prussian armies were both retreating
northward — i.e. , nearer to Brussels. 1 inally on
Sunday, June 18, came Waterloo. Thus the
memorable ball took place on the third night before
Waterloo. That this error should be so deep-
seated in the popular mind is remarkable, because
Thackeray in ‘Vanity Fair’ (and surely Thackeray
oannot be already forgotten) gives a vivid des-
cription of the ball ; of the excitement and terror
at Brussels on Friday when the noise of the guns
at Quatre Bras was first heard ; of the compara-
tive lull on Saturday ; and then of the intense ex-
citement when the louder, because, less distant,
thunder of the cannonade at Waterloo resounded
through the city.-
SCRUTATOR.
43. —Mirages.
The following notice of a mirage at Blaokheath,
73 miles w. of Sydney, and 3494 feet above Sydney
level, appears in Sydney papers of 3/8/97 —
Blackhbath. August 2.
A remarkable mirage has been visible from the highest
elevations at Blaokheath, affording by the aid of a field'
glass an interesting glimpse of Sydney by night and
bringing into view apparently some miles of the city’s
gaslights. The phenomenon has occurred thrice in the
past seven nights. Monday, the 26th ultimo, was the
first occasion when it was observed, the phenomenon
being most complete in detail and also in actual beauty.
The repetitions occurred on Saturday and Sunday nights.
They were both tolerably distinct.
The weather at the time was fine; and the wind is
set down on one occasion as ‘somewhat Westerly.
OPTIC.
8. —She Oak.
The terra she oak as applied in Australia to
* colonial beer * dates back to 1820. About that
time a brewery was established on what was then
known as She Oak Hill, opposite old Government
House, Hobart. The owner, when asked how he
made such good beer, replied, ‘I put she oak in
it.’ At that''time the interprovincial trade of
Australia was confined to ‘Port Jackson (Syd-
ney) ‘Port Dalrymple ’ (Launceston) and ‘lhe
Derwent ’ (Hobart)—so the term became general.
M.D.
83.— Effect of Moonrays.
I was quartered at Etshowe, Zululand, in 88.
At the same place was stationed a detachment of
Mansel’s police. One of their subalterns (by name
H.) went to sleep, leaving the fly of his tent open,
and allowing the rays of the moon (at that time
full) to fall on his face. The effect was extra?
ordinary. On the following morning the whole
of the left side of his face looked as if it had been
melted down and then violently twitched in a
lateral and upward direction. His left eye was
completely closed ; nose all askew ; and mouth
twisted like an inverted comma. Nothing visible
of his right eye except the white. He was hardly
able to articulate, but made us understand that
he was in no pain, but felt queer and stiff. H'is
complexion, previously a bronze-red, was now of
a ghastly livid pallor in the affected parts. Al-
though a bit ‘dotty ’ at first, the effect gradually
wore off, and in about five weeks’ time his features
quite recovered their normal aspect.-
ZINGARO.
17. —Habits of Persons Lost in Bush.
Re the contention that men lost in the bush
travel in a circle to the left because the right leg
is the longest. A few years ago, whilst living on
a selection in Riverina, I had occasion to visit a
neighbor’s some six miles distant; and grass being
plentiful—consequently horses ‘ demons ’ to catch
—I resolved to walk. Intervening was a belt of
belar and pine-forest, rather more than two miles
wide, and locally termed the ‘ barber’s shop ’ —
presumably because it was so thick that anyone
riding through it came out with very little hair
left. Although the sky was cloudy and the sun
completely obscured, I didn’t for a moment doubt
my ability to make a short cut through. After
travelling briskly for threequarters of an hour or
so, I came to the opening at the other side, as I
thought. But something in the surroundings
looked familiar, and, on closer examination, I
discovered to my very great surprise that I had
come out within a few yards of where I had
entered. I had made a circle to the left. I tackled
it again—this time taking care to walk to the
right of any tree directly in front—and came out
all right. ... , . ,
On mentioning this incident to another neigh-
bor, who was a keen observer of the bush and its
peculiarities, he told me that had I noticed the
‘lean ’ of the timber I might go through at any
time, day or night, without making a mistake.
Asked to explain, he declared that a big majority
of the trees leaned towards the north-east ; and in
confirmation of his theory, he on many occasions
left my place for his home, on the darkest nights
and at any hour, and would go straight through
without turning a hair —merely standing by a tree
occasionally, and looking skywards to see which
way ‘ she cast.’ _ _ .
Have other bushmen noticed this peculiarity of
the forests of the interior? and what is the
reason ?
I had another somewhat similar experience a
few years earlier —weather conditions correspond-
ing exactly. (Here let me remark that the man
who gets lost while the sun is in full view is only
a johnny-come-yesterday bushinan). I was travel-
ling on horseback from the Yanko, and attempt-
ing to make a bee-line for my home in the Murray
Hut district. I succeeded very well until reach-
ing a gate on a fence four miles from my selection.
The rest should have been plain sailing, After a
time buildings appeared in front —they were old
buildings; mine were new. I bad struck up against
an out-station of Coree, nine miles east of niy
destination. I had gone that distance to the left,
and on horseback. . ;
Now, the theory that my right leg is longer
than the left couldn’t very well apply to my horse
also. Besides, my tailor assures me that my left
leg is quite an inch longer than its fellow. So
what say the pundits?—K.D.
Whilst running up a horse in January, ’BO, my
mount became unmanageable, bolted, and threw
me. Dazed by the fall, I ran after him bare-
headed for a considerable distance. Finally he
disappeared in the scrub, and I returned to get
my hat. About an houFs fruitless search in a
semi-conscious state convinced me I was hatless
and lost. This was about 6 a.m. From then
until about noon I vainly endeavored by coQ-eeittg
to attract attention ; and then T tried to make for
a fence I remembered passing (I had sense enough
to tear a piece off my shirt and tie it on my head).
At 5 p.m. Sergt. Campbell, the well-known Q.
tracker, with another bushtnan, ran me down some
17 miles from where I was thrown : but as I had
diverged to the right a good deal I must have done
over 20 miles. I knew nothing of what I had
done sinoe about noon; and had tak<'noff my shirt
and boots. The mosquitoes, sand-flies, and heat
seemed terrible for a while ; then I grew light-
headed, and the rest was a blank. —V.


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN.
THAT THIS NOTED SPECIALIST
Stands pre-eminently at the bead of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
he has investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than his quite worthy hut less successful associates,
is now acknowledged by all. His experience is
lifelong, and his record right here in 8Y IINKV
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst-sts.,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising his name, because he has
made their lives happy and brought sunshine into
their homes.
'mh amoi
if you are troubled with
vital losses, exhaust-
ing complaints, pimples,
bashfulness, aversion to society, stupidness, des-
pondency, loss of energy, ambition and self-confid-
ence, which deprive you of your manhood and
absolutely unfit you for study, business, or
marriage—if you are thus afflicted you know the
cause. Get well and be a man.
MIIHE-MED« Oil Nil,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, and other unmistakable
signs of nervous debility and premature decay
Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the cause.
The most obstinate cases of this character treated
with unfailing success.
PMMTE
mfliL.
Diseases Inflammations, Stric-
tures, Weakness of Organs, Hy-
drocele, Varicocele and kindred
troubfed quickly cured without pain and detention
from business.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away
from the city and unable to come to his
office. Treatment in this manner always satisfactory.
Write for Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise, NER-
VOUS AND PRIVATE DISEASES, post free on ap-
plication. A perusal of it might save much mental
and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life. Send £1 by post, and you will receive treat-
ment by return mail.
dr. freeman,
Corner Elizabeth & Batlinrst-sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that 33r>
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra, strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box mo. 29 York Street, Sydney.
medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than .£1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
Jk PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
**™of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Curb. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
“ MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee. 10/-.
ppropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
“ABori) Physical)-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health, in justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia —female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston's Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising M
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.It.C.S., Kng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention thib Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
20 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to tne
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distar.ee can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental' to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHfMJ DURANT!
E
FULL DIRECTIONS]
ENCLOSED? J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC Effbctivb.
An U pUR a iFIER B SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor.
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
m o LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE. SYDNEY
Rockhampton.—l have tried Orange Lily, and have
found it to be all that is said of it. If it were not for
your remedies I could not get about. Ido all my work
for 6 now, and am quite strong.—Mrs. E —-.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 108 and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Rieord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strenath to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.'
In cases of Vis, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
mV A<Xis for Austral asia-Perry Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co.. Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Publications, etc.
J3OOJ3IS. BOOKS
NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS.
m H E SOILED DOVE, being the History of a Young Lady
I who ran away from home, and eventually went to
thP rlo'-s Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands
rnlto date). Post free, Is. 6d. THE BALLET GIRL :
Natural Life (illustrated) Before and Behind the
Scenes. Post free, Is.
Anglo-Australian Publishing Co.,
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & 00.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend ”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp'eted his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. G-IBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tendernessof the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if. preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IWMHOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
■WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
** permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men m body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, bram
power, when failing or lost, are' restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don 6
despair even if in the last stages. Don t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
** Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments , we do so at the special wish of the iirriters
only; othenvise secrecy is considered inviolable ,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes 1 can-
not refrain from adding my testi*
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of. ever
being well attain. When 1 visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than 1 have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. 1 shall always remain indebted W
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. . I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. .1 am well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful 1 took his
advice, for since 1 took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
“Gentlemen, —1 cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to vour extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. 1 had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time 1 began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more forme than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
1 can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whav
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
ral Mine, Broken Hill,
vrites “ Accept this tes-
imonial in recognition for
,he valuable services you
lave rendered me by per-
orming a wonderful cure of
ny case, which has been on
ne for over five years, and
low that I am well and tell
fou that I spent over £2OO
jefore consulting you, and
leriving not a farthing’s
vorth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
ihat other sufferers should
lear about, so that they can
tie treated and cured as I am,
ind also made strong, ... .....
liealthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until 1 was a short time under your care. I
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
yalue. not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
mv advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11A FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
7<Huwa4
fcfgVi


TATTERSALL’S
«*** MONSTER PRIZE LIST. -*»
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
’ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Subsorlbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
DEMONSTRATION H. Oct. 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address
shares in the above.
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Sulbscrilaera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me , shares in the above.
Name ; .■
Address
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
-OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, JST.S.W.
116,000 Shares at £1 Each
List Closes 25th September. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, June 3
2nd
3rd
4th
stn
6th
Empire Hotel, Temora
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc.
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse) ...
Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,065
valued at
valued at
8,100
8,000
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
valued at
valued at
valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
4,000
4,000
3,550
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill tbe Drawer c.f the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead or
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
| Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OP —
City aod SobOrbao
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss* Each.
List Closes 4th October,
Ist Prize.—Terrace Houses, Glenmore
lioad, and large Dwelling-House, Va!ue
Woollahra ‘ £8,500
2nd Prize. I louse and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Oleveland-street ... .. £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus..
Fop full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOitcd.
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, a,nd a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
flrtlnny Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HA7MARKET (ORLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT ?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
i in curing affections of the Throat
? and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
i Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
l ant to take, sure to cure
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
M’GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BUAND, 3 sizes ... 10 - and 12 6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8,6, and 10 6 „
KROPP BRAND 0,6 and 7/6 „
BENGALI. BRAND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7 6, 10 6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 46, and 5/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M'GEE, Hairdresser, &C. t
5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOUPvKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality.
HCAFNESS
nnrl PPUUipnnn up *n r
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
145 Collins-street. MELBOURNE
Pubicatlons.
Robertson & 00.,
S6l & 363 Gkorok Strkbt, Sydnby.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers 8t Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL,
lain, Fanoy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
woods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Atfents'fpr Elliott. & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
1 totouruplw of liny Huh »t Colonial CelebrUle*
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
'•I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.,
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (id.
Soph Attains :
\
The Remit.
Craig ft Aitken, 680-682 Qeorge-ftt., Sydney
3E7X9 WAR D a'
hpa
WORLD-RENOWNED
air Erodueer $ SeAtorcr
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARIiEN’E” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
;//////////.
••••"' Of any Metallic or other injurious Inarredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4'6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES,
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard nAtigiMfP
without Eggs. rUVYUtn
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtalnod wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
The best resource tor every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird's Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and IVest Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
treuuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from .£3 3s. each.
* MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMP OUTER,
227 Little Collins Street f
MELBOURNE.
Every Variety of
TEA S
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
<3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
THE
4 Plum ’
THB
GENTLEMEIM who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public. ;
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we ;
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 rlce | Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d. f & 1;- each.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Puddiug\ Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given ar.
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and,canrecom
mend it to housekeepers eeuerally as a useful agent in the preparation ofagood Custard. Giveit a trial
Proprietors: GOOpALL. BACKHOUSB & CO.,_
Sol* Ag*nt« for Now South Wale*: TILLOCK & CO.
LBGDS ENG
KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNBY
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A FALLING STAR.
Against the purple arch of night,
Red glows the fiery shield of Mars,
And overhead the Milky Way
Shines faintly with its bridge of stars.
The mountain-peak that guards the west
Looms blackly thro’ the shadows ; now
A crescent moon has climbed the height—
A diamond on a swarthy brow.
Hand clasped in hand are lovers twain ;
Against his breast her fair head lies;
And in the east a falling star
Leaves trails of glory in the skies.
“ A falling star,” she cries. “ A soul
Gone forth on its last flight alone.”
Nor dreams the star falls for a life
That once had closely touched her own.
Hereafter she will hear that he
Called forth her name with hia last breath,
And marvel that no echo came
To dim her joy with thoughts of death.
First love ! last love ! the last is best.
First love —dead ashes of the past;
Who waits to dream of the first kiss
When lips are thrilling with the last ?
Kiss—aye, and vow ! The starry worlds
For centuries have viewed the same.
Such lips, such breasts, such wealth of hair,
But dust to dust, from whence they came !
Kiss—aye, and vow ! A sweetness lies
In each new flower that seeks the sun;
Tho* near at hand the dead husk lies
That once was just as fair a one.
Love rules the world, and every gate
(Save Death’s) to its bright key unbars,
Since parted lovers built across
The midnight sky—the “ bridge of stars.”
Q.
Ethel Mills.
THE THEORY OF THE THING.
Love is a thing too beautiful for use,
That should be kept apart from toiling life ;
A dawning hope, a theory abstruse,
Not to be touched by workday haste and strife.
Love is so strange, so exquisite and pure :
An evil thought can stain her gleaming crest;
And yet she will resist, and will endure
The flames of hell for him whom she has blessed.
On him she squanders all her wondrous gifts,
The total happiness of her embrace :
He dreams of her, he hopes, he yearns—and drifts
To death at last—and never saw her face !
Q.
VON KOTZR.
GOOD LUCK.
Good Luck is the coyest of all coy birds.
She cares no jot for the nets we spread ;
She lifts her wings at our flatt’ring words,
And pipes a song in the deeps o’erhead.
The more we follow she speeds the more ;
She recks but little of sob or sigh ;
But should we rest, when the chase is o’er,
She droops her wings and she ventures nigh ;
Ventures nigh with the sweetest strain
That ever rang in a mortal’s ear ;
But wouldst thou seize her —she soars again
To distant blue on her pinion dear.
Thou wilt not hold her in marble hall ;
Thou canst not cage her in lowly cot;
And that man she loveth the best of all
Who hath scorned her gifts and her name forgot.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
FROM A GARDEN.
You violets, my love’s delight,
Go, tell him that I think on him
All through the night (though moonlit, dim
Unless he comes), and dawning light
Is fair with him. Sweet mignonette,
Remind my love that all the sweet
Brought to ine by his coming feet
Goes also when he goes. Forget,
O pansies dear, forget not this
My message, that my dreams are fair
With his sweet eyes, his twining hair,
His tender touch, his rose-red kiss.
And thou, the image true of love,
Dear rose, say that my heart is true,
That he is dearer still than you,
And that my love shall constant prove.
S.A.
LALAGR.
THE STOCKMEN OF THE WATERS.
When the Darling chokes in her rain-fed rage
With a breast-foam flecked with pride,
She leaps the banks as she whirls to wage
Fierce war with the countryside;
Ho ! the great trees crash and the waters splash,
And the grim logs gird and groan
In the flecking froth, whilst the river’s wrath
Breaks loud in a raucous moan.
The stockmen spread on the faint, far tracks
Ere night on the ranges nears,
And silence wakes to the ringing cracks
That gather the browsing steers ;
For the torrents fly where the land was dry
To dust in the morning’s ride,
And swiftly run where the noon’s bright sun
Shone over the wheatfields wide.
Ho ! the ride, the ride, with a curdling hymn
Of death in the waters’ cries !
The plunge, the splash, and the strenuous swim
Where the flooded lowland lies !
For the mad flood’s roar is a call to war,
And woe to the laggard beast,
For a life is told if it may not hold
To the first foot-hills at least.
The cattle are rolling red-rimmed eyes
At the crash of a falling tree ;
A heifer sharpens the din with cries
For the calf she cannot see ;
But the course is done, for their feet have won
The turf of the climbing lands,
And the girths are freed as a stockman’s steed
Wide-legged and shivering stands.
Vic.
H. A. CONANT.


Aostraliao M«t(ial p ro „i3rj“s o<:i rtv.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established " " ™ "# W
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Directors I The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.0., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after makihg unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
HEeadL Office s 87 r> IT T STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTELS
Rates i 2/&
PER
DAY
6 mms
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
H.Edwin Moore,
I MEAGER.
Adarps Hotel,
PITT ST., SYPUEY.
AdarpS Cafe, George Street.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION.
TEEMS: FROM Bs. PEE DAY.
- A A A A A A A A A A-.
■ wwww wwwww ■ ■-*
VISITORS CAN DINE IN HOTEL OR CAEE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Locomotives
FOB
Heavy Haulage.
/
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Spring and Summer Suiting:
SUITS.
45s to 90s.
TROUSERS.
12s 6d to 255.
For ELEGANCE OF STYLE, FIT and WORKMANSHIP,
The tonoon 4 (H6EBOURII6 Tailoring Cog.
Send for Patterns.
STAND UNRIVALLED!
31 Erskine Street, SYDNEY.
All Goods delivered Free to any part of the colony.
s. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
S 3
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£lll7s. 6<i.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Ic Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of mv Saddlery and Vehicle Trade combined tn mr
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IV SYDNEY
these have English Dunlop and M. and VV. Tyres. The bicycle season is lust comb, 1 ™. ' h £ le .
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the Jig money. * ’ 8 W loleBale aild UeUll
PAINLESS DENTISTRY,
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER, j MR. S. D. ASHER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery Surgical and Mechanical
and Prosthetics. I Dentist.
rPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Rridyen’orJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
98 Svciney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
<jrin>€ & Sn?itb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sfcs.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 5/6
to 76/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
For Reviving the Liver and Brain
AND RESTORING VIGOR.
V-
“ OH, WHAT A DIFFERENCE IN THE MORNING !"
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK —
Fisher & Co.’s
FAMOUS ‘ KOLA NUT" TONIC,
The GREATEST “ PICK-ME-UP ” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAKES YOU STRONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co.’s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHARMACY, 337 George Street
(Nearly opposite General Post Office), SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE —
CJTY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 416 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE m Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,1763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
"-THE-.
Colonial Mutual !Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur BrOce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 12,000,000.
Policies issued, 73.972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK', A.1.A., General Manager.
rv Accident
UCGan Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ O- ELDBIDO-E & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK ST I till FT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
58
80 ToqS ri)ore In)ported Leaf
tl>ao all the other Tobacco
Factories POt Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of Dixson’s
Brands DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yankee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PEE CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cbaii)pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Coi)q(i?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
CeQtcQQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Mononole,
> l s a 1 2 ■ Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Rendered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a TTewspaner.
VOL. 18.—No. 916.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1897.
Price, 6d
THE GREEN FIELD THAT IS AFAR OFF—OR MINING IN KLONDYKE.
1.-The P rus pector 2.—A Klondyke Swagasman, 3.-"I say, you Know, this is my chaim !" "well I don't see Pegs!" 4.-The Klondyke mining
camp poefc . His poems are so full of protamty that even Rudyard Kipling's pubilishers won't buy them. 5._a Mining Camp-thawing out the whiskv.
6.-The Spring Thaw-out. Noble Red Mau findig remains "ugh! White man, that's plain” 7.—The noble Red Man shifts a little nearer to the setting sun.
8.-Klondyke Pdestrian-"well, thank Heaven, there's no danger of being run down by a bicycle here!" 9._A Disputed Clam. 10.-Klondyke Alluvial
Speeimens in Ice


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
and Published by William MaoLEod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 '€
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The BullMTn Office Twenty
i"Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
'One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
•yon can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
do be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
-ARCHIBAIi*.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate dny
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles ,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing ivith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
ilength, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
•communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
•desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
•other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
•and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
•interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
dc Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Tnompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <b Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Wcst.ralia and, Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Diving to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
%r%tJZelm.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1897.
The Second Federal Convention.
The Federal Convention resumes business
this week with very moderate prospects.
During the last four months the cause of
Australian nationhood has gone through
many vicissitudes. At the very beginning
of the recess all the Premiers deserted it
and went to the land of Buhl to jubilate,
and get indigestion, and seize upon any title
that chanced to be passing, and this unanim-
ous abandonment by the alleged leaders of
the movement materially diminished public
interest in the matter. Of the under-
lings who were left in command, only
Holder, of South Australia, and Isaacs, of
Victoria, produced even moderately good
results with the Convention Bill. Horace
Tozer made a pretence of bringing Queens-
land into the movement, and then clumsily
shuffled back into his old local groove. The
Westralian Parliament never met at all until
a few days ago ; the wild-cat province is in
desperate straits now to keep its boom going,
and Acting-Premier Wittenoom is a fifth-
rate man, who could hardly be trusted with
a Parliament lest he should say foolish things
to it about the financial stinks of the Govern-
ment, therefore it was considered best to
shut up the show in Forrest’s absence.
Under these circumstances the West-
tralian Legislature has hardly even pre-
tended to consider the Federation question.
The Tasmanian Legislature did no good to
it. The South Australian and Victorian
Assemblies made one or two democratic
amendments, and the latter addetl on a
miserably unworkable alleged Referendum,
but, on the whole, they left things very
much as they were, and the draft Constitu-
tion, when they were finished with it, was,
on the whole, no better for their interfer-
ence. And the New South Wales Legisla-
ture knocked every important feature out of
it, and deprived the proposed Common-
wealth Parliament of all semblance of
authority, and left things a sh apeless Wreck.
* * % *
The Commonwealth Bill, When it left the
Adelaide Convention, was A wretchedly Ith-
perfect measure. It didn’t provide for the
Federal control of the existing railways or of
future railway Construction, the consolida-
tion of the public debts, the restriction of
future provincial borrowings, or the Federal
control of rivers ; it gave the Central
Government nothing like the definite
superiority over the merely provincial
authorities which it should have ; and it
made a half-hearted and unworkable com-
promise on the financial question—a com-
promise which was so uncertain that 'it gave
no real satisfaction to anybody. Yet The
Bulletin feels inclined to withdraw a 'good
many of the unkind things which it
said about the Convention. Of the five
provincial Legislatures which have hacked
and haggled more or less at its work, the
best that can be said for four of them is that
they did very little damage. Not one of
them made the scheme any better or any
more intelligible. Not one had sufficient
national sentiment to propose enlarging the
powers of the Commonwealth and making it
a real Government, instead of a thin shadow.
Not one advanced the statesmanlike proposi-
tion that the railways should be consolidated,
so as to make one national system instead
of a series of incongruous fragments, or
offered any proposition for the consolidation
of the provincial debts. Four of them left
the unsatisfactory financial arrangement prac-
tically as it was, and offered fio amendment
worth mentioning; the fifth (New South
Wales) struck it out, and, not being able to
devise anything even as good, left its place
blank. Compared to the ineptitude and
parochialism of the provincial Legislatures,
the Convention was a marvellously wise insti-
tution. and its scheme, by comparison with
most of the amendments made upon it, Was
a brilliant piece of statesmanship.
« « * *
The draft Constitution was submitted to
the Legislatures in order that their aggregate
wisdom might devise improvements upon it.
The principal improvements which they send
along are as follows :—New South Wales de-
mands peremptorily that Sydney shall be the
capital of the Federation. It proposes to
abolish the Federal Court of Appeal, and
leave things as they are. It proposes to
leave out the Inter-State Railway Commis-
sion which was to regulate railway freights
on the borders and put an end to the ruinous
war of rates which is estimated as costing
the country £300,000 per annum, and to
leave things as they are. It proposes to
abolish the Federal control of the Murray
and leave things as they are ; it requires
very little wisdom to propose that things
should remain as they are, and most of the
New South Wales amendments amount to
nothing more than that. It refuses to assent
to the idea of equal representation in the
Federal Senate—the only condition on which
the smaller States agreed to come in ; it
objects to all the financial proposals without
offering anything in their stead, and it wants
the “recognition of Goo.” Victoria asks
for very little except One-man-one-vote in
the Federal elections; the “recognition of
Goo ” ; and a Referendum scheme to avert
deadlocks, which scheme is so exceedingly
careful not to coerce even the smallest
minority that it could hardly remedy one
deadlock in a century. South Australia
wants One-man-one-vote, and demands that
the Federal control of the Murray, which
New South Wales repudiates, shall extend
to all the tributaries of that river. The
other two provinces, so far, have proved
themselves reasonable, so far as details are
concerned, and ask for nothing in particular.
* * * *
Taking everything into consideration, the
Convention starts its second meeting under
worse auspices than it did its first. Last
time a deadlock between the small States
(South Australia, Tasmania, and Westralia),
which asked for an altogether absurd share
of power, and the two large ones (New South
Wales and Victoria) was only averted by
the departure of the ten Westralian dele
gares who were called away to fight an election
in their own country. This left the parties
even, and a compromise was arrived at. This
time it is the Victorians who will be called
away, towards the end of the proceedings,
to fight an election, and this will leave the
30 delegates of the small states to run riot
and demand all manner of impossibilities,
with only the ten Cornstalk members to re-
present the other side of the question. The
delegates meet this time with the knowledge
that their respective Parliaments have given
them none of the assistance they expected,
and care comparatively little about the
matter. Some of the proposed amendments
are obviously intended to make any kind of
Federation useless or impossible ; the others,
except the utterly unimportant “recognition
of God,” are mostly calculated to mike the
provincial disagreements worse than they
were before. And the recognition of God
looks bad among the other amendments,
which are mostly evidences of parochial
brute-selfishness, envy, greed and all manner
of uncharitableness.
♦ • * *
As regards the personnel of the Convention
it has probably deteriorated. The Tasmanian
contingent is apparently far less friendly to
the movement than it was. Carruthers
and Lyne, of New South Wales, labored so
hard to take every vestige of usefulness out
of the Convention Bill, and to deprive the
Commonwealth of every semblance of dignity
and authority that they can hardly be re-
garded as Federalists any longer. Brunker’s
heavy sj'ie’echlessness gives little clue to his
teal feelings, but his underhand conduct in
suppressing the late Mr. Eddy’s report in
favor of railway Federation stamps him also
as having turned Provincialist —if he ever
was anything else. Both the South Aus-
tralian and New South Wales Ministerial
contingents go back with a knowledge that
their Parliamentary followers are iri the
main stupidly indifferent; in both provinces
it was hardly possible eVeii to collect a
quorum t 6 discuss the measure. Not one
Parliament 6f the lot, save Victoria, gave its
delegation what could be called an enthu-
siastic ihandate to go ahead and do its best
for the cause of Federation, and Victoria
was on the extreme verge of a general elec-
tion—a circumstance which makes it neces-
sary for members to strike a note of high-
toned patriotism because the man who isn’t
patriotic in the last Session of a dying Par-
liament loses his seat. Where no election
was pending it Was only by a supreibe effort
that the Legislature did hot fall down dead
on top of the Unfinished measure.
* * * *
~ One thing is certain ; in New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia!, and Tasmania the
people, by electing Federatiohists only and
leaving the few Provincial candidates in
a miserable minority, gave an almost
unanimous vote in favor of Australian
unity. And if the Convention delegates
are true to their trust they will follow
the mandate of the people whatever the
five Parliaments may say to the contrary.
In this matter the Parliaments do not repre-
sent the people ; the creation of a supreme
central authority will reduce the rank-and-
file of provincial legislators to even worse
insignificance than they haVe already at-
tained, therefore their interests and those of
the nation are absolutely at variance. The
duty of the Convention delegates is to make
the best Federal Constitution they are
capable of, even if in so doing they reject
every amendment suggested by every Parlia-
ment in Australia. The fact that almost all
the amendments tend to make the Federal
power weaker is no reason Why the Conven-
tion should not make it Stronger if its con-
victions lie that Way-. Even the fact that
not one Provincial Legislature favors Federal
Control of the railways and the public debts
makes it not one whit less the duty of the
Convention to effect that consolidation if it
feels that it should be effected. It owes no
duty or responsibility to Parliament ; every
delegate from the four Eastern provinces
holds his commission front ail entire pro-
vince ; the men who criticise their doings in
Parliament represent, on an average, one-
fiftieth part of a province each. Moreover,
the Convention delegates have a direct man-
date from the people on this one question ;
their parliamentary critics were appointed
on the fiscal issue, and the roads and bridges,
and local option and land reform issues, and
on all manner of other irrelevant subjects.
Therefore the Convention is fully justified
in refusing to be guided in any way by the
parochial tenor of the amendments laid
before it. In fact, the best hope for Federa-
tion now seems to lie in tying a large boulder
to all these amendments and dropping them
off Circular Quay into 60ft. of oblivion.
The Latest Thing- in Loans.
The Westralian Government has rushed
through a Bill authorising the raising of
£3,000,000 by the issue of Treasury bills, The
Forrest Government lias already floated
£2,100,000 of its securities on the public this
year, in addition to considerable sums obtained
from the banks on Treasury bills at the very
steep rate of 4 per cent. The first loan, issued
at the beginning of the year, went off with great
difficulty at a low price ; the second one, in May,
went off with still greater difficulty at a lower
price. In each case the public tendered for
only a portion of the amount asked for, instead
of subscribing it several times over as is
generally the case, and if a syndicate had nob
come to the rescue in one case and a bank in the
other, Westralia would have been a boom pro-
vince in very great difficulties. When the loan
money was exhausted it was very clearly inti-
mated that the British market wasn’t taking
any more Westralian securities at any
price, and £480,000 was raised on Trea-
sury bills at 4 per cent. It is also reported
that further sums were temporarily borrowed
at 4| per cent. When the Treasury bill money
ran short, about £BOO,OOO was lent from revenue
to keep public works going, and the Govern-
ment got down so low that it had only £97,000
left to meet all demands. More than one-fourth
of the new £3,000,000 is, therefore, already
spent, and if by any chance it should fail to
arrive after all the situation would be highly
interesting.
* » * *
Financial authorities in London still report
that any attempt to float another Westralian
loan in the usual fashion is hopeless ; the credit
of the land of red dust and defunct cat is at too
low an ebb. And, as money must he raised or
Westralia will make a burst compared to which
even the Victorian collapse of 1893 will he as
nothing, the proposal to raise £3,000,000 on
Treasury bills is about the only alternative.
These bear interest at 4 or 4| per cent., and are
a frightfully expensive expedient ; but, even if
it is necessary to put the interest up to 5 per
cent., which is possible, the money must be
raised. Where it will be raised is another
question, for the banks on which the last batch
of Treasury hills was unloaded are reported to
be not at all anxious for any more of these
ancient and fish-like securities, but presumably
if the interest is high enough somebody will
take them. Somebody or other will gener-
ally take almost anything if the interest is
only high enough. If the transaction comes off
Westralia will have added nearly £6,000,000 to
its debt in a year or fifteen months, which is
equal to £4O per head. In other words, it will
have borrowed almost as much per head of
population in 12 or 15 months as Victoria has
done in the whole period of its existence, ahd
it will have the biggest debt per inhabitant io
the seven provinces, bar that of Queensland
only !
i * t *
The new loan, provided nothing dreadful
happens to prevent there being any new loan at
all, will keep Westralia going at the present
rate till, perhaps, next June—possibly not
quite so long. Then another big loah Will be
needful if the collapse is to be staged off ally
longer. Yet no country catt go on borrowing at
the rate of £3O or £35 pbr head anhUallv fob
any length of time, and all the banks of "Aus-
tralasia cah’t absorb enough I’t'ea'siiry to
keep the boom afloat, ft is quite possible
that the present is tfie last Vnagiiificeiit borrow
that Westralia Will be able 'to do for a number
Of year'sif it is the second last one of the pre-
sent boom, that is the best that the countity
can hope for. The size of the collapse, which
must ensue, unless about, the richest geld
discovery on earth arrives at the right
moment to give the province a fresh
start, may be roughly estimated as follows :
Victoria built the biggest boom in the
modern records of Australia on an influx
of borrowed money which never exceeded
£4 per head per annum, and it made the worst
collapse in the modern records of Australia
because of the stoppage of that annual influx
of £4 per head. The Westralian Government
is trying to run its boom on about seven times
as large ail annual borrowing, and When the
bottom falls out of its'credit thebe Will, Unless
some unexpected Streak Of lUek ihtebvfen'es, Life
just about seven times 4a sbddeh and violent a
stoppage. Where Victoria fell 60 yards Wes-
tbalia has a quarter of a mile to fall ; that is
all the difference. The only redeeming feature
is that the Westralian boom lias been compara-
tively short, and the Westralian people haven’t
had time to forget how to live without booming!
* * * *
When the great slump cable itt Victoria this
public revenue fell One-thirdi Whfen the hatch
greater slump conies in Wfestralia thte revienil'e
Will probably fall chie-half-, or fiiore. Possibly
it iriay gd dovvii as hutch as two-thirds ;at pre-
stent it has been boomed up, in the midst of arti-
ficial prosperity, to just about three times the
average of the other six provinces, and when
the country gets down to living on its own re-
sources there is no visible reason to expect that
it will produce a much larger revenue per head
than the other Australias. It is ho llioi e fertile
than the average; it has hd htorte Ilian the
average number of iildlistriteS td fall back upon ;
and the bulk df the gold-yield from its handful
of rich mines, which should be a powerful sup-
port in time of emergency, goes abroad to pay
dividends to shareholders in the other provinces
or in England. There is no gold-booth in
Westralia now, despite the great improvement
in the output ; alid, if the present vastly-
increased returns further increased sixfold, it is
an open question if there would lie another ohe
even then. Even with a sixfold increase,
Westralia, acre for acre, Would he much less
of a gold-country than Victoria or Tasmania is
now, and the present position Of these two pro-
vinces is a fair test of the chalices of another
gold-boom in the West, now that the great
original insanity is over. The Westraliah
frenzy for the last two years lias been a bor-
rowed-money-boom pure and simple, but, even
with all the energy that, has been put into the
loan business, there are sighs of weakbnihg.
The revenue for July, ’97, was £12,000 less
than for July, ’96, and the expected big surplus
at the end of June didn’t come off, partly by
reason of the frost which struck the reVehUe
in the latter days of the year. By all appear-
ances, 1897 is the last year of Westialia’s fitst
great outbreak of prosperity. Then there inay .
be an interval, when the boom is ovter, ahd the
burst hasn’t definitely arrived—a sbrt of Indian
summer, like that Which Victoria ekpCriehced
in Munro’s time, wheil everything was thbrb or
less going, yet nothing had absolutely gohe ; or
else llie downfall may arrive all in ohe act.
The suddenness or the protractedttess of things
freatly depends on the Government's luck in
oating more Treasury bills. Alhiost every-
thing in Westralia depends now oil the Govern-
ment's luck in floating more Treasury bills,
* » * *
One solid reason why the Westralian revenue
must come down with a gruesome crash when
loans stop short, is to be found in the miserably
small production of the country in proportion
to revenue. In 1895, the last year for which
returns are available, New South Wales pro-
duced about £33.000,000 worth of wealth in all
shapes—meat,, wool, agricultural produce,
minerals, manufactured goods, and everything
else that could be turned into money, and the
Government took about millions of this, or,
roughly speaking, ss. lOd. in the £. In Vic-
toria the Government took about 4s. 3d. in the
£; in Queensland ss. in the £ ; in Westralia it
gathered in no less than 14s. in the £. At
least this is how it would be if the revenue
came out of the country’s earnings. But as the
Westralian who earns 40s. per week certainly
can't pay 28s. of that in taxes, and as the one
who earns £5 a week would probably throw all
the Six Families overboard before he would pay
£3 10s. in taxation and live on the other 305.,
the natural inference is that the bulk
of the revenue comes indirectly out of
borrowings. It comes in the shape of duties on
imported goods which are paid for out of bor-
rowed money. When the loan moneys stop a
vast proportion of the imports stop. When
they stop a very large proportion of the customs
revenue does likewise. When the loan moneys
cense the citizen who produces £5 worth of
wealtli per week must pay £3 10s. of it to the
Government if the revenue is to keep "up.* And
he won’t. It will take the most artistic system
of taxation to screw half that amount out of
him, and even in that case the State income
will go down 50 per cent. Anyone who can
picture an anguished fat man with an eye-glass
trying to make ends meet in N.S.W. on
£4,800,000 a year instead of £9.600,000 will
understand the Westralian position.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Suffield Enquiry.
Sydney Freeman’s Journal, in wliat looks
like an inspired paragraph, proclaims that ex-
Minister for Justice O’Connor had practically
no option but to deny Suffield an enquiry
into his case,
U must be confessed that Suffielii’s present duress is
iirnhablv as much due to viol nt friends as to a mistaken
v These friends so exploited (he case in the public
l at ati early stage as to leave the then Minister for
■inslice Mr R. B. O’ConSoM, no option but to ask for new
jii ate nil eviderice a§ a pitt.iiiiiiary to reconsideration of
the ease.
\Vliat ibis ineans, if it means anything, is that
Mr. d’Co'NNOR got Ids back Up because SuF-
field’s friends grew tired of tjie delays and
circumlocutions o'f the Alleged Justices De-
partment, and exposed the matter in the
press. And if the paragraph does mean this,
the meaning is hone too creditable to Mr.
O'Connor ; since there is an implication that
he refused to do justice to Suffield because
Suffield’s friends transgressed routine. It is,
by the way, Mr. O’Connor’s particularly tough
and not at all intelligent minute on the case
which has done so much to block enquiry all
along. Tom Slattery, following him in office,
does not appear to have ever got farther into
the case than this minute ; and Minister Gould
has used it time after time as an excuse for not
yielding to his own “strong impressions”
received from Suffield’s representations. Mr.
O’Connor minutes, inter aria, that “ the sug-
gestion that the injuries prosecutrix received
were caused by the attack of a hull will not
bear looking into ’’—which is a very steep pro-
nouncement in view of the fact that five
minutes after the event prosecutrix herself,
when perfectly conscious, attributed her con-
dition to the bull (tnind you, The Bulletin is
not arguing that there was not a man, Home
man, in the case as well as the hull), and her
employer took it for granted the hull was to
blame until next morning, when the man (that
is to say a man) was mentioned. Perhaps,
however, the following important ' evidence was
omitted from the copy of the Judge's notes laid
before Mr. O’Connor —just as it was omitted
from the copy of the Judge’s notes laid on the
Legislative Assembly table
Croudace, Senior, Cross-Examined.
By Mr. Edmunds : The bull has since attacked a married
woman, and had broken some of her ribs. The bull had
since been destroyed. .
His Honor : I think, Mr. Edmunds, that it is of no use
trying to make out that the girl’s injuries were caused by
the bull. Tlie story of the girl is undoubted.. [His Honor,
of course, was Judge Windeykr.]
Mr. Edmunds : I think, your Honor, that, her statement,
about the bull is important, and I wish to lav stress on
the bull, as it will tend to show the state of mind the girl
was in that evening. .
His Honor : Oh, of course, you are entitled to get out
any evidence you please regarding her mind. She, how-
ever, denies using the words.
By Mr. Edmunds : Just before the hull horned the
woman, he had been illtreated by four men. When a hull
became excited be usually tore up the ground, and, know-
ing that, the grass around the spot where the girl was
found was earefullv searched, but no trace of the animal
could be found. The spot where the girl was lying was
about 70 or SO yards from the house, and was concealed
by shrubs. —Newcastle Morning Herald report of the
trial.
If Mr. O’Connor had not the benefit of this
cross-examination, his minute was, to some ex-
tent, excusable. But it was not excusable in
him to use Section 383 of the Criminal Law
Amendment Act —a section expressly designed
by the Legislature to meet such cases as the
Suffield case—to justify the strained position
he took up. That section declares that —
Whenever, after the conviction of a prisoner, any doubt
or question arises as to his guilt, or any mitigating cir-
cumstance in the case, or any portion of the evidence
therein, it shall be lawful for any justice, by direction of
the Governor —on the petition of the prisoner, or some
person on his behalf, representing such doubt or question
—or by direction of a Judge of the Supreme Court, of
his own motion—to summon and examine on oath all
persons likely to give material information on the matter
suggested.
There is certainly a grave “ doubt or question
as to Suffield’s guilt; and any intelligent
Minister, or any honest Minister, who did not
dread the malice of the police department or
the opposition of the Windeykr faction, would
long ago have ordered enquiry. Yet Minister
O’Connor minuted that, applying this plain
section to that dubious case, it was impossible
for him to order an enquiry unless “ fresh
material evidence” was produced. Fresh
material evidence was produced, in the four
missing affidavits ; but the point is that the
relevant section says not a word of “ fresh evi-
dence ” —which is not law, hut O’Connor : irri-
tated by press advocacy ?
The Bulletin (which starts the subscription
with £lO 10s.) acknowledges receipt of the fol-
lowing additional amounts in aid of the Suf-
field enquiry fund :
Peter Anderson and Co. .. ... £lO 0
(and £1 monthly promised)
A. Crawford ... ... ... 10 0
Robert Gill 100
Cook’s Local Option Bill.
Postmaster-General Cook’s Local Option Bill
appeared in the N.S.W. Assembly just before
the adjournment, and it will probably be heard
of again when Parliament meets after the
Federal Convention. Therefore the present is
as good a time as any for saying something
severe about that ill-judged measure. Cook’s
Bill, like other Local Option measures, is a mix-
ture of injustice, blatant hypocrisy, cowardice,
feeble time-serving, and other sins, and there is
no honesty in it. It proposes, in the first
place, that the vote of a majority shall decide
whether the number of public-houses in any
district shall remain as it is, or be reduced, or
whether public - houses shall be abolished
altogether; hut there is no provision
whereby the majority may decide that the
number of public-houses shall he increased.
Of the four issues involved it is only pro-
posed to submit three to the electors, which
is a mean and futile way of smothering, or
attempting to smother, public opinion. And
P.M.O. Cook so far lacks the courage of his
opinions that he dare not submit even the whole
of his own case to the popular vote. His Bill
deals with the selling of drink by retail only,
whereas it should deal with drink in all its
aspects. Otherwise Postmaster Cook is only
a knock-kneed and apologetic brother weakly
pandering to the rich wholesale crog-person
If the Albury district, for instance, goes in for
Prohibition that vote should not only shut up
the bars where beer is supplied to the local
resident, but it should absolutely close the local
wine-making industry also. Every vineyard
where grapes are grown for wine-making pur-
poses should be destroyed, and the famous
local wines should disappear out of the market.
Supposing the district, decides, in due form,
that drink is a curse, then that decision
should carry with it the obligation to cease
making, selling, exporting, or in any way pro-
fiting by the objectionable thing. Albury
should even give up being a distributing centre
for drinking districts in the neighborhood ; if
it is solid on the fact that drink shouldn t exist,
then the bard drinkers of Mullengandra and
Howlobg and Walbundrie should import their
grog via some other totvn, and the wholesale
fherchant, importer, wine-maker* wine-exporter
alnd rfetdif publican should all be shut tip to-
gether. Similarly, if Sydney votes for prohibi-
tion, that act shohld close OvOry brewery in the
city and every wholesale dealfer, as Urell as
the miserable retailer. If other parts of
N.S. W. want to import liquor it should
come in via some other port; btit Syd-
ney, as a place which has sworn - off,
should have no connection with the matter. If
other parts of New South Wales want to ex-
port liquor, it should go out via some other
port. If there must be a wholesale drink-trade,
then merchants at unregenerate drinking cen-
tres should conduct it, and the Prohibition city
should keep itself clean, regardless of cost.
For Sydney to solemnly put its ban on alcohol,
and yet live, in a measure, by making beer to
lead outside brethren astray, importing beer
and whisky and exporting wine for the same
purpose, distributing drink, advertising drink,
and being the great wholesale drink centre of
New South Wales, would be loathsome hypo-
crisy. Even the papers in prohibition districts
should be compelled to cease publishing, for
filthy lucre, advertisements inciting the public
to buy and use alcohol. The Bulletin
doesn’t in the least object to Local Option,
if the majority wants it. It will get on with-
out whisky well enough, and if the majority
decides that it should get on without whisky it
is willing. But it asks that the issue
should be put fairly before the community, and
that the miserable Cold Tea crowd should be
decently honest and have the courage of its
opinions.
The Mixed Gauges.
The railway commissioners of New South
Wales, Victoria, and S.A. have been sitting in
conclave at Melbourne on the desirability of a
uniform railway-gauge. They have decided
that the diverse gauges are a nuisance and a
source of great loss, which everybody knew
already, and that it would probably be the
wisest thing to adopt the N. 8. W. 4ft. BJin.
gauge all round. Almost everybody was already
agreed on that also. And there the matter
stops short, and is likely to stop until that rail-
way federation, which short-sighted local poli-
ticians are doing their best to prevent, conies
along. If the railways were one concern under
one management it would simply be a matter
of making the necessary alteration and charg-
ing the expense to the Federal railway
department ; there would be no question of
allotting the cost among the different pro-
vinces. As it is the question is something like
this : If the N.S.W. gauge is adopted, then the
Vic. and S.A. lines and rolling-stock must be
altered for the sake of uniformity. As the
alteration is for the benefit of all three pro-
vinces, the cost must be borne equitably among
them. What is an equitable division ? Should
the bill be simply charged to the three pro-
vinces according to population ? Or should it
be charged according to the amount of railway
possessed by each province, or would it be more
equitable to take both matters into considera-
tion ; and, if so, how could it be done? Sup-
posiii"- the alterations are made in Vic. and
S.A., and the bill is £2,500,000, and N.S.W.’s
share of it is so much, how much should the
other provinces allow as discount in considera-
tion of the fact that the money is spent in their
territory and finds work for their population?
Should the three provinces stand the bill for
altering all the lines, or only the interprovincial
ones ? If so, what are the interprovincial lines ;
if the term is applied to the finished State-
owned lines connecting two provinces, it covers
the Sydney-Adelaide railway only ; if it covers
also the connecting lines which are still
unfinished but which will be main interprovin-
cial lines some day, there are about eight of
them to be considered. No one seriously
expects that the three provinces will come to
any settlement on these points, or on any one of
them. A Federal railway authority could
decide them easily, or rather it would not have
to decide them at all, but the three separate
authorities must do a painful and elaborate
division, and they have never been known to
come to a definite conclusion about anything.
As matters stand, discussions about a uniform
railway-gauge are about as useful as discussions
on the advisability of abolishing wine and
women.
♦
Experto Crede!
Dear Bulletin,— As regards the supposed
responsibility of strong drink for crime, le i me
point out that enough account is not taken of
the fact that the drinking man is hardly e er
ill-affected towards his fellow-creatures, and
that whatever moral deterioration he may
undergo very seldom takes the direction of pre-
meditated offence against society. He may
trespass against the person under vinous
excitement, or against property under poverty-
pressure caused by drink ; but, for heartless
and cold-blooded wickedness, we have to look
mostly to the man who is “ temperate ’ merely
by the accident that his social and sympathetic
tendencies were never strong enough to expose
him to the risk of forming the alcohol habit in
the way in which, ninety-nine times out of a
hundred, it makes its insidious beginnings.
Alcohol may diminish temperamental equa-
bility and weaken the will, but—speak-
ing ' as the possessor, unfortunately, of
extended experience in the matter—l have
never known it materially to vitiate the origins’
moral equipment, arid I can see nothing but a
bad case of post hoc in the assumption that
liquor is an extensive cause of crime, in any
other sense than that it doubtless sometimes
eliminates the caution which is the only reason
why many men are not the criminals for which
nature otherwise intended them. The main-
spring of all such crimes, for instance, as
Butler’s —assuming that the perpetrators are
not literally insane—is simply a brutal and in-
exorable selfishness; they are the result, in
other words, of the anti-social instinct in its
highest development —a circumstance which
has a significant bearing on the frequently-
noted fact that the deliberate manslayer—like
the systematic seducer and the saintly whole-
sale swindler—is very rarely a tippler and very
often a teetotaller. Nor is there anything
more powerfully characteristic of the hypo-
critical worship of superficial “ respectability
than the fact that, with us, the most ment-
ally and morally despicable creature that
doesn’t happen to use alcohol considers itself
entitled by that solitary circumstance to
a smug superiority over the man who very
often possesses—to balance that single weak-
ness—pretty well every quality that goes
to validate humanity. That it is not the most
grossly-compounded natures which run most to
alcoholism is a matter beyond question and
since, with men as with women, there is no
virtue so vociferous as the virtue that means no
more than lack of temptation, it is easy to
understand how the only failing that cannot
long be successfully concealed is as convenient
foT self-rectification to the secret and more
sensual sinner as it is to the cheap sociological
prater for fotcihg an absurdly false deduction
into the teeth of common observation. Sar-
donyx.
The relation between agent and producer in
N.S.W. calls loudly for legislation. This rela-
tion is considerably elucidated by the digest of
the Registrar in Bankruptcy in a recent case:
“ The bankrupts spent all the capital they could raise,
and were only enabled to carry on by using the money
received from the sale of their constituents’ wool. They
paid into their general account ±4OlO 10s. 7d., which
they had received as agents only from 18 persons who had
consigned their wool to them for sale. To none of these
persons had they made any advance, nor had they any
lien whatever on the wool. They had expended these
moneys for their own benefit; as on the date of the assign-
ment'of their estate they had in their account, into which
they had paid the ±4OlO 10s. 7<L, only ±5 19s. sd. They
had spent it not only in carrying on their business, but
also in paying? their private debts. They were insolvent,
and knew' it, yet they went on as agents, paying their prin-
cipals’ money into their general account. After they knew
their case was hopeless, they paid at least ±32sointo then
account which money was in their hands as agents only.
They appropriated to their own use over £4OOO belonging
to their principals. There was no doubt it would have
been impossible for them to have carried on beyond the
first year if they had had a trust account. They said that
no woolbrokers kept a trust account. Their consignors
were chiefly small pastoralists, depending almost entirely
upon the produce of their wool to tide them over the next
12 months.” The Registrar refused the certificates of
discharge.
The Warren (N.S.W.) Woolgrowers’ Associa-
tion requested Mr. Macdonald, M.P. for
Coonamble, to move for the introduction of
legislation to cope with the agent-producer
grievance. This member asked the N. S.W.
Minister for Justice to draft a Bill of the nature
of the Maoriland Act, regulating the licensing
of auctioneers ; and to extend its principles to
agents in general. Clause 19 of the M.L. Act
reads :
Every auctioneer shall apply the proceeds of sale, when
realised, as follows (a) In or towards payment of ex-
penses, commission, and other charges of, or incidental
to, the sale, (b) In or towards payment of any moneys
owing to such auctioneer by the person on whose behalf
the property was sold, (c) The balance of such proceeds
shall be held by the auctioneer exclusively for such
person, to be paid to him or as lie may direct, and, until
so paid, such balance shall be paid into a bank carrying
on business under the authority of an Act of the Genera
Assembly, to a general or separate trust account, and
such balance shall not be available for payment of the
debts of any other creditor of such auctioneer, nor shall
such balance be liable to be attached, or taken in execu-
tion, under the order or process of any court, at the
instance of any such creditor.
The last stage of proceedings is the answer of
the Minister for Justice to Mr. Macdonald,
stating that he has given instructions for the
preparation of a draft bill on the subject for the
consideration of the Cabinet.
Almost every Australian who visits London
notes the magnificent body of police that keep
order in the city—their size, and their vast
chests, and their elegant uniforms, and the like ;
and comes back to drivel about them in the
local press, and ask why the Australian cop
isn’t like them. The passing Australian has a
wild idea that the beautiful order he sees round
the Bank of England exists all over the
city. The following extract from Lloyds
about the condition of Clerkenwell, an import-
ant London suburb, throws a new light on
things:—
The shooting of a little girl, Margaret Smith, in Cler-
kenwell, is the culminating horror of a state of terrorism
that is a disgrace to London itself. A correspondent
who has been over the ground says that Clerkenwell has
been at the mercy of a band of young desperadoes for
something like 12 months. One policeman was no good
against gangs of armed roughs. There is not one that is
not armed with some weapon. “ Our children—especially
our girls—run dangers that it makes one shudder to con-
template.” The fights began 12 months ago be-
tween the Islington, Chapel-street gangs and the lads
around here. At first they used to fight with their
fists, but last year they got sticks and fought with. Then
they took to using pokers and bars of iron. The next
things they' got were some pistols, with which they went
freely about, and recently they have got revolvers.”
It sounds just like Woolloomooloo. The next
returned Australian who wants to drivel to Tiie
Bulletin about the beautiful order maintained
in London, and to ask why the Australian
bobby doesn’t do likewise, will leave the office
on his head.
Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords sadly feels
the loss of its boss, Sargood, now jubi-
lating in foreign parts. Sargood knows how
to mutilate a Bill received from the As-
sembly, without wounding it so grievously
as to make it unrecognisable. At present,
the other 47 Rich Landlords simply hit all Bills
with a bludgeon—so that even ihe Argus utters
indirect reproofs. The Exported Products Bill
was thrown out in its entirety but when the
Government threatened to refrain entirely from
supervising and assisting exportation, there
was a wail from the Tory ranks that they
didn’t mean to throw the Bill out, and wouldn’t
do it again. Then a Bdl for consolidating the
mining laws was brought forward. The first
f.Vifnrt rko tonsils did was to knock out all the
vital clauses relating to accidents, royalties,,
ventilation, etc., some of the most important ol
which had been the law of the land for 20 years.
The Government immediately withdrew the
Bill, and it was seen at once that they had been
given a splendid cry with which to rouse the
mining communities at the approaching genera
elections. Once more the Argus crowd found*
itself in difficulties, and had to humiliate itselt
before the Ministerialists —and, at last advices,,
here the matter rested.
The publication of the late Commissioner Eddy’s-
report in Sydney Telegraph decides two-
things. First, there was a report; and.
second, it was definitely in favor of Federal
control of the railways. Mr. Eddy probably-
knew more about railway matters than any
other man in Australia, and his decided opinion-
in favor of handing over the whole business to-
the Federal Government counts for a great deal.
The GoD-fearing Ministry comes out of tins
business in its usual clumsy and uncouth*
fashion. At first, Brunker and co. professed'
not to know that there was any report. Then
they didn’t know what was in it. Then they
attempted to explain that they hadn’t got it,,
and couldn’t produce it. Attorney - General
Want even declared that Mr. Eddy was against
railway Federation, and used that statement to
bolster up the petty provincial views of his
own Little Cornstalk Party. It now appears
that the report was perfectly accessible
after all, so the inference is that the
temporary Brunker and co., being themselves
anti-Federalists, tried to suppress the document
which told so strongly against them, and
bungled miserably, as usual. That part of the
Government which has been running the show-
in Reid’s absence is utterly provincial and
parochial in sentiment, and has worked hard
all through to make Federation impossible.
Part of it, in the shape of Jack Want, did its
share by damning Federation openly. Car-
rutiiers enthused about l'ederation and strove
to take every shadow of power from the Com-
monwealth Government. And Brunker and
the rest gave no support and didn’t even pre-
tend to be interested in the subject. It is an
awful thing for a country to be run by a large,
dull, heavy-breathing, temporary man who is
only keeping the cigar alight for the fellow
who is away.
Concerning a S.A. electoral peculiarity :
The most serious allegation against Charleston, the
S.A. Leg. Councillor who resigned his membership of the
Labor-party and his seat, was that he had sold his side to
prolong his own tenure of office at ±2OO a year. In this
wav : Dr. Magarey, M.L.C., was last year on the brink of
resuming his seat, but eventually, against his doctors
advice, decided to hang on. Had he resigned, under the
peculiar S.A. arrangement, Charleston would have had
to risk return at the next general election instead of at
the election three years afterwards; and Magarey con-
fided to a Labor-member that lie had, in fact, decided to
hang on partly that he “ might not reduce the term of
office of his triend Mr. Charleston.” After this it, unfor-
tunately for Charleston, happened that he and Magarey
were members of a small select committee on the Hospital
dispute, and he pretty generally sided with the doctor
against the Govt, representative. Hence, in view of
Mag area’s confidence, the allegation of an understanding
between the pair, with the inference that Charleston
was repaving his debt to the doctor. For present pur-
poses it isn't, of any consequence that. Magarey denies
ever having spoken about the subject to Charleston ,
the ignominious squabble may be lost sight of m order to
observe the peculiar feature of the S.A. plan, by which
one member has it in his power to lengthen or reduce
another member’s term. That he has that power follows
from the fact that each member is elected nominally for
the full term ; the member sent in at a by-election isn t
sent in for the unexpired portion of the term of the man
whose place he takes. Charleston’s present resigna-
tion, for instance, will give somebody a full term,
while Fuller, who would otherwise not have to retire
until 1903, will go out in 1900. Theoretically something
is to be said in favor of the plan. A person is none the
less worthv of a full term because lie is elected in 189 b
instead of‘in 1897. Besides, the plan keeps the member-
ship trifle more up to date, since in practice very few
men can serve the full term of nine years or so. In prac-
tice however, by-elections arouse so little interest that it
is questionable whether the man returned at one of them
really is fairly entitled to enter upon the same footing as
a member who is returned at a general election when
interest is wider and deeper. The S.A. theory is partly
right, but (he practice breaks down, lor the people
won’t recognise that a by-election isn t a by-election in
the ordinary sense at all; and, in the second place,
physically incompetent members hang on in order to
oblige their impecunious friends.
The N.S.W. Leg. Council reduced the Federa-
tion Bill to such unrecognisable wreck that.
Barton refused at last to have any further con-
nection with it, and it left the Land and Income
Tax Validating Bill over till October, and
Generally played the intoxicated ox all through
the session. The Council is now just about as
bigoted and obstructive and obstinately Tory
as it was before Reid sent up his ten alleged
democrats to leaven the mass. No one hears
much of these ten now. They are not nearly
so enthusiastic as they were, for one thing ;
the Councillors are not paid, and men who have
their living to make have either to make it by
grinding axes inside the House, or else they have
to hustle for a crust outside while the same
little crowd of rich men run the show. Also
the ten are not so democratic as they were ; not
one man in a thousand can he an irrespon-
sible autocrat with a life billet and remain
democratic. The atmosphere of the place
has settled down upon them, and, barring
the fact that there, is a stronger Freetrade ele-
merit in the Council than there was, things
have hardly altered at all. The need for Upper
House reform is almost as urgent now as it was
at last general election. So long as the Council
represents nobody, and is responsible to nobody
for its actions, however had they may be, and
the members are unpaid so that only l icit men
can give their serious attention to public busi-
ness, the mere addition of poor, commonplace
James Blanksby and Benjamin Backhouse
and a few like them to the list makes
no difference worth mentioning. It has made
so little difference, in fact, that the pub-
lic, if it was put <m its solemn oath, couldn t
tell for certain whether the first-mentioned
person wax Blanksby or only plain Blanky.
Acting-Premier Horace Tozer’s very latest
reason why Queensland should stand out of the
Federal movement is that he doesn't feel sure Par-
liament would pass a bill for the election of ten
Convention delegates by the people. , If he was
sure, Tozer, it seems, would go ahead with
enthusiasm in his soul. Considering that the
Tozer crowd has twice come to grief over a bill for
preventing the people having any voice in the
election, this sudden outbreak of Democratic
principle comes a little late.


Short of compulsory cannibalism, seldom
has there been a more harrowing sea-tale that!
that of the crew of the Norwegian barque; Sela-
don, who, uport provisions for about three days;
starved it out for 30 ; jammed with their dyirig
captain into one boat —after the capsizing of. the
other—like sardines in a tih : disappointed of
island after island ; roasted by day artd frozen by
night; tortured with thirst and hunger, but
manly, patient; and uncomplaining, till, at the very
Utmost extremity, they made land—too far gone
to do aught but let the surf cast them ashore.
And, through all this hell upon earth, not the
semblance of a dispute—not a hint at the most
horrible of all resources. Olsen and Andersen and
Nansen—pray that they may be in the boat with
you when you ate cast away at sea.
It appears to be now certain that the
Turner Government will be reconstructed after
the October elections. Williams, who has been a
ghastly failure in the Railways; is to he retired.
Duffy, who has not even kept the Post-office
respectable; will resign. In the event of Graham
Berry not returning to the Speaketship, Duffy
will offer himself, ahd will not be accepted.
MasOn is said to have a lien on the billet.
Taverner is to be taken away from the Public
Works Department, but will be given an-
other portfolio. It is said by many that
Best, one of the least valuable of the
Ministers, will not be returned again by Fitzroy.
At any rate, it is not expected that he will con-
tinue in charge of two so important departments
as the Lands and Customs. To sum up, there
will be at least two portfolios to allot for next
session. One of these will be given to Trenwith,
and Alan M'Lean has a claim on the other.
M'Lean is now very strong in the House. If
there is a third vacant office (as is likely) it will
probably be offered to Higgins, perhaps the most
brainy thorough radical in Vic.
Thomas A. Edison, the gre at inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only .£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor(lG2 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
Some Boots
cripple one ; have been made on a bad-
shaped last ; have had no attention paid
to form ; the insoles are rough, and every
time such boots are worn they make the
wearer feel ten years older.
CaillagliaJi Boots are cut to fit you and made to
wear.
Try them.
CAM.AoriAX & Son,
396 Georjre-at., Sydney.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YOKE
AI STK IMSI W aUTHEXT :
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084
Tuhlic attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company :
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary ;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capitul for the remainder of life-
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information coneemina three exclusive
forms oj msvraner potuies ap, ly to the Mananer at the
Cone,,any s Foidniy, Martin s Place, Sydney, or at any
of the isranch Office* —
289 Cot I,IXB Strkkt, Melbourne, Victoria
lu tyiKKN Strkkt, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 Kino William Strkkt, Adelaide, S.A.
St. Okorok’s Tkrracr, Perth, W.A.
93 Macqitarii Strkkt, Hobart, Tawnania
Ideal
Portraits
Create a standard of excel-
lence that is the goal for
others to strive for. They
are low in price, because
competition has forced the
prices down to what is
scarcely payable. We have
never, however, lowered
the quality by any tricks,
known or unknown. Our
Portraits are IDEALS OF
EXCELLENCE, and you
get considerably more than
you pay for.
Six Enamelled C abinet
with Beautifully Fint.-hed Enlarge-/
ment in Permanent Bromide or f
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras.)
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground FLOOR. NO STAIRS.)
ORROStTS MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
>&kr Majesty's “The Ftench Maid.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
‘Palace The Biograph.
•Royal “Trilby” Burlesque.
Town Hall Hanibourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “Too Much Johnsons.”
Royal “ Lights o’ London.”
“•'on “The Private Secretary'.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
The seemingly dead and gone luck of
Sydney Royal woke up suddenly on Saturday
night, when the burlesque “ Trilby ” was raised
from among the immoral and grimy dead. The
■said luck has kept reasonably wide awake ever
since. There is a certain mesmeric quality about
Maggie Moore’s “ Trilby,” and about the earthy,
"clawsome Svengali and his familiar, Gecko, which
makes this little piece go, though on analysis
•there is nothing tangible in the thing itself. It is
so small that it is only by intense dragging at
■both ends that it can be made to spread over two
‘hours and a few minutes. There is amazingly
lit le dialogue; long spaces are filled in with the
mesmeric waving of Svengali’s talons among the
shadows in the background, and the shaking of
•alluvial deposit out of his mane, and the dreaming
■of “ Trilby ” down by the footlights, and the
shadow cast against the scenery by Gecko’s head,
which looks like a saltbush with a crow sitting on
top of it, out on the plains. The Bulletin hasn’t
yet begun to weary of Roberts’s Svengali. The
unaffected dirtiness of that mouldy man of music
is interesting, partly because Svengali is almost
the only man who ever did look frankly, un-
affectedly dirty on the stage. Anyone can see
'that his annual wash has been unavoid-
ably postponed, and his beard is fertile
with loam and decayed sundries. The writer
feels a desire to peg out a selection
on his more level parts, and to retire from the
tlaily grind and lead a peaceful agricultural exist-
ence on top of Svengali, and cultivate the surface
of that neglected person who makes music.
Maggie Moore and Walter Rivers (as Gecko) are
practically all the rest of the show, and these three
people get little assistance from the author, who
leaves them to rage very much according to their
own devices. Yet, barring a certain want of veri-
similitude about the bald and unconvincing piano
which Svengali rushes through every night, there
isn’t much to complain of in the result. The piece
revolves vigorously around nothing all the time,
and closes with a moderate-sized bang before the
audience has time to grow tired. It consists
mainly of melody and hair and shadows and other
irrelevaucies, and it is a success for no reason in
particular beyond the fact that Svengali obviously
requires to be disinfected and dry-blown. Yet it
seems to be a reliable success all the same.
** # *
The “French Maid” will present herself
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday. Advance
reports state that she is a nicely-frocked damsel of
freat personal attractions, and that her golden
air isn’t suspended down her back more than is
absolutely necessary.
** * *
Sydney Lyceum has been leased by the
MacMahons—the Mighty Atom and Co. —and will
shortly break its long silence. The last thing in
the way of drama or comedy which attempted to
produce itself at this theatre was Cosgrove’s truly
•dreadful “ Squattocracy,” and on cold, wet nights
the curse which followed that play can still be
beard uttering itself on various parts of the
premises. The Bulletin’s —and everybody else’s
—friend, Alfred Dampier, will open the proceed-
ings shortly, and considering that there is
nothing in Sydney just now but burlesque and
variety business, the old “legitimate” should be
a pleasant change.
** m *
Harry Rickards’ venture at the Palace has,
so far, done well. The Biograph is mainly re-
sponsible for this. Now that that wonder has
settled down to steady work, the fact that it is
something really remarkable become more appa-
rent. It is a smooth-flowing illusion ; when it
presents Niagara to the public.gaze that cataract
hasn’t got the drunken jumps that have character-
ised some cataracts, and there are no shapeless
black blotches rushing unexpectedly up the falling
waters. “Jumbo” is admittedly the best and
most realistic fire-engine going, and the boat
which comes down the “shoot” is a spectacle
which is honestly calculated to make the public
hair stand up and balance itself with painful
accuracy on the scalp. Rickards announces that
he is going to turn the Palace into a comedy and
burlesque theatre by-and-bye, and among other
beautiful things which are to come Australia’s
lost goddess, Pattie Browne, is promised in a few
months’ time. The Biograph will probably keep
Rickards out of the Benevolent Asylum in the
interim—at least The Bulletin hopes so. ’Arry
would never wear the pious and resigned aspect
which is the correct thing for an “inmate.”
** * *
The Selbinis, who created a bubble-repu-
tation on the treacherous bike at a previous visit,
are back at Sydney Tivoli, and conducting them-
selves as disrespectfully towards the law of gravity
as formerly. Also, the co. at the Royal Standard
is now in its 45th consecutive week, and is dragging
the corpse of the patriotic drama round with its
usual vigor. There may be a lack of the finer
artistic touches about the Standard dramas, but
there is no theatre in Sydney where the heroine
is towed by the ear through such awful persecu-
tion for the money, or the villain wades in gore
with more stolid premeditation. Anybody who
feels that way can simply swim in blood at the
Standard for threepence. And when they kill the
miscreant, toward- 11 p.m., they do kill him ;
when there is a good house, and the co. is feeling
well, it is prepared to bash the miscreant out of
all shape, and shovel his remains into the furnace,
without any extra charge.
** * *
There was some talk of Frank Lincoln ex-
tending his clever entertainment for another
week, but the rumor proved unfounded, and the
old lady with the whistling front tooth closed on
Saturday. Business was a good deal better
towards the end of the week ; nevertheless Lincoln
probably feels called upon to make some severe re-
marks through his nose about the way Sydney
treated him. Even when the business improved
it amounted to very little, and the Centenary Hall
isn’t the best place for a humorist, anyhow. The
high platform looks too like a pulpit, and there is
a dampness in the air left over from the Wesleyan
infant that was baptised the previous Sunday,
and the threepenny that drops in the plate leaves
a faint, tinkling echo on the premises all through
the week. A cheerful entertainment doesn’t get a
show in a building where the sinner is habitually
damned every Sabbath.
** * *
The idea of the wondrously successful
Chinese pageant held in Sydney last Saturday
emanated from Manager Manders, of the Diamond
Jubilee Carnival Committee. They approached
Quong Tart, Sun Johnson, and J. A. Philp, of the
Chinese newspaper, but these, knowing the disin-
clination of the Chinese merchants to take part in
public matters and the clan jealousies of the com-
moner Chows, did not regard the prospects of
success as great. However, the Kwong Yek
Wah Bo took the matter up, and after several
weeks of “ dead lift,” the Asiatic apathy was dis-
pelled, and then Yee King Lee, Quong Tart, and
other prominent Chinese merchants came into the
movement. Law, M.P. for Balmain, had mean-
while visited Bendigo, and made tentative
arrangements for the loan of the “ properties ”
necessary for the carnival. Almost at the last
moment, however, the Bendigo Chinamen de-
manded a guarantee of ,£3OOO before the dresses
should leave their town. This was arranged for
in a few hours by the Lin Yik Tong, a mer-
chants’ society with £OOO,OOO or £BOO,OOO of trading
capital behind it, and the props, arrived in
Sydney, accompanied by a squad of property men.
The pageant, regarded purely as a spectacle, was
probably the finest ever held in Sydney. The
costumes were, for the most part, of silk, and the
accessories, from the palanquins and canopies
down to the weapons and the brocaded shoes, were
strictly de rigueur.
** * *
The last matinee of “ Sign of the Cross ”
occurs at the Princess’s to-day (Thursday), and
the ninth Melbourne week of that stately spec-
tacle will close to-morrow. Then Nero, and his
converted Prefect, together with Mercia, Berenis,
the opportune thunderstorm, and all the other
items in a remarkable success, will move along to
fresh fields of profit. The bill for Saturday (Sept.
4th) is “ Too Much Johnson,” a bright farcical
comedy by William Gillette, said to be the coming
Pinero of America. “Too Much Johnson,”
which has already been tested in Adelaide, will
re-introduce the Paulton-Stanley co. to Melbourne
notice.
** * *
George Rignold has struck Melbourne at
a favorable moment, and “ Lights o’ London ” is
doing such lively business at the Royal that the
season will be carried over several weeks longer
than the fortnight originally advertised. “In the
Ranks ” is to follow the tank drama ; also rumors
of a vigorous “Joseph of Canaan ” revival are in
the air. Meantime, “ The Lights ” holds the floor
every evening until further notice, and George
Rignold plays the hero as though he were deriving
much benefit from the cold plunge. One night
last week he sprained the sinews of his right arm
in a desperate struggle with the police, and next
night his rescue of Seth Preene from a watery
grave terminated in something like a drowning
match between the exhausted pair. Later on
George appeared with his arm in a sling, so when
it became necessary for him to wreak vengeance
upon the villain, Miss Hughes got over the diffi-
culty bysaying “Maimed as you are, thrash him
within an inch of his life.” Whereupon the
maimed one grabbed Diver with his left, and the
audience felt glad to find that an arm more or less
made no difference to the result. It is even pro-
bable that a hero of George Rignold’s long experi-
ence in stage-fighting would be able to defeat
Diver on one leg.
** * *
“ The Private Secretary ” is booming as of
yore, or rather more so, at Melb. Bijou, where the
second Uncle Cattermole improves on acquain-
tance, and gives an air of novelty to that strong
arrival from Calcutta. For anyone who saw
Frank Thornton’s show half-a-dozen times in the
years that have fled, the present Uncle is an in-
ducement to see it again. Miss Meta Pelham, as
the landlady, likewise deserves honorable mention
last week, and if the calamitous exponent
of the tailor character could only cut himself
from a new pattern, and become a different sort of
man entirely, the performance would be amusing
all the time. _As it is, the tailor leaves an occa-
sional impression of dull care hanging around the
proceedings until Frank Thornton comes to drive
it away. Melbourne is just now full of agricul-
turists who dwell in dark places where the foot-
fall of “The Private Secretary” has never yet
tinkled on the tufted turnip, so to speak, and as
that gifted and reverend bun-driveller gives place
to the “ Bookmaker ” on Saturday, these bucolic
characters are hereby warned to hurry up.
** * *
Seeing that about five hundred tardy pil-
grims were refused admission to the Opera House
last Saturday, comment on the latest glories of
Rickards’s entertainment is quite uncalled for.
The Diamond Jubilee pictures are, perhaps
chiefly responsible for a mighty rush, but the
Haytors, Tom Wootwell, and the Avolos and
several other living things appear to share popu-
larity with the vision of “Premier Turner
waving his hand to the people.”
** * *
The Alexandra is to re-open under new
and hopeful management next Saturday. And at
the Athenaeum Hall to-night (Thursday) barrister
l)evenport Hoggins, the Tasmanian’ humorist,
will try the effect of a monologue recital from
Dickens.
At Poverty Point,
A rapture-fnl music-crank to Tub Bulletin' on “Ilam-
bourg”:—“Have ye not felt that touch, have ye not
leapt at it ! As through each quivering heart and hervte
trembles the subtle fire. Beauteous \vhite slaves ! lortg
had ye lain as in a trance, long- had the pall ok- of Heath
spread over you his icy silence ! But, behold ! tie, Ham-
bo urg, Genius, Creator, is nigh ! Ye feel that presence.
Delicate, loving hands, the)’ have touched ybd. Hush!
list to the awakening sigh ! Theft- bonds af-e broken and
the master-spirit hath conquered. Passionately they leap
to kiss thee, passionately they pant forth love to thee !
Men will etkvv What thou hast. Thou playest on heart-
strings, warm with thy own life, thy spirit is in them, thy
soul answers ukito itself! Wings of my dreams !ye have
surrounded me. I hear your fiutterings. The desires of
lny heart are awakened 1 Shadow dreams trembling on
Wefts of Music !ye have come to me. Ye are no longer
phantasies that flee, but in this wondrous spell I have
found you. Darkness reigned on earth, inky darkness,
that nought could pierce—Chaos and Void, no breath, no
sound! A something stirred. A trembling form parted
the impenetrable web, the motionless winds vibrated !
The soul of Music trembled, and the Earth had life ! She,
that no power could chain, passed, and in the strange,
sweet music of flight, darkness was banished ! ” —Pal l F.
Culled from Sydney D.T. re Mark Hantbourg’s piano-
forte playing : “ Contrapuntal glee pulsated with a cease-
less flow and untiring pace,” "swirl of intoxicating
color,” “ kaleidoscopic changes,” “ a gorgeous swing,”
“yielded the rustle of silken attire,” “sensuous imagery,”
“ faint perfume of femininity,” “ the wrists of one’s soul
ached in witnessing the lightning rapidity of Mark’s
movements,” “it was fingers and wrists of steel—elas tic
steel,” “a brain on lire, a heart bubbling with vital
force,” “he was a veritable hurricane, and swept the
audience along with him,” “ sledge-hainiltek- blows from
his cyclopean fists,” “shook himself free from the piano
with the victor’s crown.”
George Coppih has almost abandoned his idea of run-
ning a Xmas panto, at Melbourne Royal. He was nego-
tiating with Elsie Adair to that end when the little Ameri-
can lady fell sick.
Melbourne Liedertafel is looking out for a new con-
ductor to replace Ernest King, whose resignation last
week was the climax of a furious squabble with the com-
mittee.
The Shaftesbury Theatre, where the Firm purposes run-
ning Mrs. Potter and the beauteous Kj-rle, is a singularly
unlucky London house. The late Billrobihsdn was at one
time mentioned as a probable lessee with a view to the
production of “ Predatoros,” but, like many Shaftesbury
schemes, it never came off. “ A Woman’s Reason ” kept
the stage there for five months ; anywhere else with such
a cast it was said the piece would have 1 drawn for years.
Most other Shaftesbury pieces have had very short lives.
Regina “ Ben Bolt ” Nagel has reconsidered her notion
of being pupil to Elise Wiedermann in Melbourne, and
will seek Paris and Marchesi instead. Regina and her
friends predict for her a big boom.
When Rickards’ Cinematographe of the Jubilee proces-
sion is working at Melb. Opera House, the cue for the
entrance of (he Royal carriage is given bv the sounds of
“ Gavvsave ” from the orchestra, and it is ludicrous and
disgusting to see how the spielers, bookmakers’ touts and
anaemic office-boys loyally arise and roar the anathema in
various keys until the reel is unwound. Curious psycho-
logical problem why second-rate bookmakers and pale
junior clerks always rttn to Loyalty.
Butler must have had a fine ear for music. A lovely
foreigner (Virginia Aragottl thus expresses her opinion (if
hint : “Ah 1 dat Bootlair, ne ver’ bad man. On de boat
I seeng von leetal song, ell he trow book on my head. lie
no goot.”
For putting up plays ih London such as “ My FHend
the Prince,” Dot Boucicault gets a douceur of tIOO and
£3O a week until the show is in sufficient order to go
without him.
The committee of the Sydney Diamond Jubilee Charity
Carnival, the other day, lodged £4OO with the N.S.W.
Customs Department to enable four Chinamen to enter
the province under bond for two weeks—with the object
of assisting at the sports. The yellow men brought with
them (front Bendigo) costumes, &c., valued at £3OOO.
W. F. Ilawtrey, who conducted the first rehearsals of
“ Lelamine ” at Melb. Princess’s, charged the amateurs
20 guineas for “ re-writing and revising the libretto of the
opera.” If Ilawtrey put 20 guineas’-worth of improve-
ment into that libretto, it must have been a horrible
literary outrage before the reviser took it in hand.
Phil. Newbury, well-received in Brisbane, follows with
a short concert-season in Rockhampton and Townsville.
Thereafter he gets together bis own co., and goes further
north, into the territory of the Japanese ladies. The
little Jap. up at Cairns, by the way, is flourishing like a
yellow-dog on his honeymoon-trip ; and the town council
resolutely declines to part with its treasures.
Time flies, and Barton M’Guckin is on his way to Aus-
tralia as a member of Anty Sherwin’s new concert-part)-.
There was talk of him joining the “Tasmanian Nightin-
gale ” ten years ago, when she ran a season of English
opera at Melb. Opera House, and stood in dire heed Of a
first-class tenor to replace a solemn little man. With a
large, round head, whom she had imported from America.
The show, which had Benno Scherek for musical con-
ductor, was crippled in its infancy bv the aforesaid un-
fortunate roundhead. The baritone, Avon Saxon, proved
satisfactory enough : ditto the bald basso (likewise from
America), but, O 1 that plain, commercial-looking tenor
was no better suited to his' billet than poor Little Billee,
of the late “Trilby” Co. After awhile, he disappeared
and tuneful Henry Stockwell, apathetically wooden actor
stepped into the breach. It was just then that Barton
M’Guckin was said to be corning to the rescue under cable
engagement—but didn’t. M’Guckin was a big name to
put upon a bill at that time, and although he isn’t, nowa-
days, quite as expensive as of yore, Australia will be glad
to hear the English—i.e., Scotch—tenor before he drops
into decay.
Clever George Majeroni, who means to try his luck in
England next year, is joining Thornton’s Co. for “The
Bookmaker.”
The Firm has engaged Miss Emily Hughes for the
“ Two Little Vagabonds ” touring co.
The slander-case instituted by Terry against Thornton
in the Charters Towers court, has been allowed to lapse,
and the Melbourne proceedings are more than likely to
end in smoke. Meanwhile, Thornton has serious cause
for action against certain parties in London who, on the
strength of misinformation received, went ArOiihd with
the news that “ Charles’s Aunt” ahd CO. Wefe “ sttindb'd ”
in Australia. _ .
Said that Orte Actress, Sirtce AppeSririg in,A pious pa,rt>. it}
a pious ptay, has developed strong religious symptoms
Ah'd thinks Of gWtting to a nunnery. , , ,
“The Sign of the Cross” popld never have been done at
the. Melb. Royal, bepause the pietists would not have gone
past the vestibule bars.
N. ; .“Sonny Parlatto did not act Deacon Skinner, in
‘Struck Oil,’ but John Stofel. The bill for his Melb.
debut took away the breath of the theatrical world, with
Master Salviidorparlatto. His first name was Salvador.
The Lizzie Stofel was Nina Tulloch, afterwards known as
‘The Magpie.’”
London's two theatrical potentates, Irving and Tree,
both gave special performances to the colonial and Indian
troops. In the two speeches delivered by the respective
managers, the manner of address differed widely. Tree
beiran inelegantly—“ Friends, colonials, countrymen, and
hoys” . Irving hit it off more felicitously with
“ Ladies and gentlemen—or, rather, let me say my dear
comrades,” etc.
The revival of “ Lights o’ London” drew a bigger house
for George Rignold, at Melb. Royal, than the first hight
of “ Cheer, Bovs, Cheer,” which bathe fresh from tohdort;
last year, with a considerable reputation,
Florence Fsdaile, late a vocal star Of Rickards’ Melb;
show, has (per cable with huge headlines) just Accepted i
three-vears’-engagement with the London Music Halls’
Syndicate,
ft. : “A mart connected with Meib. Prin'cess assiires me
that in general; even apart frbiii the ‘Sign of the Cross,’
two-thirds Of the audience are women. In the Bellew
time it vvAs three-fourths. You would see them in sevens
of A row. Getting like church.”
Phil Stuart appears to be making a decent thing out of
his Tivoli Garden, at Kalgoorlie. The old familiar names
of W. B. Warner and Rexo, the contortionist, figure on
the latest bills.
At a meeting of Melb. Theatre Royal Proprietary Co:
veteran Coppin reported that the cO. Was out of, ‘dbbfc-f
for the first time in five years the balance was oh the fight
side,
The loss Of £625(1 Over that, disastrous Theatre RoyAl
Management Cd.jWllich opeped With the dreadful Lauri
Villiefs As “ The Dancing Girl,” Was the millstone round
the heck Of Melb. Royal. The £6250 was lost in nine
months.
At South Yarra (Melb.) Hall, the other Saturday, a
clever “Dramatic Medley” entertainment was given by
Misses Barbara and Olive Sisley, the daughters of elocu-
tionist Sisley, one-time secretary’ to Yic. Artists’ Society,
The girls appe red alternately, or together, in a dozen
different “ turns,” ranging from the common or garden
kind of recitation to humorous dramatic character
sketches. They even ventured into male attire With more
than amateur success, and their perfortnahee all roilhd
showed plenty’ of fresh young talent for the stage. With
the assistance of a concert Finger, or two, the Sisley
Sisters ought to be able to give a fetching iittle shoW
later on.
Phil May, whose double-page “ dream of Victorian berby
Da.vs,” in London Punch’s Jubilee number, was A hugfe
success, recently’ made Ada Crosslev famous ih a Fuseli
cartoon, and MAcKennal has just finished a lifohze bust Of
Mrs. May, Which is to he in rteXt year’s Royal Academy.
In Octoherhe begins a marble bust Of Melba, who giveS
him fourteen sittings straight away.
George Rignold, At Melb. Roy Al, chips into the railway
business with cheap excursion-tickets including admissioii
to “ Lights 0’ LOndoh."


CYANIDE
OP POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
SYDNEY—63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
The KOEIISTZ
PATENT
“ tittle Giant ”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3-
Now recognised by all Prac>
tical Minors as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 anagra-gg... SYDNEY.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
REFRESHMENT ROOMS
(under contract)
STOCK
ONLY
SIB JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
.4us. I PHILIPS & PIKE,
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Causticft other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine,
GTANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 WUlteia'«k.. lbuonn; 14 Ouxri*at. Anum.
Jack Whitley,
Carpenter.
Last heard of from Cooleardie, Nov., ’95,
then thinking of going to Black Flag.
Write to
ROBT. WOLFE,
Murray-st., Perth, W.A.,
A gent for tho
Simpson Buckboard
Simpson Jump-seat Sulkies.
AND
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victoria ended its financial year at 30th June
(rith a deficit of £196,098. Therefore the Seven Provinces
nan out a 9 follows ;
Victoria Deficit £196,098
New South Wales „ 170,945
Maoriland i Surplus 125,000
Tasmania » 47,732
Queensland ••• »•« » 0,000
Westralia » 3,298
South Australia ~ 2,140
Which is a considerable amount of deficit and not much
surplus. Still things are not quite so bad as they look.
Part of the N.S.W. expenditure is £150,000 paid off the
old deficit, so the total deficiency is only £20,945 more
than it was. Part of the Victorian shortage consists of
£250,000 paid off the old deficit, so the Vic. deficit is
really £53,902 less than it was. Allowing for these things
the figures would be as follows :
New South Wales Deficit £20,945
Maoriland Surplus 125,000
Victoria ... ... .< 33,902
Tasmania ... ... it 47,73 u
Queensland ... ... u 8,886
Westralia _ it 3,298
South Australia „ 2,140
The deficit above-mentioned is quite reliable,
earring the fact that it is probably more like £820,000
than £20,000, the paper shortage being kept down by
charging current expenditure to loans. The surpluses
are mostly fiction and financial Tozer, being also faked
by charging current expenditure to loans. Where the
loan expenditure is large it almost always covers a vast
number of items which should come out of revenue ;
where it is very small there is a fair chance that the
revenue accounts are nearly honest, simply for want of
opportunity to work so large a swindle ; but the only
time when the financial statements of the Seven Pro-
vinces will be wholly honest will be when there is no loan
expenditure at all. Last year Victoria spent £293,000 of
loan money; Queensland, 1,148,341; N.S. Wa1e5,£1,548,606.
Railways absorbed £193,000 of the Vic. loan expenditure,
and as it is impossible to work much financial swindle on
the remaining £lOO,OOO, Turner’s balance-sheet is cer-
tainly the most honest of the lot.
Turner estimates that next year, after paying off
another £250,000 of Shields deficiency bonds, he will end
with a shortage of £84,000. If this comes off, the accu-
mulated deficit will really be reduced by £166,000. By
recent conversion operations the Vic. Treasury saves
£19,741 per annum in interest, and it is promised that no
new loan will be floated this financial year (ending June,
’9B). The present Vic. balance-sheet is the first one since
1890 which has shown a reduction in the awful deficit,
and as Turner has an election on in about six weeks it
arrives verv opportunely.
• * • *
Westralia’s proposal to raise another .£3,000,000
loan vaguely suggests that someone is off his head. In
January last, W.A. issued £1,100,000 worth of stock in
payment for the Great Southern railway. In May, it
floated another £1,000,000 on general principles. It also
raised a considerable amount in Treasury bills, so the pre-
sent transaction makes £5,600,000 or more borrowed, or to
be borrowed, in one year. This a good deal more than
doubles Westralia’s debt in one act; until this year it was
only about £5.000,00n. In 1896 W.A. only borrowed
£750,000, and the same amount in 1895. These were
pretty large sums for about 130,000 people, and were
equal to an annual borrowing of £6,000,000 by N.S W. ;
still, they were moderate by comparison. In 1897 Wes-
tralia apparently resolved to borrow the entire earth if it
could be got.
• * » •
The West Australian Bank continues to do well.
The half-year’s profit to June 30t.h is £19,685, against
£16,703 and £12,284 for two previous half-years. The
usual 17)4 per cent, dividend absorbs £8750 ; £3OOO is
written off premises account; and the remaining £7935
is carried forward. Three years ago the half-year’s profit
of the W.A. Bank was £8387, but since then it has swelled
up continuously amid the howl and roar of the biggest
and maddest borrowed-money boom that even Australia
has ever witnessed. Still there are beginning to be signs,
despite the increase of profits, that the greatest part of the
boom is over. For two successive half-years deposits
have diminished, which is one symptom ; moreover, the
inevitable slump will strike the W.A. Bank harder than
some of its rivals, its business being confined to the great
boom province. One thing, however, is noticeable :it
only holds £20,000 of State securities, so the Forrest
Government has evidently not managed to load it up with
much of its recent issues of Treasury bills. And if the
new £3,000,000 issue of these bills actually floats, the load
will be so great that there will be serious possibilities of
ultimate default in W.A.; therefore, the W.A. Bank seems
to take a wise course in standing from under.
* * * •
The Land Mortgage Bank (Melb.) six months
ago persuaded its English creditors to reduce interest
on its £900,000 of debentures from 4J to per cent, for
five years, thus making a temporary saving of £4500 on
each half-year’s operations. With the strange cussedness
of dilapidated land banks in general it seems a lot worse
after the saving than before. This is how the L.M.B. has
been feeling according to its last seven reports :
June, ’94. Profit, £260 June, ’96. - Loss, £9696
Dec., ’94. Loss, 6038 Dec., ’96. ~ 10,494
June,’9s. „ 6617 June,’97. „ 14,425
Dec., ’95. „ 8847
In this last half-year the poor, sorrowful little bank was
■enjoying the full advantage of the reduced rate of
interest, and after saving £4500 in this direction it made
£3931 more of a loss than it did the half-year previously.
And if its debenture-holders had reduced their interest to
nothing at all it would have shown a profit of only £1325.
The co. has £1,231,970 of assets, of which £48,944 is
accumulated loss ; £541 is discount; £2O “ money lent
without security ” ; £225 is advanced on the security of
the co’s unsaleable shares and those of the hopelessly
busted Metropolitan Bank ; and £1,080,000 consists of
property which hasn’t been re-valued since the boom.
It may be worth half that amount, or a quarter, or
any other fraction, at present rates—no one knows.
The institution has £1,000,000 callable capital, and
is struggling to wrest some of this from the share-
holders, but, the money comes in very little faster
than tlie half-yearly loss goes out. The British deben-
ture-holder has a lien on all this £1,000,000, and either he
must be paid or the last shareholder be sold up in the
effort. Therefore, the Land Mortgage concern can’t go
and die peacefully as any other bank might do, but must
go on cany mg water in a sieve to no purpose till further
notice. If the worst comes to the worst, however, it is
always better to liquidate ten years hence than to do it
now. It gives the shareholder time to die, or bust, or
disappear, or settle his property on his wife, or do a lot of
things.
• • * *
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance
Co., a little Brisbane proprietary concern just two years
old, sends along its balance-sheet. During the year it
collected £4443 in premiums, and including interest, &c.,
its total income was £4540. Management cost £2753
equal to 60 per cent, on total income, or 62 per cent, on
premiums. Considering that expenses are necessarily
very heavy for the first year or two, especially where the
business is mostly of the industrial variety, this is per-
haps not larger than might be expected. All the same,
the Australian Metropolitan doesn’t inspire much confi-
dence. It is a proprietary concern, and the people who
pay the premiums have absolutely no control over affairs.
The whole show appears to be owned by nine people, two
of them ladies described as “housekeeper.” (This item
of information is taken from a par. in Brisbane Worker,
but as the management forwarded the par. without any
contradiction it is presumably authentic.) The manager,
apparently, owns nearly half the concern, and of the other
six male shareholders five evidently have billets either on
the staff or as directors. These five are reported as owning
4640 shares out of 5000. The sixth one mav have a billet
also, for all Tub Bulletin knows to the contrary, hut, if
he hasn’t, he and the two housekeepers are the only out-
side influence there is to supervise the directorate and
management and make it go straight, if ever it wants keep-
ing straight. In a co. where almost all the shareholders
are managing the concern, it is obvious that they can
manage it very much as they please ; the principal check
on them being that they meet together periodically as
shareholders to report to themselves what they have done
as managers and directors, and to cordially approve of
their own doings. The director whose term has expired
applies for re-appointment, and, seeing that there are ap-
parently only seven males in the company, and all but
one of them is alreadj' helping to run the show, and that
one may be helping also for all that appears to the
contrary, he will probably be re-elected. In fact, it
is difficult to see how there can be any opposition. Appa-
rently the first valuation of liabilities, to show whether
the co. is solvent or not, isn’t due yet, nevertheless the
shareholders vote themselves a 10 p c. dividend, which is
a very strong proceeding indeed at such an early stage of
the co.’s existence. This large, generous way of helping
themselves to the funds at the Very beginning, though
perfectly legal, looks as if the Australian Metropolitan
existed mainly for the henefit of the shareholders. _A con-
cern where there is practically nobody to supervise the
management and directorate—where these people form a
strong majority, so that they can appoint themselves, fix
their own salaries, fees and dividends without interfer-
ence, and approve their own acts, as is apparently the
case with the Australian Metropolitan—may be perfectly
sound. But it doesn’t look any too well.
* * *
South Australian Insurance Co. made .£0787 for
the past year and paid 10 per cent, dividend (16250).
This is the first occasion in four years that the S.A. co.
has honestly earned its dividend. In 1894 it made £BB7l
and paid 15 per cent, dividend (£9375). In 1895 it made
£5405 and paid 10 per cent, dividend (£6250). In 1896 it
made £5250 and paid 10 per cent, dividend (£6250). The
insurance institutions down South have got the boom
complaint almost as badly now as the banks had it a
few years ago. Half of them are paying away all their
earnings to shareholders, and most of the other half are
paying away more than their earnings. Almost every one
of 'them is a lot weaker than it was a few years
ago, solely through paying sensational dividends
and making no provision out of earnings to cover
depreciation on investments. If the bad times and the
big dividends and the depreciation last five years longer
one or two old-established companies will probably end in
liquidation, and the all-pervading John Bull will annex
the business, as usual.
* * * *
The Victoria Insurance Co. (fire and marine) of
Melbourne, finished a rather prosperous year on June 30,
the net profits being £lB,OlO. A beautiful dividend of
35'M per cent, absorbs £17,974 of this, leaving £36 to carry
forward. At the same time the directors announce that
they find it necessary to take £25,000 from reserve—
£2o,ooo to form a re - insurance fund, and £5OOO to
strengthen the contingency fund, which now stands at
£25.(100. This sudden desire to strengthen the contin-
gency fund seems to imply that there are more losses to
be provided for in the co.’s investments. The Victoria
doesn't write off depreciation, but leaves the assets stand-
ing at their book values with a contingency fund against
them, therefore the inference is that the £20,000 for-
merly at the credit of that fund was insufficient to cover
losses and further provision was necessary. The fact that
the income from investments has collapsed from £5376 in
1894 to £3705 in 1897 is also suggestive that something
pretty bad has been happening to the securities.
With the reserve-fund thus reduced, and the income
from interest rapidly declining, a management
which scatters practically all the large profits in the de-
sperate effort to pay a 35J per cent, dividend deserves a
fine large zinc medal for its recklessness. Last year the
Victoria was even more remarkable than it is this time,
for it paid away £9OO more than its earnings to keep up
the 35J per cent. div. Before that it was sailing very
close to the wind in an effort to pay 44 per cent. The
whole recent career of the Victoria is a desperate effort
to pay something tremendous and three-quarters percent.
• * • *
The Victoria General Insurance and Guarantee
v„ >. which is a sort of small brother to the Victoria, and
is under the same management, runs on very similar
lines. The year's profits are £3690, and a large, gorgeous 20
percent, dividend is paid, absorbing £4OOO, so the concern
goes £3lO to the bad. Last year the profits were £4987,
and the co. rovally “ blewed ” £5OOO in paying a 25 per
cent, dividend, and went £l3 to the bad. The profits,
three years ago, were £6477, so they have got down to a
little more than one-half, and the business is now a trifle
smaller than it was in 1891. The Victoria General is a
comparatively humble affair with £20,000 paid-up capital
and about £lB,OOO of reserves, and its craving after 20 and
25 per cent, dividends should be restrained till it grows
bigger. ,
The Indemnity Firo and Marine Insurance Co.
(Melbourne) has a profit of only £333 for the year just
ended, and no dividend is declared. Last year it had a
loss of £1328, and no dividend. In 1895 the luckless con-
cern had a profit of £3S6, an amount that was hardly
worth mentioning, and, as a 4 per cent., dividend absorbed
£lOOO, things were £614 worse at the end of the year
than at the beginning. The Indemnity is a bruised reed
with £25,000 paid-up capital, £3500 reserves, £1047 at
credit of profit and loss-these last two items being all
that there is to show for 16 years’ work—and a wonderful
capacity for striking streaks of hard luck. Out of £32,000
worth of assets, it is carefully mentioned that over £20,000
are put in at book values—whatever the difference be-
tween these and present values may be. As £27,800
(paper value) of investments yield only £478, equal to
£1 14s. per cent, per annum, unsympathetic people would
possibly reckon ’ them as worth about £12,000 altogether,
In which case there would be comparatively little left of
the Indemnity Co. In the last six years the premium
income has diminished by nearly one-half, and the income
from investments has fallen to one-third of what it was,
so the Indemnity’s bad luck has been very consistent.
Last April the shares (4s. paid up) were quoted at 9d.
Since then they haven’t been heard of so far as this paper
is aware.
The Southern Insurance Co. (Melbourne) has
also struck a rich reef of misfortune. For the six months
ended 30th June the net premiums were. £17,485 and the
losses £28,116. After allowing: for interest, &c., the half-
year’s deficit is £10,762, and the board, in an unexpected
access of sanity, pays no dividend. The reason why this
proceeding is so wildly unexpected will be found in the
following: figures :
Dividends.
June, ’95, ... Loss £1393 £2500
Dec., ’95, ... Profit 1689 2500
June, ’96, 3431 2500
Dec.,’96, ... Loss 1521 2500
June, ’97, ... ~ 10,762 nil
In four previous half-years, therefore, the Southern earned
£2206 and paid £lO,OOO in dividends, and this paper had
gradually come to regard it as an institution whose
capacity for paying dividends and damning the conse-
quences was wholly unlimited. Since the beginning of
1895 the co. has reduced the balance at credit of profit
and loss from £30,790 to £12,234, which is a pretty mas-
sive loss in 2.J years. It has also taken £5OOO from its re-
serve fund to provide for losses and depreciation on in-
vestments, which should have been made good out of
revenue. The Southern has £50,000 paid-up capital and
£62,000 reserves, so it isn’t a very large affair—certainly
not nearly so large as it was a few years ago. The
management laments a good deal over the fact that the
shares (10s. paid) are selling at 6s. 6d. or 75., and regards
the position as unaccountable. Tub Bulletin reckons
that the management is a great deal more unaccountable
than the state of the share-market.
» » * *
Castlemaine Brewery Co. (Melbourne), one of
the very few joint-stock tanglefoots which have hitherto
resisted the depression, stopped paying dividends this
year. The profit for the 12 months to 30th June was
£2854, a lamentable fall from the £8389 realised in 96,
£12,283 in ’95 and £18,647 in ’94. In addition to the stop-
page of dividend, the reserve of £15,000 and £BOOO of
profit and loss account are written off to cover deprecia-
tion in the co.’s inflated public-house properties. The
utter collapse of the beer business down South is one of
the most remarkable things since the boom. It would
seem that there isn’t a decent, solvent thirst left in all
Melbourne.
• * * »
Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co. pays a 10 per
cent, dividend; Fitzgerald's Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine) pays 10 per cent. ; Denton Hat Mills Co.
(Melbourne) also divides 10 per cent.
The stoppage of Langlanols Foundry Ltd.,
Melb., primarily owing to pressure of a small creditor, ends
about the last of the Melb. engineering concerns which
were made into limited co’s during the boom. Most of
the half-dozen big Melb. engineering firms are wholly in
the hands of their respective banks.
• * * *
Rather ominous that a few of the .£lOO shares
in the Colonial Diamond Co., which is supposed to be “ on
the point of” being floated in London for a fabulous sum,
are to be had at a big discount in Melbourne, and this de-
suite the fact lhat all the shares are supposed to be pooled.
r * * » *
B.H. Water Supply people, referring to the
mining companies’ dissatisfaction at the price charged and
the movement towards carrying out separate waterworks,
say that the cos. have never made a definite business-like
proposal to them. The trouble apparently is that the
mining cos. won’t give a guarantee to take a certain
quantity, but will only go to the Water Co. when the
supply in their own dams is low.
J * • * *
With silver at its present unprecedented price,
production must be much reduced; but a disturbing ele-
ment in definite calculations is the output of the metal as
a by-product. In 1895 the Montana mines produced
89,775 tons copper, with a silver by-product of 8,828,1460 z.
fine silver; certainly not a great deal in view of an aggre-
gate annual silver production of 150,000,(>00oz., but enough
to ease the market and likely to increase with the firming
of the copper-market.
* • * *
The half-yearly report of the B.H. North Cen-
tral is little more than a whisper. The expectation on
which the co. was formed was that the B. 11. lode had an
eastern underlay and that the North Central would strike
it. They sank to 700 ft. without doing so. Then they
drove to’the B.H. Prop's boundary without finding any-
thing. Now they are driving south along the boundary,
and the manager thinks that “ good prospects should be
met with.” The prospects are better that way, certainly,
because the cap of the lode is nearer the North Central at
its southern extremity than it is further north. But, if
nothing is found in this drive or in a winze dropped from
it, the enterprise had better be abandoned ; for the sul-
phide ore so far found below the 700 ft. level is not, except
in patches, pavable at present or even recent prices. The
co., which spent, last half-year, £1757 (the items are not
set out separately, as they should be), has, apparently,
£3500 in hand (though isn’t some of this locked up?), and
that, or much less, ought to do all the further prospecting
that the position of the block and the character of the
stone passed through warrant.
* * * *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
» • * *
The price of silver has continued to fall unmer-
cifully, and all silver stocks have come down heavily. A
calculation was made in Tub Bulletin some time back,
based on the half-yearly .report, that the B.H. Prop,
could keep going with silver at Is. 6d. Since then lead
has advanced 225. per ton further, equal to £15,000 on a
half-year’s production, allowing a still wider margin.
Comparatively, though, the B.H. Prop, suffers
by far the most from the fall. If it were not so the other
mines which have been working with a far smaller margin
of profit would have been closed down long ago. Take
the B. H. South, for instance—by some thought to be the
worst situated of the div.-paying mines, since it has on y
recently got to the div. stage. This mine, whose half-
yearly 'report to June 30 has just been issued, in the
period produced, from 41,887 tons crude ore, 12,440 tons
concentrates, estimated to contain by assay 8521 tons
lead and U3,2040z. silver. Now, the average price ob-
tained for B.H. silver (standard) during the second half of
’96 was 2s. 6fd., and for lead £lO 18s. The fall in silver to
Is. lljd.=7d per oz., represents on the South 8.11. out-
put £3301 15s. Bd. That is the loss. But- the quotation
for lead at time of writing was £l2 13s. 9d. per ton =£l
15s. 9d. gain, which represents £15,231155. on the South’s
output of lead.
The South’s net gain by the movement in the
markets for the metals has thus amounted, to £11,930.
The South co. itself is not that much to the good, of
course; because, since it sells concentrates and not
refined metal, it does not get full value for the contained
metals. But the increased value is there, for some one
to get.
The effect of the increase in the lead quotation
is, in connection with the purely sulphide mines, so im-
portant that it has need to be insisted on. Take the
South again to better illustrate the position. Suppose
the silver in its concentrates sold for 2s. (above the market
quotation at time of writing) the half-year’s silver output
would be worth only £11,320 Bs., while at £l2 10s. per ton
(below the market quotation at time of writing) the lead
output would be worth £106,512 10s. Put in another
way, a fall now of 28s. per ton in lead (and lead has
advanced £3 in the last 2) years) would be more disastrous
to the South than would be a fall in value of silver to ab-
solutely nothing.
Comparatively, as said before, the B.H. Pro-
prietary suffers by far the most from the movements in
the metals ; then the Junction; then the Junction North ;
next Block 10. The British and Block 14 are about even
on the transaction ; and the South positively benefits.
The North is still prospecting; ana figures as to the
Central are not available.
• * * *
The Sydney market has worked itself into high
excitement on copper-mining:, and, as usual in N.S.W., the
public does not pause to ask if it is not being: played upon
by quick-coinmission brokers, newspaper tipsters and
others. A wire from the manager that the regulus was
running from 68 per cent, t 079 per cent, sent Girilambone
shares up to 40s. and they are now tipped as being cheap
at £5. Not a word is said anywhere that the mine has no
working capital, but a heavy debenture load to carry ;
that the ore is low grade, contains no gold, is highly
siliceous, and otherwise hard to treat; that iron for flux
has to be mined far away, and that when the total cost is
reckoned up, there may not be much in the thing at the
present price of shares. One cheerful consideration is
that if Girilambone is a great mine there are several others
available in the country, abandoned like it many years
ago. In North Nymagee, only taken up and formed into
a co. a few weeks ago, shares are already at 10bper cent,
premium. The show has hitherto been a failure, ap-
parently not because of the copper-market or difficulty of
treatment, but simply for want of ore. The present co.
has not had time to find any and has not enough
money to work it, if it did. Yet this “ position ”
mine, which may or may not have the Nymagee
lode, has a value four times greater than that at
which the Nymagee mine itself was sold last
year ! It is stated in print that the Nyma-
gee mine was bought “by the shrewdest copper
people here, the Cobar syndicate, who are making a
gigantic fortune.” The inference is that they are making
it out of Nymagee. Now, they have up to date not made
a cent out of Nymagee, and it may interest the public to
know that the Cobar tributors do not expect to make any-
thing out of that mine for some time. They allege that
the developments are not too good, and the ore not too
easy to treat; but they get a good deal of amusement out
of all the great things now being prophesied about North
Nymagee. The outlook for copper-mining in N.S.W. is
remarkably good, but if anything will kill it for years to
come it will be the attempts made on every side to make
money by making scrip. When the public finds out that
it has been buying paper and not mines it shuts up like
an oyster and contents itself by declaring all mining to be
a swindle, which it mostly is, anyway.
» » * *
Tin half-year’s report of Great Cobar Copper
Co. shows the production to have been 1307 tons of
copper, 65250 z. gold, and 15,516 dz. silver. The directors
say they have —“In the interests of the whole of the
shareholders, let the mine on a new tribute agreement for
a term of seven years, with the right of renewal for
another term of seven years. The tribute is to commence
from the expiration, or sooner determination of the pre-
sent tribute, and is on terms most advantageous to the
shareholders, who will receive under it 80 per cent, of the
net profits.” And therein lies a heap of trouble concern-
ing which “ Salmado ” addresses Tub Bulletin
“ The present tributors must ultimately ''"■at
the Cobar directors. If the law allows such a tribute
agreement as the far-ahead one just announced by the
directors, then the law is an ass. Eighty percent, of the
net profits sounds well but is really a bonus of 20 per cent,
for working the mine, and, under such an agreement, the
new tributors could employ as many managers at
as big salaries as they liked, and otherwise eat up
profits. Hence net-profit tributes are never heard
of. When the mine shut down, some years ago,
it was officially declared that it could not be
worked at a profit with copper under £5O a ton. The
tributors went in when it was £3B, and have since paid a
71 per cent, gross royalty. They have also backed their
own judgment by acquiring 36,000 shares—nearly half the
mine—in anticipation that when the tribute expired the
co. would work the mine itself. The original tribute was
for three years, and no provision was made for royalty
either on gold or silver. They agreed to pay 10 per cent,
on each metal for six years’ extension ; hence they have
5i years to run. Big as the mine is, it is possible to make
an awful hole in it in that time. The point for the courts
to determine is whether the directors can commit the
shareholders 51 years ahead, and, if they can, why they
did not advertise for tributors in the interests of the
whole of the shareholders? The writer is ready with his
little tender offering 99 per cent, of the net profits. One
per cent, bonus is something, but the fat billets he could
provide for his friends is a great deal more. Moreover, if
the mine was sold for its present value, over half-a-
million, he would be able to keep the wolf from the door
for a considerable time on the bonus he got to get out.”
!*!***
The Great Cobar meeting ended in adjourn-
ment pending a poll demanded by the tributor-hrigade as
to the adoption of the directors’ report. A feature of the
meeting was the flat contradiction given by chairman
Kelly to tributor Gould’s version of an interview between
them re a proposed renewal of the present tribute. It
is now quite plain that the game has become a mere
cut-throat matter. The tributors are said to have bought
1300 shares at 80s., the other day, conditionally on proxies
for the lot being handed over to them. The trouble, as it
stands, is distinctly a matter for compromise. Otherwise
the lawyers will swallow and digest even the rich Great
Cobar.
* * * *
The professional promoters of Melb. having
exhausted Westralian gold-mines as a confidence-dodge
are now, to a man, on the “ auriferous-tailings-cyanide-
treatment.” lay. The seedy “beer and oniony” indi-
viduals who 12 months ago would, without provocation,
produce a lump of quartz, an analyst’s certificate of
crushing, and the 3oz. button “ from 7ewt. of stone taken
haphazard,” now bail you up with little bags of stuff that
look-* like Portland cement, a chemist’s analysis showing
5 to 10 oz. to the ton, and say “ there are thousands ot
tons to be bought for a song.” Would-be speculators in
auriferous tailings should note that nearlv every sizeable
heap of rrovedly valuable auriferous tailings in Victoria
was bought up over 12 months ago."
* * • *
Peak Hill continues the sensational new gold-
camp of Westralia. Stated that 121 b. of almost pure
gold was recently got. from the Daisy Bell claim at a depth
of 70ft., and the vein is said to average 20oz. to the ton.
In the immediate vicinity there is said to be a cluster of
seven claims, the stone from which will run from 5 to lOoz.
to the ton, and “ there is at least. 1000 tons ready for
crushing.” What price these claims two years ago ? The
boom having departed, they are of little interest except
to the owners.
* * * *
The Brilliant Extended, Ch. Towers, seems to
have hit the nail on the head at last. Hitherto most
alluring stone from the deep levels has panned out very
feebly. Fortv-two tons treated at the Aldershot (Q.)
smelting works, 800 miles away, realised £l4 per ton.
The stone came from the 1900 ft. level.
p • * •
The. best and safest investment in Australia is a policy
in the A.M.P. Society. Mr. W. R. Pennye.ook, the
Societv’s City Agent, will give intending assurers every
information. His address is Hoffnung’s Buildipgs, 163
Pitt-street, Sydney. Telephone 2862.*
p * * *
An advt. in another part of this issue announces
that the N S.W. Mont de Pi6to Discount and Investment
Co has established a branch at 262 Castlereagh-street,
near l.iverpool-street, Svdjney, under the management of
Mr. 11. A. Birkmvre. The Mont de Piffifi is an old-estab-
lished and successful concern, and charges so very much
less per shent than the average rate that it deserves
success. *
* * • *
The Cardiff Castle (Widgiemoola, W. A.), floated
on an assurance that the reef ran 10bz., has stopped
crushing its 4dwts., and its fine 20-head mill, with engine-
power for 60 head, is new looking for a purchaser. The
mill cost £23,000 before it crushed a ton— £ll,ooo or
thereabouts in freight alone.


D A. VXD
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
ORIENT
-x CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOK
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR,
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 465.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
“CORTO” ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OE THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO - Cd. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations,
:E! * CXJSEKTIER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
BRANDY.
rilC PURPiST BRANDY known, being distilled SOLELY from picked brandy
giapes, ;uul each bottle analysed by the French Government Chief Expert. Ail
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES.
I* l '**'*} JSo Hi <fiter than Other Leading/ lirands.
SOCIETY
Someone living in Sydney has struck out
vH ln v a n * ce ’ new > light, and apparently pro-
“table line of business. He advertises in a Melb.
paper that he will post letters in Sydney or suburbs
tor a. fee of Is. (id. each. Any husband who wishes
ms wife to believe that he is transacting business
in feydney, while he is, in reality, quietly enjoying
the society of an auxiliary wife in a Melb. suburb,
will now know what to do. The machinery will
also work just as well the reverse way
♦ * * •
Wellington’s (M.L.) “Liberal and Demo-
cratic ’ daily paper is the New Zealand Times,
which announces itself as “a real live, independent,
Liberal, progressive journal, full of intelligent,
bright and smartly-written articles.” Here is a
flunk:—
. 11 has bee " suggested that, as first Impressions are last-
ing, every effort should be made to duly impress Lord and
IN THE DROUGHT.—A bushman's notion of the “all-seeing eye.”
Lady Ranfurly with the fine appearance of our harbor.
To this end, it is necessary that the coal-hulks, which cer-
tainly do not add to the appearance of the wharves and
their surroundings, should be removed for the nonce to
the railway wharf or some other such position.
* * » *
M.L. Governor Ranfurly, at his first
official dinner in Wellington, did not happily
choose the guests. The number was small, but
it embraced Acting-Premier “Jock” M'Kenzie
and aboriginal-native Major Kemp. Kemp and
Knight Buller are the two whom Jock, under
cover of Parliamentary privilege, unjustifiably
accused of all sorts of frauds over the Horowhenua
Block. H.L. s first levee, a few days after his
arrival, was also somewhat memorable,' in that two
one of these, however, had hanged himself a few
weeks ago, and two others had fallen away again.
In conclusion, the young ladies of the church were
implored to gather the yellow heathen into the
fold. (Loud and prolonged Chinese cheers).
By the way, a Chinese parson is this week to be
married in Sydney to a nice white lady, who
teaches Chinese Sunday-school.
• * * *
Oae inan who escaped from the ill-fated
Tasmania had a unique experience. When he
arrived at his home in Gisborne lie found all his
luggage placidly awaiting him. It had been
washed ashore at Gisborne, 2> miles from the
scene of wreck, and sent up to bis house 1
of those who desired to be presented to the Gover-
nor had fits whilst awaiting their turn.
• • * •
FIN-DE-SIECLE.
[For The Bulletin.]
“To erect statues to famous courtesans and actresses.’
—Proposal for Paris Exhibition.
There s statues galore for Lais, or will be ;
There’s homage and tears for the failings of Trilby ;
And forth goes the preacher the lost lambs to call in;—
Alas for the women who never have fallen !
’Tis love, purest love, wins the Phryne to falter?
But greed, coldest greed, tempts the bride to the altar?
Ah, poet ! unsing us these censures inhuman :
There’s goodness in even a virtuous woman.
Dunedin, M.L. Constance Clyde.
» • * .
At Maitland (N.S.W.) two Chinamen be-
came alle same Clistians last week, per medium of
the Scotch church. The baptism was a success
financially, the collection, 225. or thereabouts,
going to pay the Chow missioner’s back screw.
One of the converts took the name of Jacob
Napoleon, and the other Joshua Andrew. Both
made statements after the hymn, “Safe in the
Arms,” had been sung. Jacob stated that he had
heard the Lord for six months, and was almost
sure that he was right; but he was not questioned
as to whether he kept the spare cabbagee under
his bed. This, however, The Bulletin does not
think any Presbyterian Chinaman would do.
Joshua Andrew said that he only studied the
Bible for three months and two days; he then felt
the Spirit burn brightly within him. It was an-
nounced that theMi.ssion was just struggling—pull-
ing the devil by the pig-tail, as it were. They had
captured five converts during the last 18 months ;
“THE BULLETIN’S” AMATEUR ART - GALLERY.
The Horrors of the Accursed Drink: A Social Gass at Bargowlahmingalong.
(And yet they say “ The Bulletin ” isn’t a Temperance organ.)
The golden-haired beauty who, the other
day, cut the Australian divorce record (two hus-
bands in two years) runs an up-country hostelry.
The gallant officer who last “ got out ” threw up a
magnificent appointment in Africa to follow the
lady and her first husband to Australia. Nemesis
you like! ’
* * * *
The latest vampire is the type-writing
“sweater,” or broker. This individual, who knows
nothing of typewriting beyond the prices to charge
for work, will employ typists for £L a week (and
women are only too glad to “ rush ” at this rate)
say from 9 to 6, for six days a week. He then
touts among his friends, acquaintances, and con-
nections for work, and out of every one of the
women he thus keeps employed, if business
is at all remunerative, he makes from £2 to jP <■
and £5 a week profit.
• » » .
Geelong parson, preaching from text,
“ Thou shalt not leave His soul in Hell,'’ uses
the word “ Hades ” all through his sermon. After
church, old lady (log.) : “ Well, I really can’t make
it out. It’s been Hell ever since I was a girl, and
Hell’s quite good enough for me.”
* • * *
H.: “I will wager that not a single pulpit
declares Mrs. King s demise to be a judgment—
such is the march of intelligence. This is the lady
who fell dead in a waltz, at Orange, N.S.W., she
being chief organiser of the dancing-parties’ for
the benefit of the church. I noted that no
preacher, or even religious paper, stated that Mr.
Federici’s death, while descending the trap to
Hades, as Mephisto., in Melb., was a judgment
As Macaulay wrote of young Tory Gladstone’
nobody can help being carried round with the
globe. ”
“Bob” Walsh, Vic. Crown
Prosecutor, had his St. Kilda
residence burgled the other night
by a marauder, who scampered
out of an upstairs window when
surprised by the C.P.’s daughter.
Some years back Purves, Q.C.,
had his house similarly treated,
with the result that ever since he
has declined to defend any burglar.
What with Purves’ refusal and
the naturally increased virulence
oj Walsh, the poor b.urglar pro-
mises to have a bad time in the
Southern province during the next
few years.
* » *
Dear Bulletin, — lie par. of
Aug. 7 about charity on the
Bathurst-road, Last week nine
swaggies called at my place for
tucker. To the first four I gave a
feed. To tlie next three (not
having any more tucker) I gave
Is. each. The ninth I refused,
thinking they were “coming it
too strong.” At 10.30 that night
I found the ninth sitting by the
road. As he really seemed to be
starving, I relented and gave him
a bed and breakfast and a shilling
to see him on his way. After-
wards found that two of the others
had “ done in” their shillings at a
rival hotel. How are you to dis-
criminate ?— Snake Juice.
Now that Judge Simpson has spoken out
on the subject, perhaps the hie-goats who sit in
the places of the Tribunes will begin to realise
that it is a much more grievous crime to batter an
individual into pulp than to be found in posses-
sion of an empty kerosene-tin, “reasonably sup-
posed to be stolen.”
and doubted if it could raise enough.
Mildura irri-
gation township
is having a bad
time still, de-
spite the flood
of talk about
“ saving ”it. Its
bright, plucky
little paper-
half cultural,
half newsy—was
struck by the
prevailing cala-
mity the other
day—when the
bailiffs carted off
the engine, and
the owner threw
up the sponge
and walked out.
Then a prodi-
gious effort was
made by the em-
ployes (who had
been working on
“orders” for
months past) to
float a company
to keep the en-
terprise going ;
but Mildura held
a meeting, and
counted its cash.
Solicitors of ten and twelve years’ standing
desiring a police-magistracy must, under the
N.S.W. Public Service Board, stand such an ex-
amination as that advertised last week. And yet
a solicitor of seven years’ standing is by law quali-
fied for appointment to the Supreme Court
Bench !
* ♦ • *
A Brisbane (Q.) medico tells his friends
that he has just received a letter from his
SETTLING DOWN
S AM: “ Hello , Dick! Where hound ?”
DICK: “Up to town. Tm sick o’ this wanderin’life. Goin'
ter settle down. Got a chance of a job as a Gov’mint
prospector.”
years’ haHiWin ? 81
years, has just neen married for the first time
ttle £ room being an artless youth of 79! Th>*
excuse extended' was : “ You know that I have »
good income. Well, he has a better income. Two
incomes together are latter than one apiece sepa
rately.-’ Now, then, “is marriage a failure? ”
* * * ,
...
ivleib.: bomething new. To-day, Satur-
\ jotted two tip-top ladies, driving’ to the
races > in a slap-up dogcart, with the groom and
servant-girl behind.”
USE AND WANT.
They fight like fiends. Their home was Hell
In miniature. The Woman died.
Then on the Man great fear there fell,
And—he committed suicide.
C.R.
MY LADY OF QUALMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love’s longings savour of .the earth :
As oil they fill Love’s urn.
The flame of Love, denied that oil,
Could never glow and burn.
The crystal spring is fed by rills
From earthy dens below ;
The eagle finds its food on earth,
Yet dwells beyond the snow.
The pine-tree’s head is bathed in light;
It tops the mountain side ;
But, matted in the darkling gorge,
Its roots spread far and wide.
Yon limned Madonna draws her charm
From ochre, earth, and clay ;
And truest Love has elements
As lowly-born as they.
That love, as Nature made it, take 1
I cannot change her plan,
Nor make a cold, ascetic Saint
When Nature made a Man 1
Q-
F.B.


Q
;harrin&ton*c ,,^ i
i'fHOTO-: OUTFITTERS
66KING;STsyun«
e
35
■*
Mtffi
\ I ' V .
TNF F/BAf / BUY FfWM-t
,Complete and ITp-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
‘/■XPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms—FßEE.
Caledonian Liqueur Wliisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free lip post throughout
A nst ml in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
CELEBRATED
LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
ations, &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. If. A. ICO' E, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
That very
fashionable
suburb Haw-
thorn (Melb)
—that is to
sa y, Haw-
haw-thorn—
is called by
its local ora-
tors “this
thinking
community. ’
Judging
from recent
revelations
concerning
its - sanitary
condition, an
adjective
rhyming
with “think-
ing ” would
be ever so
much more
suitable.
* *
Re the
recent Chin-
ese gambling
stir-iip, The
Bulletin
doesn’t see
what’s the
matter with
e x tending
the“ Vag.”
Act so as to
make, ipso
facto , a tech-
nical “vag-
rant” of
every Euro-
pean fan-
tanner and
pak - ah - pu-
gilist. The
white fre-
quenter o f
the yellow
hell is mostly
the sort that
is better un-
der lock and
key at any
price.
* *
Viato r :
“You can
hardly tra-
verse the Al-
satian part
of Melb. now
without
passing a
woman smo-
king.”
Vic. fathers of those children who in law
have no father will be interested in a Supreme
Court case now listed. There has always been an
impression that a man was only responsible for
the maintenance of his illegitimate child till it
readied the age of 16 years. There doesn’t appear
to be any provision on the subject in Vic. law,
although it is alluded to in both English and
N.S.W. statutes. It is now contended that the
Vic. father’s liability exists till the child is 21.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Be the morning wash.
I begin to think Australians are the clean people.
Between American and English there seems little
choice. In England, the hotel bath-room only
unlocks for cash. In America, bath-rooms are
many and elaborate —and little used. You gener-
ally have to grub the cigarette-ends and spent
matches out of the bath-tub before you take a
dip. Likewise the chamber-maids use then) as
receptacles for soiled linen. I spent last winter
in a German pension with 14 Americans —an aver-
age crowd: parson and family, women-folk of
professional men, a rich building-contractor, &c.
A hot bath once a fortnight was all the use (so far
as I ever found out) that the bath-room got from
any of tliem. A Judge’s grown-up daughter was
my breakfast - neighbor. Australian innocence
puzzled over a gray line that often defined her
chin, till the mystery dissolved before her mother’s
chance remark, “ I can’t think why Lucy’s neck
looks so queer; I guess it’s this smudgy town, for
I know she washes it every second day ! ” The
gray line was low-water mark for the off days.—
Whhro.
; * * * *
Melb. Customs officers always keep a keen,
inquiring eye on any Chinese who visit ships when
in port. The Chow smuggles for recreation, and
his.ruses are many and various. One very lame
old heathen who had a “ cousin ”on every second
ship that came up the bay was long suspected of
tricks, but it was only found after his death that
the big stick with which he helped his lame leg
was hollow, and held about a pint of opium.
* * * *
In a backblock courthouse. “ You carnt
give me three months for that, yer worship. Look
at the Haet. Another bloke got a month a week
ago. Look at the Hact, yer worship. ” His Wor-
sbip (after reading the Act): “I order you one
month.” Quite time for the Public Service Board
to insist on examining candidates for the magis-
tracy.
■** « *
Not a day too soon did N.S.W. Justice
Simpson butt the vicious Divorce Court practice
of allowing a petitioning wife to name in her peti-
TEE OTHER ARCADIAN .
MRS. JONES (from, the bed) : “ Oh, you horrid sight ! Where HAVE you been ? ”
JONES: “ It’s all ri'—my dear—talcing Brown home — drunk—dam fool —got nishe
little wife.”
tion women who allegedly helped her husband in
adultery, without notifying to the said women
that such a distinction was about to be conferred
on them. Certain solicitors think that because
the law does not make a woman a co-respondent
she need not be drawn personally into the case.
But, if she be named in such a connection, she is
entitled to due notice beforehand, whereupon she
can please herself as to her course of action.
* * * *
By the way, does N.S.W. law recognise—
well, what is it ? slave-holding ? Ad. from Sydney
D.T.
r | HREE Kanakas, Warre, Tabooa, Bulli, having de-
serted from my services, any person harboring
them will be proceeded against.
, Paddington.
Since the recent Brisb. prosecutions of Ministers
of the Crown and society ladies for illegally em-
ploying “the cheap and reliable,” crowds of
Kanaka “ boys ” have been rushing the trains to
Southport, whence they are to push on the
less than a dozen miles to the Tweed River, and
thus get into N.S.W. and outside of the tempor-
arily aroused jurisdiction. It will be hard lines on
Tommy Tanna if he has to run away from two
provinces.
* * * *
Much to the disgust of the newspapers,
what promised to be perhaps the spiciest divorce-
case heard down South for 20 years has been
squared—for, it is understood, a good round sum.
However, there are other good fish in the sea ; a
most formidable array of Sydney legal talent is
getting ready to shake its wigs over a similar case.
* * » »
The vested-interest demon gets home in
many ways. Sydney School of Arts successfully
blocks Sydney Public Library getting any of the
prose works of (among others) Kipling, Haggard,
and Maupassant ; and now the private in-
structors of shorthand have got the shorthand
classes at Sydney Technical College wiped out.
By the way, Australian Workman, commenting on
the notorious fact that new books (purchased, of
course, as soon as they appear) are rarely placed
on the Library shelves till months after date,
alleges that they are kept off in the interests of
private lending libraries, which would lose money
if works like Mahan’s “Nelson” or Wilkins’s
“ Lady Burton ” were available at the Free Public
Library when they ought to be available — i.e.,
immediately they arrive 1 .
« * * ♦
It is told to a Bulletin man of a provin-
cial parson in Victoria, told upon oath—in fact,
many oaths. The reverend had to go away on a
sort of sacerdotal circuit, but returned late at
night unexpectedly, and was let in by a drowsy
man-servant. The shepherd went straight up-
stairs, and, hearing his wife breathing in a deep
sleep, decided to undress in the dark rather than
dis Li-b her. He prepared quietly, and slipped into
bed. The domestic couch seemed a bit crowded,
but the sky pilot was aweary, and slept easily
and well. In fact, it was not till seven next
morning that he discovered the reason why his
sleeping a3commodation had been so limited. His
wife, being a very nervous woman, had induced
the buxom hand-maiden to share her bed. Here
endeth the first reading. Which strikes The
Bulletin as a very funny (and innocent) story.
This wicked paper didn’t expect it to end in that
way.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —In the recent Catholic-
Protestant kick-up about the Madagascar missions
it was made evident that Christianity of both pat-
terns slumped badly under the influence of an
epidemic disease. “ Everywhere the churches and
the schools were emptied, and the people fell back
upon their old idolatry and witchcraft.” That’s
the way Eve always found it. Our variousJy-
tinted brother — believing that he believes —will
supplicate and psalmify and snuffle for all he’s
worth until some calamity comes along and knocks
the Christian electro clean off the same old Pagan
pot-metal. At which thing the only surprised
white man is the missionary. It’s always to the
ungodly that the heathen mind shows most of
itself. —Macassar.
* * * *
The sensational Melbourne “seduction”
case, in which a Sunday-school teacher was charged
with leading astray a tender lamb' of his flock
while on the way to a mission service, fell through.
The tale told by the lamb was to the effect that
she was a kind of moral snowball till she met the
defendant; but this was contradicted by a witness
who alleged that she met strange “ coves ” at dusk
and threw kisses to “blokes” —particularly to
“one stout bloke of a cove” —in the street, and
was an airy little damsel generally. Then the
defendant swarmed into the box and told his story,
which was that the girl was horribly wicked, and
he met her frequently by accident and remon-
strated with her about her sins, and urged her to
repent. Judge Hodges summed up to the effect that
the prosecutrix was apparently a girl of question-
able character, and it was unfortunate that de-
fendant had been led into giving her good advice
for a considerable time after dark. Found not
guilty after a long struggle. A night or two later
prosecutrix tried to horse-whip her moral in-
structor on the railway-station, but they were
hauled asunder before any serious damage was
done. It is a frowsy little romance, and a very
bad advt. for the local Sunday - school whichever
way it is looked at.
* * * »
Consecutive advts. from the ‘ ‘ Hatch ”
column of S.M. Herald, 21st Aug., 1897
pOCKS.— July 11, 1897, at Wilgena, South Aus-
tralia, the wife of A* W. Cocks, of a son.
TvRAKE—JuIy 29, at her residence, St. Elmo,
Tupper-street, Marrickville, the wife of John E.
Drake, of a son.
IAUCKER.1 AUCKER.—August 8, at Harnleigh, Marrickville,
'A the wife of Arthur R. Ducker, of a son.
* • * *
A stereotyped In Memoriam jingle :
Pale death could scarcely find another
So fond a husband, so kind a father—
In all his actions he was so kind.
He has left his loved ones all behind.
Good old dad. The considerate father !
“DOLCE FAR NIENTE .”
“ Major Neild has been elected patron of the Sydney
Idlers.” —Social item.
Mr. Justice Cooper (Q.) is prolonged agony-
on offences against Proputty. Last week, he gave
two men who had got into a tailor’s shop, and
stolen some tweeds, 10 and 12 years respectively
The (R.C.) Archbishop of Melbourne has de-
cided to hold his annual senate of priests on Cup
Day, and St. Patrick’s Cathedral will be formally
opened— i.e., altogether opened—some time . during
the racing carnival, when all those faithful ones
who have backed the winner will he expected to
rally round the plate with enthusiasm.
A ’Frisco paper, commenting admiringly
upon the prompt extinction of Butler after hip
arrival in Australia, remarks that American mur-
derers are more likely to die of old age than by
the hand of the law. It is too true. The ’Murkans
are energetic in every line of business, except
hanging.
•***.
“The other day,” writes a travelling Aus-
tralian to The Bulletin from London, “ I went
into a shop in Jermyn-street. and asked the price
of the fruit. Grapes, 7s. a pound : nectarines, 245.
per dozen; cherries, ss. a pound; bananas, four
for 6d., and so on.”
¥ * * *
Queensland is immensely tickled at the
arrival of a certain baby, which ought to have
been a very naice and fashionable baby indeed.
The Marriage Question f
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How long can it last—
So warm and sincere ?
Will love last a lifetime
Of husband and wife-time,
Or die in a year?
Do men speak the truth,
Whose clinging lips tire
Of ardent profession
When lordly possession
Has lessened desire ?
How long can it last ?
No prophet can say,
A bride is a darling
Till, snapping and snarling,
She loses her sway.
If women were wise,
And thoroughly knew
The art of maintaining
A passion which, waning,
’Tis hard to renew 1
The bondage endures.
Where woman is wise;
A crafty affection
Holds man in subjection,
And love never dies.
How long can it last,
This power to warm
The soul of a lover,
To whom you discover
Your coveted form?
As long as you care
To flatter and tease,.
And flirt with his passion
In feminine fashion,
As long as you please.
Melb.
E.F.
Judge Cooper, with the front nanye “ Pope,”
A Pope you are your orbit in,
And Proputty’s thy darling sin—
Before you, rogues abandon hope,
A Pope you are in part, for you
Have learned to excommunicate;
Which is the Pinnacle of Hate,
The hate of sin and sinner, too !
May angels guard my kleptoscope,
Next time Temptation calls the dead;
The Lord protect me, when I steal,
From being judg ed by Cooper, Pope.
DIPBO.


Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneerst
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Brablkv & Co., 324 George-afc.
2
0 ©
)
m
r-vu
mwtw
Food
bo peh
mmt
3 © 0
© 0
>
Sydney Daily Telegraph apparently
“caught napping ” by a patent-agent and a dic-
tionary-booming concern, who both “got there”
in one recent issue of the paper, with thumping
gratis advts. in the guise of letters of correction.
And the pills weren't even artistically gilded.
H. C. Richards, the inexpressibly dreary
English M.P. for Finsbury, now tottering around
in Victoria, and advertised as having given to
St. Paul’s Church a Bible used for many years
at St Paul’s, London, is the pious barrister who
opposed Bradlaugh in his Northampton elections
during the oath-question struggle. The parsons
prayed for the success of Richards, but, Heaven
having no vote, Bradlaugh won every time. One
parson, after an election, preached from the text:
“Not this man, but Barabbas.” Richards was
“this man”; Bradlaugh was “Barabbas.” The
Iconoclast colossus said that he could not have said
anything half so blasphemous if he had tried.
Richards is a pet of the Primrose League, but
otherwise a person of no consequence.
John Norton, of Sydney Truth, Australia’s
ablest exponent cf the grand bounce, does fall in
sometimes. Recently fined £lOO for “contempt,”
he impressed upon certain people the fact that he
must pay by a certain day or go to gaol. Then he
determined to apply for a reduction of the fine and
went to the Full Court primed with a characteristic
appeal. Just before his application could be
heard he was called out of court. Then arose a
sudden sound of blasphemy in the adjoining
corridor. Some of his friends hurried out to find
John, his eyes bulging out of his head, grasping
his business manager by the collar and using lurid
language. “Here,” he wound up, “here I am,
up to apply for a reduction of the blanky amount,
and this adjective etcetera has gone and paid the
whole blanky line til”
The words of more than 600 popular songs,
with music for voice, are included in the cele-
brated “ Diamond Collection,’’post-free for 2s. fid.
from the Anglo-American Publishing Co., Box
1118 G.P.0., Sydney. This book is honest value;
and for variety and quantity of old favorites, new
favorites, and favorites not too old but just old
enough there is no better compilation in the
market.*
Women that should Marry.
HAPPY MARRIAGES THE RESULT OF HEALTH.
It is not uncommon for men to bewail the fact
that marriage so seldom seems a real companion-
ship—the man and wife are separated by differ-
ences of taste, of mental outlook, of general in-
terest in life. It is, perhaps, even more common
to hear woman blamed for what is called breach of
contract in the marriage relation. If the wife be
delicate, run down, nervous, and irritable, if her
smile and her spirits have taken flight, it worries
her husband as well as herself. Even worse symp-
toms may follow—the woman suffers from sleep-
lessness and fainting spells, her head is in a whirl,
her back aches, and she has that awful crowding
down feeling. It depends on the woman whether
she will permit these troubles to continue day by
day, leading to a life of misery.
A healthy woman is always interesting ; she
passes for beauty because she is happy, and her
good spirits are contagious. Good nature goes
with health, irritability and peevishness with
sickness.
Those who suffer from tho derangements, dis-
orders, and diseases of the sex, should remember
that Gould’s I iny Tonic Liver Pills are very mild
in action, and are just the thing for weak, suffer-
ing women. They clear the system of all waste
matter, make tho stomach, kidneys, and liver do
their work properly. Food is properly digested,
good bloodmanufactured, the skin becomes clear,
the face brightens, and all pimples and sores dis-
appear. Gould’s Tiny Tonic Pills were used a
number of years as a prescription, but now they
are put in Bmall tiny pills. Medioine is muoo
easier to take in that form.*
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Tl Sydney, August 31, 1897.
Mr Dbar Mtee—
At the alleged sports at the Agricultural Ground
on Saturday, the Chow pageant was the chief
attraction and proved a great draw. The first
appearance of the mile or so of green dragon was
a pronounced feature ; in the reserve there wasn’t
even standing-room on the seats, on which specta-
tors eagerly clambered to see the Orientals
solemnly trotting round the asphalt track in all
their native gorgeousness. Asiatics have an eye
for chromatic, combinations of color, and don’t
give all the bright-hued silk to their women only,
but make up their own pyjamas in orange and
bright green too. A few horses were in the show,
mounted by warriors who looked as if they had
borrowed their glittering helmets from the Fire
Brigade in Lower George-street, and there were
several almond-eyed beauties wheeled along in
black chariots, which, in the off-season for ice-
cream, probably lurk in the back-yards of the
Italian fruit-shops in Chinatown. If they could
only have been worked into the procesh character-
istically-blended with smells of fried fish, stewed
rabbits, tarpaulin and menagerie-shop, Lower
George-street would have been completely repre-
sented in the Celestial pageant.
Vice-regal tone was given to the Chinese show
by Gov. Hampden, who was taken into the midst
of the yellow agony and presented with a souvenir
red rag with Mongolian remarks painted in white
thereon, while all the gongs were banged and a
wild hubbub arose from the orchestra. One
Chinaman was sorrowfully beating a heavy bit of
wood with a stick at five-second intervals. A man
asked “ What’s all this row, John ? ” John re-
plied blandly, “ Allee same God-savee-Quleen.”
The Gov. had to bustle to get to Moore Park in
time to bless the ceremony, as he had previously
smiled upon the new golf-house at Bondi, and laid
a stone out Paddington way. He seemed as if he
wanted to have a placard hung on the Govt.
House carriage, “ This is my busy day.”
The Chinee is very childish, but he knows how-
to dress. The hideous faces painted on the basket
shields carried by the soldiers were originally
meant to scare away enemies, and every item in
Saturday’s programme had a meaning. But the
Celestial knows better than to weigh himself down
with heavy shoddy, and his silk coat, with wide,
comfortable sleeves, is both light and warm. His
man-servant’s dress —there were a dozen examples
in Saturday’s procession—is of grey silk. All the
dresses and embroideries repaid close inspection.
Wearers’ faces, at close hand, looked youthful in
years and old as the everlasting hills in expression,
but few old men took part in the show, and most
of the juveniles looked as if they could trace their
ancestry back to Confucius on the one hand and
Brian Born on the other.
Last Thursday—last night of the session—was
ladies’ night up at the ’Ouse, and the Social Gim-
let Brigade turned out in force to hear the debate
on the Local Option Bill. The hard-faced sister-
hood listened to the smug-faced P.M.G.’s speech
with grim approval; boredom hadn’t thinned their
ranks of even one when he sat down. But when
an irreverent member rose in reply and began to
say disrespectful things about Noah, some of the
W.C.T.U. visibly shuddered and solemnly filed
out, and the remainder darted fire through their
specs, at the denouncer of the patriarch. The
speaker shifted the responsibility of the world’s
drunkenness back to the ark-builder, because that
“ doddering old boozer,” being the original Shock-
ing Example, his descendants naturally take after
the old man. By this time only two listeners were
in the ladies’ gallery, and at these vulgar asper-
sions on our ancestors they struck sail, drew their
skirts together and snortfully withdrew,
The crew of shipwrecked mariners who arrived
in Sydney last week after ten months among the
Islands are Norwegians, and interviewing press-
men have found it hard work to extract intelligible
copy out of their broken English ; but one Scan-
dinavian, who is nearly 7ft. high and quite of the
Viking type of beauty, managed, in telling of the
crew’s sojourn on Sophia Island, to explain how
the chief of the handful of people there managed
to avoid matrimonial complications between his
dusky Islanders and the “ papalagi ” castaways.
There were only two women of any importance
among the female Sophias—who, all told, only
amounted to four—the other two were servant-
girls from another group and didn’t count. Ono
belle was the chief’s own wife, and, to settle pos-
sible disputes about the only marriageable girl in
his domain, he promptly annexed her, for himself
as wife number two.
The Gay Parisienne has lately been singing her
artless begging song among a shower of “ little
one-D’s ” —the Danae cf a copper rain. All this
coin, which is mostly hurled from the upper strata,
Miss Willoughby thankfully rakes up and intends
handing to a charity by-and-bye. Fortunately,
Ada is not very big and the stage isn't small, and
so the pennies nave plenty room to tumble around
her without wrecking that portable flower-garden
on her head. It is impossible that Melb. will seo
the original two doing Julie and Auguste—the
present pair must return soon to perfidious Albion
to keep engagements. Substitutes are now on
their way from ’Ome.
A-certain Australian Governor’s wife was ap-
proached the other day for a donation towards a
charity ball, in aid of the local Sick Children’s
Hospital. Her predecessor at Guvmentouse
always used to respond with a cartful of turkeys,
ducks, &c., and the members of the household
would make up a handsome donation in cash as
well. And they were comparatively poor, while
the present lady and her lord are rich. Result of
the late appeal, a cheque for JM— for the whole of
Guvmentouse.
Also, a society lady wrote to a well-known
theatrical entrepreneur, and begged him to give a
“benefit” for the same.hospital. The man of
melodrama and mellow soul replied at once—by
placing at the lady’s disposal the whole of the
“boxes” and the dress-circle. The lady there-
upon wrote to His Excellency, asking his patron-
age for the “ben.” She received a reply stating,
in effect, that 11. E. would be most happy to allow
himself to be patron of so deserving’ a charitable
enterprise. But—no cheque, no application for
tickets, and “no nuffin.” So the vice-regal box
was sold to a wealthy lady, and people hoped that
some sudden freak might induce JVlelud Ex. to
visit the theatre that night, when the circus band
would have played. But no such luck ! A pawky
Excellency for a piebald province 1 Harmony in
excels is /
“Sassiety,” which worked the Elsie Adair
benefit with a .£l4O profit, made up its mind to
see that the pretty beneficiary got the full value of
the result. The ladies who “ ran ” the ben. rolled
up in force to the last committee meeting and put
up a nice young man as spokesman who an-
nounced that they had been working for Miss
Adair, not for the creditors of the speculator
who ran the broken show in her name. He
moved that the money be placed in the hands of
trustees with the condition that it was to be used
solely to give Miss Adair a fresh start in life when
she was strong enough. The motion went through
with a whoop, and the money remains in the
hands of trustees.
A recent North Coast wedding passed off swim-
mingly until the storm of congratulations began
to rage. Suddenly the bridegroom fell into a fit
of sobbing, and, seating himself on the floor in a
corner of the room, he hauled out his handker-
chief and mopped up the tears. After the lapse
of ten minutes, during which period all and
sundry, including the bride, attempted to pacify
him, he recovered, and then the wedding-breakfast
was announced. No explanation was offered, and
the assemblage did not attempt to inquire.
Singleton was lately the scene of a very swagger
wedding, and has been trying to live up to it in
the local press. The account of the nuptials
brightened a column or two of the paper, and the
poetic level of chiffon, cream
ribbons, jewelled heart worn on the bride’s arm, &c.,
&c., is well maintained, but into the list of highly-
polished gifts, the vulgar facts of common life are
flung. Mrs. So-and-so, “ pair feather pillows ” :
Mrs. Blank, “ wash-hand basin.” The unsoaring
soul of that newspaper man. Two feather pillows
and a washing basin !
Private views are in full swing this week at most
of the studios. These artistic “ swarries ” are
called private views because the room is always
so much crowded that you can’t see the master-
pieces. While the eye of the guest is fed on the
pictures, the body is fed on tea and cake, and a
full-power pedallist is turned on at the piano, so
that the guests’ criticisms will be drowned and the
host’s feelings spared. The invited ones shake
hands in a gush of phrases, “Good-baye,” “Such
charming pictures.” And outside they say, “ Did
you ever see such flesh tints The girl has two
black eyes and a broken jaw,'” or, “Why, that
sea looks like a badly-stacked heap of road metal.”
Ilambourg worship is beginning to pall a little
even on pronounced devotees of cult. Apart from
their gifts, the two musicians are only boys—
Jakoff kept up his 16th birthday by a harbor-
party only last week, and his young head is likely,
so sensible Philistines say, to be turned by flattery.
Mark, considering the amount of worship offered
him, seems very level-headed and is decidedly
addicted to showing his contempt for the grosser
order of adulation. They were chaperoned by
Sydney Moss to the Midwinter Dance at Need’s
rooms last Wednesday, made a sensationally late
arrival, and were immediately rushed by wor-
shippers. Jakoff was boyishly flushed and excited,
Mark peered about languidly with his hair quite
smooth. It is only when Mark is wrestling with
sonatas and concertos in six flats that his front
locks rise up and hurl themselves over his pallid
brow, and he has to wipe them out of liis eyes
every ten bars.
Nicholson and Co.’s recent publications includo
a tuneful and emphatic reply to “Say au revoir,
but not gpod-bye,” entitled “I will not'say good-
bye.’ Ernest Shand’s clever “ Gay Parisienne ”
«mg, “ They wouldn t do for me,’’and a musicianly
Jubilee ballad, by Stephen Adams, called “Her
Majesty.” Sousa has followed up his universally-
popular “ Washington Post” with yet another
martial quick step, “The Liberty Bell,” which
threatens to become every whit as epidemic as its
predecessor. Adroitly arranged and easily execu-
ted bass effects give to the composition a brilliancy
which, though distinctly meretricious, is amazingly
catchy to the public ear.
Waltz music has taken a distinctly more rollick-
ing and joyous turn. Wailful long-drawn-out
measures labelled pathetically “Broken Hearts”
or “ Lost Hopes ” which meandered always in a
minor key and delighted dancers half-a-dozen
years ago, are extinguished by merry modern
measures which must be chased at top speed, and
which make a ball-room almost cheerful. Two
new waltzes, “An Artist’s Festival,” by John
Klein, and “Jolly Fellows,” by Robt. Vollstedt,
are dedicated to the festive description of waltz,
and are both of them fine, bangy compositions
warranted not to depress the spirits of the most
hardened revellers. All of these pieces are
brought out in first-class style by the aforesaid
Nicholson and Qo.
The members of N.S.W. Chamber of Mines
gave a conversazione in one of the marble halls of
the Equitable Buildings on Thursday, 26th inst.
To bear out the, title of the entertainment a note
on the programme enjoined silence on all guests,
which was strictly kept until Mr. Percy «pence
began his lightning sketch, when buzzing curiosity
as to who the subjects were broke out all over the
room. Music was served out by several much-
admired musicians, among whom the Feldwick
quartette scored the most emphatic success. Re-
freshments happened unexpectedly in the middle
of the programme.
All dates from Ist to 18th Sept, are taken up
with festivities in honor of the Federal Conven-
tionale. A generous programme of banquets,
balls, garden-parties, a gymkhana, harbor-trips,
will lead the visitors tpcongratulate themselves on
having a little Jubilee of their own while all the
time pushing forward the Great Cause. The visit-
ing pressmen and HANSARPtANs are going to be
specially feted by their brother scribes at a beef-
steak supper.
The St. Cecilia choir—Miss Pedley’s loving off-
spring—has taken up work again, having assem-
bled a few days ago to welcome Miss Pedley’s
re-entree. A hundred throats hurrahed, and double
that number pattered their toes as soon as the
conductress came forward after her recent severe
illness. The latter was moved to tears at the
warmth of the reception, and the choir was so
husky, between yelling and crying, that little
progress was made, from a musical point of view.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“T. B. Payne, of South Yarra, who died last
week, was probably about the richest of Melb.’s
‘unadvertised’ capitalists. Ilis name seldom
came before the public, and the fraternity of beg-
ging-letter-writers will bo astonished to learn that
the old gentleman paid income-tax last year on
£52,000.
“ On dil that the lady who holds the Australian
divorce record (twice in two years) fixed up
still another marriage within 48 hours of the last
decree nisi being pronounced. The plucky pros-
pective bridegroom is, however, obliged to take six
months to think over it—until, in fact, the decree
is made absolute.
“The son of a leading lawyer, who was for
awhile the faithful adorer of a smart brunette,
found the family-residence such a hornet’s-nest on
the subject of his engagements—which the L.L.
declares means a mesalliance, that his stony reso-
lution failed at last, and now papa has offered
compensation to the irate jilted one. £OOO is said
to be the sum under consideration.
“Judging from a recent very public street-
occurrence (involving a black-eye, &c.), of which,
so far, no notice seems to have been taken by the
daily press, Australia seems an unlucky place for
any sprig of nobility to form a friendship, how-
ever innocent, with a married woman. It is true
that now and then such sprigs have been unfortu-
nate enough to. have circumstances sadly against
them—as, for instance, in the case, years ago,
when a Governor’s near relative was beaten un-
mercifully with a stick, previous to being turned
adrift in his pyjamas—or was it a night-gown ?
“ The trouble over the balance-sheet of the
Naice Melbournites who ran the ‘Lelamine’
opera calls to mind the last blast of the defunct
Lyric Club—practically the same crowd. The
Lyrics encountered a particularly frosty season,
and went under without paying either the scene-
shifters, the door-hands, or the charwomen of the
theatre, all of whom, it is said, are owed money to
this very day. Speaking about balance-sheets,
another opera co., which performed some time
back for charity, has not, so far, published its
statement of accounts. As in the ‘ Lelamine ”
balance-sheet, some of the items threaten to be
very funny reading ; one individual in particular
persistently charged tram-fares to rehearsals, and,
when it was pointed out that he invariably rode
his bike, he indignantly demanded to know
whether he was not to be recompensed for the
wear and tear on the tyres. Another person, who
brought his tea wrapped up in paper, charged Is.
Gd. for tea-money with the utmost regularity,
while the demands for expenses through loss of
work would have astonished even the treasurer of
an amateur football club in the good old days.
What sacrifices these amateur ‘ actor-blokes ’ do
make in the sacred cause of Charity !
“Friends of a well-known Melb. elderly lady
injured some time ago in a buggy accident,
by which the wealthy widow of a squatter met her
death, are handing round the hat on behalf of the
invalid as her funds are now exhausted. Surely,
under the circumstances, the poor old lady might
expect some little consideration from the magni-
ficently-gilded heirs of her deceased friend.
“ By a coincidence the swell doll presented to a
charity art-union by a certain drapery firm was
won by one of that firm’s very best customers.
The winner happened casually to mention to the
firm that the doll was slightly damaged, and it
then came out that a somewhat expensive orna-
ment, which was on the doll when given to the
charitable object, was ‘non est’.when the prize
reached the winner. Small as the matter is, that
lad}'' is raising Cain to discover the whereabouts of
that ornament, and is sparing neither pains nor
expense to get to the bottom of the affair.
“With a swell-committee to put it through,
Melb. Hunt Club ball (Sept. 3) should be, at
least, fashionable. Mrs. Freeman-Thoihas, who
has already shown points as a show-manager, goes
through some of her prettiest posturings in push-
ing the sale of tickets. The bright little brunette
is a really wonderful butterfly-grafter. When not
canvassing for a charity-show or presiding at a
French lecture, she takes an active part in the
terpsichorean education of the little Freeman-
Thoinas and Brassey children.
“ Rev. Charles Strong, who has come from a
fat incumbency in England, to greet his brother—
Melbourne’s Mayor—ere he breaks away from the
chain of office—fell into the long lean arms of
William, after a separation of 40 years. The two
brothers are wonderfully alike in every particular
as to face, dress, and manner.
. “The other Monday (Aug. 23) when the Metro-
politan Liedertafel safely accomplished its 185th
outburst, violiniste Gertie Summerhayes, in an
innocent white frock and her cropped hair all
curly atop, played a Chopin-Sarasate Nocturne
prettily enough, but found Mendelssohn’s Concerto
too hard a nut to crack.
“ Miss Maggie Stirling, also, was in virginal
white, and wore her soft dark hair in curtains
over her ears. With her wistful eyes, sweet smile
and commanding platform presence, this popular
ballad singer looks almost as well as she sounds,
though something unwieldy in the carriage of
her shoulders and arms stands between
her and complete grace. Mrs. Ridell (Miss
Stirling) has aspirations beyond ballads, and
when the Chamber concerts were in progress
worked hard at the exacting compositions pre-
scribed by Seherek for those recitals. But with
an. invalid husband and young children to provide
for, the family bread-winner has more to think of
than ,her own artistic improvement. The Ham-
bonrg boys took a tremendous fancy to Maggie
Sterling when they were in Melb., and visited her
at her home in Camberwell. There they spent the
day romping with her children and racing all over
the house. At the Liedertafel, by the way, ‘ The
Quiet Hour,’ a placid part-song, owed its being to
pianist Fentum, head musical shepherd at°the
Presbyterian Ladies College.
“ I iie spinsters of Essendon, who invited all
the Nicest of Melbourne to their ball at
the local Town Hall, made the mistake of
issuing the cards in an open envelope with a
penny stamp. Of course the honored ones had
tuppence to pay,’ for on the back of the cards
was written an injunction—the woman’s postscript
‘Present at the door.’ A few cards found
their way back to the spinster-sec., thromrh
vants refusing to part-up when the missus was
out. One lady, on receiving the gloomy intelli-
gence of tuppence to pay on the letter, which
might be only a business circular, refused to take
delivery. ‘You’d better take it, ma’am,’ said
the swift-footed Mercury, ‘ it’s a hinvitation from
the old maids.’
“ Professor Lyle, the Irish don of Natural
Philosophy at Melb. University, is a second Boyle
Roche. The other day, in reminding the students
to be punctual at lectures, he added, empha-
tically : ‘ I shall have the door locked at 12o’clock,
and anyone who comes in after that will not be
allowed to remain.’ Another : ‘Now, this yellow
substance, submitted to a certain treatment, turns
blue, but it won’t, because I’m not going to do it.’
A diligent student is carefully collecting these
bulls, with the witticisms of Dr. Tucker, Professor
of Classics, as material for an academical ‘Pun
Doctor.’
“Self-preservation, in a business sense, was
certainly the first law of nature with the school-
marm who, a while back, convicted her small-boy
boarder of the awful indiscretion of scarletina and
promptly packed him off with a nine-year-old
brother to seek quarters for himself in a private
hospital, The urchins, exiles from Westralia,
were refused admission on the score of infection
and found no shelter until the police were ’phoned
for and arrested the invalid as he stood or sat
shivering on the footpath, clutching a letter of
introduction from his late preceptress to the hos-
pital authorities, referring sentimentally to the
bearer as ‘ the dear lad ! ’ A fuss followed, and
the scholastic heroine, rushing into print in her
own defence, incidentally took credit to herself
for having given the patient his dinner and helped
him into his overcoat before sending him off on
the wallaby-track in quest of new quarters.
“ A certain Australian personage recently dis-
tinguished himself by appearing in a most frolicky
state at a social gathering, where he had under-
taken to read a paper. After shedding a series of
broad smiles on the charmed circle of eager ones, he
stood up quite unexpectedly and cried ‘ Order,
or der, o-r-d-e-r ’ very much after the manner of
Blueskin Royce in ‘Little Jack Sheppard.’ Then
he began to talk of things and sundry until the
company grew restive and called for the distin-
guished guest to l’ead his precious paper. He de-
clared that he had forgotten his notes, but thecryfor
‘paper’ grew more importunate than ever. In
desperation, the unhappy man picked up a book—
it happened to be a Swinburne—and read there-
from a sonnet. The astonished company ap-
plauded, but the paper-chase began again. Driven
to desperation this time, he rallied all his mental
forces and gave them a disjointed discourse on
literature in general and nothing in particular,
after which he adjourned for a long whisky, and
got away as majestically as he could under the
circumstances.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
H. SQUIRE & CO.
Pbotograpb'C Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, kto.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM ton 12 EXPOSURES, 1 6 Fach.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—ol'
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
VV BAtiCH X, Ltd., Agk.mt, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Salisbury is the only bearded man in
power.
Gov. Hampden’s pet aversion is elevators.
He would rather climb a mile of stairs than take
a lift.
If Isaacs becomes Yic. Premier, he will be
the first Premier of Jewish faith in British
dominions.
One of the earliest of Sydney temperance
agitators was named W. P. Crick. “They run
in all shapes.”
Tom Rose, member for Argyle in N.S.W.
Assembly, has just passed his final Bar exam.
For a busy man past his first youth, and ignorant
of the dead languages, the Bar course is a big
oontraot. Rose is “ a whale on detail,’’and should
work up a practice if he lives long enough.
!!!!
Little Georgy from England. And lie’s so fond of
lollies, too!
H. “Premier Turner is 15 years younger
than Chamberlain, but looks 15 years older. He
files his vitality away. The game is not worth
the candle. Ought to do nothing diligently for a
twelvemonth, and babble of nought but green
fields.”
It is not generally known that in his early
Maoriland days—say, 30 years ago—the Godfear-
ing Garrard, now N.S.W. Minister of Education
—save the mark ! —was an amateur oarsman of
great renown. He was one of a famous Port
Nicholson crew.
Of the thirteen ex-Governors of S.A. only
three are now living, of whom one, Hori Grey,
left the province no less than 52 years ago, and
another (Fergusson) 24 years ago. The third is the
engine-driving Kintore, the reigning Buxton’s im-
mediate predecessor.
A Paris journal’s touching series of
articles on “ The Forgotten ” —people yet extant,
who once had a name—recalls a striking occurrence
in Melb. police-court. A sailor was up for a
trivial offence, when it became buzzed round, and
verified, that he was that superlatively brave man,
the Maltese Joseph Rodsreurs, who swam ashore
with the rope from the Royal Charter.
The late ex-Gov. Jervois devoted some of
his engineering abilities to draining and reclaim-
ing a low-lying estate which he acquired near the
mouth of the river Murray, in S.A. He was in-
terested in it to the last. Down to Jervois’s time,
South Australia provided no out-of-town house for
its Governor. He kicked (and Jervois could kick)
and so £22,000 was spent at Marble Hill.
“Lay to your book.” Since he quitted
S.M. Herald office, “Nemo ’' Pickering has, like
another Horace, been living on his farm. He has
succeeded in raising a crop of maize at a cost of
14s. a bushel, and his cabbages had run him into
ss. a head ere they wore full-grown. Still, he
finds it pleasanter than trying to please a sporting
public while John Fairfax’s ghost hovers around
the Herald office.
Backnumber Copley’s neighbors years ago
used to say : “Bill hadn’t brains enough to keep
awake.” Writer, in Copley’s teamstering days,
himself more than once saw William rouse up
when nearing a turning, “Gee-off,” or “ Corne-
hea,” as the case might be, and, before the gee-
gees could round the corner, the future S.A.
Minister of Education and National Ass magnate
would be “ driving pigs to market.”
A rather unusual juryman has turned up
in Melbourne. He was in a civil case a short time
ago and a verdict was given for one of the parties.
A few days afterwards he waited upon the bar-
rister for the other party, told him that he had
since come to the conclusion that the verdict was
wrong, and offered to pay down £lOO for the cost
of obtaining a new trial. The same juryman is
understood to have been on a recent memorable
Sunday-school -girl assault case.
Pope Alexander Cooper, J., catechising an
eight-year-old boy at Brisbane (Q.) Supreme Court,
as to his comprehension of the nature of an oath,
asked the lad—“Do you know what your soul is?”
} “ No.” Does Cooper, J., with all his years,
all his learning, all his ermine, all his full-bottomed
wig, all his man-millinery, and all his passion for
fi ” } cnow what his soul is ? This writer wagers
that he doesn’t, and that he couldn’t give a logical
and easily-to-be understood definition of that
article, even if the prize for such was the woolsack.
Higher Power Brunker is a most involved
speaker who sails around, under, and over, but
never directly at a subject, his favorite expression
being “ with regard to.”
Yic.: “It transpires that Lord Hopetoun
has a big financial stake in the Mallee. Hence
his patriotic visitation of that region. Gov.
Brassey has been there, too.
Lord Brassey gave a ‘ ‘ brief poetic-read-
ing ”at Melb. Austral Salon, the other day. The
versatile old boy ! But Brassey and poetry ! It
makes one think of a man trying to play a piano
with a shin of beef.
The 20-year-old daughter of a Sydney sub-
urban newspaper proprietor, during her father’s
recent “ retirement ” over a little libel trouble,
pluckily took over the whole show, and got the
paper out each week. Luckily for “Dad,” she
can set type and “ pull ” proofs almost as well as
most comps.
At Ringarooma (Tas.) a member of the
great Smith family is 107 years old, and
still active. He married at 72.
.A pompous but ignorant candidate for
the “municipal honors” of a Melb. suburb
was asked by a wag if he was “in favor of the
abolition of the Decalogue.” The candidate
sought inspiration from his equally ignorant
prompter, who informed him that “he thought
they’d abolished it in Collingwood ! ” Thereon,
the candidate announced that if it wasn’t
good enough for Collingwood, it wasn’t for
this electorate, so the sooner it was polished
the better for everybody. ”
A story from Melb. Hospital Morgue.
Demise ; Black Lucy, a mulatto woman, pro-
minent in Melb. as a—well—high priestess of
Venus for 30 years past. Among the residents
of Exhibition, Lonsdale and Little Bourke
streets, there existed neither man nor woman
who would say a bad word for Lucy, or would
not have risked three months hard to do her a
good turn. The police had the same opinion
as the old woman, and even the slum mis-
sionaries and the Salvationists recognised the
good qualities of one who had frequently sacri-
ficed her own pocket to save some impulsive,
hysterical girl from going to the devil. “ That
woman’s got the biggest heart in the whole of
the city,” was the private opinion of a Melb.
P.M. after disposing of a case wherein the
black woman was a witness, and his sentiment
was the general one. But hard times came,
and the other day saw the bailiffs in the old
woman’s house. The loss of the furniture she
didn’t mind so much, but the seizure and sale
of an old, blasphemous, goodnatured cockatoo
that had been the woman’s companion for years
was more than she could stand. So she went
and broke her heart, and died in Melb. Hos-
pital through losing the cockatoo.
Windeyer’s acceptance of a temporary
judgeship in Newfoundland is, probably, the
throwing of a sprat to catch a mackerel. Baron
Mt. Rennie is anxious to keep sweet with the
Ome authorities ; and if, by taking a trip to the
New World, the highly-pensioned W.C.W. can
make a thousand guineas or so, and help Joe
Chamberlain out of a difficulty which has arisen
in connection with the Newfoundland Bench, why
shouldn’t the old jury-chewer snap at the offer ?
By the way, what has become of W.C.W’s
volume of “ pomes ? ”
TEE OBSCENE LANGUAGE
ACADEMY .
Presiding J.P. (in undefended
“ language ’ case, to prosecuting
constable): “Has he ever been
here before ? ”
“ No, per Worship, it is his first
offence.'’
His Worship: “Well, aven if you
have nicer been HERE before, you
have learnt some very bad language
somewhere .”
Miss Ethel Benjamin, LL.B., Maoriland’s
first lady lawyer, is remarkably childlike-and-
bland in appearance, and, despite her “ad-
vanced ” speech at the Otago University capping,
doesn’t seem alarming in private life. She is
small and dark and youthful-looking, and has a
voice which she cultivates sedulously
THE INEVITABLE ALTERNATIVE.
DISTRESSED NEW-CHUM (at station homestead) : “Do you — aw — want a—
awh—teutawh?”
SQUATTERESS: “ No, thank you.”
D. N. : “ Well, then — could you — awh — give me apiece of meat? ”
Miss Flora Shaw, some years before her
invasion of Australia, contributed prolific articles
to the Times on the Australasian provinces, and
their general accuracy won her a reputation as an
authority on things antipodean. It was wondered
where the fair Flora got her “ private ” informa-
tion, but one of the Australian Agents-General
knows. In fact, he was her well of truth.
At the complimentary ‘ ‘ smoke-night ”
tendered to Premier Turner, in St. Kilda (Melb.)
Town Hall, the chair was taken by a local under-
taker whose private residence is famous for its
funereal front door. This ominous constituent
threw off a feu d’esprit to the effect that Turner
would have done him a grave injustice by dying
in London and getting buried in Westminster
Abbey.
A Rockhampton merchant, far-famed for
his picturesque and resourceful fluency, was
beaten recently. Speaking of a third party he
said : “ I assure you, Thompson, no language at
my command would adequately convey to you
what a perfectly lurid and blastiferous hiatus
Smith is.”
The Messrs.
Ellis, timber-mer-
chants, of Camden
Haven, N. S. W.,
have in their em-
ploy an old Swede
named Armstrong,
sole survivor of the
Glasgow - owned
ship Loch Lil y,
which, about 18
years ago, left Mel-
bourne for London
with a general car-
go and was cap-
sized in a white
squall off the Bra-
zilian coast. Arm-
strong states that
he only, out of a
crew of 32, was
washed ashore
alive. He made his
way along the coast
to a seaport, and
shipped for New
York m a collier
named the St.
Louis. He speaks
very little English,
and did not report
the matter.
The Weekly
Sun stated (as a
new and surprising
fact) that Sarah
Bernhardt was in-
sured against per-
sonal loss by her
latest London ven-
ture inasmuch as
she is “in the
hands of a manager
who nightly, before
the curtain rises,
places in her hands
100 golden sove-
reigns.” Sarah has
been acting on
those terms for
years—.£loo a per-
formance, paid in
ad vance, and a per-
centage of the resi-
due (if any) after
all other expenses
are paid. But the
golden sovereigns
used to be paid in
the morning by the terms of her Australian
engagement with Abbey and (xrau. She would
get the ready cash after breakfast, and then pro-
ceed to chuck it around. One of her airy extrava-
gances, previous to leaving Sydney, was an outlay
of =630 in toys for the little daughter of a friend
of hers. Regal Sarah !
Justice Minister Gould lives in Judge
Windeyer’s house. A fact of interest when you
come to think over things. There must be a lot
of mana in that house.
One peculiar fad of the late Dr. Diamond
Beaney was that every time he received a regis-
tered letter he gave the postman a shilling. This
got to be pretty well known amongst the Melb.
letter-carriers, and “ Beaney’s round ” was con-
sequently extremely popular. One postman who
was an expert at telling a letter’s contents by its
feel, used to himself register, at a cost of 3d.,
every letter for the doctor containing valuables, if
it had not been previously registered.
On the invitation of a progressive aider-
man, Ben Tillett attended a meeting of Brisbane
Jity Council, and made a few lucid explanations
regarding London County ditto. Mayor M‘Master
received the Labor-member with thinly-disguised
discourtesy. Later, he abruptly declined to take
the chair at Tillett’s lecture, or to countenance so
unspeakable a function in any way whatever. It
is M‘Master’s standing boast that he has worked
in Brisbane, as an adult, for half-a-crown a week.
The fly in the ointment of the lately-
deceased Tasmanian ex-hangman Solomon Blay.
was that the outlaw Martin Cash was not
among his list of official workings-off. Blay
always fought shy of a camera, hence The
Bulletin is unable to print his photo., and
an authentic picture of the world’s hanging-
record champion is lost. Every official knot he
tied was duly ticketed with the name of chokee,
and date of choking, and carefully treasured in a
big sea-chest. This gruesome record of ropes’-
ends his heirs will probably be persuaded to
obliterate.
“ Where the Dead Men Lie and Other
Poems ” is the title of Barcroft Boake’s book,
which has just been published in a very attractive
form by Angus and Robertson, with six portraits
and 32 illustrations by Mafinny, Lambert, and
Fischer some of which are little gems of art. In
addition there is a lengthy memoir of the lamented
poet by A. G. Stephens. All Boake’s best Bul-
letin poems are included, amongst them the
famous title-piece; “Skeeta,’’ perhaps the most
popular of all ; “ Devlin’s Siding,” and “Down the
River,” two of the strongest pieces in Australian
verse; besides several hitherto unprinted. The
book will be forwarded post-free from Bulletin
office for ss. sd. in stamps or postal notes of any
province.
Fogarty, M.P.. failed to create a scare in
the Q. Assembly, the other day, though he tried
hard. He moved a resolution that practically
amounted to the abolition of the Parliamentary
refreshment-room. He said it needed abolition.
He vowed it was a curse to Parliament, that it set
snares for the feet of legislators, that it lowered
them to the level of brute beasts, that it led to
drunkenness and drunken legislation, and more of
such stereotyped tea-roics (copyright). His
warmest friends warned him not to go too far, and
to be content with a public protest; but the
Fogarty blood was as boiling nitric acid, and he
swore he would go to a division on his motion.
However, he was so overwhelmingly licked on the
voices that the division wasn’t taken. Then,
alas ! for moral stability, then he meandered to
the very refreshment-room that he had just been
decrying and “ filled ’em up ” for himself.


FRANZ JOSEF . . .
PILSEKTER
Largely Imuated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
Huddart Parker and Co’s Hobart
Manager,
Capt. J. W. Evans, M.H.A.
testimony in favour of Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Prominent and well-known persons all over the
world endorse and recommend Warner’s “Safe”
Cure as the greatest, best, and surest cure for in-
digestion and dyspepsia—the characteristic symp-
toms of a weak liver. Captain J. W. Evans,
M.Jd.A., Manager for Huddart Parker and Co.,
Hobart, says: “I have pleasure in testifying to
the good l have received bv the use of Warner’s
Safa Cure for dyspepsia.”
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for LrvEß
and Kidney Disease.*
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the new Testable Anti-Rat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLIFE
REGISTERED.
It I* the only safe ou^ftS^O^OT.BNr^n'iSlf 4 14 on thousands of Cases,
according to directions. Males and females lost | Sm ° f S^ nld T and arms wh «" taken
Stout people who pant and red in the face when wtl 20 po H nd ® a month, and kept in splendid health.
. ■*““ - ""•** r * p,d M
r, - b “ rbte * lbe h “J -“•*
veg“t.‘bKt“4“s a “**• 0r '“**•' “0 » «>• -fr H*™l- «nU,d,
fn^o b Ki 0 t btai l'- ed l j 0 . m aHohe miBts and Patent Medicine Vendors. Prioe 8s 6s and 1?.
in tablet or liquid form. The largest bottles or bores are equal to sfr of the .mdl A
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin,—You often talk of the
mixed population of North Queensland, but the
southern part of that province isn’t so very far
behind in the same respect. In the ’B3 election,
when Griffith wiped up all Queensland with
M‘ll wraith and Bullocky Palmer and Morehead
and Pat Perkins, I acted as scrutineer at a polling-
place about 12 miles from Brisbane. It was an
interestin'; experience. All through a long, hot
summer day I sat in a wooden shed, under a
crackling tin roof, while Hans Jorgenson and
Peter Henson, and Otto Gross and Paul Billitski,
and Demetrius and Emanuel, and people like that
slouched in, and laboriously marked their papers,
and breathed strange vegetables on me, and went
out again. At last, the show was over, and we
made up a party to drive into Bulimba in a cart,
and hear how things were getting on. Hans
Schmidt drove, and Peter Macdonald sat beside
him, and there were also Demetrius and Emanuel
and Hans Schutze and Otto Gross, and Said
Abdallah—we took that good Moslem along out
Mitt VIOLET ELLIOTT.
Photo., Stump & Co., Adelaidt.
of pure devilment, in hope of making him drunk—
and myself. Also, Paul Billitski was somewhere
at the back. Hop Wah wanted to get on, but he
was told that walking was good enough exercise
for a blanky heathen. So the caravan started,
and drove wildly by moonlight into Bulimba.
Everybody sang or howled. Everybody smoked,
including the horse. Everybody except Said
Abdallah drank at every public - house by
the way. We galloped into Bulimba all
cheering for MTlwraith, and found that our hero
was done, and the floor had been wiped with him
in all directions. The Griffith party aimed a
bottle at us, and there was gory war on the in-
stant. I don’t know what would have happened
to me at that crisis if Paul Billitski and Abdallah
had not dragged me out from under the feet of the
enemy, for Hans Schmidt was busily engaged
fighting a man named Petersen, while Seligmann
attacked him from behind, and so he could give no
assistance; and Schutze and Demetrius had both
been routed, and Emanuel was borne down by
numbers though fighting valiantly. Finally, the
police restored some kind of order, and hauled
Peter Macdonald off a prostrate foe who was
nearly dead ; and then Schmidt gloomily bought
six dozen eggs which his wife had ordered him to
bring back with him, and we started for home
after putting a, large piece of steak on Abdallah’s
eve, which was something awful to contemplate.
There was very little mirth for the first mile or
two on that return journey, but after a while we
began to arrive at various public-houses, and the
company brightened up. When we had called at
six public-houses Peter M‘Donald had to take
charge of Schmidt’s eggs because he was the only
man, except Abdallah, who was pober enough to
carry eggs. And Abdallah being incapacitated and
practically laid up in hospital at the back of the
cart, and being also fully occupied in holding on
to Schutze, who wanted to fall out and was
beginning to have horrors, didn’t count. Three
miles from home a great idea occurred to Schmidt.
“Mine Gott! ”he said, “I forgetted that I haf
mine revolver. Ye vill go pack and schoot
Griffith.” The proposal was lost by a large and
intoxicated majority. “ Den I know vat ve schall
do. Ve schall shoot anyhow schoost to see if de
horse sdand de rebort. “My God !if you do
I’ll break all the eggs ? ” yelled Macdonald; but it
was too late. Schmidt was blazing away promis-
cuously, and the horse started at a desperate
gallop. Schmidt lost the revolver. He also lost
the reins. Peter Macdonald threw the eggs into
space, and they fell on the horse and burst, which
further agitated the animal. There was the yell
of a strong Dago in his agony as Emanuel went
overboard. Schutze went overboard, too; but
Abdallah held on like grim death and prayed in
Arabic. Otto Gross and Billitski were somewhere
in a heap at the bottom of the cart on top of
Demetrius. Then we ran over Hop Wah and
nearly killed Carl Hirsch, who happened to be on
the road, and just then the harness gave way, and
the cart stayed behind, and a maddened horse
covered with egg tore away in the moonlight.
I persuaded Carl Hirsch to assist me when he had
got over his fright, and we went back to look for
Hop Wah. Hop proved to be only bruised, though
he was badly scared in Chinese. Sehutze was
asleep in the middle of the road, so we rolled him
into the ditch lest he should be run over. Emanuel
had apparently evaporated ; and he didn’t turn
up again for two days, and then he could give
no account of himseif whatever. We returned
after an hour’s search for the lost Dago to
find Peter and Schmidt and Otto Gross and
Billitski all asleep on the road in the early day-
break, and Abdallah sitting sullenly on the fence
with his huge black eye, and far up the road an
adjacent settler named Ludwig was bringing
back a tired horse with dried egg all over him
which he captured in his corn-field. They have
no elections like that now, more’s the pitv.—
Titus Salt.
Ed. Bulletin, —
How we grow jolly and
fat. Amongst hun-
dreds of people trying
to live by snaring ’pos-
sums, I have lately
noticed an ex-station
manager, an ex-auc-
tioneer and stock-and-
station agent, and an
ex-publican—these all
within a few miles of
each other, and they
were all in their res-
pective billets a year
ago. I know another
ex-station - manager
who is now book-
keeper on a station at
10s. per week, this
being a rise of £6 per
year over the previous
holder of the billet.
This man, who is mar-
ried, with a family,
put in for the billet of
clerk to a Q. Divi-
sional Board for £lOO a
year, but was badly
licked, the lucky man
taking the post for £6O.
And there is a man at
a silver-mine who
works himself and his
two horses for 4s. 6d.
per day, thus beating
the Melbourne record
of man, horse and dray,
4s. lid. per day. Let
us jube ! —H.S.R.
* * *
Ed. Bulletin,—
In a sketch called
“ Whoa, Trilby,” by
F. P. Mahoney, which
appeared some months
ago in Bulletin, and
in one of “Hop.’s”
recent drawings, horses
are represented as buck-
ing with their tails
high in the air. The
buckjumpers that I’ve
seen buck with their
tails between their
legs.—M.K.
* •
A story. Sydney
doctor. Spree. Fnally.
snake; generally a
black one. Slow re-
covery. Awkward in-
quiries from patients. Explanation : “ I have
been suffering from a pseudechio porphyriacuz.”
• * • *
Johnnie-come-lately (from England, don-
cherknow) started auctioneering out back, and
one morning a fine, dashing squatter’s daughter
rode up to his office on a handsome horse, which
she wished to sell. “ Er, beg pardon, Miss ,”
said Johnnie, “but will you—er—kindly—er—tell
me the names—-er —of your horse’s—er—pa and —
er—ma.” Seeing the young womanl blush and
hesitate, Johnnie came to the rescue with, “ Oh,
well—er.— if you don’t care to inform me—er —just
now, will you—er—kindly post me the —er—
names of your horse’s pa and —er —ma by to-
morrow, dontcherknow ? ”
A well - known Nor-
thern Territory identity,
being absent from home,
wrote to his wife to start
the man-of-all-work sink-
ing post-holes. After the
manhad been working
some time it began to rain,
and he naturally cried a-
go, whereupon Madame :
“How is it that you are
not working?’’ He: “I
can’t work in the rain.”
She : “ But surely you can
get a blackfellow to hold
an umbrella over your
head.” (Fact.)
* * •
The backblocke r
strode into the hall of the
swell hotel and told the
porter to bring in his port-
manteau. Porter returned
in hot haste saying there
was no portmanteau—only
a flour-bag. “ Well, isn’t
that a portmanteau?” said
the bushy, as he prepared to swish down a long
beer; it’s a Collarendabri portmanteau, any-
way ! > j
• * • •
J.W.M. : “ We were camped on the creek,
waiting for the sun to sink a little lower before
tackling the storekeeper for ‘a bit of rations.’ My
mate was engaged emptying the bags and detail-
mg, for my benefit, the moral history and little
peculiarities of the ‘ dust-dispenser ’ we were
about to visit. Noticing he had three sets of bags,
I enquired the reason, and, with a proud smile,
the inventor of the triple-expansion system of
cadging enlightened me. * You see this lot, the
small ones? Well, they’re for the station store.-
The next size is for the boundary-riders to fill.’
‘ And the largest ? ’ ‘Well, I fill them when the
boundary udder is out.’ Any chance of a patent ? ”
Scene in Brisbane (Q.). Prominent
citizen introduces to well-known athletic M.P. a
Northern bushman. M.P. finds himself shaking
hands with the latter almost without thinking.
Seeing something familiar to memory in his
features, he turned to the P.C. and asked, “What
name did you say ? ” Name given. Turning to
the Northerner, the M.P. said, “ How dare you
come and shake hands with me ? You’re nothing
but a scoundrel. I don’t shake hands with scoun-
drels.” “ I’m no scoundrel.” “Do you insinuate
that I’m a liar ? I say you are a scoundrel. If
Miss LALA SELBINI.
Photo., Barroni, Melbourne.
you say you’re not, that’s a roundabout way of
calling me a liar. Repeat it, and I’ll knock you
down.” The Northerner held his tongue, and
“gat.” Then the P.C. remembered that he was
one of a clique that had tried, years ago, to ruin
the M.P., and failed, and now wanted to make it
up.
That M.P., in the old days, practised medicine
on the Palmer and was, perhaps, the best man
with his hands among the 10,000 diggers. There
was no man, however poor, who could not com-
mand his medical help, but he liked to be paid,
for all that. One day he was passing a Cooktown
bar and saw a very large, flash person pouring out
alleged champagne for a crowd. “Ha ! ” said the
doctor, “ you can liquor up all hands on fizz and
yet you can’t pay me—me, who was fool enough
to ride miles and miles after midnight to pull an
ungrateful rascal like you from the grave.” And
he there and then proceeded to give his ex-patient
the “ father of a batin’.” In fact, it was a regular
fixed habit of his to give advice, money, and
sympathy to poor people—and to cordially thump
every man to whom he had given credit and who
could pay, but wouldn’t. ,
* * * •
Up at Thornborough (Q.), when the Rodg-
kmson rush was on, years ago, a bailiff put in an
appearance at the hotel where “the boys” all
“ hung up.” This was unbearable, and a meeting
of the leaders was held as to how he was to be
AT OUR HASH-
HOUSE.
“ Has the girl any water
for washing up? ”
“ Yes, Mr. Jones; why? ”
“ Well, I thought I had
drunk it all!”
dealt with. “Run him straight out,” was the
general opmmn. No,” said a joker, who is now
8 klll him Wlth kindness. I’ll take
the lead, and you follow my example as your op-
portunities happen and your fancies direct.” .
At dinner, behold the bailiff guided to a chaii
fairly in the centre of the “ off-side ” of the table.
Presently: “Have some spuds, old man?” and,
before the bailiff could reply, a dishful of potatoes
went paraboling in the air and landed with a crash
and collapse in front of him. “ Have some mus-
tard ? ” and the mustard-pot came hurtling.
“Bread?” and a loaf landed against his elbow.
“ Butter ? ” and a pat hit him in the eye. “ Jam,
old man, fine jam ? ” and he got that fair under
his gorge. When a rice-custard anointed his head,
he arose and left; nor did he ever return to that
table d’hdte. They had killed him with kindness.
The Brand of Cane—Jamaica Rum.
The latest New York postmark is the
stars-and-stripes design of the ’Murkanflag.
• Miss Lain Selbini,
whose photo, is given
herewith, is the shape-
liest and cleverest little
lady who has appeared
in Melbourne Opera
House for some years.
Only 18 years of age,
M iss .Selbini Ins been a
cj-elist since she was a
toddler of three, and her
farher, mother, and
brothers all being acro-
bats and trick cyclists it
naturally followed that
the tiny Lala should
adopt the same profes-
sion. Soon it was ap-
parent that the bike
was her speciality, and,
abandoning h mdsprincs
and somersaults for the
equally hazardous occu-
pation of trick cycling,
a very little time elapsed
before Lala Selbini was
able to beat all her ex-
perienced relatives at
their own game. Her
constant practice has left
her able to do anything
with a bike but make it
talk, and has developed
her into the symmetrical
little woman she is to-
day. Neither are the
feats of stage cycling
which have filled the
Melb. Opera House for
the past month her only
efforts on the wheel ; for
Miss Selbini is an enthu-
siastic road cycliste.
Miss Violet Elliott,
contralto with the pre-
sent Hudson Surprise
Party, recently success-
ful above the average in
India and the East, was
born in Melbourne a
trifle over twenty years
ago. First appeared in
public about two years
ago, being selected from
many aspirants as con-
tralto soloist with Melb. 1 dedertafel. In the course
°r engagement the lady caught the roving eye
ot J. L. Williamson, and thereafter travelled for
a space with the Royal Comic Opera Co., with
Oourtice Pounds, Brownlow the Beautiful, and
other notabilities. Finally, the probabilities of
ad vancement in that quarter being indefinite, she
joined Tommy ” Hudson, and so to India. She
accompanies the same show, in part remodelled
on its forthcoming tour in Maoriland. A tali
> with an irritatingly piquant face and a some-
what striking stage-presence.
The exuberant loyalty of Marble Bar, the
official centre of the alleged Pilbarra (W.A.) gold-
field, led its half-hundred residents to send a
piteous appeal to Govt, for cash to erect a suitable
memorial of the Diamond Jubilee. In furtherance
of this laudable ambition, and perhaps also as a
“ S °P the ne W i y .elected M.L.A. (Indepen-
dent), £oo public money was forthcoming. A local
meeting decided, however, that this was too pal-
try a sum with which to do justice to the archi-
tecture of the embryo city, and a proposal to spend
jt on a free guzzle was unanimously approved.
The usual loyal toasts were drunk with
enthusiasm, amidst much loyal adulation, and
"eulogy of the Forrest Ministry as “the right
people in the right place.”
A brace of Sydney constables are just now
to the front with a wondrous yarn about a grue-
some apparition and their own surpassing valor in
tackling with base material batons what they pro-
mss to haye been convinced was a genuine spook.
The notion of two large-hoofed, perspiring
Hibernians in buttons capering all over an empty
house at midnight after an aerial spirit would
nave been ludicrous enough without the further
mformation that the thing “ had flippers like a
seal, and that what should have been its head
was enveloped in what looked like bags.” The
whole business—failing further elucidation-
should look uncommonly like “sacks” for the
heroes thereof. P.S. —The apparition turns out to
have been a fox-terrier ! Which should afford a
wholesome publio lesson re the imaginativeness of
policemen.


Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. EIRE JiIIOTHEIiS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Of interest to pedagogues—and others.
Complaint was recently made to a Maoriland
school committee that the schoolmaster had
caused the mouth of a boy who had used foul
language to be washed out with strong soap and
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles, Ih®
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, .of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection-
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne* is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send .their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
A LADY AT LYNDHURST, N.S.W..
CURED AFTER 16 YEARS’ SUFFERING.
Rockdale, Lyndiiurst, N.S.W.,
11th Aug., 1897.
Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
Dear Sir,—After suffering for sixteen years from
Indigestion and Liver Complaint, your remedy
“ WAHOO ” has cured me in a few days. I can t
thank you sufficiently for this great relief. “ WA-
IIOO ” has restored my appetite, and the fearful
pains after eating are a past experience. I have
completely shaken off the tired feeling which made
my household work a burden. My husband has also
derived great benefit from LOASBY’s “ WAHOO.
Yours very sincerely,
E. HINES.
WAHOO!
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s “Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
Singer’s Grand Modele de Luxe in Art Colors
lEi
A.TST 33
Cycles for both Ladies and Gentlemen
CSTCXjE AGEITCT
Desire to inform the Public of Sydney and surrounding districts of the
OPENING of their New Establishment at 391 George Street, Sydney.
Arrangements have been made with the Austral Clyde Ag*eiicy
Limited for the representation in New South Wales ot the celebrated
SiQger Cycles, Swift Cycks & Cross Cycks*
—; —.
PLEASE REMEMBER:
The Xcw Establishment is at 391 George-st.,
SYDKTESY,
AND THE STOCK WILL INCLUDE
SINGER’S GRAND MODELE DE LUXE,
SWIFT ROAD RACER, CLUB SWIFT, SWIFT PATH RACER,
SINGER MODELS A & B, POPULAR SWIFT,
etc.,
etc.,
etc.
Cycles for Schoolgirls and Boys.
The Cycle adopted for English Military Use is
a Swift.
Leashed Militarism.
Cheap blast upon the giddy Gallic trumpet
though that new Triple Alliance-suggestion
may have been, behind it lies the solid and
u gly certainty that John Bull’s Jubilee
gambadoes have materially helped to focus
that acrid Anglophobia in which the three
great Continental Powers are glad to find the
solitary peg whereon they can hang anything
like a unity of sentiment. Nor should any
splenetic newspaper - shrieking discount for a
moment the fact that Britannia’s recent squar-
ing of her mighty Imperial shoulders has over-
done the intended effect, and set a strong
trinity of rival nations hungering for the down-
fall of a colossus that threatens to bestride the
world. However utterly Britain’s enemies may
laugh to scorn the conceit that—
With ruth, and faith, and verity
Her name and fame are interbound—
they are only too dismally well aware that—
The roots of her prosperity
Have clasped ohe curvfed earth around.
And to these roots the united axe of Russia,
Germany and France would doubtless forth-
with be applied with right good-will, but for
the fact that their hatred of the common
enemy isn’t quite enormous enough to swallow
all their rankling grudges against each other.
* * * *
Not quite!—but “the little less—and how
far away it is 1 ” The facing, by England, of
the suggested combination would mean the
facing of it single-handed. Neither Italy nor
Austria —even if so minded—could afford to
stir a finger against three such mighty neigh-
bors ; and the blood-sympathy of the many in
the United States would almost to a certainty
be swamped by the rabid anti-anglicism of the
more. With Russia’s 8,000,000 men, therefore
—Germany’s 7,000,000, and France’s 4,000,000
—besides a fleet-combination that would over-
shadow even her own prodigious naval force—
England would be “ taking on ” a contract that
would speedily furnish her with a new reading
of “ splendid isolation,” even if it didn’t finally
transfer her name to a much less ostentatious
position on the list of nations.
* * * *
But not from that direction need she “ listen
for the footsteps of her fate,” so long as—des-
pite the theatrical inter-amenities of Tzar and
Kaiser and President—the Muscovite’s affection
for the Teuton remains about as violent as the
Teuton’s for the Gaul. If the Russian’s
antipathy to the Englishman is nationally and
territorially sharp-edged enough, his detesta-
tion of the German is virulently personal, and
the predilection for the Frenchman with which
his rulers obstinately persist in crediting him
is a matter —notwithstanding the recent hys-
terics over a gossamer Franco-Russian “alli-
ance”—at which no one is more astonished
than himself. The Frenchman, in his turn—or
that great bulk of him whose word will “go”—
is a long way from being ill enough affected:
towards the Englishman, or well enough toward®
the Russian, to forget for a moment what a
sacred debt he owes to the German. The
necessity for the revanche was created by just
the twopenny-colored kind of Frenchman that
appears to be now again upon the cockadoodle-
doo ; but the revanche itself will have to be
achieved—if ever—by the penny-plain sort of
patriot that is least likely to caper to the
penny-whistle of M. Hanotaux or the Figaro.
* • * *
Immediately ahead of Germany, also, for her
part, is quite as much domestic trouble as will
render it unnecessary for her to go abroad for
a blood-letting. It was only as a matter of
temporary political emergency that the motley
German peoples conferred upon the king of one
of them a titular suzerainty over all, and there
are now unmistakable indications that the
nation, as a whole, will not much longer submit
to the tyrannical vagaries of the unspeakable
middle-aged “ bounder ” who hasn’t br;, :is to
understand that he is a hopeless anachronism,
and that the Germany of the 19th century cannot
possibly be managed upon the monarchical
methods of the 9th.
* * * •
Socialism—virtually Liberalism—is steadily
advancing in Germany towards an explosion
which the Emperor’s insane screw-down policy
cannot fail to render more destructive in the
end. The martial enthusiasm, also, upon which
principally the Imperial idea has subsisted
since the overthrow of France, is fading fast
away before the discovery that too much mili-
tarism is an even greater evil than too
little, and that the nation hasn’t any real use
for a prancing megalomaniac who practically
recognises no nation but himself and his swash-
bucklers. And even the army itself —the
tawdry traditional fetish of his tribe —is
beginning seriously to ask itself if it can
possibly, after all, belong body and soul to a
flatulent prig, with a deformed person and
a pronounced capacity for making a fool of
himself. Also —severest stab of all to a pipe-
clay-souled Hohenzollern 1 his military ad-
ministrators—the men who have made his vast
fighting-machine what it is are shaking in
their boots to-day, lest, having recklessly
created the necessity for its use, their tin-
soldier lord and master Bhould insist upon
taking charge of it himself—with the extremely
probable consummation of everlasting smash !
• o • *
Nutshelled, then the situation is this:
Russia dislikes England, doesn't dislike France,
and hates Germany like poison. Germany
detests England, despises France, and pro-
foundly distrusts Russia. France rather likes
Russia, rather dislikes England, and abhors
the very name of Germany—which last —fail-
ing the abolition of WIRLIAM the Mountebank
—is booked in any case for a burst-up, before
long, on her own account. Probable, therefore
—almost certain —though it is that, against
the Giantess of the Seas, will some day “ come
the four corners of the world in arms ” —it is
not from these elements she need fear any com-
bination that would get much beyond the
screeching, for screeching’s sake, of the mere
political cockatoo.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice mil be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on Mis.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be vetuvned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
J.D. : “ Wag ’ all right; but must think long
and seriously over other X.Y.Z.: “Night A.’ accept-
able Cungevoy : Name and address, please .... -tan-
gent: Meaningless Redwater : Thanks .Trapper
(Grenfell): Send name. We have received communica-
tions for you E.A. : Please write your name on the
slip containing each item Bryan O’Lynn : Plenty time
yet F.H.A. : Most unmelodious B. Traid : Thanks.
Idea already being acted on ; and will send you .....
Won’t do Rou : Par. unusable D.L.0.:
Drunkenness is probably only hereditary to the same
extent that consumption is hereditary. If the parent is
weak the offspring inherit the weakness, more or less.
The son of a consumptive doesn’t inherit consumption,
but only a predisposition to that disease ; the son of a
drunkard inherits his parent’s shattered nerves and with
them the drink-longing. Some of the most virulent tee-
totallers are the sons of notorious drinkers. In fact, a
drunken parent causes many to hate drink Geo. S.
(W.A.): Yes, of course it is possible to reproduce a
Meisenbach print just as it is possible to reproduce one
photograph from another; but the result is never too
satisfactory M'G. : And, yet, of the thousands of
paintings, past and present, of the Virgin, does anybody
remember ever having seen her once depicted as a
Jewess? Y.: The term “ Commonwealth” doesn t
in itself necessarily connote the idea of republicanism.
In Shakespeare’s plays the word is frequently used in the
sense of State or community, e.g. in Henry VI. : “Since
thou wert King, and who is King but thou ? The Com-
monwealth hath daily run to wreck.” B.G. : Try
again. Theme worn-out N.B. : After alls said
and done, Nosey Bob only had Butler on a string.
E.M.A. : There have been, since the foundation
of the province, 30 Judges of the Supreme Court
of N.S.W .. Percy A.: Please call when possible
0.8. : N.S.W. first-class civil-servants are paid 17s. 6d. a
day as travelling expenses when away from head-quarters,
but school - inspectors are paid 225. 6d. in the same cir-
cumstances H.R.Y.S. : But who was it that posed for
the wax effigy? Digger (Mt. Magnet): You ask us to
print, on your mere say-so, a yarn that looks like the
very worst kind of criminal libel .C.R.C. :An old Bul-
letin subject F.C. : Fitzroy narration over-squalid......
W.S. (Dubbo): Thanks, hut it has been told before
A.F.A.: The indecency is in your alleged rnind, not in the
verses. Read them again Cumbo : In type .... J.D.D.
(Penshurst): No, so long as you draw in very black ink on
very white paper E.E.: In N.S.W., a woman can get
a divorce simply for adultery on her husband’s part,
which, in England, must be supplemented by some other
offence Tom M‘G. (C.) :It tastes of chestnut. C.A..:
The portfolio of Justice, above all others, should be in
the hands—not of a fish-blooded and meagre-souled weak-
ling—but of a real live-meat man, with a 44in. chest-
potential enough himself, for either good or evil, to
understand that, but for circumstances outside his con-
trol, he might have got into gaol himself J. 5.8.: Also,
the wearing of blue or red lappels on a dresscoat will be
added to the list of crimes punishable by death .....
lnverell : Couldn’t use the gaol as a lunatic-
asylum Yarrum : Item—The beef at Yerong Creek
is now so tough that the fettlers are obliged to lay
their steaks on the rails for passing trains to mangle
before they can trust their molars on ’em... .. . Lelamine :
Professional stage-management had to be paid for. There
was nothing much to grumble at in the balance-sheet
P.H. : “Unwilling politician?” What t a man who
fought hard to get into Parliament against the advice of
his legal partner, who used to draw half of his political
salary . B. : Nothing surprising in the discovery that
the Firm holds the rights of many operas which haven t
been staged in this country. By the way, La Belle
Thdrfese ” was produced at Melb. Princess s Brisbane .
Tub Bulletin declines to print your ana
alluring Government house scandals Will Miss Lvelyn
Boake, sister to the late Bareroft Boake (and supposed to
be now in Tasmania) send address to The Bullehn l.
J.E. : Good observation ; poor yarns .... Sub : About as
useful as an unmarrigeable fly on the
Annie A. : Scripturaily speaking, you’re the camel ana
this paper is the needle's eye One Who’s Been There:
Yarn gone there Pedlar : A decorative Chinaman on a
tea-canister could tell it better Native: A tiact . a
spiritual brandy-and-soda to clean the tongue of an out-
all-night moralist! Try Brunker Toto : ‘ VVould you
like me to come to you, my own?" No, precious ; stay
quite a long way off, popsy ! A.H.T. : Can even a good
play make a good story ? Certain a bad play can t.


“ Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat, what did you there 1 ”
“ I frighten’d a little mouse under her chair.”
« Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat, where have you been 1"
“ I’ve been up to London to look at the Queen.”
Not altogether quite English, you know
G.H.R. : “ Halo, fellow, well met! Anything startling f *
Brunker : “ Yes. Lyne has found a policy ! ’’
When Reid was being photographed with Gladstone, the latter
begged the former to keep his hat on. “ Why take it off," asked the
G.O.M. “ Because,” replied our George, “ I have at last found a
greater man than George Reid ! ”
FDITOIVS
[\cv --
“ Pickwick” expurgated in Darlinghurst Gaol, and
now Brunker is going to knock the author off his perch in
the Centennial Park to make room for Parkes. Besides,
confound him, didn’t he draw the character of Chad-
band 1
LONDON, Thursday.—The murder of the poet <
Konslatinoff at Philippopolis, Bulgaria, has i
created a grave scandal, owing to the remarkable efforts
of the police and the Prefect to ignore the crime.
“ Thou shalt not kill,” the tablets saith,
Which came from Sinai’s Mount;
That is, don’t do a man to death—
Poets, of course, don’t count. W*
THAT FRANCO-RUSSIAN ALLIANCE.
“ A frog he would a-wooing go.”
“Sony to tell you, sir,” said the overseer, “but the fact is
* the Linotype machine’s busted.”
« How the deuce.did that happen 1 ” said the editor, as he made a
vicious snip at*'a blue-bottle that was buzzing round the stickphast. ,
“ Well, you see, it was this »aj" explained the overseer; “ one of
those Indian proper names that have been coming by cable lately got
stuck -fast in the machine, and something had to give way ! ”
And here is explaining a pumpkin
(aotually grown after a few trials upon one of the Govt,
experimental farms) to another delegate, 44 If we can
grow pumpkins like that as a mere province what
pumpkins could we grow under Federation f ”
THE FEDERAL CONVENTION
The Cabinet requested Mr. Gould (Minister of Justice)
and Mr. Sydney Smith (Minister for Mines and Agriculture)
to act as a committee to arrange for the receeption and enter-
tainment of the delegates.
Here you see Minister Gould explaining his celebrated
gag to a fat but highly-interested delegate. “With that
affair on you couldn’t say ° Crimson Thread of Kinship ” if you
were to try a month. And as for drinking a toast at a ban-
quet—wall, I stake my portfolio you couldn't do it 1" *
** »
DR. HELD AND OTHER FICTIONS.


{THE GOVERNMENT AND THE,
PUBtIC'SERVICE.
EMPHATIC STATEMENT Bt THE I
PREMIER.
fSICK AND TIRED.OF DEMANDS.”
S MADE OCT OF
MOLEHILLS."
-WILL RESIST FURTHER CON-
•CESEION
v PPS e s
su,e V s %•■
f n rf\ , A
leQ>t'^ aLs '
lJ lia^
7 'ATO n
leen -r™uc/l-
-(a^ er . "
HIS LITTLE EWE LAMB
MADDEF: “ Why not cut the lamb up amongst them!”
T URNER: “Never, sir, never! It is my ambition to rear it.”


Forty Years Mining in Australia .
I halted at the gate of a pretty bush residence,
which answered to the description supplied me,
and asked of the lady whom I found enthusiastic-
ally gardening, “Does Mr. T. J. Thomas live
here ? ” Receiving a very pleasant reply, which
assured me that I had made no mistake, I was
conducted to the presence of Mrs. Thomas, who,
in the absence of her husband, who is a miner,
gave me the following interesting details for pub-
lication :
“ My husband and I have lived in Heathcote
(Victoria) and the immediate vicinity for 41 years,
36 of which have been spent on this spot.”
“ Your home is most charmingly situated and it
would appear that the locality suits your health
admirably.”
“Appearances are misleading sometimes, and
though I am hale and hearty now and am over 74
years of age, I have seen a great deal of trouble
and suffering. Why, until a short time ago I had
not known for 40 years what permanent relief
from pain was.”
“You have had more than your share of life’s
troubles then, Mrs. Thomas.”
“Yes. It was as near as I can remember in ’57
that I had my first attack of rheumatism, and
these have followed me up on and off for 40 years.
About nine years ago my troubles were added to
by enlargement of the liver, and this, in itself
more than sufficient to kill most people of my age,
was aggravated by inflammation of the kidneys.
As you may imagine I was in a very critical con-
dition for a long time, and, when just about to
pull together again another severe attack of rheu-
matism brought me down. This brings me to
about five years back, when I caught influenza for
the first time. But to shorten my story, I had
further attacks of rheumatism and influenza again
the following year, and though the influenza
missed me for the next two years rheumatism did
not.”
“Life under these conditions must have been
almost intolerable.”
“It was. But I had more to face yet, for about
a year and nine months I was laid up with a third
attack of influenza. I never seemed to be able to
throw this off as I had the others, and it made me
feel terribly low spirited. My oldest enemy,
rheumatism, kept going at me, and it seemed that
between them they were going to get the best of
me.”
“ Of course you took advice at this stage, Mrs.
Thomas ? ”
“ Yes. I had four or five dootors, but their
advice and physio was not the least bit of good,
and I just felt I could not last much longer. The
pain I suffered beats description. I could not lie
down, and the only position in which partial relief
was to be found was sitting, bearing to one side.
I could not bear anything to touch my back. I
don’t like to think of the torture through which I
have passed ; it was terrible. I lost all power in
my legs. At this stage, when there appeared no
hope for me, my attention was attracted to some
of the published cures which had been effected by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People of cases
which had been pronounced by doctors and hos-
pitals as hopeless, and I determined to make a
trial of them. This was in the early part of April,
and I was feeling just about as bad as ever I had
felt. By the time the third box was taken a
marked improvement was noticeable and this
happy alteration continued until I was at the
twelfth box quite enabled to discontinue the treat-
ment.”
“ This wonderful change has, I suppose, occa-
sioned a deal of comment among your friends and
acquaintances ? ”
“ They were astounded at my recovery and
quite a number are taking the pills, and others
have expressed their determination to do so should
they ever feel in need of treatment.”
“I believe you sometimes go into townT ”
“ Quite true, and this means a walk of three
miles, with a rise or two to face, a very fair under-
taking for one on the wrong side of 74.”
“And you are confident that Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People have been the means of
restoring you to health ? ”
“ I am perfectly confident of this, and have no
hesitation in saying so, and I shall recommend
your wonderful remedy whenever I have an
opportunity.”
In addition to being| an undoubted cure for the
ailments mentioned in the foregoing, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are invaluable in
cases of Neuralgia, Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxy,
St. Vitus’s Dance, Nervous Headache, Scrofula,
Chronio Erysipelas, etc. They are not a purga-
tive, but they restore pale and yellow complexions
to the glow of health, and are a specifio for the
troubles peculiar to the female, while in men they
effect a radical cure in all cases arising from worry,
overwork, or excess of any nature. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills are obtainable from all leading chemists
or from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company,
Queen’s Place, Sydney, who will forward (post
paid), or receipt of stamps or post office order, one
box for 2s. 9d. or half-dozen for 15s. 3d.*
Whitehead’s .«
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street. UOULpclUy.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Trivunpb..”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protbctkd by Registration
by the
lmport Co.,
YORK and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Leading Warehouses.
OASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Kestorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Henniker Heaton was regarded by many
visiting Australians as the awful bore of the Jubi-
lee. Wherever he could corner a party of them,
small or big, he insisted on explaining to them
the details of his penny-postage scheme. Several
parties broke up when they saw Henniker coming.
Much of alleged-novelist Boothby’s success
in England is due to the fact that he is a very
handsome man and has, since reaching ’Ome,
married a young lady with “ heaps of splosh/’ ac-
cumulated by a father in the soap-and-cand!e
profession.
W-
copum' - ’
L -
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
by tl)£,
MzD\Wb
Pi^ofj£ssi°ry
A
PflOjA
ALI-
MOT^LS
f\ND —*
Spirit
From the
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.,
WOOL STORES,
CENTRAL WHARF.
Linjitcd.
TELEPHONE-
CALL 1338.
Directors’ Offices,
39 Hunter Street, Sydney, August, 1897.
To You AS A WOOLGKO WER.—
Dear Sib, —In sending you this letter, our Directors hope to obtain, not only your esteemed sup-
port, but would also ask your personal influence with your friends, in order to secure their Clips.
Our Directors work gratuitously; accept no fees ; being content with the saving accruing from
having their clips disposed of at a rate far below the exorbitant commission hitherto still charged.
No travellers will be sent out to solicit custom, as the terms and advantages offered by the CO-OP.
W. Bc, P. CO., Ltd. are such that it is clearly apparent to the most careless observer that the salaries
paid to these gentlemen come direct from the producers’ pocket, who, if they study their own interests,
will, without the persuasive powers of travellers, voluntarily support our Company.
Our Wool
Stores,
Central Wharf.
We are gratified to inform you that the Company have secured one of the finest modern
Wool Stores in the colony, where the conditions for exhibiting Wool are unequalled, the
light being splendidly diffused, especially on the Sample floor, which consists of a
larger unbroken area (free from pillar, post, or obstruction), than any other wool-store
in Australia possesses. These Stores have at all times been in great favour with the buyers, and
lately occupied by the A. M. & A. Co.
Our
Principles .
As Wool-Growers and Producers, we object to the per lb. still charged to the
buyers in Sydney since 1889 ; for, with a system of farthing bids, a loss of a |d. per
lb. is caused to the grower.—This remaining Jd. to the buyer must not be confounded
with the |d. previously charged to the grower, and which we undeniably were instru-
mental in abolishing.
We append comparative statement showing ratio for the ensuing season between
bourne, Ourselves, and Geelong. The latter place has abandoned the unjust charge
buyers. You will observe that the existing rates on Geelong seven pence per lb. wool
gether to about 3 p.c., the same as our tariff.
Sydney, Mel-
of £d. to the
amount alto-
Our 3 p.c.
Charge.
In selling through us, there is only one charge incurred on all classes of wool, viz. , 3
p.c. This is a distinct saving to small growers, whose produce does not amount to
.£500. We are the only Company making this concession.
Trust
Account.
The Directors (pastoralists of the highest repute and financial standing) have given their
•personal guarantee that all moneys shall be paid into a special trust a/c. As Pastoralists,
we know that by strict economy, such as is exercised in our own business of wool raising,
we can save for our supporters at least 2 p.c. in all cases ; and pay to our shareholders
dividend (not to exceed 5 p.o.).
It is not necessary to be a shareholder to participate in reduced charges.
Our Future.
Judging from the support already accorded to the Company, our business will be
of a large and universal character.
Bs. per Bale on 100,000
Bales saved.
New Zealand affords an object lesson on co-operation. Last
week the growers combined and successfully negotiated a reduc-
tion on the wool charges—securing, for one line of 100,000 bales,
rate substantially below those offered by the companies trading there.
Send fox Way Bills right away. Thanking you, in anticipation, for your support and influence.
Co-Operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
OSWALD MoMASTER, Hon. Secretary.
Note. —An extra charge is made in all these places for consignments under .£5OO worth, except
The Co-Op. W. & P. Co. Ltd., who do not charge anything extra.
Sydney Associated Brokers Charges for over JBSOO worth.
Td. W001.— 34291b. @ 7d
8 per cent.
to Buyer
Hjd. Loss through 34 bids..
£lOO 0 3
£3 0 0
1 16 8
1 16 8
£6 11 4 per cent
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
charge 3 per cent, only
|3g" AND DIVIDE PIiOFITS WITH YOU.
Geelong Charges for over £5OO worth.
(No J4d. to Buyer charged.)
7d. W001.—34291b. @ 7d. £lOO 0 3
)£d. to Grower £1 15 8
1 per cent. Commission 10 0
Insurance and Repacking 0 4 <J
£3 0 2about3p.o.
Melbourne Charges for over JBSOO worth.
7d. W001.—34291b. @ 7d. £lOO 0 3
%d. to Grower £1 15 8
1M per cent. Commission... 16 0
J4d. loss through 1 bids ... 115 8
J4d. to buyer 1 15 8
£0 12 0 6%d p.o.
IDneRoBERTSon s mm eom
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes , Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth , Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
€-yi)
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores,
Works :
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Y Rheumatism, Lumbago,
** Sciatica, &c.,
can be COMPLETELY CURED by
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace :
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Anns Hotel, Fitzroy-
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain any relief from others,
was completely cured by me 15 months ago, and
has kept in better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
was cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs. Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, ag< d 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
Acknowledgments.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago and double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all. work at intervals
during the past three years. I tided doctors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
I was very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief from the first
supply of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—Heleg Exstrom, McCracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Dear Sir,—l wish to thank you most sincerely
for having cured me of Sciatica, having suffered
most acute pain for a long time, but, under your
Remedy, I am glad to say that I have completely
recovered. It is now 17 months since I saw you,
and I have not had the slightest return of the
pain—one week’s treatment having quite cured
me. If reference to me will assist any sufferer to
try your antidote, I shall be glad at any time to
tell them what it has done for me.—Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. T. Hughes, 29 Stirling Street, Kew,
19th August, 1897.”
“ Dear Sir, —In grateful testimony to your skill
for having cured me of a very painful attack of
Rheumatism. I suffered great pain, having the
joints swollen. After a short while under your
treatment, I completely recovered. It is now over
three years ago since I was cured, and I have kept
well, being 64 years of age. I consider your anti-
dote the marvel of the age for suffering humanity.
—Yours very truly, Professor \V. T. Lamont, Ven-
triloquist and Entretenir, 4 Condell-street, Fitz-
roy, opposite Town Hall, 23rd August, 1897.”
Mrs. Laura BO Bell-street, Fitz-
roy :—Rheumatic Fever, six months in bed, 12
months on crutches, joints stiffened and useless.
After six weeks’ use of antidote joints completely
cured. Can do all household duties, and has not
used either crutch or stick now for over 12
months.
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick : —Rheumatism 10 years, years
on crutches, and for two years had not walked at
all; all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless; life made miserable ; case pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Under
my remedy, contractions come out. Can walk
without aid of crutch or stick; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. I
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any oolony, £l.*
Music, &o.
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &0., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (4 tone), from (id.
to 1 guinea,great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
1000
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles,
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
H
e
H
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
[OWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
l and silver ; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Pubishers’ Notices.
& Siiakespkaiik. Love Lyrics. Music by
Arthur Chanter, Mus. Bac. Paling’s, all Music-sellers.
A
GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), la. 3d.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments—the Finest in the World.
Uoapproacbahle Variety. Uocqtialled ValOe. Wooderfal Selection
The most rdcherchS and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
*“ FOP " larlty
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-strest, Melbourne.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2s.
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £6 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
by 4in., £2 7b. 6d.
VS
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH,
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
No. 690.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
■
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Sliver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; j-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15et. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Beal Tortoishell COMB,
7Min., ill Is.
Ladies' ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 2a. ; lßct. Gold, £3 15s.
Bet LINKS, Oct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ BING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
16ot. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 6s.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Very Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
T us design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
m
1
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, bost Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s. ; 14in., £3 6s.
Elegant 9ot. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2L
Half-hoop, line White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 6s
Ha'f-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ot. Gold, £8 108.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
Oct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
vo ina • Isct. Gold, £4 7s. 6a.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handle?,
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies* ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 16ct, £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.;
16ot. Gold, £1 17s. 6d.
Silver, 6s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ot. Gold, £4 10s.
16ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 6s.
*Ol
m
m.
m
■
ss
p®
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
by £s 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Look and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 80s.
nWillW (llill '■lll'm
No. 5 9.—Gold BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
1 e iris and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 6s
v;v.
Elegant Diamond STAR, £6O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
s
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d
&
I|
No. 687.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 16s. 6d
Ladles’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £6 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
KJtXOV, -LUS. - - __
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
■ V _ „„„—,-r r, T n™mF*pv ond ■\ro'\7'Ti , .T.TT'B'.s STTTTABLE FOB PRESENTS, have never b£en approached.
and
’ ajw uxvujuiiiv v iijuuiy* v/ui piiwo *- ■ —j i -
Greorge-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is known too well ,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
H e still ranks fikst in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
you get it.
Qranuma beats all other meals for Porridge.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
A lexander Cameron,
10 Blif/h Street,
Sydney .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
OUR CHIEF,
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
from America.
POLITICAT
POINTS
Frank Freehill, Consul for Spain, is in
j^ ris k readiness for next N.S.W. elections. He
has been already defeated eleven (?) times. But
Hope springs eternal.
“ This Windsor uniform
Doth fit thee easy as a glove,
Yet thou wilt find it like the shirt of Nessus,
Which cannot be removed,
But flays the skin oil with it.”
—New Bard.
Three or four N.S.W. Labor-members had
a great go-in the other day. Leader M‘Gowen was
one of the number, and the language used was un-
reportable. The Labor-party, like the Ministry
is anything but a happy family.
The S.A. Labor-party has got quite out
of hand during the absence of Kingston
and his heavy lash. Holder, though always
suave, does not tickle the members’ vanity by
calling them “ Jack,” “ Mac,” or “ Bob.”
Lawyers are proverbially conservative, and
hard-cased at that. But the profession that can
number a Higinbotham and a Lilley among its
most brilliant members in one generation has not
altogether neglected its duty to Democracy.
Six years ago old man Parkes, then Pre-
mier, sent for his son Varney and offered him the
portfolio of Minister for Works. Bruce Smith
was then at the Works, but the idea was to trans-
fer that politician to the Treasury. Varney
declined.
The latest story told of the God-fearing
Brunker is that after having, in his capacity as
N.S.W. Colonial-Secretary, ordered 40 pairs of
blankets to be given to a certain institution, he,
m his capacity as Acting-Treas., ukased that only
half that number was to be sent.
The God-fearing Govt, did one daring act.
It wiped out the salaries of all N.S.W. gaol chap-
lains—a right or wrong act, according to stand-
point. Right, as declining to afford State-aid to
religion ; wrong, as in inviting their services as
honorary chaplains the State asks work for
nothing.
As here forecasted lately, Vic. Supreme
Court. has decided that provisions for payment of
a minimum wage under the Factories Act, don’t
confer any right on an employe diddled out of it
to sue for the wage. They only inflict a penalty
on the employer, if he is prosecuted for his omis-
sion to pay.
One of the most revolutionary proposals
ever put before an Australian Parliament was
that of Prendergast and Maloney last week in
Vio. Assembly on the Federal Bill. It was that
the Constitution might be amended, or any law
passed, on the petition of one per cent, of the
people of Australia, ratified by a majority of the
electors of Australia, without the intervention of
Parliament. This is practically the first attempt
here to secure the combined popular Initiative and
Referendum.
“A MAN MAY NOT CHOOSE HIS PARENTS.”—Bacon.
MRS. SERONIFE: “Do you think you’ll like me for a new mother, Freddie?”
F REDDIR: “ Oh, yes—but I’d rather’d a new father !”
What a depth of treachery towards the
Federal cause does the suppression of that railway-
federation report of Commissioner Eddy’s reveal
on the part of the N.S.W. Ministry !
Foster Rogers complacently trotted out his
‘wealth-tax” in Vic. Assembly Commonwealth
Bill debate Every man is to make a balance-
sheet of his assets and liabilities, strike a balance,
and pay a tax on the surplus, if any. Derisive
members asked if the State would have to pay a
tax to the individual if there happened to be a
deficit
Walter Griffiths, M.P. (S.A.j, hammers
away at S.A. and Westralian Govt’s with a big
land-grant rail way scheme, Port Augusta to Kal-
goorlie, on behalf of a London syndicate. Griffiths
has a tough job. The Forrests have, already, too
many irons in the fire to smile on the scheme, and
the Kingston Ministry is not only indifferent but
fears the temper of its Parliament.
Apropos ß. E. O’Connor’s intention to stand
for Fitzroy Division (Sydney) at the next general
election : M’Elhone, the present member, will not
stand; neither will ex-member Chapman. A
smart Hebrew lawyer is making bold efforts to
run on the Freetrade ticket; but he would have no
chance in a district comprising Woolloomooloo
with its strong R.C. vote.
MODERN CRITICISM.
SAVELOY MAN : “ I don’t believe litter’ture ever
was any good to any bloke.”
EVENIN’ ’ERALD BOY: “ Wot yer givin’ us! Wot
would I do for a livin’, and wot would you
wrap yer all-ots in if it wasn’t fer
littrytoor ? ”
Vic. Full Court is to decide a tough ques-
tion at the ensuing sittings: whether Lormer,
temperance agitator, &c., is not, by reason of his
sentimental bias against the liquor-trade, disquali-
fled from sitting on the Bench in licensing cases?
Gaunson has threatened long in this direction.
Lormer has weighty dicta of prominent English
Judges to support him, and Gaunson is similarly
armed.
According to the R.C. Advocate, an
association “ for the defence of civil and religious
rights ” has been formed in Melbourne, conse-
quent on this year’s Brunswick proceedings and as
a counterpoise to the weighty influence exercised
in promotions by the Orange brigade of Vic.
Public Service. Two hundred delegates from all
parts of Victoria are said to have been present at
the preliminary meeting. The association claims
to be non-sectarian and non-political. The object
of the “Defence League” aforesaid is rather
hibernically stated to be “ to prevent the growth
of religious ascendancy in the province.”
The backstairs flavor of that appointment
of theN.S.W. Attorney-General’s secretary with-
out advertisement or competitive examination,
has been made stronger still by the increase of the
to <£7so within the 12 months, for
more than which time the applications of numer-
ous long-service men for a rise have remained
severely unnoticed. Some M.P. should inquire
into this thusness.
As a political weathercock Dr. Cockburn is
unique. A Federal delegate, the doctor is now bit-
terly opposed to Federation —“ a retrograde step in
theevolution of humanity.” In the afternoon he will
read to the House a report from the London Wine
Depot on the satisfactory increase of the sale of
S.A. wines, and in the evening he will go round
and congratulate the W.C.T.U. on its successful
efforts in the cause of prohibition !
Miller, M.L.O. (Vic.), entered a feeble but
pained protest against the name Commonwealth
for the Australian confederation. “ The name
grates on my nerves,” he said. “It reminds me
of Oliver Cromwell stalking into the British House
of Parliament. ” Anything suggesting the possi-
bility of an Australian Oliver stalking into the
Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords is naturally
most repellent to men like Miller, M.L:C.
M‘Coll, M.L.A. (Vic.), says the Referen-
dum was only tried once in ancient history, and
the result was the crucifixion. Therefore M‘Coll
is against the Referendum. There seems to be a
large hole in this logic. The episode in question
wasn’t a Referendum, but a purely local poll, and
Barabbas was elected at Jerusalem by a large
majority. As another case in point, M‘Coll was
elected at Gunbower by a large majority.
Melb. Paunch :
There are revenue duties which a consistent Freetrader
may advocate, but to support anj'thing beyond is to desert
Freetrade for moderate Protection.
A consistent Freetrader can advocate revenue
duties ; also, a consistent Christian can advocate
diluted paganism, and a consistent vegetarian
can advocate meat for breakfast, and a consistent
teetotaller can advocate shandygaffs on Sunday.
If the Kingston Ministry, which seems im-
mortal, ever collapses, it will be through scandals
about its members or its agents. First, there was
Mayor Tucker—Kingstonian chairman of the
Hospital Board—and his troubles with the Queen
Margaret No. 1 South and other mining ventures ;
then Holder (the Treasurer) and the Thryer-cum-
Drew pastoral leases; and lastly, Addison —
Kingstonian chairman of the State Bank —and his
delicate little trouble.
Robert Harper and Murray Smith were, a
little while ago, the Gemini of the Argus solar
system. Now Harper has eternally offended
M. Smith by sneering at Freetrade —and they
don’t speak when they meet in the lobbies. Signi-
ficantly enough. Harper has strengthened himself
with the Opposition by this revolt against Smith,
and when the leader, Carter, is away, Harper’s
broad Scawtch awccent is heard speaking on behalf
of that side of the Hoose.
Jason Boles, M.P. for Port Curtis (Q.),
has a strong scorn for “those who sympathise
with the habitual boozer and the stuff he guzzles.”
11 Fill high the Boles with Samian wine,”
Is something Byrony;
But Jason’s surname bears the sign
Of branding irony.
His “ golden fleece ” is tea and rolls —
That suck a man should sign as Boles 1
As to Charleston, the S.A. Leg. councillor
who cut himself adrift from the Labor-party, and
resigned his seat in order to fight for it as an
Independent, the Register’s fondness for him is
mainly responsible for the allegations of Labor men
against him. But it ought to have been remembered
that Charleston has been Miss C. H. Spence’s
most faithful lieutenant in support of “ effective
voting,” and that Miss Spence has been for very
many years a Register writer.
Barrister O’Hara Wood has decided not to
stand for Dandenong (Vic.) at next election.
There are already two candidates (one of them
very Fat) in the field against Longmore, and
Wood reckons that a third opponent would simply
make the race a dead certainty for the old ’os.-.
The Bulletin reckons that Longmore is entitled
to stay in Vic. Assembly, and that O’Hara Wood
would make a very bad democratic Parliamentary
dbbut as the man who turned him out.
Of one “ shandygaff” Australian Ministry,
two are Local-optionists without being teetotallers
• —anxious to prohibit the other fellow, but enjoy-
ing their own glass in a rational way, of course ;
a third was born in a hotel, and is now dead agin
the traffic ; a fourth owes bis elevation to a pub-
lican, who planked down the .£4O deposit neces-
sary at his first election and another fervently
curses liquor for no other ostensible reason than
that several of his family drank themselves to
death.
The N.S.W. “Justice” Department’s
game is to do by Suffield as it did' by the Mount
Rennie victims—stifle all enquiry, burke all
specific Parliamentary motions on the subject—
hush up, cover up—do anything, everything to
protect from censure its dear friend the Judge
who, during his career, did more to bring the
name of Justice into hatred and contempt with
the masses than all the other Judges who ever
sat on the Australian bench from the year One.
The Department’s trouble is—not how to keep
Suffield in gaol, but how to let him out.
The Vic. Tories, led by the Argus, are
eagerly clamoring for Federation with a “States’
rights ” Senate. They claim that the “ smaller
States ” are justly entitled to this stipulation —
but all the while their idea is that it is the last
hope for everlastingly establishing a conservative
and dominant power in Australia. The Forrest-
ites and Dobson-ites at the recent Convention
voted solidly every time for Fat Man principles—
and the deduction'is that Westralia and Tasmania
will continue to send Tories to the Senate. The
deduction is probably wrong, but the Argus
means as badly as it knows how all the same.
Mr. GREGORY WALKER, Q.C.
“An Injunction Mattah, y’Onaht!”
Mr. WILLIAM ROBERTS, Sen.
At the Sydney Old Bailey: “I appear for the
accused, your Worship.”
Barrister ALEX. GORDON .
What we see when we “go up King-street."


Shall we talk it over
Just a Minute ?
You want Boots and Shoes?
I AM SELLING THEM.
You want the Best Value ?
I WILL GIVE IT TO YOU.
You should buy as cheaply as anyone.
IF YOU BUY OF ME YOU WILL.
You should have the very best attention.
MY ATTENDANTS WILL GIVE IT TO YOU.
You want Boots and Shoes reliable as w T ell as cheap?
BUY FROM ME AND BE SURE OF GETTING THEM.
You, in short, want to save money?
THAT’S WHAT I’LL DO FOR YOU.
JOHN HUNTER,
CITV BOOT PALACE,
Branches all over the City,
Suburbs and Colony.
George & Market Streets, Sydney.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
1
m
m
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLIN9
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says :
“ 1 have use I
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only st pped
the falling out,
which had been
excestive after a
severe illness,hut
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As 1 am not a
young woman,
but an old one, 1
think this is a
convincing teat
of your prepara-
tion."
11/-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD,, 16, BEVSS MARKS, LONDON, ENGLAND.]
CIGARS FREE
POfiOPS? IM THESLOt\(^g^||||^
iniiiiiiHiiiiiiiiinititiiiiii i
iiniiniiii
m
ffnrmLA*
UiitllliiUlUiiillllliiiiiiiiiiiiinnunuiTmlfimiiiimni
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
'rHIC MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE lIS THE WORLD,
<>>2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS ok bottles
SOLO ANNUALI/V.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold In Bottles, 6d., I-, and 2- each.
Proprietors ! GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Ajceuts for New South Wales:
I'lU.OfK & CO., KENT and UVERPOOI. STREETS, SYDNEY.
I
m
m ■
v'C TOR
Violios-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
AGto HarpS.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
HarrpopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reed%
from 6d. each.
Accordcoos & CopcertipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reed%
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
iOitarS & Alapdolipcs-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStopS & PolypbopS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
lapd of all kiftds
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
lands, Organs, Sheet and Book Music
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EAST TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS
m
gSTABUSHED
338 George-street, Sydney
A DISTINCTION.
This
signifies
Rotbing.
This
signifies
Everything
when found upon your Cover and Air-
Tube, proving that they are genuine
Dunlops. Every Dunlop Welch
Cover and every Dunlop Air-Tube
bears the above registered Trade Mark.
Dunlop Tyres guaranteed for 12 Months .
FIRST IN 1888. . . . FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
Branches
/"TattersaU’s Lane, Melbourne.
J Franklin-st., Adelaide.
I Kin<r-Bt., Perth.
v Litchfleld-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FITItTIIEK KKDtICEO KATES.
PAWN BROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTIiEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
oious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over «£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.. 5 00,000
Paid-up . .. .. £3,950,311 ss.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Men res, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 11isliops f/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GMO KG 111 STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Universal Land & Deposit Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TAEBENTUR.ES issued, redeemable in three or five
aJ years from date of issue. Interest—3 years, 6 p.o.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable quar-
terly or half-yearly.
The holder of Debenture Bonds has a security in the
assets of the Company, past, present, and future. De-
posits to limited amounts received at 5 p.c. per annum.
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank Limited has
never reconstructed or suspended payment in any way
since its formation. The whole of its Funds are carefully
invested in Real Estate.
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. DIBBS, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B.Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Direi tors:— Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork. j
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
intersection
HUNTER,BLIEU & CASTLEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
00• • o o
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
•99 • • •
ANNUAL INCOME AND INYESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <ic Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and niients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E-q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
•—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager:
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,702,522 17 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 47,477 2 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. ... 750,000 0 0
2,805,781
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: VV. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office : 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. « £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. *. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A.;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
Bank of JSfew South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 1,949,500 0 0
Reserve Fund .. „ ... 1,191,934 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. „ .. 1,949,500 0 0
Total
5,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Krond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in publio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
TL;> f. is noted for its Prompt
11/la vonjpaijy and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee, I Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo 0 0
Plate Glass, Fire, & Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Accident Insurance, j Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mo being & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
A gents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. . Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our ’‘INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNA.VI BOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 4, 2 p.m.
Leura, Friday, September 10, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
EsPERANCE Bay
Leura, Friday, September 10, 5 p.m.
Buiiiiiyong, Tuesday, Sept. 14, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERYLDTON
Bunitiyorifr, Tuesday, Sept. 14, 5 p.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 4, 2 p.m.
■Kelloe, Tuesday, Sept. 7, 5 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Sept. 7, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 4, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, Sept. 7, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 11, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CITRIC LINT PARKS TO ALT PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Si SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
LINGLAND VIA AMERICA
-Li by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Fti. pe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists,^elbournk"
Testing fe Technical CheUlistS,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Slock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. Melbo6roe.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden <£. Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at 6% per
annum by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
MlelTbourne.
DICKSON &, BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QVKEN ST., MKLIIOVIINE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. It. lIARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London K.C.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georpe-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
_L Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
D£T*ox* London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
’Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, i 65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares, to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents
A. U. S. N. Goy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH —D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
•Via Suez Canal.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Eloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Farer-London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS at, CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON (London)
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Saturday, September 4.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melbourne)
Saturday, September 11.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALOTON
And ail North West Ports. ,
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Saturday, September 4.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Saturday, September 11.
ESPERANCE BAY \S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
< September 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Wednesday,
September 8.
S® $5
Cheapest Route to Goldfields «
YUILL AND CO., r.TD., Agents,
tl Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyons’ Palace Hotel,
South P ristoane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
-*- Diggers that he is still conducting' the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Me*,
MELBOURNE
OTICE
TO
VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.O
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E ST &a. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
EMPIRE E HOTEL,
Fitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
Centrally Situated.
„ f From 10s. nm ay, and
lerms: 1 £2 His. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
HOTEL . .
VICTORIA *
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HAYES
Proprietor.
•Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
§hoice sree Luncheon from 11 a.m.
Visit Jack and see for yourselves.
Visitors to -----
===== Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PS I NT ED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO E, SON, & CHAPMAN ; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
i —n
bZZ
m
LZ l
ZQtr
dliaJL AMi
8/0 \
SSI
9ZI
\
'
m
SQZI
Ml
mcsssa , &.' jFclt
IQZI
—THE—
Australian
N eedlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest & Cooled Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
<^NVW)
is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
AUSTRALIAX
j\ RED LRU OOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above add'-ess.
Nos. 07S, 124, 12 , 121), 127,
56, 57, 234 — 3/3 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
gold, Silver, [ead f Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.!
under direct supervision of G. 11. Blakkmoke, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement, on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Likk Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
RELIEF
from
COUGH
hAyman s
TEN
MINUTES
z
L
JL
Stops Cold, Cores Cough.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price is. l\d. and is. 9d.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar ]NToxie.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is su el-
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproductionof tliecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES, -
when one application will relieve you'
Read this lettee and Tky for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo-ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief fn»n
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. 'SOLOMONS, Herat.d Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man eoual to JOSEPHSON S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandel'on Bitters.’
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Bor General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially updri
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three tunes a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of Water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of you*
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’=— =
Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chromo
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
Slant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
'iseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Bead what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D.: —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costivene.^s.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the publi to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complainb
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWKTT,
“2D Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU'LL DO-
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
bafore meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children; for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’° WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
delicate persons. Younu Laijiks can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Svd.n ev.


Packets
Of
LICARB
CXtiVl
«u ;.v-
j* fflSfiZF p^ £
O TJjp
/panulacrured by r ~ a
f!\)'ERNE Aral
Over 500 prizes were won in England in one-
week on Dunlop tyres.*
* • * •
Here is the statement of Humber and Co. re-
garding the fall in cycle prices. “ The lead of our Ameri-
can cousins in reducing prices has warped the judgment
of many, especially of journalists. Say the pens, ‘High
prices for cycles are dead ; very soon top price will be
£lo.’ Common sense, however, differs. It was the ex-
traordinary demand of the immediate past which gave
many makers the opportunity to sell second-grade cycles
at first-grade price, and the veriest rubbish at inflated
figures. Such prices for such cycles were bound to fall.
Our system always has been to give good value for money.
Our Coventry cheap-made cycles are the best in their
class. Our Wolverhampton Humbers are first-class grade,
defying competition. The Beeston is altogether unique.
To say that high-priced cycles are dead is infantile : the
best trousers are still made, although you can get cheap
and useful leg garments at Bs. 6d. per pair. We have
been retailfng a reliable cycle for years at £l5, but this
fact does not injure our higher grade business.”*
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Dep6t for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
Men run, on the average, about 14 to the
ton; so that if Premiers Kingston and Reidt
recently scaled, as alleged, 2611 b and-2551b (nearly
a quarter of a ton to the pair) it looks as if Reid’s;
“ stuff-us-to-death ” gag was something more than
a mere figure of speech, after all.
The man on the land. Is he dead beat ?
“ They ” say so, but at the annual sale of Dangars'
Suffolk Punch Stallions, held in Sydney last week
by Pitt, Son and Bad gory, Ltd., an average of
136£ guineas was obtained—the highest yet —and
“ men on the land ” bought them.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
o^°
■ T^r H
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch— 64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and |
Depots (
Everywhere.
Agents and )
Depots )
EVERYWHERE
Blessed be the time which matures the human
mind and the promissory note.
Cleaning and fitting a cycle is easy enough, if you
only go about it right. In the morning, breakfast on
some light, nutritious diet, and drink two or three
cups of hot coffee; after which, put on a suit of old
clothes—or new ones, if you can get them on time—
put on an old pair of buckskin gloves, and, when
everything is ripe for the fatal blow, go and get a good
cycle-man who understands his business. If this rule
be strictly adhered to, the gorgeous 18-carat stem-
winding profanity of the present day may be greatly
diminished, and the world made the better.
Banish ill-health ; self - preservation demands it.
The graceful, select, and staunch Red Bird is ready
at hand. Throw medicine to the dogs. An early-
morning spin upon a really high-grade wheel brings
health and happiness. The old-time sparkle to the
eye will return with the rose to the cheek.
Ladies ! the Red Bird is specially constructed for
your service and pleasure. You will know them by
that “crimson finish.”
We manufacture, sell, and guarantee Red Birds,
and value the universal reputation accorded them by
knowing riders. In the future, as in the past, we will
sustain that reputation regardless of cost.
Amateurs are born then they become profes-
sionals.
About the only good thing which can be said of
some men is that they ride wheels.
An ounce of prevention is better than any quantity
of cure. Better be sure at the start and purchase a
Eed Bird. It’s the cheapest in the long run.
Some say vou can tell a man’s mental ability by the
size of his head. How is it that, you can’t judge a
man’s running powers by the size of his feet? or his
eloquence by the capaciousness of his mouth?
As in cycles, outside appearances go for little : it’s
the inside which counts. If you will examine and
test Red Birds, you will understand why other cycles
are second grade in comparison. Red Birds are
finished in crimson to distinguish them from others.
Like all leading articles, they have imitators. Be
sure and get the genuine.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE I'RESt'E.YT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other
«* Kiiu»' King-street Toffee Palace*” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ■ * GEO. W. ELLIS.
o
VER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4|in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(arctfillc TOrfycr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
Tlie
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
- - the new - -
Herald Bicyck-
For LADIES and GENTS.
elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
irider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
■dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
'the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
•combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
The iQtercbaQgcable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry's Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
IVTEW SOUTH WALES MONT DB
iX PIETE D. and I. CO., Limited.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
OPENING OF THE SOUTHERN BRANCH,
at 262 Castlereagh-street,
portion of the Federal Coffee Palace Building.
With a view of affording greater facilities in the
conduct of business with its constituents and the
borrowing public generally, the Directors of
the abovenamed Company have opened a
BRANCH OFFICE, under the management of
Mr. H. A. BIRKMYRE, at Premises on the
ground floor of the Federal Coffee Palace, No.
262 CASTLEREAGH STREET (between
Bathurst and Liverpool Streets), Sydney, where
the Company is now prepared to make Advances
upon Mortgage of FREEHOLDS, BILLS OF
SALE OF FURNITURE (without possession),
LEGACIES, R E VERSION ARY INTERESTS,
SCRIP, LIFE POLICIES, BOND WAR-
RANTS, and all other securities, at EXCEP-
TIONALLY LOW RATES, and at terms to
suit Borrowers.
LEWIS LEVY,
General Manager.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2()in. long, S/(j. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked rip, per oz.
iVe are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.~Wi2Z'll;
110 William Street,
e.orner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe Listr
Prompt attention given to Country OrdMfc
Established 1883.
Telephone 1920.
Those about to SELECT a BICYCLE should
Call and See the
‘Pbiz’NojCydcs.
No matter how much you pay, it is impossible
to obtain a more perfect Wheel than the
“Yhiz” at £22 10 s.
Bicycles, Tricycles, and Tandems
BUILT TO ORDER.
The “Phiz” No. 2, at J 212 10s. The most
wonderful value ever offered to the world of wheels.
EVERY BICYCLE GUARANTEED.
I. PHIZACKERLBY,
“ Phiz” Cycle Works,
Next Town Hall, Druitt St., Sydney.
a Watch.”
All Improvements that Skill and Expert
ence can suggest are found in the
STERLING.
Sterling Cycle Depot, 75 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
The Central Queensland Land
Corporation Limited.
CAPITAL—£I2O,OOO in £1 Shares fully Paid Up.
rpHIS Corporation was formed for the purpose of ac-
quiring the practical MONOPOLY OF LAND in the
rapidly rising district of GLADSTONE, Port Curtia.
The extension of the main system of Railways will be
completed to Gladstone in October next.
The Company was registered in London last year, all
the shares being applied for and allotted. Arrangements
are, however, made for the issue in Australia of 20,000
Shares—an interim dividend of Five per cent, per annum
being guaranteed. The Coupons will be paid half-yearly
by the Bank of Victoria. For full particulars apply to
any of the following Sharebrokers : —H. C. Doyle, Esq.
(Sharebroker, Sydney Stock Exchange), Union Bank
Chambers, 70 Pitt-street, Sydney; Stanley Harris, Esq.,
180 Queen-street, Brisbane; David Nasmith, Esq., 92
Queen-street, Melbourne; Messrs. Johns & Magor, Royal
Exchange, Adelaide, S.A. ; John S. Reid, Esq., A.M.P.
Buildings, Perth, W.A. STANLEY HARRIS, 180 Queen-
street, Brisbane.
mHE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
_L THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
• . 4.5 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
For the next six months, or so, we will have to
endure the drip, drip, drip of adulatory' paragraphs con-
cerning the “ terrible ” strength of Stoddart’s cricket-
team. The new-comers among them will be glorified on
their English county performances, the same as previous
new-comers have been glorified—in advance paragraphs.
Mason, Druce, Hayward, Hirst, Storer, and the others,
will figure, in print, as unrivalled exponents of batting
“ science,” and particular instances of their marvellous
“ punishing powers” will be quoted as warnings of what
Australia may expect to witness, when these visiting
heroes get “ set.” The Bulletin doesn’t expect a series
of thrilling displays. When Stoddart and co. get to
work against Australian bowling and fielding they' will
find it, as usual, better than the b. and f. of an English
county eleven, and the dashing batsmen will, as a rule,
come to grief before they have become terrible. Also,
the Australian batting will, as of yore, make a highly
respectable show by comparison with the less careful
English play, and to those lookers-on who are not
fanatical partisans it will seem that either team
is better than the other when the game happens
to be going in its favor. Judging from the per-
formances of the last Australian Eleven in England,
the next English Eleven in Australia will have no more
than an even-money chance of winning three out of the
five test-matches, if Hearne, Hayward, and the smaller
bowling lights prove fairly successful on the hard
wickets. Richardson is pretty sure to put up a good
bowling record, with the assistance of smart work behind
the wicket and in the slips. The others are less certain
quantities, and even if they all of them (taking one game
with another) do as well as can be expected, the visitors
will not have anything up their sleeve. There is no
arguing against the law of averages at cricket. The Eng-
lish averages in ’95 proved the Australians to be a more
reliable combination of good cricketers than was shown
by their performances in the big matches played at Lon-
don. And the fact that the.v happened to play below
their form in sundry metropolitan contests with picked
teams suggests that the same bad luck may befall the
coming English Eleven in test-matches. In which case
they will get beaten quite badly. There is very little to
choose nowadays between the best English and Australian
play, when bowling averages are considered along with
batting averages. But for some undiscoverable reason
the strength of a coming English Eleven is always ab-
surdly over-rated ; hence these remarks.
* • * •
Because The Bulletin has never looked at Aus-
tralian cricket through a magnifying-glass it is flooded
with nonsense of this sort : “ Storer, Druce, Mason, and
YVainwi ight will be a warm quartette for Australian
bowlers to peg at when they have disposed °f the cracks.
What sort of a chance would we have had if Abel, Palairet,
Shrewsbury and Gunn had come out?” Well, the eight
men aforesaid, together with cracks MacLaren, Ranjit-
singhi, and Stoddart, would make a team against which
the “ test” Australian Eleven would probably score about
100.) runs per innings. Against a team composed of
MacLaren, Stoddart, Ranji, Storer, Hearne, Hayward,
Hirst, Wainwrjght, Mason, Richardson, and Briggs (or
Druce), which will be practically equal to any possible All
England selection, the Australians may hope to average
300 runs per innings in tine weather. How many more
runs than that are the Englishmen likely to get?
Thi substitution of little Briggs for Captain
Wynyard (ordered to India with his regiment) gives the
English an old howler —and they will probably want him
every time in the test-matches. Briggs is not as clever as
when he first played to the Australian gallery, 13 years
ago, but he knows every inch of the ground from the
attacking point of view, and can still teach the young
’uns their business on a sticky pitch.
• » * •
No wonder the Australian baseballers are re-
turning. They played fourth-rate teams, and out of 26
matches could only win eight. The tour ended in a big
financial loss to the Adelaide broker who put up the ±l5OO
to defray expenses. A great mistake was made in decid-
ing to go to New York after being badly beaten in Cali-
fornia.
• » * *
Ranjitsinhji goes to India from Australia to
look after his endangered claim to be “ Jam ” of Nawa-
nagar -one of the miserable little Rajput states that give
the British-Indian Government as much trouble about
their successions as if it were a question of Great Mogul.
• * * •
Mr. Gillen, station-master at Alice Springs, in
mid-Au-tralia, thus unintentionally pricks some of the
pretensions of cycling overlanders from Port Darwin to
Adelaide and t'other way “ During the last few months
several single travellers have passed up and down the
line in search of labor. Quite recently three separate
men arrived front the North, travelling singly. A few
days later a single pedestrian passed North, intending to
walk to Port Darwin seeking work. During last summer
a man named Sieele left here and walked to Port Darwin,
and after doing a little work there returned on foot.
These men were never interfered with, which proves
pretty conclusively that the native close along the line
are not much to be feared now.’* The chief danger of
the cyclist, who isn’t an expert bushman, appears to
result from his tendency to leave the track in the sand-
hills in order to find harder ground, so getting bushed.
* * • *
At a St. Kilda cycle meeting, some time ago, in
aid of a distressed biker, there was an amateur race for
three trophies. Of these only the third has been obtained
after a great deal of trouble. The Ist and 2nd prizes
seem to have faded away, and now the officials refer the
anxious winners to other officials who refer them back
again, and so on.
* • • •
In the recent American inter-university boat-
race, the Cornell stroke weighed 1321 b. when he stepped
into his boat before the race. When he got out, he
weighed 124Jlb—he had burned up 7flb. of tissue in 20
minutes ! The public needn't believe this unless it likes,
but believing things like this is good practioe.
* » » •
That it is imprudent for the very near relatives
of art-union promoters to take chances in same is exem-
plified by the uncharitable comments which are being
made on the case of an individual who won first and
fourth prizes in two consecutive art-unions promoted by
a relative.
* * * *
Wait-a-Bit’s performance in the Vic. Club
Handicap on Saturday seemed good enough to swear by,
anyhow. With Acton showing the way into the straight,
IfVait-a-Bit made no difficulty about sprinting to the front
vhen called upon, and nothing was within half-a-dozen
lengths of the Ballarat horse when he passed the post.
He now looks very like shaking one or other of the Cups.
• * * •
W. R. Wilson won another race with the “ un-
fancied ” Eleusive on Saturday. This filly (like Merman
last year) appears to be about two stone better than the
stable estimate of her form, judging from the fact that
previous to winning three or four handicaps right off the
reel, starting each time at liberal odds, she was not
reckoned good enough to enter for the big spring events.
On Saturday the slippery young lady from St. Albans
gave 171 h. to Koha, who is weighted at close upon Sst. in
the Caulfield Cup.
* • • *
Speaking of a six-furlong race at Flemington on
G.N. Steeplechase day. Tub Bulletin said : “ Among the
unbacked ones in this flutter good judges took note of
Bayonet, a 3-year-old, by Carbine, that may win some-
thing hereafter.” Bayonet won something at Caulfield
on Saturday—it wasn’t much : merely a ±'loo selling race,
but the odds of 6 to 1 were landed very comfortably.
Bayonet changed hands at ±l5O, and is likely to prove a
bargain to the purchaser.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—So Dreamland is going to
“spiel” presently! Well, the half-brother to Mentor
has already spieled unsuccessfully in three Melb. Cups,
and his recent form (when the money was on) suggests
that he will add to his list of failures in Nov. next. I, for
one, have lost all faith in Dreamland’s ability to win a big
race, and regard him nowadays as a “ fly-flat-catcher.”
A few pounds off the back of such a spiritless finisher
make no difference to his chance, unless he has im-
proved to an extent which certainly wasn’t indicated by
liis running at Flemington the other week. Dreamland
hasn’t won a race for four years, and he will not “ spiel ”
for my five shillings until I have seen him do something
considerable.— Sceptic.
* * ■ *
Patriot (Autonomy—Bangle) will be the only
serious rival to Ainberite in A.J.O. Derby, but unless the
race is a muddling affair, like last year, there is little
chance of this speedy gentleman upsetting the “ good
thing."
* * • *
The time-honored Hawkesbury meeting, N S.
Wales, takes place to-day (Saturday), when Readford may
be found capable of picking up one of the minor races.
The Grand Handicap is sure to bring out a good field, and
Gaulus, Sortie, Albicore, and The Meddler all seem to
have good winning chances; the absolute winner may
prove to be Albicore, who should improve on her Warwick
Farm running.
• * * *
The erstwhile Sydney mediocre performer, Paul
Pry, has wonderfully improved since his sojourn in Wes-
tralia, and he put up a good performance in carrying
lOst. lib. into second place in Coolgardie Cup, giving that
good performer Le Var 101 b. A few big wagers have been
got about him for Caulfield Cup, in which he will have to
cnrrv Sst. 71b., an impost sufficient to stop him in good
company.
• • * •
Two cast-offs from Tom Pay ten’s stable — Paul
Pry and Le Var—finished first and second for Kalgoorlie
Cup.
• * * *
Amberite and Fucile, the two Carbine colts,
were backed by Mr. John Buckley, of Victoria, for the
two Cups for ±26,ooo—Buckley’s chance.
* • • •
The owner of a certain pony was, last week,
warned off the illegitimate Melbourne courses for life.
People are wondering what the V.R.C. and V.A.T.C.
people would do if they knew who the actual owner and
backer of that pony really is.
• • • •
Perhaps the best lOst. pugilist in Australia,
evidencing in Melb. City Court, last week, stated that, at
the time of the alleged trouble, he was walking from
Melb. to his home in Brunswick. Pugilism is indeed in a-
parlous state in Australia when a champion can’t raise
a tram-fare.
« • • •
“ Jacky ” M'Gowan and “ Tim ” Hegarty, two
popular Melb. featherweights, the best of their class, down
South, met for the fourth time in Victoria Hall last Satur-
day night, to fight a much-talked-of battle of 15 Bounds,
for ±2O a side and etceteras. M’Gowan sailed in, weighing
something over 9st., and Hegarty scaled something under.
The latter looked thin and hungry compared with the-
miniature Hercules he was taking on, but was- as, tough
as a tram-cable. However, his distaste fon- punishment
spoiled what might have been a rattling ba*tl6, and yet
the honors of a bloodless conflict were awaoidfcdlto “Tim,”
to the disgust of a large audience that hadt paid up to 10s.
for the joy of seeing Hegarty rapturously embracing his
enemy throughout 30 minutes of the 60. devoted to the
harrowing encounter. Hegarty is the more scientific of
the two boys, and gets away from trouble as a scared cat
swarms up a paling fence, but it was evident towards the
end of the engagement that in a fight toa finish M’Gowan
would leave Tim’s friends the painful pleasure of gathering
their boy up with a mop. But it is mot certain that a
fight to a finish between these two, conducted on the same
lines as Saturday’s battle, would not occupy the best part
of a fortnight.
• * • »
The brilliant but one-sided match between
Essendon and Collingwood, on Saturday,' virtually settled
the Vic. premiership, for there is only an infinitesimal
chance of Essendon being beaten in the final. Waugh, to
whose foot lay the credit of three goals, contributed
principally to the win, and the giant policeman, Proud-
foot, was the man who played the game for the defeated
Woodsies. Essendon scored 9 goals 16 behinds, or 70
points, to Collingwood’s 4 goals 6 behinds, or 30 points.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
THE GAY PARISIENNE.
Saturday, Sept 4, will be staged, for the first time in
Australia, the Musical Comedy, THE FRENCH MAH).
Plan, Nicholson’s.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
g AliON CINEMATOGRAPHS,
237 Pitt-street, hearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE NEVV ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A SENSATtO^.
The Charge cjf the Turkish Cavalry.
The Frerteh Artillety.
The War ih.Cubd.
. , The Floral Carnival at Nice, &c., &o.
TO-DAY, froiil 11.30 Onward.
J. MAO MAHON.
InpHElTitE, TIOYAL, , MELBOURNE.
* Every evening i Mr.
GEORGE RIGNOLD
And his Specially • selected DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Grand production on a scale of absolute completeness,
the best and most popular of all modera dramas,
LIGHTS O’ LONDON,
Prices—3s, 2s, Is Od, Is, 6d. Eatly doots to stalls, family
bircleanid gallery, Od extra. , Box plap at Allan 's. Day
giles at Bentwitch’S. M. MARCUS, Acting Manager.
jjrilti&ciisS’S. THEATRE, MELBd URN E.
* ~ Sole Lessees arid Managers: , .
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS 1 LAST NIGHTS !
, Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“Tbe Sigo of tl>€ Cross.”
SATURDAY, September 4—TOO MUCH JOHNSON.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allans ahd Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’S ahd Princess's Theatre Caffe.
B
IJOtj
TMeatue,
MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
TBASK THOENfOH
TNE PRIVATE SECRETARY
OH, FANCY ! D’ i’OU KNOW!
I’m back again with all riiy goods and chattels.
Manager ... L. J. LOHR.
Publications.
DIAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, \\ORDS, and MUSIb, complete,
, thte greatest collection of songs ever hound togethe
between the covers of ohe book. National Songs of Ever'
Country, including War, Patriotic, Comic, Sentimental, i
Other Songs. Many old-time favorites long since out o
print, and cannot be had elsewheree. bomplete list o
the songs for a stamp. This wonderful book will be sen
(post paid) throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d., fron
ANGLO AM. PUB. CO.,
Agents wanted. Box 1118 G.P.0., Sydney.
"t-1 ENIIY FARMER’S Operatic Selections (or VIOLII
and PIANO. “Blarthd,” “Robert le Diable,’
“Crown Diamonds,’’ “ Liierezia Borgid,” “ Willian
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova
tore,” “Les HugUenots.” is. Od. each. Also arrange'
for small orchestra, 2s. 6(1. each. Of all Mnsiesellers, o
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London
drid 203 Swanstqn Street, MELBOURNE.
“Friends no Longer.” so ™,^? u r
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’!
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUI
DIS COONi” by LindSav Lennox. These Popular Songs
litl. cadi, of all dealers. Catalogues of. Hundreds o
Populat Songs, Ddnces, etc., at 3«t. eucli, Post Free
from the Publishers.
PsLxtOli & Co., LONDON,
And 203 SvVanstoh-street, MEI.KOIIItNE.
T
H E
LAST
O F
SIS
PRICE— Is.; Per POST. Is. 3d.
Amusements.
HALL, BALLARAT.
VW FOR SHORT SEASON.
ANOTHER GRAND SUCCESS !
Prof. NORTON B. SMITH,
THE EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS,
And Australia’s favorite Horse-trainer, will demonstrate
his Scientific Humane Svstem of Horse Education for
a SHORT SEASON.
For full particulars, see Daily Paper.
Heath
it oyal, Sydney:
T
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1
the Brightest, Wittiest, Clever, Artistic Production,
Trilby : burlesque:
interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Popular Prices —3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
mi vol! th eatre, Sydney.
J- Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brit.uiant Success oe
Mr. Marry Rickards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
CO High-Class Prrpormers CO
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d 1
brehestra, Stalls, 2s; Stalls, is; and , Family,, Circle;
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rpHE operA . house, MeDbournH
Sole Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
bbNTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS oi
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager. JOHN b. LEETE.
United Australasian Axemen’s
association.
Seventy Grand Exhibition of Bushmen’s Shill,
To be held th
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
About
November j 3, 1&97.
PROGRAMME.
1. CHAMPION CHOP (2ft.) of £75; entry, 30s.
2. CHAMPION GHQP (ISinAof £3O ; entry, 15s.
3. CHAMPION CHOP, underhand (2ft. logs), of £5O;
, entry, £l.
i. CHAMPION IRONBARK CHOP, underhand, of £4O;
entry, 15s. ,
6. CHAM PION SAWING MATCH(2ft.)of£3o; entry, 15s.
6. HANDICAP CHOP of £2OO, in heats (ISin.): nom.,
, £1; accept., £l. ~
7. HANDICAP UNDERHAND CHOP of £lOO (IBitt.);
, nont., 15s ; accept., 15s.
8. MAIDEN CHOP of £10; entry, Bs.
9. MAIDEN HANDICAP CHOP (4ft. girth) of £10;
entry, 6s.
10. AMATEUR CHOP; entry, 6s.
11. HANDICAP SAWING MATCH of £6O; nom., 155.;
accept., 10s.
12. MAIDEN SAWING MATCH of £ls ; entry, 7.5.
13. DOUBLE-HANDED HANDICAP SAWING MATCH
of £35 ; entry, £l.
14. BICYCLE HANDICAP of £25; nom., 3s. ; accept., 2s
Registered with V.A.L.
15. MILE HANDICAP FOOT RACE of £l5 ; entry, ss.
16. 440yds. RACE of £10; entry, ss.
17. SHEFFIELD Handicap of £io ; nom. 3s ; accept. 2s.
18. HIGHLAND FLING (in full Highland costume) of
£lO ; entry ss.
19. BEST PIPER (in Highland costume); entry ss.
ENTRIES ALL EVENTS, with fees, close SEPTEMBER
25. Acceptances, October 16.
ISntries for the Chopping and Sawing Matches tnust be
made on printed forms of entry obtainable from the
Secretary.
All competitors from outside Victoria allowed to enter
at half-price.
For full particulars and conditions apply to the Manager.
H. A NICHOLS, Ulverstone, TASMANIA.
“ CHILDBIRTH WITHOUT PAIN a Code of
Vy Directions for escaping from the Primal Curse : to
which is added Golden Information for Females. This is
a most valuable book, and no lady should be without it.
In secure cover, post free 2s. 6d. Only of
Madame HOMER, Box 992, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
LATCST NOVCLTY BROOCH,
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CogliSb Nall-Marked (Sold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octa;,
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
Unapproachable Value - £1 Post
Free.
New (Sold Scroll Bar Broocb,
Plain, Extra Strong, 7/6.
With any Name or Motto, 1/- extra.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches and Links.
REAL IVORY. QUITE NEW, NOVEL, AND UNIQUE.
Brooches*
Silver Mounted 4/6 each.
Gold „ IS/6 „
Liijks-
Silver Mounted 4/6 pair.
Gold „ 13/6 „
Post Free.
©
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE Oitr Only Australian Address—
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
SIX GRAND AGENCIES.
IN THE FINEST AND LARGEST
Piano and Music Warehouse
IN AUSTRALIA
Messrs. ||>cholson and Co.
SHOW THE MOST SUPERB STOCK
OF
FIAKTOS
Absolutely Unequalled by any other House.
The Grandest Variety of
MTJSIC.
BECHSTKIN PIANOS
RONISCH PIANOS
SCHIEDMAYER PIANOS
WILMER PIANOS
MIGNON PIANOS
NANON PIANOS
PIANOS by EVERY MAKER of repute from
England, Germany, and France.
NICHOLSON & COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
s
N.S.W. Government Railways.
PECIAL CHEAP EXCURSIONS TO
AND FROM THE COUNTRY.
TICKETS AT SPECIALLY LOW FARES
will be issued at Sydney and Suburban Stations
to the Country by Special Trains leaving Sydney
as under:—
TO THE NORTHERN AND NORTH-
WESTERN LINES.
. Available fob Return up to . „
TUESDAY, 21st September; 1897, as follows
• From stations north of Tamworth arid frdiri the
North-western Line by any ordinary traiti.
From Tamworth arid intermediate statioris only
by ordinary day passetiger train, leaving Tatti-
worth at 10.50 a.m. . ,
Tickets at proportionately low rates will also be
issued at Newcastle to the country by the above
train.
TO THE WESTERN LINE.
For stations beyond Wallerawang and to the
Blayney-Cowra,,, Condobolin, and Cobar lines on
TUESDAY, 7th September (Special Train A).
For Stations Lawson to Wallerawang inclusive,
find to the Mudgee line, on THURSDAY, 9th
September (Special Trait! B).
Sydney
: Mudgee
Bathurst
Orange
Forbes
Dubbo
Bourke
dep
X~
~T).m.
a.m.
12.13
3.16
11.10
8.16
p.ni.,
6.0
i r
а. ni.
,7.6f1i
p.ni,
б.
S. d.
80 Oi
16 0
12 Oj
16 0
24 Q
23 0
40 0
Available for return up to and including
FRIDAY, 24th September, 1897, as follows.
From .Stations west of Orange arid fromi all
Branch Lines by any ordinary train. ■
From Orange and intermediate Stations, only
by ordinary Day Passehger Trairi leaving Orange
at 7-45 a.ni.
To THE SOUTHERN LINE.
THURSDAY, 9th SEPTEMBER.
To Stations on the Culcairn-Corowa Branch at
7.15 p.m. on FRIDAY, 10th SEPTEMBER.
These Tickets will be available for return up t 6
and including THURSDAY, 23rd SEPTEM-
BER, BUT PASSENGERS CAN ONLY
TRAVEL BY THE TRAINS SPECIFIED,
viz.—From all Stations beyond Goulburn (includ-
ing branches) by the Up Mail Train. Passengers
from Stations, Harden to Yarra, inclusive, may
also travel by the 4.20 a.m. Mixed Train from
Harden on MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS,
FRIDAYS and SATURDAYS. From all Sta-
tions, Goulburn to Menangle, inclusive, by any
Train except the Up Mail, and the Up Melbourne
Express Trains.
Passengers from Stations on the Jerilderie-
Berrigan Extension may return up to FRIDAY,
24th SEPTEMBER, and from the Corowa Branch
up to SATURDAY, 25th SEPTEMBER.
TO THE SOUTH COAST LINE.
FRIDAY, 10th SEPTEMBER.
Available for return by Ordinary Trains up to
and including FRIDAY, 24th September.
RETURN TICKETS at SPECIALLY LOW
RATES will also be issued TO SYDNEY from
the COUNTRY as follows
FROM THE NORTHERN AND NORTH-
WESTERN LINES.
TUESDAY, 7th SEPTEMBER.
From Stations Jennings to Dumaresq, inclusive,
by-mail train leaving Jennings at 6.15 p.m., pas-
sengers to go forward from Armidale by special
train at 11.25 p.m., reaching Sydney at 3.30 p.m.
Wednesday.
From Stations Armidale to Tintinhull, inclusive,
by Special Train leaving Armidale at 11.25 p.m.,
due Sydney at 3.30 p.m. next day.
From Stations Tamworth to Temple Court, in-
clusive, by ordinary train leaving Tamworth at
10.50 a.m., reaching Sydney at 10.15 p.m.
From Stations Murrurundi to Mullet Creek, in-
clusive, by special train leaving Murrurundi at 9.0
a.m., reaching Sydney at 8.40 p.m.
From Stations on the North-Western Line, by
ordinary mail train leaving Moree at 2.30 p.m., as
far as Werris Creek, thence by special, reaching
Sydney at 3.30 p.m. next day.
Available for return up to and including WED-
NESDAY, 22nd September, 1897, as follows :
To Stations north of Tamworth, and to the
North-western line, only by special train leaving
Sydney at 5.48 p.m. on MONDAYS, WEDNES-
DAYS, and FRIDAYS.
To Tamworth and intermediate Stations, only
by ordinary day passenger train leaving Sydney
at 9.0 a.m.
Tickets at proportionate rates will also be issued
from Country Stations to Newcastle by the above
trains.
FROM THE WESTERN LINE.
THURSDAY, 9th SEPTEMBER.
From stations west of Nyngan, and from the
Cobar line, by ordinary Mail Trains leaving
Bourke at 7.50 a. m., and Cobar at 9.0 a.m. ; pas-
sengers to go forward from Nyngan by special
train at 2.10 p.m., reaching Sydney at 7.55 a.m.
next day.
Frond 'Stations Nyngan to Minore, inclusive, by
special train leaving Nyngan at 2.10 p.m.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
From Stations on the Forbes, Condobolin, and
Cowra Branch Lines, by ordinary Mail Trains to
junction stations, thence by Special Train reaching
Sydney at 5.37 a.tn. next day.
Frotti Stations Dubbo to Orton Park, inclusive,
by Special Train leaving Dubbo at 6.40 a.m., due
Sydney 9.20 p.m. same day.
From Stations Bathurst to Lawson, inclusive,
by Special Train leading Bathurst at 10.35 a.m.,
teaching Sydney at 7.20 p.m.
FRIDAY, 10th SEPTEMBER.—From Sta-
tion on the Mudgee Line, by Special Train leaving
Mudgee at 7.30 a.m., due Sydney at 6.56 p.m.
Available fdt return up to and including
SUNDAY, 26th September, 1897, as follows
, To Stations west of Orartge, and to all Branch
Lines, only by Special Ttains leaving Sydney at
7.55 p.m. on Sundays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays.
To Orange apd intermediate Stations, only by
ordinary Day Passenger Train, leaving Sydney at
10.15 a.m. .
Tickets at 2d. per mile First-class Return (mini-
mum 10s.), and Id. per mile Second-class Return
(minimum 55.), will also be issued from Stations
on the Western Line and Branches beyond Bowen-
fels to Stations between Bowenfels and Emil
Plains, inclusive, available for return as above.
FROM THE SOUTHERN LINE.
FRIDAY, 10th SEPTEMBER.
From Stations Albury to Harefield inclusive, bjr
mail train leaving Albury at 2.45 p.m. ; from
Southern Branch Line Stations (except Culcairn-
Corowst lirte) by Ordinary mixed trains ; frond
Junee to Derriondrille Junction by special train
from Junee at 7.20 p.m. ; and ffOrtl Stations Mur-
rum burrah to Menangle inclusive by special train
leaving Murrumburrah at 10.50 a.rh., AVAIL-
ABLE FOR RETURN UP TO AND' INCLUD-
ING FRIDAY, 24th SEPTEMBER, by trains as
follows, viz. : —To Stations Menangle to Goulburri
inclusive by any train leaving Sydney except the'
Melbourne express and 9 p.m. mail; to Stations
south of Goulburn, including branches (except
Culcairn-Corowa line and Jerilderie-Berrigan Ex-
tension) by special train leaving Sydney at 8.56
p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays only.
Passengers for Stations between Goulburn and
Harden may also travel by the 9.30 a.m. train!
from Sydney on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays,
dnd Saturdays,
Passengers from Stations on the Jerilderie-
Berrigan Exterisiop may return by the 9 p.m. mail
leaving Sydney N oh Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sun-
days, up to SUNDAY, 26th Sept^thhctinclusive.
, THE EXCURSION FROM THE COROWA
BRANCH will be run on SAtURDAY, 11th
SEPTEMBER, and passengers will return by
Melbourne Express Train, leaving Sydney at 7.19
p.m. on MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, and
FRIDAYS up to MONDAY, 27th SEPTEM-
BER.
TICKETS at 2d. per mile First-class Return:
(minimum 10s.), and Id. per frtije Second-class
Retutn (minimuto 55.) will also be issued from
Stations on the Southern Line artd branches
beyond Goulburn to Stations GoUlburn to Mitta-
gong inclusive, available for return as above.
From the South Coast line on FRIDAY, 10th
SEPTEMBER From Stations Nowra to Kiama
inclusive, by special train leaving Nowra at 2.30
p.m., and from Stations Kiama North to Helens-
burgh inclusive, by the ordinary train leaving
Kiama North at 2.33 p.m., available for return up
to and including FRIDAY, 24th SEPTEMBER.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. M'LACHLAN, Secretary.
(pm
FREE ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue t 6 any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
465, 60s, 90s, and 106 S;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 75Sj’ 90s, 1355, . and
150 s; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17S,
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s; Zither Bainos, 75s and 90s j
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
Medical.
Rbe(iii)atisn) ai?d Sciatica.
Mr. Arthur Malcolm >,
Rheumatic Expert,
169 GRAFTON STREET, WOOLLAHRA.
AFTER many years’ experience in all forms of
this terrible complaint, the treatment pur-
sued by Mr. Malcolm still continues to give the
same marvellous results.
On May 7th of this year that well-known gentle-
man, Mr. Richard Skinner, of Baradine, certifies :
—“ For eighteen (18) months I suffered indiscrib-
able agonies from Rheumatism in the feet. I tried
doctors, specialists, and hospital treatment, which
cost me over a hundred and twenty pounds (£120).
By pure accident I met you, and you may justly be
proud of performing such a cure. I have now been
well 13 months, and I wish this to be made known
for the sake of unfortunate sufferers who may then
adopt your treatment, which experience tells me
is their only chance.”
Writing from Brighton, Victoria, Mr. John
Bruce, an old and well-known identity, states :
“ I was confined to bed'and -could 1 not move with
Sciatica, tried several remedies without effect,
and, hearing of you, I placed myself under your
treatment, with the result that I was able to get
out of bed in a few days, and am now able to beat
work as usual. I would be most happy to recom-
mend your treatment to anyone suffering as I
have done.”
The preparations used in the above cases can be
obtained, as in the past, at fixed rates. The Lini-
ment at 2s. 6d. (postage, 6d ; ,extjra), and the pow-
ders at 2s. 6d.'('six of each for 2Efe.’ Where the
case is chronic and special attention is necessary,
full particulars must be submitted. In such in-
stances the charge for a course of treatment is
three guineas (£3 35.).
Note where Indigestion is present it must be
particularly stated.
The treatment prescribed by Mr. Malcolm has
never yet been approached, and it is in the most
severe forms of the complaint that his success is
greatest. Furthermore, patients Can be as well
treated in their own homes by postal instructions
as by personal interview.
Address letters plainly as above. Advice free.
Medicines sent to any part of the Colonies.
WHEN YOU 8UY...".. ’ '
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agbnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT EROS., Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart


Sarsaparilla.
e e
• • •
C . A
Cleanse your blood with Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla —the most thoroughly
reliable alterative ever compounded.
For scrofula, boils, ulcers, sores, car-
buncles, pimples, blotches, and all
disorders originating in vitiated
blood, this medicine is a specific.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is equally bene-
ficial as a remedy for catarrh, rheu-
matism, and rheumatic gout. As a
Tonic, it assists the process of
digestion, stimulates the sluggish
liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated
by excessive fatigue or wasting
illness. Physicians everywhere con-
sider Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the best. It
is a skilfully-prepared combination
of the most powerful alteratives and
tonics. Ifo other blood-purifier gives
equal satisfaction or is so universally
in demand.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
OR. I. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE biliousness
J’.
£
A NOVELTY!
so semis itv
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
l Outvie every effort for the production of
' natural perfumes. i
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
v*
°nd Street
JFOR
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
The Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
SINTGMIXrEIKXIS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OP VICTORIA,
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
► Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
The jaguatr Which arrived in Adelaide f6r
the Zoo this hloiith is the first to be landed alive
in Australia. His wife will join hirri iri a few
lhonths.
, At Brisbane (Cs.) Exhibition! Art Gallery
there Waft sin ideal portrait of Christ, and
alongside jt a likeness of Kaiser Williaifl the
of Yairmaiiy. Somehow the lumbers
were transposed,, therefore visitors who went by
the catalogue i;ound the Redeemer with a.hnifornj
on, and a big, brassy helmet, and a sword, and a
moustache, and with a: martial glare in his eye.’
Yet no one did anything to correct the mistake
until a German, full of wiirst and bock and in-
dignation, interviewed the management and
desired to bump its head against the doorstep.
And his grievance was that a gross insult had
been offered to Kaiser Bill
Ed. Bulletin, —Re Ayers Rock and other
sublimities (including, for this occasion only, the
most symmetrical mountain in the world). One
can only regret that the spirit of Australian deso-
lation has not successfully obsessed the otherwise
poetic “ E.F.” The Weird is evidently a matter
of “de gnstibus,” but somehow many are perverse
enough to hold that that mere “saline marsh,”
when it bares its pallor to the Centralian moon-
light, to a (say) dingo obligato, is typic 1 Weird.
As to “geological freaks,” what’s the matter with
them? What’s Mount Cook, &u., but a
geological freak, if there’s anything but abuse in.
the term ? Nay, the earth itself as a habitable
planet? A receptive study of the primer of Aus-
tralian literature and art, Marcus Clarke’s intro-
duction to Gordon, would probably do “E.F.”
little harm, even if it caused him to “ get ’em ”
worse than the Amadean paragraphist.—D.F.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Rev. Can in Berry (Melb.)
We have been on the down-grade in enlarging the fran-
chise, and the end of the journey will be the granting of
womanhood suffrage.
Frightful to think of ! And yet, if it were not for
women, what would become of the clergy?
Women are their chief supporters and admirers.
Is Canon Berry afraid that if they get the right
to vote they will also want to compete with the
cloth? Female preachers—if reasonably pretty —
would almost certainly draw more men to church
than the present class of male expounders. A
female Bishop in gaiters would be a pleasing
novelty. Moody and Sankey used to ask “ Why
should the devil have all the best tunes ? ” Simi-
larly, it might be enquired “ Why should the devil
have (on the stage, which numbers of the clergy
call Satan’s Church) all the best-looking legs en-
listed in his service ? ” And what harm has the
enlargement of the suffrage done to Canon Berry,
anyhow ?
Why, 0 Canon Berry,
Like the heathen rage?
Surely, you are very
Far behind the age !
Which would suit your palate,
Which would you think right—
Men to vote by ballot,
Or by dynamite?
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE .
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
Sauce.
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
mjjmjmm) ; \abs
wP
'Lime-Frtflt
Juice, it is
found, forms
fa most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery', -writes
so far back as 1617, in a treatise, on Scurvy: —“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
AMY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
&Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co,,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
mm
Easy to Make—. Easy to Digest arid df Exquisite riavorir
Strengthening, Refreshing and most economical in usS.
ALL
CLASSES
OF
ACCOMMODATION
—FOR —
TOURISTS,
Commercial . . .
. . . Travellers,
Theatricals, Families,
&c., &c.
BOOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night.
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week.
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURIN E
Federal
Palace
Hotel.
MELBOURNE:
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door,
WRITE FOR
CARDS 01
TARIFFS.
WRITB. DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depat, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of tho world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
upngnt Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as \compared with’buying them from dealers,
i. ho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
Ihe hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
bias wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. .The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
be nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold . engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy 7 elastic, and
responsive. Ihe tone possesses a. full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
m tne middle compass • and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
gt to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales. ‘ '
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
TiGOK OF iNATUKE
* - —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
ty Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO AN Y
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete . .lition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 16.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola's
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kocir, post free, Is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabblais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Brad laugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is Gd; post, 3s9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: a Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Harbassou s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Short Stories L>vk and I*'rol‘C, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries ok tiie court'of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, p st fiee 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Works in French: L' Assassinat ; Le Bonnet
Vert ; Andre Chenier ; Is 6d each post free, or 3 for 4s.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art ok Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, 1 ,Cd.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is : post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOB OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It,is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug:Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist*
547 GKOR&Ei S i I i 3FtBE1 i , S^iSiKTETj
Proprietor of tf>e ALFALINI HCRBAL R€M€DI€S (
Sas thuch pleasure iii presenting to the Public the, following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his ItEM EIJIES contain,
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —1 have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
Bevere case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
. The well-known ancl popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn.— Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from dne of
Australia’s MoSt-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Motel, Spring-st;, Melbourne,
, March 7 th, 1896.
To Here Rassmcssen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
1 have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invariable tb all travellers
in the bush.—YoUrS very truly, fe. HUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. Fi HekER, Manager, Grand Motel, SpHng-
Street, Melbourne.
Mr. GuTTviNWrit.es later:—“The Gills 1 had from you
Were of gteat benefit to me and others. In one case,
When three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
.-Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
Speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cyole Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
SerN. Rassmussbn. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
tnd hating tried Without Success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
Completely cured, and 1 shall be most happy to recota-
tnend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 96 Castle-
feagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND' SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
t
- -
& £
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALI AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSNIUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
Very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; of, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office: 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, 1 shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me vtull have full particulars.—! am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. B. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Live!:
Complaint Cttred.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
to Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that vou
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S. —You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever.you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Here Rassmcssen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex*
Eerienced an immunity from my atiack of sciatica. 1
aVe recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom 1
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, X have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidney a
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows:
845 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
lleßr RassmussEN. 9/8/97.
Dear Sir, — It stives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affeci ion of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but lam very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which Could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec*
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney T had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday 1 took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
Under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours Very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra.
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Curdd.
To Herr Rassmu'sseN. January 9,1897.
Dear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that th«
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Livei
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of genera)
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALE ALINE REMEDIES
AWARDED,
IJiWO GOLD
m
SSCT
DALS
m
6fH
[WK,
ILL
ALFA LINE
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD t* NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills —A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costivene-s, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will' prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. \
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant curs
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon tb invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOB FREE BOOK.
H* RR RASSMUSSBN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All IIERK. RAi-SMUSSEN S
REM“ DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at. HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HaNs KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his H ad Office or ' ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAI> OFFICE :
547
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Adelaide —154 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers —Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Cham 1 era. Hannan-st


What has become of “Willie” Wilde—
Oscar’s brother? Since his divorce from the
much-married Mrs. Leslie, he has dropped right
out of the world, apparently. To be called
“Willie” or “Freddie” or “Dickie” is fatal.
Oscar may survive his trouble, but no man can
survive being called “ Willie.”
Kipling’s latest poetic shriek is a decorous
climb-down (“recession,” he calls it) from insolent
imperial bluster to nauseous mock-humility. Bub
the ingenious Rudyard had a good notion of
what would “ get there ”in “ high quarters.” Sir
Arthur Sullivan has been commanded to give the
screed a musical setting.
Australia!? tyctropolitap Life
Corppapy, Limited.
Directors: TERENCE JOHN HAROLD, Esq., Managing Director; JAMES WILKINSON, Esq.;
JOHN URE, Esq., M.D. ; FRANCIS H. BANFORD, Esq.
:r:e3:po:r,t
Presented at the Second Annual Meeting- of the Shareholders, held on Monday, 30th August, 1897, at the Head Office
116 and 118 Edward-street, Brisbane.
Tour Directors have pleasure in presenting the Report and Statement of Account for the year ending August 18,1897.
NEW BUSINESS.—4223 Industrial Policies for a Premium Income of 16591 Bs. Bd., and 338 Ordinary Policies for
a Premium Income of £1604 11s. 10d., were issued during the year, being a total New Premium Income of £8156 Os. 6d.
CLAIMS.—The amount paid under Claims was only £132 15s. 9d.
ASSURANCE FUND. —The Assurance Fund, with Paid-up Capital, amounts to £4OlO 7s. 2d.
REVENUE.—The Total Income for the year amounted to £6044 6s. 7d., including £1504 Os. 6d. received on Shares.
The Director retiring this year is Dr. John Ure, and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr. Felix L. Evans has given notice that he is a candidate for election as Auditor.
The Directors recommend a dividend of 10 per cent, on the Paid-up Capital of the Company; payable on 2nd
January, 1898. _ ... „
The directors thank the Staff for their brilliant work during the past year, and special credit is due to the follow-
ing members of the staff, viz., Messrs. J. M. Joyce, M. Ryan, M. J. Fox, D. H. Leader, D. Burke, and G. W. Cook.
|TERENCE JOHN HAROLD, Managing Director.
Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Company, Limited.
IR-lEVIEIKrTTIEJ -^CCOUZEsTT.
£ s. d.
852 12 1
Amount of funds on 19th August, 1896
Premiums (no re-assurance) ...£4443 2 3
6014 6 7
Claims under Policies (no re-assurances)
Government Tax ...
Furniture...
Amount of Funds, 19th August, 1897
£ s. d.
132 15 9
21 0 0
18 4 2
2714 11 7
4010 7 2
£6896 18 8
6596 18 8
SHEET.
LIABILITIES.
£ 8. d.
Subscribed Capital
Less Uncalled
£ s. d.
... 10,000 0 0
... 7,892 19 6
Capital Paid-up
Assurance Fund
2107 0 6
1903 6 8
£4OlO 7 2
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Deposits—Royal and Union Banks ... ... 500 0 0
Loans on Mortgages ... ... ... 1693 2 5
~ Sundry ... :.. ... ... 60 5 3
Agents’ Balances ... ... ... ... 34 16 6
Furniture, Fittings and Stationery... ... 57 S 3
Investments ... ... ... ... 36 10 0
Outstanding Premiums ... ... ... 593 6 8
Interest Accrued ... ... ... ... 25 0 0
Current Account—Royal Bank ... ... 1008 9 0
Cash on hand ... ... ... ... 19 1
£4OlO 7 2
TERENCE J. HAROLD, Managing Director. JOHN URE, M.D., Director.
I have examined the Books, Accounts and Vouchers of the Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Company,
Limited, to 18th August, 1897, and certify that the above accounts are in accordance therewith. I have also inspected
all securities held by the Company and found same correct.
Brisbane, 28rd August, 1897. FELIX L. EVANS, Auditor.
WasbiQgtoi) N.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
CAN sell all varied stocks cheaper than most folk.
CERTAINLY BECAUSE they have a large connection,
are long established,
are thoroughly reliable,
and their goods are at all times the BEST.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin, is a beau ideal article.
SPARTAN TONIC, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2s. 3d.
DENTAROMA for the TEETH and BREATH, Is. 6d. per bottle.
. Dr. ERASMUS WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, Is. COUGH LINCTUS, Is.
Trusses, Surgical Bandages, etc., a Speciality.
. . Hard Times do not count with us. Wo run no half premises. . .
You will find us at
158, 160 and 268 Pitt Street, Sydney,
AMD AT V W
Church and Phillip Streets, Parramatta.
Write to us for quotations.
A Baroroeter
... of Trade
IS THE TYPEWRITER BUSINESS.
IT QUICKLY RESPONDS TO IM-
PROVED CONDITIONS. THIS
LENDS GENERAL INTEREST TO
THE FACT THAT
njore
Remington...
Stapdard Typewriters
were sold in the month of March, 1897, than in any previous month in its history.
The NEW MODEL No. *7 has many Late Improvements.
Catalogues Free.
STOTT & HOARE, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
I
PROSPECTUS
—OF THE—
AOStraliao BisnjGtl) M'DiOg Co.,
Ukalunda, Sellheim River, Queensland.
(To be Registered in Victoria as a No-Liability Company under Part 11. of the
Companies Act 1890).
Capital, £2S,CCO in CO,OOO Shares of 10s. Each.
24,GC0 Fully Paid Up Shares to be retained by the Vendor, and .£lOBO to be paid to him as follows
The sum of .£530 on the Company being incorporated, and the sum of .£5.00 on or before the
22nd day of October, 1897, in part payment for the Leases, Mine, Buildings, Machinery, Ore at
Grass, Plant, &c.
25,400 Shares are offered to the public—2s. Gd. on application, and 2s. Gd. on allotment.
The total amount received on such application and allotment, less cost of flotation, and the above-
mentioned sum of .£lOBO to be placed to the credit of the Company.
To enable the Company, when incorporated, to have the lease, mine, buildings, machinery, plant,
&c., transferred to it, a sum of ,£4450 and interest thereon at the rate of £(> per cent, per annum from
the 19th day of June, 1897, will have to be paid to the Vendor on or before the 19th day of June, 1899,
such sum to be paid out of one-half of the net profits arising from the working of the mine, or in case
the said one-half of the net profits shall be insufficient, then cut of the Capital or moneys of the
Company.
The Company will have the option of rejecting the valuable machinery on the mine, when the
Company will be allowed £l5OO off the above-mentioned sum of £4450.
The Company will be registered as soon as two-thirds of the shares are subscribed for.
Directors : (To be Elected after Incorporation).
Solicitors: Messrs. WESTLEY & DALE, Adelaide Chambers, 120 Queen-st., Melbourne.
Bankers: TEE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Legal Manager (pro tlm.) : Mr. J. PRIECE CAMERON (of Messrs. Meudell & Cameron).
Brokers: GEORGE D. MEUDELL, 54 Queen-st., Melbourne (member of the Stock Exchange o*
Melbourne); W. H. VIVIAN, ICO Pi test., Sydney (member of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
Agents eor the Company: Messrs. MEUDELL & CAMERON, 81 Queen-st., Melbourne.
THIS Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from the vendor his rights under a
contract dated 19th June, 1897 (and copy of which may be seen at the office of the agents of the
Company), to purchase lease No. 283, which is for 21 years, of the property known as the “ Carrington
Bismuth Mine,” situate at Ukalunda, Sellheim River, Queensland, 125 miles from Bowen, and 85
miles from Ravenswood Railway Station, containing an area of 70 acres, together with all Machinery,
Plant, &e., thereon, and the ore now at grass ; also, the vendor’s interest in the “ Daisy Mine,” con-
taining an area of three acres, near the above property.
On the property are two proved lodes of Bismuth, known as “ Tarrant’s ” and “ Flatau’s ” lodes.
“Tarrant’s ” lode has been proved to a depth of about 100 ft. in one shaft, and to a depth of 90ft. in a
second shaft; these two shafts are connected, and are 100 ft. apart. A third shaft, si me 200 ft. away,
has been sunk from 50 to GOft., and a’ fourth shaft sunk 30ft. is distant some 300 ft. from No. 3.
The lode has also been trenched on surface and proved for several hundred feet from No. 4 shaft,
making a proved length at present of about 1000 ft.
The carbonate ore proves to extend a depth of from 30 to 40ft., when the sulphide ore commences.
Some hundreds of tons of ore have been won frem this lode, and after being hand-dressed and shipped
to London, had a percentage value varying from 15 per cent, to 30 per cent. The width of the lode,
which is a true fissure with well-defined walls, a verages about three feet. Large blocks are sometimes
obtainable weighing from a quarter to half a ton, averaging fully 15 percent, of metal without dress-
ing. The first two shafts mentioned are equipped with winding engine, &c. As already mentioned,
this lode has been proved for quite 1000 ft., and in Mr. Hall’s report, hereafter set out, it will be
noticed he states “ the lode can he traced distinctly for oxer half a mile.”
“ Flatau’s ” lode has not had so much work done on it as “ Tarrant’s,” being a later discovery,
but so far proves to be the richer of the two.
This lode has also been exposed for fully 100 ft. from No. 2 shaft quite 10 ft. deep, and varies in
width from Ift. to 2ft. Gin., and occasionally being 3ft. A shaft has been sunk 10 or 12ft., fully GCOft.
from the last-mentioned point, and pioves the continuity of the lode, making quite 1000 ft. of line
proved on this lode also. The average quality of the hand-dressed ore sent from this lode is from 15
percent, to 42 per cent, of metal. There is now a heap of tailings and low-grade ore of about 1500
tons, which, on being assayed by Mr. Edgar Hall, proved to be worth an average of 3 per cent, of
metal, and if works were'established would at once give at least £25, C00 net at the present market
value of the metal.
Until this mine was discovered, bismuth had been found in pipes or pockets only, no such thing
as a lode being known. T his mine, therefore, contains the only bismuth “ lode ”in the. world, as shown
by annexed report of Mr. G. W. Kelly-Cusack, the Government Commissioner, and is capable of
turning out sufficient metal to supply the world’s requirements, which requirements, until this dis-
covery, were far in excess of the total supply.
In addition to this, the quantity required is increasing annually, being largely used in making the
bearings for ships and other heavy machinery, smokeless gunpowder, alloy, cosmetics, making of
stereotype, medicinal purposes, &c,, &c.
Bismuth possesses high lubricating qualities, and for this reason as much of this metal is used in
bearings for heavy machinery as the other components will carry, thereby effecting a very great saving
in lubricants.
The plant on the mine, the value of which is .£7OOO, and which is in good order, consists of four
steam engines and boilers (one 25 horse power, one 8 horse power, one G horse power, and one 4 horse
power), one Huntingdon mill, two Frue vanners, one Dodge stonebreaker, Duncan concentrator, three
Tangye pumps, one Blake pump, one elevator, one self-feeder, &c., &c.
There is an abundant and unlimited supply of water and timber for all purposes on the ground;
The ore obtained from this mine is free from all base metals and admixtures, the bismuth recently
obtained from a sample of 40 tons, purchased by Messrs. Elliott Bros., Wholesale Druggists, Sydney,
assayed 99'8 per cent, of pure metal.
The vendor has already been approached by large metal merchants in England, America, and
Germany, who have expressed their willingness to purchase large quantities of the ore and metal, and
it is confidently anticipated that sufficient oiders can be at once obtained to pay very handsome
dividends.
It is proposed to proceed at once with the working and further development of the mine, and for
that purpose to send home an efficient representative to Any land, America, Germany, and France, to enter
into binding contracts for the purchase of ore and metal, so that an immediate market will be avail-
able for the sale of the products of the mine.
Extracts from Reports.
ARTHUR G. HOLROYD, Metallurgist and Mining Expert, Melbourne.
As far as the value of the property is concerned, there is no doubt in my mind but that it is an
exceedingly valuable one. The w ork that has already been done proves it to be a lode, in fact two lodes,
which will eventually join, and ought to be very rich at the juncture. I feel confident that, under good
management, the mine ought to pay its way at once, and, as soon as it is in proper working order, will
pay handsomely. I should call it a rich lode along the whole length.
I conclude it is a most valuable property. In inspecting the heap of ore and mullock lying on the
surface, I found both rich carbonates and sulphides, and nearly all of the mullock will have to be
looked through again, and a large quantity of it concentrated.
MR. EDGAR HALL, of Messrs. Stokes and Hall, Assaters, &c., Brisbane, Queensland,
LATE OF THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT.
Some doubt has been expressed as to whether the ore occurs at Ukalunda in a genuine lode Ussure,
all the bismuth deposits hitherto worked being of the nature known as “ pipes.” 1 think there cannot
be any doubt upon this point in the mind of anyone who sees the Ukalunda lodes. The lodes are
traceable distinctly for over a mile. The walls are remarkably even and true, the parallelism being well
maintained. I have not the slightest doubt about the permanent character of this lode, and that it will
produce ore to a great depth.
The property appears to me to be a very valuable one.
ALEXANDER RIDDEL, ESQ., Mining Expert, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Any doubt which may have ever existed regarding the lode character of these deposits is now
quite dispelled. When more ore is required, there is abundance in sight to be had at a few days notice to
keep the mill going an indefinite length of time.
There is no doubt about the phenomenal character and enormous value of your mine.
Extract from Annual Government Report by Commissioner W. G. KELLY-CUSACK to the
Department of Mines, Brisbane, Queensland.
Bismuth is said not to be found in anything approaching a “lode,” or any vein beyond a few
inches in size. Here we have it in feet from wall to wall, and 1 believe that, in this respect, the Uka-
lunda Bismuth Mine is as nearly approaching a lode as any mine can be. There can be but little
doubt that the lode will continue to a great depth, from its size, and if its quality but continues, or a
near approach thereto, the wealth of the mine will be fabulous. Capital and good management being all
that can be added or hoped for
JAMES M. PETRIE, ESQ., Demonstrator of Chkmisty, Sydney University, New South Wales.
I have been able to form a very good opinion of the place. Firstly, by the unlimited quantity of
the ore proved with absolute certainty to exist in the mines. Secondly, by the comparatively easy process
by which the metallic bismuth may be extracted from the ores.
I can see nothing to hinder the extraction of the bismuth from the ore from being a great financial
success from the very commencement, considering the high price of the metal, and the comparatively
small cost of treatment.
Several shipments of Bismuth Ore sold to Messrs. Johnson, Matthey & Co., Limited, of London,
Metal Merchants, gave a return of 7s. per lb. for the bismuth contained therein.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES WILL BE RECEIVED BY THE BROKERS or MESSRS.
MEUDELL & CAMERON, Agents for the Company.
Quite recently, advices were received from Germany that the price of Bismuth (pure metal)
has risen to 7s. Gd. per lb., and, aocording to the New York Engineering and Mining Journal of
June 26, 1897, the same advanoed price rules in U.S.A.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
. FIRST SHIPMENTS . *
comprising
303 OASES & BALES 303
. . Off . .
New SpriQg Goods,
Bought direct from the Leading Manufacturers
of the World, now Ready for Inspection in all
Departments.
Pinney, Isles & Co.
We offer not only EXCEPTIONAL VALUES,
but the LATEST 1 and MOST FASHIONABLE
GOODS that are produced.
Compare Styles and Prices*
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
IELLII’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
i verted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell & Co., Ltd,
HAIKDKESSEKS AND WIG M AKAUS
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
Variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (ail makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from 6s. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Seal pets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 Jit 682 George Street, Sydney.
JMOSCE/ fBESf „
Si GN ETCCIQAF&TYIS
>
I
(bl
£9
C>
9 p
t&4
> o
r
r„ /Vi i
O
U 2
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy f You say schmolee signkt
tobar.co only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
Tales of the convict system, by
Pkiok Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
The common squid, little cousin of the
octopus, makes excellent eating, if cleaned like a
fish, immersed in butter, fried in oil, and sprinkled
with bread-crumbs. The head, of course, is thrown
away.
Dear Bulletin, —My barber pooh-poohs
the idea of a shaving-machine—refuses even to be
flabbergasted by the intricate linotype. He
argues that no two faces are alike, and shaving
would be “ a holy terror ” to men with warts,
dimpled chins, or other facial irregularities ; also,
should anything go wrong with the gear ough !
off would come a fellow’s nose. But isn tit just
possible that somebody is already working up
some suoh contrivance to oust the barber-man ?
T.D.
A Bulletin correspondent relates the story
of a kindly act: —
We had oft-times done business with Brown, and as often
had we been paid. It was in Maoriland, before the Ward
burst or Guthrie bubbles. Poor Brown —a mere cookie-
had in my boss a friend such as they look for now in vain
among the wreck of busted Scotch booms. His calls
were rarely made, and then only when necessity pinched ;
but, withal, Brown was provident, and, looking ahead for
the children, insured his life (encased in an apoplectic
neck), and promptly drew his bonus for current needs.
Many a time had I written a cheque on limit-day for
Brown to pay against his earthly existence, and now he
called on us with the premium-notice to ask yet another
advance to keep the policy afloat. It was overdue a day,
but the local office —they wanted business then —was
willing to take the money. Having imparted this confi-
dence—it was his last —poor Brown quietly shuffled off
there and then in our office, leaving his premium unpaid.
There was but one thing to do. I wrote the cheque
hastily, the boss signed it, and held what used to be Brown
up by the collar while I got the notice from his breast-
pocket, and then I rushed off and got. the receipt. It was
done in a twinkling, and poor Brown generously kept
warm until the doctor pronounced him “ just dead.” It
was a tight fit, but the children got the proceeds of the
insurance policy. —Waiac.
“ The tale of the P. and O. Aden is a
worthy tale of City life, with its concomitant cal-
lousness and cold-bloodedness, in the scramble for
the shekels,” writes The Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent. “The vessel left Bombay with a rich
cargo and a big passenger-list to become a wreck
off Socotra, a lightless island. After cruel suffer-
ings and tortures of disappointed hopes those who
stuck to the ship were saved, though a boat-load
or two sailed in search of a haven, and found it
with an E—let us hope. Two vessels approached
the cripple, and steamed off, not seeing the signals
for help. One of these was the s.s. Voluti, in
which certain City magnates are interested, as
they also are in an assurance in the Marine Alli-
ance Co., which takes all the high-class shipping-
risks. Meanwhile, City circles were confused into
muddy whirlpools. The Aden overdue, nil known
of her, P. and O. absolutely ignorant. On Jubilee
Day the cargo was insured piecemeal at rates that
opened at five guineas per cent, and closed at 80
—a phenomenal jump. Now the underwriters
refuse to pay, stating plainly that someone in the
‘ know ’ had held back a cable, and the question
is : Who was it ? A dishonest P. and O. employee
or a Voluti director? William Rothschild, as
chairman of the Marine Alliance, made the sur-
prising announcement to the shareholders that
their co. did no underwriting of the Aden. Then
who made the money by plunging on a dead-bird
whilst flesh and blood stiffened and died? ”
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A. #
m
EMU
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. fid.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen.
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH;LDREN’S SWEET)
|L
hk
A i
jM
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
PrdQkeQQQSS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can bejiven secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED lER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so ouietlv and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
zr*
Peafoess
AND HEAD
NOISES
Relied
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collius-street, Mklbourn*.
THE DRUM - ]
IN position/
/m£les
Jfipod.
—FOR—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
PASLfcoT
•BRAND"
5 Wound?
(jpUGMS (OLPS £«
or y
®LOCU?
MT\» POST FREEv^*
V&tciles- Clocks-jeWellery-BirtHday*
WeddiNg z CrißisTEpJipic Presents
H Nev/MAN- 1755177-EUZABETH Si*
OPPOSITE C:RO.
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
©
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Co*oi)’s Noted A«ord«oi)S,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown.
3 YValker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COX ON & CO., Ftd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
David graham S C»-
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
(Seotknjso’s —H —
— — SditiogS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular C lothiug.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
DRINK
©»' plsllLtE/»j«
0 <fi * • * | |
la
SPECIAt
rail.
,
mx '
N B :1b
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rmOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
v
of the Inventor —
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWNt.
TIIE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely tb be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-.
bility ot a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
: v."..
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pau.jihlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed,
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s, name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney ;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide.
Representative : J. C. McGance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CtybrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €ii)brocatioo-


Build up the Blood and Tone the System with
j ' . , f : • • t*
Dr. WILLIAMS
nn nus ® mu raoru.
: •*..• ; • • •
.. the GREsIT MODERN CURE for ..
INFLUENZA, RHEUMATISM, AN7EMIA LOCOMOTOR
ATAXIA, PARTIAL PARALYSIS, €tc-
Head the following Nexvspaper Accounts of Cures that have been effected in our midst
A Miracle in Sydney,
CASE INVESTIGATED BY A SCORE OF
PEOPLE AND VOUCHED FOR BY A
PROMINENT MEMBER OF PARLIA-
MENT.
LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA LONG CON-
SIDERED INCURABLE BY THE
FIRST PHYSICIANS OF THE WORLD
HAS AT LAST BEEN CONQUERED.
A GREAT VICTORY FOR DR. WIL-
LIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
(From the Australian Workman.)
On Thursday afternoon our representative made
his way to the humble home of Mr. Thomas
Jarvis, 45 Crown-lane, Ultimo. He was dis-
covered nursing a two-year-old baby, and his face
declared him to be one of the happiest men in
Sydney. He was up and about and able to answer
the knock at the door. Although pale and bear-
ing still the marks of a critical illness and a period
of pain, it was very clear that he was an invalid
on the rapid road to convalescence.
In rejily to the preliminary questions, he said :
“You want to know all about my case? Well, I
am glad of an opportunity to tell you. The facts
may be of value to, those who are stricken as I
was.”
“ How long were you suffering ? ”
“ Well, twelve months ago I got so bad that I
had to leave off work, and I have done nothing
since then. About five years ago, next Christmas
I met with an accident; I was badly scalded while
taking a bath in Pitt-street, Sydney. Since the
accident I have been in failing health, and after
four years’ of gradual development of the malady,
I was forced to give up my billet at the Glebe
Island.”
“ What were the symptoms ? ”
“ Simply indescribable. The pains were some-
thing terrible. They were just about as much as
I could bear. They were for all the world like as
if a saw were cutting my bones in two in every
Eart of me. I had no control over my bowels or
ladder, and was a nuisance to myself and every-
one else. I was incessantly shivering and shaking
and could neither eat nor sleep. On the 23rd of
March last I saw a well-known doctor, and he
told me that my case was utterly hopeless. How-
ever, he gave me an order to the Director of
Charitable Institutions.”
“ Did you make use of the order? ”
w
“ ; I came home and went to bed, and have
been pretty well in bed ever since, Hive weeks
ago I could not walk across the floor ; in fact, I
could not get out of bed. I felt then that it was
all over with me, and only a question of days
when I would give up the ghost. My doctor was
attending me, and did all he could, by opium and
morphia pills, to ease the agony I was in. I was
under him for five or six weeks. He came to the
conclusion that I was suffering from Locomotor
ataxia, or Progressive locOmotor ataxy, a disease
of the spinal cord, characterised by peculiar dis-
turbances of gait and difficulty in co-ordinating
voluntary movements. He told me that I might
last for ten years, and that I might never get the
use of my legs. (Just then the patient kicked his
legsabout with energy to showthat medical opinion
is not infallible.) Well, just as a drowning man
will grasp at a straw, I grasped at an idea con-
veyed by the advertisement describing the cure
effected in the case of another boiler-maker in
England, which I read in the Australian Work-
man, by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
I read in the advertisement of a case which seemed
to fit my own. I determined to give the Pink
Pills a trial anyway, and sent for a box. The
effect was as marvellous as it was magical. I was
able to eat and sleep as though nothing was the
matter with me. It was the first appetite and
rest I had for many a day. It was incredible. I
immediately left the bed and was able to move
about. I have taken four boxes of Pink Pills dur-
ing the past four weeks, and am now taking the
fifth box. I can walk about with the aid of a
stick, and am gradually, but surely, recovering
my former vigor and vitality. You see those
crutches there? They are perfectly new, and I
have never used them. They were made for me
before I got the Pink Pills, but I was too weak to
use them, and now I don’t want them. All I
want is this stick, and I hope soon to do without
it. You see lam rapidly regaining my strength.”
“ He is 100 per cent, better,” said Mrs. Jarvis,
who had come in and taken the baby on her
knees. “ The Pink Pills have saved his life, and
made another man of him.”
A friend who called in at this point said that
Jarvis looked ten years younger that day than he
did a fortnight previously.
“I can now,” continued Jarvis, “have a cold
bath, and all the feeling has come back in my legs.
If I keep on going the way I am, I hope to be able
to resume work as a boiler-maker, and you know
I have to be in the very pink of health and strength
to work at that trade. lam better to-day than I
have been at any time during the past five years.
I ascribe all the change and benefit to these Pink
Pills. They have saved iny life. lamin no pain
now, whatever, and feel like a new man. On the
mantelpiece there is a box of opium and morphia
pillswhich the doctor gave me to deaden the ex-
cruciating pain. But they can stay where they
are, for I no longer need them. Everybody who
knows me has been amazed in the change in me.
They can hardly believe their eyes. My being
about again has caused quite a sensation out here.”
Such is this remarkable history, and it confirms
what is said in all the chief newspapers of this
country of the astonishing cures wrought by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. They cure
locomotor ataxy, partial paralysis, and spinal
disease, also the many disorders which arise from
an impoverished state of the blood, such as
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general
muscular weakness, indigestion, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, pains in the back, nervous
headache, etc.
Mr. J. S. T. M'Gowen, leader of the Labor
party in the N.S.W. Assembly, was seen by our
reporter in connection with the remarkable case
of Thomas Jarvis. Mr. M'Gowen says he has
known Jarvis from infancy. He also knew that
he had to give up his work at Glebe Island
abattoirs twelve months ago, owing to a malady
which he developed. He afterwards heard that
Jarvis was bed-ridden, and that there was little
chance of his recovery. He understood Jarvis
was refused admission to the Sydney Hospital, as
his case had been pronounced incurable. Mr.
M'Gowen was, therefore, like everyone else wlm
knew the facts, astounded at the complete re-
covery of Jarvis.
J?ale and Sallow Girls.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the spring-time of youth.
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeakes disease and an early death if pro-
per treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched,
and the functions of life become regular. Upon
parents rests a great responsibility at the time
their daughters are budding into womanhood. If
your daughter is pale, complains of weakness, is
“ tired out ” upon the slightest exertion ; if she is
troubled with headache or backache, pain in the
side ; if her temper is fitful and her appetite poor,
she is in a condition of extreme peril, a fit subject
for the development of that most dreadful of all
diseases—consumption. If you notice ary of the
above symptoms, lose no time in procuring Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the patient
to develop properly and regularly ; they willenrich
the blood and restore health’s roses to the cheeks;
bright eyes and lightness of step will surely follow
their use, and all danger of consumption and
premature death will be averted. Wise and
prudent mothers will insist upon their daughters
taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills upon the approach
of the period of puberty, and thus avoid all chances
of disease or early decay.
A. Victorian Pioneer Miner’s Cure.
I halted at the gate of a pretty bush residence,
which answered to the description supplied me,
and asked of the lady whom I found enthusiasti-
cally gardening “ Does Mr. T. J. Thomas live
here?’' Receiving a very pleasant reply, which
assured me that 1 had made no mistake, I was
conducted to the presence of Mrs. Thomas.
Mrs. Thomas has lived with her husband, who is
a miner, in Heatheote and immediate vicinity for
41 years, and remarked, “I would not like to leave
the district now.”
“It certainly is most beautifully situated. It
would seem that the locality suits your health
admirably.”
“ Appearances are misleading sometimes, and
though I am hale and hearty now, and am over 74
years of age, I have seen a great deal of trouble
and suffering. Why, until a short time ago I had
not known for 40 years what permanent relief from
pain was.”
“ You have had more than your share of life’s
troubles then, Mrs. Thomas? ”
“ Yes ; it was as near as I can remember in '67
that I had my first attack of rheumatism, and
these have followed me up on and off for 40 years.
About nine years ago my troubles were added to
by enlargement of the liver, and tins, in itself
more than sufficient to kill most people of my age,
was aggravated by inflammation of the kidneys.
As you may imagine I was in a very critical con-
dition for a long time, and when just about to pull
together again another severe attack of rheuma-
tism brought me down. This brings me to about
five years back, when I caught influenza for the
first time. But to shorten my story, I had further
attacks of rheumatism and influenza again the
following year, and though the influenza missed
me for the next two years rheumatism did not.”
“Life under these conditions must have been
almost intolerable ? ”
“It was. But I had more to face yet, for about
a year and nine months ago I was laid up with a
third attack of influenza. I never seemed to be
able to throw this off as I had the others, and it
made me feel terribly low-spirited. My oldest
enemy, rheumatism, kept going at mej and it
seemed that between them they were going to get
the best of me. ”
“ Of course, you took advice at this stage, Mrs.
Thomas ? ”
“Yes, I had four or five doctors ; but their ad-
vice and physic was not the least bit of good, and
I just felt I could not last much longer. The pain
I suffered beats description. I could not lie down,
and the only position in which partial relief was
to be found was sitting, bearing to one side. I
could not bear anything to touch my back. I don’t
like to think of the torture through which I
have passed ; it was terrible. I lost all power in
my legs. At this stage, when there appeared to
bo no hope for me, my attention was attracted
to some of the published cures which had been
effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People of cases which had been pronounced by
doctors and hospitals as hopeless, and I deter-
mined to make a trial of them. This was in the
early part of April, and I was feeling just about
as bad as I had ever felt. By the time the third
box was taken a marked improvement was notice-
able, and this happy alteration continued until I
was at the twelfth box quite enabled to discon-
tinue the treatment.”
“This wonderful change has, I suppose, occa-
sioned a deal of comment among your friends and
acquaintances ? ”
“They were astonished at my recovery, and
quite a number are taking the pills, and others
have expressed their determination to do so should
they ever feel in need of treatment.”
“ I believe you sometimes go into town ? ”
“ Quite true; and this means a walk of three
miles, with a rise or two to faoe —a very fair un-
dertaking for one on the wrong side of 74.”
“ And you are confident that Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People have been the means of
restoring you to health ? ”
“ I am perfectly confident of this, and have no
hesitation in saying so, and I shall recommend
your wonderful remedy whenever I have an oppor-
tunity.”
♦
The Terrible Influenza.
The people of this country have good cause to
view with alarm an outbreak of influenza, as it
leaves behind it more shattered constitutions than
any other known disease. Mr. Edward Botting,
for ten years a Councillor of the united townships
of Bedford, Olden, and Palmerston, in Erontenao
County, is one who nearly fell a victim to tliis
scourge. To a Whig correspondent Mr. Botting
said : —“ About two years ago I had a bad attack
of influenza, and the after effects of that malig-
nant trouble brought me bo low that my friends
despaired of my recovery. I was troubled with
severe and constant pains in the back, sensations
of extreme dizziness, weakness, and was, in fact,
in a generally used-up condition. I had read
frequently of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
felt they must have some special virtues, else
they could not obtain such strong endorsations
in all parts of the country. I determined to
try them, and I bless the day that I came to that
conclusion. Before the first box was finished I
felt benefited, and I continued their use until I
was as strong as ever. I consider Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills the best medicine sold, and I would not
be without them in the house if they cost me
sdol. a box.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have had marvellous
success in removing the after effects of influenza,
and restoring sufferers to their former vigor. No
other medicine can accomplish the results they
achieve, and those who have suffered with in*
fluenza should use them without delay.
An Important Case.
A CONCERT AND MEDICAL COMPANY
COME TO GRIEF.
In the Equity Court recently, before Mr. Justice
A. H. Simpson, Mr. Knox and Mr. Scarvel (in-
structed by Messrs. Johnson, Minter, Simpson
and Co.), appeared for George Taylor Fulford, of
New York, proprietor of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People, and applied for an injunction
restraining L. R. Davis, P. Davis, and G. R.
Carey, of Glen Innes, from selling any imitations
of the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. The
defendants were not represented. It was stated
that the defendants had been served with a state-
ment of claim, and affidavits were put in setting
out that the defendants were said to have sold
Pink Pills at Glen Innes and elsewhere. His
Honor made the order granting the injunction
pending the hearing of a suit which had been
instituted to restrain the defendants selling the
pills referred to. :
The above paragraph, taken from the legal
columns of the Sydney Telegraph, shows the
care and pains the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Com-
pany takes to protect the public from possible
imposition, and to preserve the reputation of their
famous Pink Pills.
It is only a medicine that possesses more than
usual merit that is worth imitation. Ordinary
medicines are not subject to that kind of treat-
ment, as there is not sufficient demand for such
medicine worth while.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People have
achieved a reputation for sterling merit un-
paralleled in the history of medical science. In
every part of the Dominion the remarkable cures
wrought by the use of this great medicine have
given it a name and a fame which has made the
sale of Pink Pills simply wonderful. ;;
It is because of this great merit, and the conse-
quent enormous demand for the medicine, that it
is being imitiated by unscrupulous persons in
various parts of the colony. The imitation is
cheap, usually worthless, and is only pushed be-
cause the imitator can make much more money by
its sale than he can by the sale of the genuine
Pink Pills. Hence the pains he takes to sell the
imitation.
ffl
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pill 8
for Pale People are not a
patent medicine, but are a
thoroughly scientific pre-
paration, the result of
years of careful study on
the part of an eminent
Edinburgh University phy-
sician, and they were suc-
cessfully used by him in
his everyday practice for
years before being offered
for general sale. They
positively cure Rhema-
tism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
and Neuralgia, and in-
fluenza’s evil after effects,
and are a specific for all
diseases of women, such as
anaemia, poor and watery
blood, female irregulari-
ties, nervous headache, and
hysteria. They are not a
purgative medicine, but
brace up and permanently
strengthen the whole sys-
tem. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills aro obtainable from all leading chemists, or
from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company,
Queen’s-place, Sydney, who will forward (post
paid), on receipt of stamps or post order, 1 box for
2s. 9a. or half-dozen for l4s. 9u.


LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Eorest
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months, I
can recommend it to all.”
STICK TO YOUR OPINION.
HOLD ON TO
Whose Business is
FIXEP HARP and FAST ip
OXFORP STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Our humble province is to ’tend the WINTER EAIR,” which is now
. . IN FULL SWIN6! . .
MARK FOY’S,
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY CORED BY . .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
r THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Couch, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a. com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had faded. I' or a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
“Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.—J. WYATT, Geelong."
“Mr. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never coughed since the second dose, lam truly grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, O.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he did so, ana it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
* his, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be
in faot, I cannot speak too highly of it>.- —Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo."
“My son, six years old, had Bronohitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
along back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared. —Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria."
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Sir,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent ine about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M‘BEAN, Carlton.’’
“Dear Sir,—l had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“ Dear Sir,—Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quiokly. It is doing
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“Mr W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Aqb of your Bronchitis
Cure I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. After taking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
USE
iROYAL NAVY DRESSIHC
FOR
i: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
" OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
HiWuiuUiHHiiuiHmniiimiHlil
MANUFACTURERS OF . .
U primal led
Eipbrocatiop,
Universal Cream,
Maori Gloss,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Black Oil,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
P .O. Pox 18S, METjJiQ TJIt.NE.
QXJEEKT’S HOTEL,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform his
friends and the general public that he has taken the
above. Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist,, Oeelonjr, Victoria.
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post, to onv address when not obtainable locally
Small size, 2s. fid. ; large, 48. fid. Sold by Chemists and
Hi pane Manga .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ribkne Manga was chief of all the lands in the
watershed of Otika Bay and hereditary head of
some two thousand Ngatipurus. Still, that did
not count much when the land consisted only of
forest-clad mountains and the Ngatipurus were
under the ban of the pakeha.
Kipene Manga had fought with the Waikatos
against the whites and had learned to hate them
with a deadly hatred, and yet the white men had
treated Kipene “ with kindness.” They had
beaten him in war and might have taken from him
all his possessions. They might even have shot
him as a rebel. But they left him in peace—his
district was isolated and the land so rugged and
barren that even the pakeha did not covet it.
One day there came to Otika an old and trusted
friend of Ripene’s. “ Kipene,” said this friend,
“ you are poor and your young men are departing
from you. There is a pakeha who will give much
money for the kauri trees in your forests. Sell
them to him ; he does not ask for land ; the trees
will fall in future storms; the young rikars will
grow into trees.”
Ripene saw wisdom in this speech, though at
first he would have no dealings with the pakeha ;
but the heads of the hapus came to him and said :
“ Why do you not sell the trees ? You cannot eat
them. Why let them rot, when the pakeha will
give money for them ? and with the money we can
buy many things—axes, and spades, and cooking-
pots, knives, fishhooks, and many seeds.”
“And waipero,” sneered Ripene. But they
persisted, and Ripene, in the name of the people,
sold the trees, and the deposit-money was divided
among the hapus, each according to its people.
Then the seclusion of Otika was broken. A
steamer swept into the bay and landed many won-
derful things, and soon a great mill was built on
the narrow estuary. Its bright saws screamed
night and day. Men with axes and cross-cuts
pushed into the forest, and day by day Ripene
heard the crash of falling trees, and as each tree
fell he cursed the pakeha.
* * • ♦
A small township sprang up about the mill just
across the river from the village of the Ngatipuru,
and Ripene marvelled at the skill shown in erect-
ing the slab huts of the workmen ; more still at
the weather-boa.rd house of the manager. Then
he saw that this pakeha village had a great attrac-
tion for his people. At first this attraction centred
at the store —that inexhaustible treasure-house of
gaudy shawls and blankets, of gorgeous prints and
calicoes, of tobacco and pipes.
Much of the money received for the trees went
into that store ; but there were worse places. In
a big slab hut where dwelt the only white woman
there was grog to be had : fiery rum and madden-
ing whisky that made the Maoris victims to a
fearful slavery. In the huts of the axemen and
bullock-drivers there was gambling, and the young
men and the old women were fascinated with nap
and poker; and no matter how luck turned the
winnings always went to the pakeha, and soon all
the money received for the trees went back to the
white man. The Maoris had gained for their
forests a few barbarous prints and trinkets, and
the desire for drink and gambling. The young
men and the strong men then engaged to work for
the white men, and they received wages for labor-
ing 10 and 12 hours a day, and spent the wages in
gambling and drink.
* * • *
Ripene held himself aloof from the pakehas and
sternly forbade the people of his house to have
dealings with them, and he made his ancient
sisters a body-guard for his beautiful daughter.
But there was still another evil, and that was
pakeha love, and to this love Ripene’s daughter
fell a victim, and the old man in his anger and
pride would have slain her, but the white men
seized him and bound him a prisoner. Then he
fell sick, and the white men gave him rum for
medicine, which, when he had tasted, Ripene
craved for more, for it gave him fire and forgetful-
ness ; and there were those who ministered to the
old man’s craving.
The whites, having cut out all the kauris, de-
parted, taking with them all that was worth the
taking, and leaving behind many evils ; and with
the white men went away many of the Ngatipuru
to earn money in a bush ninety miles away. And
Ripene’s beautiful daughter, haggard and sullen
now, hugged a half-caste child to her breast which,
by and by, the old man learned to love, and
through it forgave the mother ; and later he gave
the child his blessing and his name—a great thing
for a proud chief to do.
Otika returned to its ancient calm ; there was
no grog now and no money for grog, and the last
of the cards were quite worn out. Ripene found
a strange joy in his daughter’s child—it became to
him as a son such as the old warrior had yearned
for. He taught the boy all the lore of forest and
water ; the history and traditions of the tribe ; the
genealogy of his race; he taught him the art of
war and the prerogatives of chieftainship. The
boy, Ripene Manga Morriana (this was as near as
the mother could get to Morrison, her false lover’s
name), grew up as a young chief, the envied of all
the hapus, and as he grew in years and stature
so grew the old chief’s love for him.
* * * *
Another change took place. On the western
side of the range the pakehas found gold, and
thousands flocked there and made a town. The
sound of blasting went on night and day, and
old Ripene cursed the sound as he had cursed the
crash of the falling kauris. He made the young
Ripene swear on the sacred tiki never to go near
those hateful pakehas, and the boy swore. Then
the boy heard in the pah the wonders of the new
town beyond the high range. (Some of the young
men came back to Otika full of arrogance and
strange words ; full of cunning tricks and valuable
knowledge. And they aired these things before the
spoilt young chief, until he yearned with a mad
yearning for a sight of the white people. One day
he went hunting pigeons, and climbed through the
hanging forests to the crest of a mountain, and
there below him was the pakeha town, with its
poppet-heads and its weatherboard houses. He
said naught of this, even to his mother, but he
made Kupeta, who, according to his own ideas,
had gathered all the wisdom of the pakeha, teach
him their language. Then Kupeta went to the
mining town, declaring that Otika was no place
for a man who was clever ; and after Kupeta went
Tuwera, the boy’s greatest friend, and after
Tuwera many other young men, each declaring
that fools only would lose all the wonders of the
pakeha town. They asked young Ripene to visit
them, which he did secretly, and was amazed at
the wonders of steam-engines, stamper-batteries—
things he had never seen before. He gloated over
the riches of the shops, and pondered over the
mysteries of quartz and gold, for which the white
men labored; he tasted the white men’s grog, and
became wise even as they were wise. When he
returned, he pretended that he had been out kaka
hunting, and had lost his way, yet, while he
uttered this lie, he fingered a lump of quartz,
which Tuwera had stolen from a mine. After
this he made solitary expeditions up creek-beds
and ravines, and one day he saw cropping out of
the country-rock a reef such as he had seen the
pakehas mine.
He took samples of this reef and showed them
to Tuwera, and Tuwera showed them to the pub-
lican, and what with Maori lies and pakeha greed
that distant reef assumed a wondrous richness. A.
syndicate was formed, and young Morriana was
offered a bribe to show the reef and get his people’s
consent to lease the ground. But the half-caste
feared his grandfather’s anger, and would make
no promise ; then he was flattered and cajoled and
made drunk, and while drunk he was offered what
seemed to him fabulous riches. Then he promised.
* * » •
With much cleverness, Morriana approached
the old chief, saying: “Father,. I. have seen
Tuwera, and he tells me that there is in the Wai-
matai gold which the pakeha digs for, and which
he would pay much for. With money we could
buy many things ” He stopped abruptly.
Ripene scared him with a look. The old man
raised his hand as if to strike, but mastered him-
self and said quietly, “ Morriana, the white man’s
gold breeds a curse ; I will have none of it. Tell
Tuwera that if he shows one fragment—nay, tell
Tuwera that if he again enters my boundaries I
will slay him with my own hand.”
Morriana stole over to the township and told
Tuwera what the chief had said. Tuwera laughed
scornfully. “ Cha ! ” he exclaimed, “ does Ripene
know that even for saying such words I could
have him brought handcuffed to this town and put
into prison?”
“ Is that so?” asked Morriana of the publican,
and the publican answered briefly, “ That’s so.”
“ And what’s more,” continued the publican,
" whether he likes or whether you like we’re going
to find that reef. If you don’t show us where it is
I’ll give the word and three thousand men will
spread over your country in a few days. The
mineral rights of all native lands belong to the
Crown. But, mind you, if you will put us on the
reef we can make a big thing out of it for our-
selves. We can peg out all the best country and
you can have a prospector’s claim. If the show is
as good as it seems you will get thousands of
pounds and you can live like a king.”
* * * *
The publican exhausted his emblazoned argu-
ments, and after him Tuwera took up the running.
After Tuwera the mining-agent gave tongue, and
at last Morriana said: “I will do it.” So the
young traitor led the way over the ranges to the
Waimatai, and showed the reef. The syndicate
spent a rough day marking out the claims, and
when the last peg was driven in they drank suc-
cess to the new goldfields. Whilst they were
drinking old Ripene appeared suddenly among
them dressed like an ancient chief in flaxen robe,
with the sacred tiki round his neck and the famous
mere in his hand. He strode up to Morriana,
who shrank behind the publican. “ Young dog,”
he cried with fearful contempt, “ slave whom I
have cherished, to deceive me ! You will bring
the white robbers to steal my land. Stand aside,
pakeha, and deliver that thing to me.”
The publican (ex-prizefighter) stood aside ; but
as the old chief stepped forward to strike his
cowering grandson he was smartly tripped, and,
with professional violence, the publican sat upon
him. “ Clear into town,” he said to Morriana,
and that youth, with many a backward glance of
fear, obeyed. Then the white men bound Ripene’s
hands and threw his beloved mer 6 away, then
drove him off with many threats. And, with
head bent down in deep dejection, the old chief
marched into the forest and was never seen again.
* * * •
There was a rush to the ground, but beyond one
small run of quartz nothing more was found, and
the place was pronounced a duffer; but Morriana
won reward—he became in time barman at the
Saddle Hotel.
M.L.
F. ROLLETT.
In a Maryborough (Q.) drapery window :
“ Menz Kots, ss. 6d.; Bois Shurts, 2s. 4d. Kash.”
Pitman on a yard-stick.
The Govt. Resident at Thursday Island
(Q.) does not know of one white diver at present en-
gaged in the Torres Straits pearl fisheries. The
white divers of past years mostly made decent
little piles and became boat-owners and propertied
men; whereupon they began to eat, drink and be
merry. White diving is extinct up North.
The Bulletin does not begrudge the
little Brisbane Echo whatever benefit it may reap
from the unacknowledged reproduction of Bul-
letin paragraphs, but, when the Echo credits
them to “ a Victorian paper,” it is a lending to B
of C’s handkerchief and toothbrush, without leave.
Certainly, The Bulletin is a Victorian paper ; it
is also a Queensland, Sowstralian, Westralian,
Vandemonian, Maoriland, Cornstalk publication,
to say nothing of its foreign possessions.
X.Z. : “ What has become of the Angora
goats that Salmon Wilson and others once sought
to acclimatise in Victoria? The big mistake then
made was that they were tried on lowlands and
rolling downs instead of on rangy, well-bushed
highlands, where sheep-growing means a loss or
an infinitesimal profit. Californians and South
African agriculturists are making money out of
Angora flocks just now. The Californian mohair
shorn from goats of mixed Angora strain gets the
highest price in the market. Likewise the animals
are regularly milked for domestic purposes, and
splendid cheese is made from the excess of milk
over domestic demand. Gippsland, in fact all the
country along the Main Divide, is just the place
for goat flocks, and they would pay a score of
times better than weedy scrub-cattle.”


FOR OFFICE OR BUSINESS! WEAR.
A Suitable Suit £l.
Come into
HORDERN’S in Pitt Street, and see them
m Q)
o Economy is Nature’s first taw).
Sent anywhere for a Pound.
pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
11 PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
&
WA
m
I
m
m
w
&
7A
'//
%
w
YM
V//.
V
77 A
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
His Epitaph.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On a little old bush-racecourse at the back o't No
Man’s Land,
Where the mulgas mark the furlongs and a dead
log marks the stand,
There’s a square of painted railing showing white
against the loam
Where they fight for inside running as they round
the bend for home ;
Just a lonely grave and graveyard that are left
to Nature’s care,
For the wild bush-flowers that brighten it were
never planted there ;
No monument or marble that will speak his
praise or blame,
No verse to tell his story and no mark to prove
his name,
But carved upon the white rail that is weather-
worn and thin
Is the simple, rough-hewn legend : He Alwas
Rod to Win.
Some poor, uncared-for jockey-boy, who never
earned a name—
It’s the boys who “ ride to orders ” who can find
the road to Fame ;
And the flowers and marble head-stones and the
wealth of gear and gold
Are the prizes of the riders who will “ stop them ”
when they’re told !
Just a whisper at the saddling: “He’s the only
danger, Dan,
That’s the boy will try to beat you—stop him, any
way you can I”
Just a crowding at the corner and a crossing in
the straight
And a plucky little horseman who is “pulling
out ” too late,
A heavy fall, a loose horse—and a lightweight
carried in—
A shallow grave, a railing, and—He Alwas Rod
to Win.
Some brave, brown-handed comrade who has
learned the rider’s worth
Has carved those rough words o’er him for the
eyes of all the earth,
And though few may chance to pass him as he lies
in simple state
Those few will hold him honoured by the friend-
ship of his mate.
And when in Life’s keen struggle, as we fight for
inside place,
When they crowd us at the corner and we drop
from out the race,
When the ringing hoofs go forward and the cheer-
ing greets the best,
And the prize is for the winner and the red spurs
for the rest,
May we find some true heart comrade, when
they’ve filled the last clods in,
Who will carve these words above us— He Alwas
Rod to Win !
W. H. OGILVIE.
On Our Selection .
JACK OR CRANKY JACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was early in the clay. Traveller after
traveller was trudging by Shingle Hut. One who
carried no swag halted at the rails and came in.
He asked Dad for a job. “I dunno,” Dad
answered—“ what wages would you want ? ” The
man said he wouldn’t want any. Dad engaged
him at once.
And such a man ! Tall, bony, heavy-jawed,
shaven—apparently with a reaping-hook. He had
a thick crop of black hair—shaggy, unkempt, and
full of grease, grass and fragments of dry gum-
leaves. On his head were two old felt hats—one
sewn inside the other. On his back a shirt made
from a piece of blue blanket, with white cotton
stitches striding up and down it like lines of
fencing. His trousers were gloom itself —they
were a problem and bore reliable evidence of his
industry. No ordinary person would consider him-
self out of work while in them. And the new-
comer was no ordinary person. He seemed to
have all the woe of the world upon him —he was
as sad and weird-looking as a widow out in the
wet.
In the yard was a large heap of firewood —re-
markable truth ! —which Dad told him to chop up.
He began. And how he worked ! The axe rang
again—particularly when it left the handle—and
pieces of wood scattered everywhere. Dad watched
him chopping for awhile, then went with Dave to
pull corn. For hours the man delved away with-
out once looking at the sun. Mother came out.
Joy ! She had never seen so much wood cut
before. She was delighted. She made a cup of
tea and took it to him, and apologised for having
no sugar to put in it. The man paid no attention
to her ;he worked harder. Mother waited, hold-
ing the tea in her hand. A lump of wood nearly
as big as a shingle flew up and shaved her left ear.
She put the tea on the ground and went in search
of eggs for dinner. (We were out of meat—
the kangaroo-dog was lame. He got “ ripped ”
the last time we killed.) The tea remained on the
ground. Chips fell into it. The dog saw it. He
limped towards it eagerly, and dipped the point
of his nose in it. It burnt him. An aged rooster
strutted along and looked sideways at it. He dis-
trusted it and went away. It attracted the pig—
a sow with nine young ones. She waddled up,
and poked the cup over with her nose ; then she
sat down on it, while the family joyously gathered
round the saucer. Still the man chopped on.
Mother returned—without any eggs. She res-
cued the crockery from the swine and turned
nervously to the man. She said, “Why, you’ve
let them take the tea ! ” No answer. She won-
dered. Suddenly, and for the fiftieth time, the
axe flew off. The man held the handle and stared
at the woodheap. Mother watched him. He re-
moved his hats, and looked inside them. He re-
mained looking inside them. Mother watched
him closer. His lips moved. He said, “ Listen
to them! They’re coming! I knew they’d
follow ! ”
“ Who? ” mother asked, trembling slightly.
“ They’re in the wood ! ” he went on. “ Ha,
ha ! I’ve got them. They 11 never get out; never
get out! ”
Mother fled, screaming. She ran inside and
called the children. Sal assisted her. They
trooped in like wallabies —all but Joe. He was
away earning money. He was getting a shilling
a week, from Maloney, for chasing cockatoos from
the corn.
They closed and barricaded the doors, and Sal
took down the gun, which mother made her hide
beneath the bed. They sat listening, anxiously
and intently, to every sound. The wind began to
rise. A lump of soot fell from the chimney into
the fireplace—where there was no fire. Mother
shuddered. Some more fell. Mother jumped to
her feet. So did Sal. They looked at each other
in dismay. The children began to cry. The
chain for hanging the kettle on started swinging
to and fro. Mother’s knees gave way. The chain
continued swinging. A pair of bare legs came
down into the fireplace—they were curled round
the chain. Mother collapsed. Sal screamed, and
ran to the door, but couldn’t open it. The legs
left the chain and dangled in the air. Sal called
“ Murder ! ”
Her cry was answered. Joe —who, as already
related, had been over at Maloney’s making his for-
tune —came to the rescue. He dropped out of the
chimney and shook himself. Sal stared at him.
He was calm and covered from head to foot with
soot and dirt. He looked round and said,
“Thought yuz could keep me out, did’n’ y’?”
Sal could only look at him. “ I saw yuz all run
in,’’he was saying, when Sal thought of mother
and sprang to her. She shook her and slapped
her and threw water on her till she sat up and
stared about. Then Joe stared.
Dad came in for dinner—which, of course,
wasn’t ready. Mother began to cry, and asked
him what he meant by keeping a madman on the
place, and told him she kneio he wanted to have
them all murdered. Dad didn’t understand. Sal
explained. Then he went out and told the man to
“ clear.” The man simply said “ No.”
“ Go on, now,” Dad said, pointing to the rails.
The man smiled at the wood-heap as he worked.
Dad waited. “ Ain’t y’ going ?” he repeated.
“ Leave me alone when I’m chopping wood for
the missus,” the man answered ; then smiled and
muttered to himself. Dad left him alone and
went inside wondering.
* * * «
Sixteen years have passed since then, and
the man is still at Shingle Hut. He’s the best
horse ever Dad had. He slaves from daylight till
dark ; keeps no Sunday ; knows no companion ;
lives chiefly on meat and machihe-oil; domiciles
in the barn, and has never asked for a rise in his
wages. His name we never knew. We call him
“Jack.” The neighbors call him “ Cranky Jack.”
Q-
STEELE RUDD
Thus the ineffable London Lucy, in S.M.
Herald Deeply-rooted in the British nature
is antagonism towards flunkeyism.” Ye gods!—
this, upon the heels of a carnival of the paltry
Jeamesism that likes to label itself “loyalty.”
One of the meanest emotions of human nature
masquerading as one of the noblest.”
The morphia fiend. Dr. Paul Rodet, in
Morfhinomanie et Morphinisms, working on
the statistics of one thousand victims, find that
650 were men, 350 women. Of the men, 287 were
medical practitioners (i.e., 401 per cent, of the
whole number), 21 medical students, 1 a doctor’s
son, 21 pharmacists, 4 students of pharmacy, 7
male nurses, and 2 laboratory assistants. That is,
some 53 per cent, of male victims were connected
with the medical profession or the drug-trade.
F. : “ Lewis Bruck, in his ‘ Sweating the
Medical Profession,’ says that N.S.W. is many
years behind so far as relates to Friendly Society
statistics. He gives as a reason that it is con-
sidered unwise to give publicity to the unsound
financial condition in which many lodges find
themselves. He says that there is at least one
order in N.S.W. the general secretary of which
cannot tell how many branches of his society there
are in the province. Has not the public the right
to know the name of this society ? There is no
hope in the Gospel of Hush.”
“ Victoria ” to The Bulletin :
“John Hancock, the Vic. Laborist, has not quite an
Australian name. It occurs to me to give a little elemen-
tary information. He is a compositor, worked as such in
London and New York, and personally knew Dickens—
set type under his auspices. Hancock is a little over 50.
The caricatures all burden him with a burly and almost
brutal appearance. Maybe the photos, do also. But he
has a soft and winning silky fashion, which gives him an
incalculable advantage over the angular, sulky Trenwith,
who is as far inferior to him in judgment as he is superior
to him in ability. Hancock’s orations require to be
heard, because cold type will give bullocky talk ; but
this is mollified by his suave, mellifluous style, and his
guying way, seeming to imply that the savagest
thing he says is a joke. Readiness is his politi-
cal foible. Everyone thinks him superficial. His' fond-
ness for racing, and especially his delight over pony-
racing, needs moderation. However, he is a born leader
of the second-class, cajoling sort. There is not a morsel
of the porcupine, as engendered in Trenwith by his
studious habits. You would say Hancock never opened a
book, except metallics. His income is cosy, for a Labor-
man, and can be sized up by anyone—£3 a week as secre-
tary of the Typo. Society, added to his wages as M.P.
During Trenwith’s absence in England, Hancock handled
the party better. He placed it quite on the centre of the
political see-saw.”
Some years ago a legal man, the son of a
once well-known Melbourne citizen, went badly to
the devil. He was a pleasant, kindly, charitable
rake, and once, in the last days of his affluence
and respectability, being bailed up in his own
front garden by a seedy deadbeat, he gave him
half-a-crown and a good pair of pants. Soon after
this he became the worst kind of a Gentleman
One, and his native city knew him no more. His
downfall was so rapid that inside a year he was a
painfully shabby whaler on the Paroo. There he
one day bailed up a shepherd’s hut for rations.
The bearded inmate heard him patiently, and
then produced a hunk of damper, to which gift,
after serious consideration of the wanderer’s
nether garments—there was about half a yard of
ex-lawyer plainly visible through the rents—he
presently added a, pair of pants. The whaler
went on his way with the property under his arm,
and it was only when he unrolled them a mile
further on that he discovered they were the same
pants that he had formerly owned in Melbourne—
a good deal older and seedier, certainly, but the
same pants. There is a beautiful moral here
somewhere, but, so far, this paper hasn’t managed
to locate it.


IMPURE BLOOD
Is the Cause of very many of the Ills to which Flesh is Heir.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and enriches the Blood, as testified
to toy Mr. W. J. Pickering, Storekeeper, Breeza, New South Wales,
who sends his portrait and tells the following interesting story:
I
i
%
m
i
■-
m
to
//
“In the year 1890 my ankle broke out, and I went to a doctor who told
me I was suffering from blood poisoning. He prescribed for me but did me
no good, and I tried several other physicians without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, and after a month’s treatment there came
out worse than ever, feeling greatly discouraged. I suffered terribly tor
four years, until my wife, hearing of your Sarsaparilla, got me a bottle.
She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon I noticed that the sore
on my ankle began to heal, then the pain diminished, and after a course of
six bottles I became as well as ever I was in my life, and I remain in the
best of health. . T .
Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went through.
I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer with impure blood,
and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who have tried it.”
Be sure that you get the original
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
and be not deceived by the numerous imitations of this wonderful medicine.
Prepared toy Dr. J. O. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mass., IT. 8. A.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
surprise 3to tr J' y° ur un ST Tonic. To my most agreeable
• wsolved’in t llr , < 08e I was R^e *° offloiate with perfect ease. I
tainjv shall , yo^r valuable medicine to my household remedies, and cer-
-3 Bna " uever be without it."
(Rev.) F. O. S. KRCENIG, Vioar of St. Barnabas, Hull.
the 1 i°n.?^? ker Bl ? d 8in K er i I alwaysifind It invaluablerforCleathig'
i>nd I have -!i ke w ®€. ° OD children fer throat and ohestssnqplainth
i' na I bare known it save life, when given up by three physician^
JOHN BAILKY, Pastor, P.M. Ohuroh, Ramqgdte.
Try jt for Consumption.
.Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS,
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and Us., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
•®M> BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING 00., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
pEffflP’S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chihs, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Blotches on the Skin,
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. lHh fIKMI PPM
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES, This is no Action. Every Terer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to he vv A
GUINEA A. BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite,ana
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Mediemevn
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
Wm
-mw
■
!>W/>
mv\
FEARFUL EXTRAVAGANCE.
First Driver : “ I’m goin’ ter look for another job. Our company is gitti
too reckless.”
Second Driver: “Reckless? What have they done?”
First Driver: “Bought a covr! ”
Mick. Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HATUABEET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
UU * GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE. CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
gar Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
■ cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE Is. ... ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.


EPPS’S
OKATEFUL—OOMFOETONJ
COCOA
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeea
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. IW‘ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
Spurious.
Ballet Cirl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and domes-
tic life
Post Free 2j->
Aiso
o?al
The Life, Adven-
and Confessions
a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
66
The Last of Six. :
J.ne manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 Street, svtvwtwv
}
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF—
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MISXjBOUIIIxrXI
,{
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
WortljiQgtor) P(in>pii)g Ei)gii)c Con>pai)y
(Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brothers,
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Olarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
Trade
Sydney, N.S.W.
REGULARPATTERN.
Victoria:
Agencies :
WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
Queensland: MeLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE. ELAIDES -
- Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W.
LTD.
■«
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) :
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
ISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-^ Kinff Street and 23 Royal Arcad*-for
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING
is one
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 26 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
IN THE WORLD.
Agents Everywhere.
H. PATESON, Manager.
manufacturers & Importers
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates’ Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking Pump.
&
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking Pump.
Mining 8 general Machinery.
Knowles’ Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Roots’ Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
THE - -
YIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES*
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Powder.
Scale of Aavertlslns
-IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... ... ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions) ...
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions) ...
One Year „ (52 insertions) ...
Paragraph Advertiasraenla
An hx.tba DISCOUNT of 5 per cant. allowed
... 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
... 10 per cent, discount.
••• 20 ~ ~ „
••• 26 ~ ~
... 10s. per meh per insertion, nett,
for oaah in advance.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used.
As Safe as it is Certain.
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic)
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of tRe
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction. 0
It is endorsed by Vocalist* and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
See you get Bonnington’s.
