

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— _ ,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Or*3and “ Pyramid ** Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Casks Knlglit Sevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
<rAROcK>
o
R. A. HEIiVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE A CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Boston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wopl, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbbnt & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured bv Matiirr
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
<#
$
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
#
(P
Sfr
<&
fM.'
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
Melbourne, August 1, 1897.
Dear Sir,— Your Hair Restorer has had a marvellous effect on the growth of my
hair. Twelve months ago my head was quite bare —bright and shiny ; to-day it is covered
with a fine crop of hair. I shall ever be grateful to you for the excellency of your
treatment. —Yours faithfully, J.F.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hah* Specialist,
103 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Edcalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Before visiting the Ql'X write t° the Manager for
Cara of Tariff, (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
T ZEE ZED - -
(Sros^OorHot^l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDNEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
lOd., 3.1. cl., Is.
Large Stocks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
J. C. Lndowici & Son, Ltd.,
TANNERS,
162 Clarence Street <Only>, SYDNEY.
Toronto Hotel,
LaTce
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
' closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, e pecia’l/ suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at. Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
eive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
85F” Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOTSATIT.
Hadley’s Qrient Ijotel.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Xi_ Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON I,™
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vo! 18.—.N0. 925. J
[Saturday, November 6, 1897.
F postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Limited.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), paper Is., posted is. 3d. ; cloth 25.,
posted 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Eavenc, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung ’, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Works hy Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers)—
Complete-Poetical Works, paper, 55.; posted,
ss. 4d. A limited number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, boards,
2s. 6d. ; posted, 2s. Bd. A few copies re-
main.
Australian Essays, paper, 2s. 6d. ; posted,
2s. 9d. A few copies remain.
Post - free from ‘ THE BULLETIN ’ Office,
214 George-street, Sydney, for postal notes or
stamps of any province to prices named.
EORGE ROBERTSON & CO.
George Street, Sydney.
I’ubli.stn i s of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin); price, Is. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin', by Price Warung; price, ‘2s.; post-free,
2s. 6<l.
MOSi’YN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; piice, 2s. 6d. ;
posted, 2s. Iod.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
A G. STEPHENS,
* I ITERARY AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, (opying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
m ILL CIPIES
and among' all races of men the language of Tobacco is the same. It is the universal
symbol of peace, of good feeling, of meditation. The American Indian ratifies his
treaties with lobacco; a pinch of snuff with a Kaffir makes you liis guest; and a
CRMCO CKJRRETTE
scents fb e weightiest document of the statesman ; it pervades the clergyman’s sermon,
and the barrister’s brief; wherever you go throughout the world, Cameo Cigarettes
burn incense to the Goddess JSicotina, and refresh, soothe, and stimulate in turn the
tired brain and exhausted faculties.
THE RED PAGE.
Stephen Phillips's ‘ Christ in Hades and Other
Poems ’ dates from 1896, so a feverish modern
reader might well deny its claims to be classed
with recent verse. Yet feverish modern readers
must surely sometimes envy the serene aplomb
of British quarterly magazines, which scruple
not to be three, or live, or ten years belated, and
tp discuss far-backs like ‘ Robert Elsmere ’ or
Heavenly twins as showing the trend of current
feminine fiction. And, on the other hand,
quarterly magazine-men must occasionally feel a
lurking qualn; when the literary trader-in-
novelties, having last night assimilated yester-
day’s book, is this afternoon afloat on a full sea
of rapturous or enraged quotations. This, at our
antipodes. Here, at their antipodes, distance
spirts the difference suggestively, so far as the
foreigner is concerned. And we can still better
the pace of local publishers’ presses, though sad
times are coming for our children, and for our
children’s children. The fault, however, will be
theirs entirely ;—they must write before they
read ;—and, for the misfortune, they maun juist
thole.
• * • *
If Bacon were alive nowadays, with the wisdom
attributed to him, he would realise that it isn’t
worth while taking all knowledge for one’s pro-
vince-even if all knowledge permitted itself to
be taken. We have reached a truer conception of
the relation of finite to infinite than Bacon had ;
though our shortcomings and our circumstances
keep lives so far short of conceptions. Nothing
profits the man who loses his own world, his only
world - for we can’t see life sub specie ceternitatis
any longer. The happy hunting-grounds are
Here and Now—
Ah, make the most of what we yet may spend,
Before we too into the Dust descend ;
Dust into Dust, and under Dust to lie,
Sans Wine, sans Song, sans Singer, and—sans End.
The relevancy of this? Well, Literature isn’t Life
—merely Life’s adjunct; that’s all. And a well-
spent life should get the fullest value out of every
hour, every minute, every moment. The present
writer, for example, doesn’t in the least desire to
be discussing Stephen Phillips just at present. It
is a beautiful morning, with a zephyr-softened
sun, and he wants to Bask out on a Beach. With
a Girl. One of Roderic Quinn’s beaches and girls,
for choice—
Pink feet and white ankles
On beaches of gold.
(Omar’s bread and wine and verses might be stowed
under a shady rock, each awaiting its mood). But
the sun-and-zephyr morning is for the present
writer dying, dying—the unreturning hours spelled
by Habit, whose trickling stream of accumulated
impressions continually petrifies more and more
brain-cells into reflex life-in-death ; or mort-
gaged for bread and cheese and kisses, books and
pictures, the hundred cravings which Thoreau
repressed after the method of the alleged savage
who chopped his toes to get his boots on. Yet
Thoreau tired of repression. Hermit-life at Walden
was heroically beautiful ; —and the hermit-hero
gladly came back home again after a couple of years.
Why ? ‘I do not think that I can tell. . . .” Per-
haps I wanted change. There ivas a little stagna-
tionit may be , about two o’clock in the afternoon.’
And, may lie, in spite of the morning and the
mood, that bask would turn out less pleasant than
this task. Stephen Phillips is not always so
attractive as the ideal <4uinn girl, but he has fewer
complications. Even Goethe found his bask-task
rhythm of life developing surprisingly unexpected
irregularities.
* * * *
Stephen Phillips’s book is a very little book
—a pamphlet. So far as here known, it is his only
one at date ; though several later poems have
been printed in ‘The Vellow Book’ and else-
where. Study of the available material brings a
suspicion that ‘The Question’ (here reprinted
July 24, ’97) comes near expressing a personal
emotion. It is the complaint of an enfevered
decadent—
Father, beneath the moonless night,
This heavy stillness without light.
There corne-i a thought which I must speak;
Why is my body then so weak?
Why do 1 falter in the race,
And flag behind this mighty pace?
Why is my strength so quickly flown?
And hark! My mother sobs alone !
There is a suggestion of physical weakness—lack
of vitality—throughout all Phillips’s work : his
phrases flicker where they ought to blaze. This
is the prettiest of the “ Other Poems ”
O thou art put to many uses, sweet!
Thy blood will urge the rose, and surge in Spring ;
But yet! . . .
And all the blue of thee will go to the sky,
And all thy laughter to the rivers run ;
But yeti t . .
Thy tumbling hair will in the West be seen,
And all thy trembling bosom in the dawn ;
But yet 1 . . .
Thy briefness in the dewdrop shall be hung,
And all the frailness of thee on the foam;
But yet! . . .
Thy soul shall be upon the moonlight spent,
Thv mystery spread upon the evening mere.
And yet ! . . .
fr'or the most part this is an extension or fresh
oresentation of old images (perhaps an analogue
night be found even for the lovely line
And all thy trembling bosom in the dawn),
and the ribbon binding the garland develops an old-
enough idea; but the combination is exquisite.
(Mem.—To consider whether it is more meritorious
iu a poet to announce a new beauty—if there be
new beauties—-than to delicately deck an old one;
whether the memory of old beauties is curse or
blessing to the reader, and whether it should be a
curse to the poet.)
* • * •
‘ Christ in Hades ’ is built more massively.
Christ comes to Hades ; and for a moment there
is a sense of Life and Spring in the horrid place
of torment—
Over the head of Jesus the whole sky
Of pain began to drive: old punishments
Diswreathing drooped, and legendary dooms
Dispersing hung, and lurid history streamed.
And in many fine phrases, very sadly sweet, yet
frequently wanting vital pulsations, a dozen
heroic pages pass. The business of Hades is
momentarily suspended, and dim sad ghosts drift
up to Christ enquiringly.
Then stole a woman up to him, and said:
‘ Although I know thee not, yet I can tell
That only a great love hath brought thee hither.
Didst thou so ail in brightness, and couldst not rest
For thinking of some woman ? Was thy bed
So empty, cold thy hearth, and aimless glides
Thy wife amidst us? Whom then dost thou seek?
For see, we are so changed : thou wouldst not know
The busy form that moved about thy fire.
She has no occupation, and no care,
No little tasks. Owe hud pleasant homes.
And often we remember husbands dear,
That were most kind, and wonder after them.
My little children ! Who sings to them now?
Return then to the earth I Thou canst not fetota
Thy drooping listless woman to the air.
Thou’lt have no comfort out of her at all.
* » * *
Then follows a beautiful passage, the most fas-
cinating in the poem—
But one broke in on her with eager words.
‘ See how we live along exhausted streams,
Eluding forests, and dispersing hills ;
O but I gloried and drank and wept and laughed
Give me again great life 1 To dare, to enjoy,
To explore, never to tire, to be alive,
And full of blood, and young, to risk, to love 1
The bright glory of after battle wine,
The flushed recounting faoes, the stern hum
Of burnished armies, thrill of unknown seas 1'
As he was speaking, slowly all the dead
The melancholy attraction of Jesus felt;
And millions, like a sea, wave upon wave,
Heaved dreaming to that moonlight face, or ran
In wonderful long ripples, sorrow-charmed.
Toward him in faded purple, pacing came
Dead emperors, and sad unflattered kings;
Unlucky captains listless armies led ;
Poets with musio frozen on their lips,
Toward the pale Brilliance sighed ; until at last
Antiquity, like evening gathering,
With mild and starry faoes, gradually
Had stolen up.
* * * •
Occasionally the poet moves with Milton’s
majesty—
The dead, caught in intolerable hope,
Hither and hither burning rushed, or fell
Imploring him to leave them cold ; but Christ
Came through them : leading irresistibly
Not Western spirits alone : but all that world
Was up! and after him in passion swept
Dead Asia, murmuring, and the buried North !
Presently Christ comes to Prometheus on his crag,
still fixed in torment, though ‘all these ancient
prisoners released.’ Says unredeemed Prome-
theus—
Tlry hands are too like mine to undo these bonds,-
Brother, although the dead world follow thee,
Deep-fascinated : love hath marred us both,
And one yearning, as wide as is the world.
O how thy power leaves thee at this cross!
And Christ
knew that for a time the great advance
He must delay, postponing our desire.
* » * *
The motive of the whole might be Matthew
Arnold’s
Wandering between two worlds, one dead,
The other powerless to be born,
With nowhere yet to rest my head,
Like these, on earth I wait, forlorn.
The Christ-faith sufficed to save the ancient
world ; the modern world, of which Prometheus,
the re volt-spirit, is exemplar, finds it a consola-
tion transient, nugatory. The conception is finely
treated, and the result remains (in spite of many
eclioes) on the high poetic level. A certain want
of savage force, a certain academic attenuation of
style, are hardly felt as drawbacks; theme and
scene seem to exact half-lights and melancholy
greys.
* » » *
One notes Phillips’s heroic-verse developments
with perplexity. Quit the canons, if you will ;
abolish the five accents even ; but surely you must
permit the musio to remain. And is there heroic
music in lines like—
Smells m the dark the cold odour of earth.
Milton wrote—
Rose like a steam of rich distilled perfumes.
Would it improve his music to write—
Rose like a gleam of rich dlst'lled perfumes—
With stress on the ‘dis,’ and not on the ‘ tilled ’
after the Phillips manner. Here is another
Phillips line —
The bright glory of after-battle wine.
On the same plan Milton would have written—
To men mortal, he, with his horrid orew,
instead of—
To mortal men, he, with his horrid orew.
And when Milton knew better, did he not know
better ?
—♦
J. Le Gay Brereton is out again with another
batch of_ verses to the girl who has undone him.
“ Let him marry the girl ! ” unfortunately can-
not apply here, for the girl has already
married another fellow and all the verses
(three books of ’em) are so many stones heaped
on the grave of a passion which won’t lie quiet.
It is to be feared this reads as it is not meant —
unkindly ; and the point of view is certainly most
unfair. When a great poet loses his mistress,
and wails her in immortal song, we stand with
bared heads in the sanctuary of his grief ; and
when a small poet loses his mistress, and pro-
cesses funerally behind the hearse, we can only
note that the horses are lame and the trappings
tarnished. Yet one should be able to see the
small poet’s great grief through all his inadequa-
cies of expression, and share it as we share a
Dante’s.
. . . the poor beetle that we tread upon
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
As when a giant dies.
But imperfect human nature can’t sympathise
with beetles—even with that interesting member
of the species, the sexton beetle, necrophorus
vespillo, which finds an appropriate nidus for its
eggs in dead bodies. The worst of it is that
Brereton turns out to have been the author of
’ Perdita, a Sonnet Record ’ —which, as he shows
by quotation at the end of the new book, was
anathematised on this page as ‘. . . an abomina-
tion of bloodlessness . . . flat batch of rhymes.’
Does it not look brutal to so characterise the
work of a tender-hearted poet (for Brereton in
most essentials is a poet; he has much sym-
pathy and some fancy, and a cultured ap-
preciation of the beautiful and of the true,
and a fine hatred of cant and injustice—and
these things always underlie his verses and
hardly ever are seen in them). But what is a
critic to do? You must uphold standards avid
ideals; and when a poetical skull has to be hit,
it has to be hit —not tapped—more particularly if
it is none of your Keats-eggshell variety, but a
good old Donnybrnoker that merely shakes off a
fly wherever the blackthorn lights.
* • * *
If anything, the new book, ‘Sweetheart Mine,’
tastes a little better than ‘Perdita’ (Brere-
ton’s first book, ‘The Song of Brotherhood,’ con-
tains his best work—presumably it was written
when he was a little younger, and his pulse beat a
little faster, and the girl was a nearer, diviner
inspiration). But the fault of ‘Perdita’ is
4 Sweetheart’s ’ _ fault—in the bulk she is
flat and unoriginal. Occasionally comes a
sentiment with a little fibre in it—as in ‘ Comi-
tatus,’ with its refrain
For I’m loved by all the children of the town.
And in “ Nightfall ’ you get a shadow of what
Brereton might do— would do —and cannot do.
Let it come soothingly, by way of grace after
tough meat, or benediction after a bad sermon.
been treated will appear at price' in the treatment
of Arthur Symons. Symons has poetically lost a
girl, just like Brereton ; and there is nothing but
praise for the way in which he has lost her. At
all events, for the first way ; he lost her once
nobly, in 1 Mundi Victima ’ (wliich appeared first
in ‘The Savoy’ magazine), and once ig-
nobly in the series of 14-lilie stanzas
printed together with ‘ Mundi ’ in his new
book, ‘ Amoris Victima.’ Comparison of the two
ways is curiously interesting. it looks as if
Symons wrote ‘Mundi’ (his masterpiece—on a
level with his previous best, ami better than his
best because fuller, more sustained) while still
shivering and burning with the ague-fits of
passion. Then the idea seized him to em-
body in a book the preliminaries of the
passion, and he sat down deliberately
to write up his dead emotions—and failed,
because no man can deliberately resuscitate
dead emotions. So all these 14-line preliminaries
are among the stiffest, dullest things Symons has
done—entirely lacking the lyrism, fervor, fluidity
for which we ordinarily praise him. Probably
Rossetti’s ‘ House of Life ’ suggested such a
casket for the ashes of old flame; but even
Rossetti -failed for the most part, failed in
the sequence and in many items of the sequence,
and Symons has failed more obviously than
Rossetti—because, for one thing, Symons’s seven-
couplet stanza has not the melody and distinction
of sonnet-form ; and because, for another thing,
Rossetti was the greater master of phrase and
sound, and labored his images more. ‘ Sequences 1
of sonnets or such, in fact, can only be effective
when each sonnet in the sequence culminates from
a wave of emotion ; when you try to build heart-
chambers in accordance with a prearranged archi-
tectural plan the result is uniformly bad.
* * * *
‘ Mundi Vietima ’ may speak a little, brokenly,
for her magnificent self. (After all, only the primal
impulses can heat a bard to white-hot poetry.
Eating and drinking are mostly voted too-base
stimuli ; civilised man doesn’t fight more than ha
can help; what but Love is left to inspire us?)
Love, to the world, is the forbidden thing ;
And rightly, for the world is to the strong,
And the world’s honor and increase must belong
To the few mighty triumphing through hate
And to the many meek who humbly wait
The gi udging wage of doily drudgery.
The world is made for hale, for apathy,
For laboring greed that mines the earth for gold,
And sweats to gather dust into its hold :
Is not the world bought for a little dust?
Kingdoms are shaken from their ancient trust,
And kingdoms stablished upon treacheries;
Under the temple-roof of the same skies
The stones of altars older than their gods
Are beaten down, and in the old abodes
The smoke of a new incense blinds the stars)
The rind of earth is eaten up by wars,
As a rat, gnawing, leaves a mouldering heap ;
And the world drowses in a downy sleep,
The world being sworn confederate with sucoess.
Yet will it pardon the forgetfulness
Of laughing loves that linger but a night
In the soft perfumed chambers of delight.
How should it pardon love? love whose intent
Is from the world to he in banishment,
Love that admits but fealty to one,
Love that is ever in rebellion.
The world is made for dutiful restraint,
Its martyrs are the lover and the saint,
All whom a fine and solitary rage
Urges on some ecstatic pilgrimage
In search of any Holy Sepulchre.
The lover is a lonely voyager
Over great seas and into lonely lands,
He speaks a tongue which no man understands,
Much given to silence, no good citizen,
His utmost joy to be apart from men,
For ids creating mind has given birth,
God-like, to anew heaven and a new earth )
Where, if he dwell apart or in the crowd,
He talks with angels in a fiery cloud
Upon the mount of vision all his days.
Therefore tire world, beholding in his face
Only the radiance of reflected light
Left by that incommunicable sight,
Which to the dim eyes of the world may seen
But the marsh-glimmer of a fevered dream,
Bids love renounce love, or be cast aside.
Has not the world’s hate ever crucified,
From age to age, rejoicing in its loss,
Love on the same inevitable cross,
In every incarnation from above
Of the redeeming mystery of love?
NIGHTFALL.
Why must you leave hie at the close of day,
When all the heat of twelve long hours is pent
Here in my thudding heart ? What day hath spent
Of light and life and love is stored away
Within the coffer of my soul; and may
Your hand not turn the hey, since God hath sent
You as His angel ? Know you what he meant?
My place is with you, darling. Let me stay.
Alone—how long?—while day through other lands
Makes progress till our east again is grey,
In dreams I hear the secret words you say,
With throbbing temples and with trembling hands.
I know your will is not with your commands.
Your dreams with mine are mated. Let me stay.
That is nicely put; and one sincerely hopes she
let him stay.


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE,
Tlie tried & trusted
Pbieb DSof sufferers
Second to None in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troirbles.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt, lhat
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy hut less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SYDNEY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
YOUNG MEN,
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfuluess,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r'en.
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
_ kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
MAIL.
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to tbe
doctors if living
away from tbe
city and unable
to come to tlieir
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-
lises, NEItVOUs
AND PitIVATE
DISE A.SES, post
free on applica-
All Trams slop at the Door.
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
t eatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
SIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showinjr how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
anv earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABoro Pby&iciao-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung- into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-stre *, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
'of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justic.
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully sta. /!
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a cai eful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.H.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
*7 York street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.o. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to tne
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week.of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEtLRA
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURL.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient tinus
himself gaining l in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds hmiseli
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor ot
life.
Alt Li CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
#®" MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, . Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P 0., SYDNEY.
-JOHN ESURANTi
09
i
FULL Dl RECTIQUa
. ENCLOSED!
John Durant’s Sura Oure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 7 York Street*. Sydney.
L ADIES !
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-. 127 Red fern Street,
ppropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
REDFERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
t) s RI CORD'S
IS
li
°f
The only Tv r all'ble Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.,
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
en for Australasia— Perry ft Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street. MELBOURNE
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, MelboubNE.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
BOOKsI BOOKS. BOOKS.
New Up-to-Date Publications.
rpilE Soiled Dove, the history of a young lady who ran
-!■ away from home and eventually went to the dogs;
also Miss Skittles, the girl with six husbands; Sappho, or
Life and Love in Paris, each post free 1/6. The Ballet-
Girl, her theatrical history, “illustrated," before and
behind the scenes, post free 1/-. Maria Monk, Ovid’s Art
of Love, Byron’s Don Juan, each post free 1/9.
R. W. SKINNER,
. . The Noted Second-Hand Bookseller . .
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
1 GOT,DEN SHANTY (collected verse and
a stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Eooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. G-IBBOHTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused'
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Erequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, backing cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will send
(POST TREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT ~ST,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
are destroyed by fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours :
qf n k DATLV
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday,
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT minfiOOD.
—w —
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Hipe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
'' permanently cured by new perfected scientiflo
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases, of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Elinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the winters
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Hr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S. A. writes “ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted t«
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises" in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel lit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENARY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding-my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition tor
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and plaoe their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwao.


TATTERSALL’S
•.. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SANDHURST C. Nov. 24.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Add ress
* s
Newcastle TattersalPs C
Dec. 11.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
SUMMER C. December 27.
50,000 Subscribers at; 5,
Address
CARRINGTON 8. Jan. 1, 1898.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ; shares in the above.
Name.
Address
ANNIVERSARY
50,000
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Name.
Address
Jau. 26,
H.
fibers at
5.
shares in the above.
LAUNCESTON C.
February 2.
SO,COO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot, me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Hobart U <>th Febi
50, C00 SOBSCRIBCRS at 5.
To TA'ITKRSAbL.
Pleatkj allot me
.Hi a res in the above.
Name,
:
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
• • •
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ONE!
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USE
Spooler's
FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
I"- OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
OIRECIIONS FOR USE
iiii - . ■ ■
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING-,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
t m
JIASON’S STEAM K .u REDUCING VALVES.
Sole A /ruts in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
BRTGIKTEERS.
Please Note New Address :
845 Hourke st., Melbourne ; 74 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/fe e- eh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, f/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, yc per oz.
\Ve are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N-
-110 Wu I,lam Street,
eorner of Palmer street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door
Send stamps for full Price List,
mpt attention given to Country Order*
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
DOUBLe'bUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. lIILLIEII, 135 & 137 Snssex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring’s, etc.
Saddles for Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one, do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS in
TS>e FiQ'St ai)d Largest WtiSic WarcljoGS*
IKT AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANO&
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
£»"sm> DE3"S2T.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO 33KJb*Y COMPETITION.
WINES me Best B Z’ ub only ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Or. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with snecial beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessn ss, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware o ; injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. 'Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet S iap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge. Eng.
#4 FOR PRINCES.
Costard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S GUSTARO POWDER
can he obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
j-he best resource for every house -
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bud's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
■
m
ros
WSffMM
rn&iiMam
... T - -—li
v,. ir
<
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER
XJniterl Typewriter
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
M Hlillt >TJ UN 15—362 Collins Street.
PERTH —71 Barrage Street.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper.
Scrt'l for particulars of tree Trial
& Supplies Co.,
BRISBANE—Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE—Reeves & Co.
LAUNCESTON—HedIev Button.
London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Hards of the Backb
France knows how to administer castor oil
to children. Instead of gripping the nose and
pouring the horrid stuff down, the new way is to
pour the oil into a pan over a moderate fire, break
an egg into it, and keep it well stirred till this
castor omelette is well set': then it is appetisingly
served, with a little salt and sugar, and some
currant jelly.
In the West (N.S.W.), they have found
another defect in the ’95 Land Act. If resumed
areas (the portions of runs open to selection, and
held only from day to day on license) are not
likely to be wanted for settlement, they may be
added to the leasehold, and the holders then get
fairly secure tenure —good anyhow, for
them to improve the land on. Now some big
holdings contain a little country which may be
required for settlement, but a great deal more
which will certainly not be so required, and
which, without improvement, is next to valueless.
r he Act, however, doesn’t apparently contemplate
ueh an obvious state of things, and only pr<>> ;rles
for the attachment or non-atr,iehtnent_ of the-lot.
So another “ scheme ” of amendment is promised.
THE NEARSIDE LEADER.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
When the gear is on the horses and the knotted
trace-chains hooked ;
When the last bale’s on the waggon and the
ropes are twitched and tied ;
When the brakes 'are off the big wheels and the
waybills safely booked,
You can see the old gray leader with his wise
head turned aside ;
Does a memory come o’er him
Of the long, stiff road before him,
With the lead-chains never slackened as he holds
his team to work,
Through the box-fiats and the gidyeas,
Ninety miles of plain and ridges,
To the white-railed Darling bridges and the silver
roofs of Bourke ?
Just a whisper from his master and he leans upon
the weight,
And the twenty browns behind him touch the
collar when he moves,
Then the whip rings out a warning, and the under-
carriage grates.
And they bend their backs and lift her from the
well-worn loading grooves.
So they open up the tourney,
And she starts her long, rough journey
Over ninety miles of noonday and the evenings in
between,
And the station gates have freed her,
With the station men to speed her,
And it’s “ Buckle down, my leader, on the road
you’ve often been ! ”
Now the red dust curls behind her, and the red
dust rolls before,
And from shafter up to leader they are sweat
from head to hip,
And the good ones take the collar, and the bad
ones baulk and bore,
But the grey horse strains the harder every time
he bears the whip ;
So, by lash and lurid order,
They will swing her through the Border,
With the dust upon her loading making extra
weight to pull,
And the drunken township loafer
Staggers blindly from his sofa
Just to see the first team over with the Tliurul-
goona wool.
Oh ! the camping by the river when the sun is
riding low ;
Oh ! the shifting of the collars and the dropping
of the chains;
And the music of the big bells, as they let the
horses go
To their drinking in the river and their feeding
on the plains !
So, from camp to camp-fire, daily,
They will battle through Belalie,
Till they leave the plains behind them and the
river at their back,
Where the stony hills are showing
There is panting now, and blowing,
But the grey horse keeps them going with the
chains that never slack.
So the toe-clips cut the roadway where a thousand
hoofs have trod,
While above the gold sun glistens and to West
the red sun flames
To the creaking of the waggon and the lurching of
the load
And the grinding of the tug-chains in the hooks
upon the hames ;
And the leader’s heart thumps loudly,
But he bends his old neck proudly
As he swings them through the bridges, sticking
staunchly to his work ;
And I wish the gray could hear him
When a stranger says, “ I’d spare him,
For there’s not a horse comes near him in the
teams that draw to Bourke ! ”
• ••*•#
Oh! it’s grand to bring the largest loads from
Thurulgoona side,
And it’s grand to have a leader that the smallest
child knows well;
But, if you love an honest horse, when next the
ropes are tied
You’ll leave him in the bluegrass, for the gray
has earned a spell.
He has borne the brunt of battle,
He has led your lagging cattle
With the red galls on his shoulder, yet he never
shirked a start;
And ’twere better you should brain him
Ere you burst him up and strain him,
For, just think, each trip you chain him helps to
break a willing heart!
WILL. H. OGILVIR
THE KING’S MERCIE.
[The Armenians are petitioning the Sultan, etc., etc.
The tribesmen are supplicating for merer, etc., etc.—See
daily press übique.]
Hast seen a crop of golden grain
With bended head ask Heaven for rain ?
Hast seen, responsive to the call,
The gathering showers prepare to fall ?
Hast noted, then, some cloud accurst
In million icy missiles burst,
Until the cornfields droop and fail
’Neath fusillade of direful hail ?
So wilt thou see a suppliant crowd
Implore the grace of despot proud ;
So wilt thou hear his promise fair,
His kingly cant of loving care ;
And while the people humbly bow,
With bated breath and fearful brow,
Thou’lt see the dews of mercy fall
In showers of shot and shell and ball.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


AtiStraliai) f^OtCial
Established 1819.
ProVideQt Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established - 0T ,, D1
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY VEAR .
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R Esq., De p ut^Chai r mati;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ,
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, 1.1. A., F.F.A., t.o. •
Annual Income ... Exceeds Two Millions s * erli "S- „ .. ..
Accumulated Funds Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling. .
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making: unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000. __
Head Office: 8"7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Rates 12/& da? c upwards
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
M.Edwin Moore,
i mamager
iinmmmimi
mu
iniiiiiiiiiiiii
101S3H1 Nl iZdOWlj
SbVOIO
iaj
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
er
mes
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
• I
637-639 George Street,
- S'srca.JnLe'sr. -
/
o ls
C o°.
&
m
tC
rjU
mm
no
iiV,
SA
LI—I
QJ
UD
\
k
k
%
PR£sef*f VE
paint
RUBERQID
DAMP-COURSE
BU| LD| N
« a
AGENTS E.RicHaC924a26 O’ConnellSt SYDNEY.
Every 'XT of
f
m-
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
«3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. Isa
S-u-EsaxxKeK* Suits » Summer Suits l
■ —— *♦♦♦♦<.s♦<>«>♦♦♦♦♦♦«
Tbs Loßjdot) St Tailoring Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have one of the Largest and most Varied Stock of SUMMER SUITINGS in the City.
Call or send far Patterns ami Measurement Forms.
Its- SUI rs—ls/-, 50/ to 90/ WOU'ERS -12/6 to 25/- Vi;
All Goods delivered FREE to any part of the Colony.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED. S. M. BAUMASIIE, M.nxgcr.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH EUOM £1 Is. A SET.'
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. L?VER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
rPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain ; also
Without Plates, by means of llridf/em orh.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any month with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, wilh or without the ext ruction of roots and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
MELBOURNE CUP
VISITORS should STAY AT
FEDERAL PALACE
E3ZO*X*3E3J^,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY MODERN COMVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms; and Oafd open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOR
Farmer's Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Aarents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
SECOND-H/YND
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Evpry requisite for .the Furnishing of the HOME of. best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call arid inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO ,
278 Georsre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
INSURE with AN ,
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE —
UTy MUTUAL FIRE
insurance company, ltd.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The LI .n. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Jinilili 4l(i Voilitis Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSPMUA
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Lossss Paid in 19 Ye.,rs - £lBO,OOO
i® 1 INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BO" US PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Com/tan tj Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLD KISS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .££2lo, divi.Ul
with Policy- hob b-rs foi; the year 1896 is now
payable on renew.il of i o icies. The BONllti
makes £97,76di\ i'h.il in .cash between
Policy-holders and S iareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insu aice at lowest Ratis.
Head Office : 120 Pitt Street, S j iney-
KKI.SO KING, Secretary.
"-THE^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 12,000,000.
Policies issued, 73.972—assuring £23,075,620. .
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling'. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lov* »•
Fidelity Guarantees. Ump. Liabiltjr.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
WO O- ELIDBIDCtE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOU K STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post h ow. alt the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 ToqS lmported Leaf
tfrao all.tbf otbtr Tobacco
Factorits Pot Together
were used by BOMS for Bll! BffOJ’NiS
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of Bis sen’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tol acco Manuiac-
turers in ihe Southern Hemisphere.
y-
Mil'd Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
11.7 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
The 0 .nicest Brhd.it Cut and Plug.
New and Old The Workingmans Choice.
Choicest Dark Twist.
I
Dark Plug and Twist.
9
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopoly
Hot h-chi Ids.
I® n P£47!ScSi —I Havana and American Cigala
retai led at 4in a packet for (id.
Importers of Pipes. &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 18.—No. 925.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1897.
PfilOß, 6d.
/LONDON, Sunday.—A further trial of
xiray s starting machine was made .jester?
day. at Hurst Park.
A held of i;t horses was sent away with a
capital start by means of the Invention, the
impression created being of a most favor- ,
able character /.
i/i /tzclcj /6c o. Alt' 4uf tf~
S~/iZt filns //£ /?airf/$( ejf*6?issec/ " S'/arf/ng~"fo'-sej'
The public will be interested to learn from
bioyollst Martin that be bad a good time during
hie thirteen deya’ retirement. p r i s on life
he describes as a pleasant change tor any busy
ipan. What ho particularly enjoyed -was the
“complete rqst."
&.'V
THE POLITICAL SITUATION.
Interest In the political situation was at its
minimum cn Saturday, even In the circles where
pol ticians foregather. For the public this crisis
indeed has come at a singularly Inopportune time
Thi Melbourne Cup and the Australian-Englisb
cricket matches are proving about as much ex-
tsiteiutint astho popufST nrina can assimilate T> e
Mr
Lyne, in obedience to his method of re-
fusing to permit the people to deter
mine their own destiny, still cnrtsies
his “ policy ” looked in his brenst as -n
close secret.
s ■ 'Ftf a
I Co LlI ot 1)1^
K C S o try y
ts *?'%
£
//-
/■? -~
, *y * S
/?*f
V, vP
o' O
<6 $g
$ /■<?
$ <? $
>V
c
“Alas! toy ltibra queen,” sighed the remnant of a noble race,
"there is nothing for it but to come down to the white man’s level
and get into Parliament and so secure free-passes for you and me and
the prince- 1 did hope that the oppressor would have spared me this .
A novel with a purpose—according to persistent rumor.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• & 9
Half-yearly ... ... 0 a a
Quarterly ... 0 6 b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal rsote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
4 Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted -
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address vs specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original hwmrous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
de Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside ~ N.S. Wales ( except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—tyd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1897.
Judge Windeyer Apologises.
Out of his grave comes Judge Windeyer’s
apology—his stumbling, hesitating apology. It
seems that he believed it a justification, and
that his friends believe it—or try to believe it—
a justification. So sincerely can a man mis-
understand himself—so easily can his friends
persuade themselves into misunderstanding
him ! The Windeyer apology is a deliberate
attempt to falsify history, and as such must be
resented.
* * • *
In the Dean case, Judge Windeyer was not
Judge ; but advocate, partisan. He took the
side of the prosecution against the prisoner
Dean. Throughout the trial, he emphasised
for the jury every point which could tell
against Dean, and slurred every point which
could tell in Dean’s favor. At the close, he
ridiculed the defence and demanded a convic-
tion.
* « * *
The jury hesitated. Judge Windeyer was
astonished ; he knew how strongly he had put
the case against the prisoner. “ The jury re-
tired, and remained long in consultation. The
Judge grew impatient. He could not conceive,
he said, how, in so plain a case, they should
even have left the box. He sent a messenger
to tell them that, if they did not instantly
return, he would adjourn the court and lock
them up all night. Thus put to the torture,
they came, but came to say they doubted
whether the charge had been made out.
Jeffreys expostulated with them vehemently,
and, after another consultation, they gave a
reluctant verdict of Guilty.”
• * * *
These are Macaulay’s words, describing the
conduct of Bloody Jeffreys at the trial of
Alice Lisle ; and it is singular (as Melb.
Argus pointed out) how exactly they fit
the Dean case. The jury in the Dean case
remained in deliberation for eight hours
from 12.25 on Saturday afternoon till 8.25 on
Saturday night. Then Judge Windeyer sent a
messenger bidding them return into court. The
case was so plain, he said, and they had been
so long deliberating, that he thought he mus t
have failed to put the matter rightly before
them. It was almost a scandal upon the admin-
istration of justice that they could not come to a
conclusion. He could, understand their sympa-
thy, and a recommendation to mercy, and a
strong one too ; but unless they agreed he would
have to lock them up till Monday morning.
* * • *
This is the modified language of the news-
paper reports, but it does not give in its full
brutality the impression which the Judges
remarks made upon the jury. He in effect
told them : “ You must convict the prisoner. I
am astonished that you should not convict him
at once. Your delay is scandalous to justice.
If some of you have any qualms, I’ll tell you
what I’ll do : I’ll recommend the man to mercy.
But if you don’t bring in your verdict promptly
I’ll look you up till Monday morning.”
* * * *
That was the impression which Judge Win-
deyer’s language left upon people in court, and
upon most of the jury. He bribed w'hile he
threatened. It was the jury’s duty to convict
Dean. If they did, Dean would not be hanged.
But, if they did not make up their minds
sharply, they would be locked up for 34 hours
—a formidable threat to men sickened with the
confinement of a three days’ trial. The cajoled
and bullied jury retired again, and in seven
minutes returned with a verdict of Guilty—-and
a strong recommendation to mercy ! “ lhen
you voted ‘Guilty’ in the belief that Judge
Windeyer would endeavor to get Dean a. re-
prieve ? ” asked a reporter of one of the jury-
mien. “Certainly,” was the reply. “If the
Judge hadn’t said w’hat he did say I would
have stayed there, and at least have given the
man another show on the Monday. There was
a sort of pledge to me, I consider.”
» * * *
What can justify a Judge in thus usurping
the functions of a jury, and forcing them with
all the weight of his authority to give their
verdict, not in accordance with the evidence as
they are sw’orn to do, but in accordance with
his opinion or his prejudices ? What can jus-
tify a Judge in such a calculating threat of
physical torture unless the jury bring in the
verdict he bids them bring in ? What can jus-
tify a Judge in suggesting such an immoral
compromise—in bargaining that if the jury
will force their consciences to give a verdict of
“ Guilty ” he will lessen the severity of the
sentence ? Such language, such conduct, would
be disgraceful and intolerable if George Dean
had attempted to poison fifty wives.
* * * *
Judge Windeyer is said to have considered
that “ the ill-feeling ” shown against him was
invoked by “ those who were jealous of his
success, or who had cause to hate his stern im-
partiality (!) in administering justice.” Noth-
ing of the kind : it was his own acts which in-
voked it. Judge Windeyer’s only enemy was
himself. But because he was himself, he
became, in his position on the Supreme Court
bench of N.S. Wales, the enemy of every citi-
zen who valued public morals and respected
public justice. No one who did not personally
know him cared a straw for Windeyer the
man. But it was everybody’s business to
denounce Windeyer the unjust Judge.
• * * *
In his apology for the Dean case Judge Win-
deyer is represented as putting forward two
pleas—one that it had been represented as tech-
nically uncertain whether a jury could be
locked up over Sunday, and he wished to re-
move any chance of misapprehension from
their minds ; the other that a son of the fore-
man of the jury had died suddenly, and there
would be question of the funeral. Both
pleas are worthless. Judge Windeyer had no
right to interrupt the deliberations of the jury
in the matter of George Dean’s life by the
significant hint that they would suffer great
personal inconvenience if they did not bring in
their verdict promptly. Under the circum-
stances the hint was a threat. As to the second
excuse, the foreman of the jury was ignorant of
his son’s death, and it might have been just as
merciful to let him remain in ignorance for a
few hours longer. In any case, the full and
free deliberation of the jury should not have
been interfered with, even for the sake of 50
funerals ; the question at issue was the funeral
of Dean. A Judge may sympathise with
private griefs, but he has to look first to his
public duty. Until the jury’s verdict is pro-
nounced, the prisoner is his first and sacred
charge, more especially when life or death may
hang on the issue.
* * * *
Nor is it correct to say that Judge Windeyer
was “ completely vindicated ” by the ultimate
issue of the Dean embroglio. He was not vin-
dicated in the least. The verdict was a right
verdict; but the means which Judge Windeyer
employed to secure it were disgracefully wrong.
His conduct at the trial remains quite un-
affected by the outcome : no evil-doer is “ vin-
dicated ” by the good that may spring from his
deed. George Dean was indeed justly sen-
tenced, but he was unjustly tried ; and the
memory of Judge Windeyer cannot be freed
from the stigma of that unjust trial. Nor is it
desirable that it should be. It is lawful and
right that the mistakes of a public servant
should be remembered, however he or his
friends may privately regret them. The cairn
that marks his slip is the community’s warning
to his successors.
* * * *
And an additional scandal in the Dean case
was this: that Judge Windeyer’s zeal as a
partisan aided the failure of the prosecution to
properly present the case to the jury ; with the
result that Dean was found guilty, at the
Judge’s instigation, on insufficient evidence—
evidence which did not amount to proof—evi-
dence which justified a verdict of Not Guilty.
When the case was re-heard before a special
Commission, a majority of the Commission
decided that Dean’s guilt was not proven.
More, a majority of the jurymen said that, had
they had before them the fuller evidence which
was placed before the Commission, they would
certainly have acquitted Dean. Proof of Dean’s
guilt was eventually forthcoming, but not until
long after the trial. The final issue showed
indeed that Judge Windeyer had guessed
correctly ; but the ideal of Justice is not a
learned pig which grunts among the cards and
triumphantly picks out the knave. Were any
man again to receive the mockery of trial which
Dean received, and to be found guilty on the
evidence on which Dean was found guilty, it
would again be the duty of the community to
agitate for a re-opening of the case, and it
would again be the duty of a Commission,
which had before it the facts presented to the
Dean Commission, to recommend that the
prisoner be released.
Judge Windeyer’s apology says nothing of
the Suffield case, in which he bullied a jury
into a verdict of Guilty on evidence which is a
tissue of absurdities and contradictions. It
says nothing of the Mount Rennie case—that
series of judicial murders ; that brutal outrage
on justice to which, as W. B. Dalley declared, a
parallel could only be discovered in some of the
darkest pages of Irish history ; that infamous
parody of a trial in which, as the Sydney
Morning Herald said (though not till the boys
were on the scaffold) that the sittings were pro-
tracted from day to day to such an extreme as
to exhaust the physical and mental energies of
counsel and jurymen alike. In the Mount
Rennie case Judge Windeyer wrung from the
jury and the Executive four lives (one of them
that of Read, probably an altogether innocent
man) ; and five other prisoners lingered lohg in
prisons and lunatic asylums. Eight of them
were youths about or under 20 ; and they were
charged with assaulting a girl of Uncertain
character, uncertain in the identification of her
assailants. Judge Windeyer allowed no doubt,
no hesitation, to come between the hangman and
his victims.
* » * •
The Mount Rennie prisoners were, without
exception, defended by junior barristers, some
of whom actually got not one penny for their
arduous task. The accused were, in one sense,
practically undefended —they had no adequate
means of hunting up the antecedents of the
witnesses against them, and the police and the
Crown Law Department—whose business is,
and has ever been, to show one side of the case
only, and get a conviction —made no effort to
do so. The Mount Rennie trial was the most
hideous affair of its kind in all the post-convict
days of Australia. The first day (Monday) the
court sat for 11 hours; the second day for IL|
hours; the third and fourth days (Wednesday
and Thursday) it only sat for hours each
day, for on the evening of each of these two
days Judge Windeyer “had to attend” a
fashionable public dinner given in honor of a
man with whom he was to voyage to England
the following week. On the fifth day (Friday)
proceedings began at 9 a.m. and went on until
3.30 a.m . on Saturday hours). Then (the
jury and barristers and Judge having had
hours wherein to eat and sleep and wash) the
Court re-assetnbled at 9 the same morning and
went on until past 11 at night (over 14 hours),
when nine of the accused were found guilty
and sentenced to death ! The counsel for the
prosecution got his statement ih at the early
part of the week, when the 12 men in the box
were still fully awake and able to understand
what was said to them. When the defence
came on, the Court sat for over hours with
hours intermission !
» * * *
The prisoners slept fitfully in the dock.
Read (afterwards hanged, with three Other
youths of the average age of 18 years only) slept
in the dock after his counsel, T. C. O’Mara,
(who was dying on his feet and had then been
15 consecutive hours in court) had begun the
mockery of addressing the jury on his behalf
at midnight; the lawyers dozed intermittently
at their table ; the jurymen nodded at inter-
vals in the box, and “ between whiles ” passed
a salts bottle up and down their ranks for the
purpose of stimulation ; one juryman was so ill
from sheer exhaustion that his life was said to
be in danger, and counsel might almost as well
have wasted words on a corpse. When an
adjournment was applied for at midnight on
Friday (by a poorly-paid counsel suffering from
phthisis, who declared that he was utterly
exhausted), Judge Windeyer pointed out to
him (thus does history anticipate itself !) that
unless the trial proceeded the jury “ would be
kept over Sunday ” —“ thereby throwing on
me,” as the counsel afterwards said, “ the
responsibility of choosing between offending
the jury and absolutely wasting my speech on
behalf of the wretched boy I w’as defending.”
And so, scrambling on night and day in the
fetid court and the sweltering atmosphere of
midsummer, the dozing lawyers feebly address-
ing the sleeping jury, and, the prisoners occa-
sionally waking up in the dock to hear them,'
the Case jolted along to the midnight verdict
and the inevitable gallows.
* * * *
Judge Windeyer’s apology says nothing of
these cases or of the numerous similar cases
buried in the records of his long judicial career.
Who shall count all the cruelties and injustices
he has committed in the name of the law, all
the tortures inflicted by him on poorly-defended
prisoners on trial for their lives in a time of
panic, when he should have been an unim-
passioned umpire to stand between them and
public frenzy ! The Bulletin’s attention was
first drawn to Judge Windeyer by an acciden-
tal visit to one of his hideous midnight trials,
where Judge Lynch’s bell was being rung and
Judge Lynch’s rope was being greased by a
man wearing the uniform of the Supreme Court,
and where there was to be seen, not the steady
swing of tHe pendulum of Justice, but what
looked like the eager glutting of a savage per-
sonal revenge. Thereafter The Bulletin
watched Judge Windeyer’s career, and saw as
the years rolled on more and more reason for
accounting him a menace to the respect in which
all citizens should be able to hold the Supreme
Court of Justice of their country. It saw that
the strong intellect of this masterful man was
adapted only to dealing with abstract legal
questions or dryasdust commercial cases ; and
it denounced him because whenever he sat on
the bench in a criminal case involving lust or
blood he became a raging partisan, and ever
sought to rob the jury of their lawful authority
and bend them to his wishes. For years
Judge Windeyer was only maintained in
power because his brother-judges did not dare,
even when personally challenged, to take steps
to punish the innumerable printed criminal
libels evoked by his tyrannous actions on cir
cuit; because he had the tacit support of th«
toadying legal trades-union, which, though it
utterly abhorred the Judge, quaked before
“ the one strong man ” of the bench ; and be-
cause there were enough lawyers in the House
and in the Ministry to burke every attempt
made to finally arraign him, and to take in Par*
liament an open vote as to his fitness to remain
on the bench. And Judge Windeyer had almost
until the last the thick-aud-thin support of the
daily press—both in the way of advocacy and
of suppression; and it was the daily press
which, at the most critical periods of his career,
urged him to still wilder judicial excesses.
* * * *
And now Judge Windeyer is dead—and de
mortuis nil nisi bonum ? Not so ; that is a say*
ing which narrow minds too often Use to the
public detriment in order to cloak individual
ill-doing. De mortuis nil nisi verilni is the
better maxim; for,neither the dead not the
living can ever merit more than the truth,
The Bulletin believes it has spoken truth re-
garding Judge WinDeyer —it spoke it during
his life, and it speaks it equally liow that
he is dead, for (let not history be falsified !)
there is equal need of it. The crop of sor-
rows which he sowed is not yet reaped.
Judge Windeyer’s public actions have outlived
him ; and it is those alohe with which The
Bulletin is Concerned. He was a public
trustee who dishonored his trust, and it is
before public opinion, for the profit of the com-
munity and for the warning of those in posi-
tions like to his, that Judge Windeyer must be
pilloried. It is suggested that “ venal malice”
has actuated this paper. Those who wish to
believe such a charge may believe it; but it
makes no difference to the facts. Upon them
let Judge Windeyer be praised or condemned.
They speak with no uncertain voice to anyone
with a natural love of Justice, a natural hatred
of Oppression.
Labor-Conditions in Mining Leases.
The Westralian Mining Commission lias uti*
earthed some interesting witnesses ; but none
more interesting than the representatives of
European companies—until, at any rate, they
tired the listener with their monotonous stories
of the evils of insecure tenure, and correspond-
ing flap-doodle about the blessings that would
fall on everybody if only the mines were handed
over absolutely to the discoverers or their
assigns* Mr. Modest Maryanski had a good
innings of this sort. As usual, the “poor
miner ” had most of his thoughts. This “ poor
miner” would be best served by the American
legislation and systems ; if he spent a certain
considerable sum of money on a lease (and
“ poor miners ” have always large sums of
money, of course), it should become his pro-
perty for ever. But, while it was still leaser
hold, the “ poor miner,” who should not be
compelled to work it ot pay rent for it
for the first 12 months, ought not to be
harassed by stich stupid things as labor
conditions. And to ask a tvardeh for ex-
emption—Why, it reminded Mr. Modest
Maryanski of schoolboys seeking a vacation:
“ How absurd it is to have to go to Sir John
Forrest —(ah ! sb they do go to Sir John, do
they ?) —and say, * Mister John, I want to go
to see my mamma ! ’ ” (Loud laughter, of
course.) Also, among other things, Mr.
Maryanski believed, or, rather, he said, that in
order to compel men to develop their claims
the}' should have to spend so much per year;
that public batteries, perhaps State-aided,
should be provided ; and that companies should
be given bonuses for sinkirg deep shafts. But,
above and before all, secure tenure was requi-
site. Moreover, as if Mr. Modest Maryanski’s
word was not sufficient, it was observed that
Bismarck had given John, and the Govt., and
the Commission the only straight and reliable
tip in dealing with mines and companies—“l
give that I may get.” Finally, Mr. Maryan-
ski is quite sure, in fact, he guarantees, that if
the mining law's are changed in the man-
ner he suggests “ everyone will be satisfied,
and in particular the prospector, who not
only w'ill be able to live here but will bring
his family.”
* * » *
At this point The Bulletin leaves Mr.
Maryanski to see a vision of Mr. Mar-
yanski’s heaven. It is out Siberia way, and
Bill Giles is on a prospecting tour along
with his missus and his 13 assorted youngsters.
That is all—except Bill Gilb;s’ family pets.
But Bill Giles, after all, isn’t everybody.
For every prospector (who, by the way, isn t,
generally speaking, much of a family man)
there are about 300 w'ages miners (who, gene-
rally speaking, are very much family men);
and what of these miners if Mr. Maryanski s
schemes were put into operation ? In the first
place, the Big Blow Underlay Extended, having
to spend so much money during tlm year,
would crowd on hands, and do its “ little
bit” in, say, three months; whereupon, if
things weren’t over-bright in the share-market,
or if Warnford Lock’s twin brother happened
to be manager, it would probably say that it
didn’t want any men just then, thank you—-
unless, that is (this in the ear of a reliable bell-
wether) they cared to put in a month or tw'O at
a slightly reduced wage. And in most cases
and at many times they would accept the
inevitable and the reduced wages ; and next
week the Big Blow South Extended would
notify that it could not pay any more than the
Underlay Extended was getting its men for.
• * * *
The curse of almost every mining population
is the want of uniformity in the mining opera-
tions. To-day there is a boom, calls coine in,
mines and things alleged to be mines are
worked, w'orkmen flock thither —and then
comes the slump, and the suspension of opera-
tions, and the “cutting” of wages and the
long-continued perish, and shipments of hungry,
worried workmen from under-the-cloud Ben
digos to the relief of modern Lucknows. Mr.
Maryanski’s scheme would be a great help in
making these movements rather moie frequen
and more disastrous even than they are wit l
out it—in part directly by reason ot 1 s
own badness, and in part indirectly y
promoting market booms and slumps ant
generally playing into the hands of the mar e


operator. Mr. Maryanski has, however, better
foundation for liis complaints regarding insecure
tenure. It is bad (unless we seriously intend
to take over the working of the mines our-
selves, in which case it is still also probably
bad) to limit the life of a lease to 15, 18, or 21
years—bad, because the lessee, if he believes
that he will not get a renewal, will be tempted
to pick out the eyes of his mine and so render
unprofitable all the low-grade stuff that could
be worked profitably in conjunction with the
good stuff; or the development will not be
carried out on a workmanlike basis. Twenty
years may seem a fairly long time in the history
of a young country ; but what is it by com-
parison with the centuries during which the
mines of, say, Cornwall, or even Mexico,
have been worked ? Little more can be
done in twenty years than to begin
laying the foundations of a really great
mine. To say, however, that shareholders
have no confidence in anything but absolute
private ownership is nonsense, seeing that
comparatively few of the metal mines in
Great Britain are worked by freeholders. What
they haven’t got used to yet is the liability to
forfeiture if they don’t keep men at work on
the leases. But when it is impressed on them
that this condition is imposed in lieu of rent—
that, in short, instead of demanding the high
tribute and rent and wayleaves which the
private owner demands, the more benevolent
State requires little beyond a nominal cash con-
sideration, provided that its tenants undertake
to keep a certain number of men in employ-
ment—less objection will be offered to the Aus-
tralian system. But if the foreign capialist
doesn’t get over his objection—well, his indigna-
tion doesn’t cyanide the metal out of the mines,
anyway. On almost precisely the same
grounds (which are not, it may be observed,
quite Mr. Maryanski’s grounds), suspension of
labor-conditions is reprehensible.
* * * *
If it were more explicitly stated that the
undertaking to keep a certain number of men
at work was as much part of the rent as the
cash payment itself is, fewer suspensions would
probably be granted. Indeed, less harm would
be done if, instead of relieving the liard-up
lessee of the labor conditions, the Government
agreed to forego the rent proper. In that case,
the loss would be spread over the whole com-
munity ; in the other, the burden is cast upon
the shoulders of the few, who surely have a right
to expect that the State will insist as much upon
one condition of a case as upon another. Suspen-
sions, however, would not be in much demand if
the State did not, from greed or blindness, or
out of sheer cussedness, offer inviting mining
leases, coupled with economically impossible
conditions, to anybody in respect of anything
—no matter whether the intention is to mine
or whether there is the smallest possibility of
success or not. And in that respect, anyway,
a lesson might be learned from the Continent—
or, for that matter, from South America—
where it is the pretty general rule for a govt,
to want to be assured that a man isn’t either a
shark, or an infatuated crank, or an utterly
ignorant and misguided fool, before it issues a
mineral lease to him. Especially it ought to
want to be assured against the shark.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Treason.
The conspiracy in N.S.W. Assembly of the
cabbage-tree-hat mob (who instinctively hate
Federation), with the parochial element (which
cannot understand it), and with the live-on-
the-game politicians (who naturally dread it),
has proved very successful ; and, so far as the
Assembly is concerned, N.S.W. deliberately
turns her back on the other provinces, and
deliberately breaks the federal compact entered
into with them. It was originally provided
that N.S.W. was to accept Federation if
50,000 votes were cast in its favor. The
cabbage-tree-hat mob, the parochialists, and
the live-on-the-game politicians, have suc-
ceeded in raising this minimum to 80,000 votes
—and, unless the Legislative Council throws
out the Bill, the Federal cause is just
30,000 votes nearer damnation. A fortnight
ago The Bulletin pointed out how im-
probable it was that 80,000 votes would be
obtained, since there will be only an abstract
question to vote about—without Freetrade or
Protection, or Romanism or Orangeism, or per-
sonal friendship or enmity, to excite the public
mind ; and the average elector may be relied on
to take as little trouble about an abstract ques-
tion as possible. And the fact that, of those
who do take the trouble to vote, a vast majority
are in favor of Federation, will not count in the
least; since, if only 1000, or 100, or 10 electors
vote against it—even if nobody at all votes
against it, and 79,999 electors vote for
it, Federation, so far as N.S. Wales is
concerned, will be as dead as mutton. And
without N.S.W., the other provinces, of course,
can do nothing. The Bulletin invites every-
body to scan the list of enemies of Federation—
including Holy Joe Cook and Opposition-leader
Lyne —published in the daily papers of Oct. 27 ;
and, when found, to make a note of. Wriggler
Reid and Sunday Brunker voted against the
raising of the minimum and against the breach
of faith ; and carefully refrained from using the
Govt, influence against the change, so that, so
far as they are concerned, the Federal cause may
only be damned by default. The Bulletin
wonders precisely how much difference there is
between the man who sticks a knife in your
gizzard and the man who finds you lying stuck
and lets you bleed to death ?
“Hobson’s Choice.”
The hesitating and half-hearted sympathy
extended by the N.S.W. public to the Lucknow
strikers is undoubtedly due largely to the per-
sistently sinister twist conferred by the “ Res-
pectable ” Sydney press upon the motives and
actions of the Labor end of every industrial
difficulty. Direct misrepresentation— as being
capable of specific disproof—is seldom resorted
to, but full weight is given to the consideration
that “ a lie which is half a truth is the hardest
of lies to fight,” and it has become a journalistic
fine art —by a little touching-up here and a
little toning-clown there—to put upon such a
case as the Lucknow affair an entirely false
and misleading complexion, without ever
leaving it in the power of the other side
to sav, straight out, “That’s a lie!”
In this way has been created a more or less
nebulous impression that the Lucknow strikers
were lusty and masterful ruffians, who, upon
light labors and liberal pay, had waxed fat
unto kicking-point—saturnine savages who
regarded not the voice of the charmer, and
sullenly refused to foot-it to the gentle piping
of good, easy Look—their guide, philosopher
and friend ! The miner’s calling—besides being
most laborious and none too healthy—is so
dangerous that scarcely a day passes without
the record, for some part of Australia, of a
crushing-to-death or a smothering—a blowing-
up or a sinashing-to pieces amongst men who,
besides receiving little enough for their labor
itseif, receive nothing at all for the risks
attendant on it. And in these days—when it
is beginning to be seen that the demand-
and-supply formula is not, after all, the
last word about the adjustment of industrial
relations—something more than reprehension
is required for the reduction of wages, as in the
Lucknow case, to a figure which meant barely
keeping the soul in the carcase, to say nothing
of the exercise of that “ thrift ” about which
are so eloquent those to whom an adequate
provision for the future does not involve the
surrender of a single luxury of the present.
Only by the elimination from existence of every
circumstance that could differentiate it from
the most sordid and abject slavery could the
family-supporting earner of a mere subsistence
wage manage to divert any of it from
insistent hand to - mouth requirements; so
that, in the great majority of instances,
with illness or disablement the loss of the
husband’s only capital comes hopeless domes-
tic collapse. The alternatives presented to
the bare-subsistence earner, in a word, are but
two—and very simple. Either, for the sake of
a future possibility, deprive the present of all
that makes it worth having—or, to the best of
your ability, better your condition upon that
of the beast of burden, with the certainty for
yourself of the beast’s fate when it can no
longer carry the burden ! Once more—the
Devil and the Deep Sea !
♦
The Respectable Press and the Respect-
able Child-Flog’g’er-
Will John Fairfax and Sons, owners of S.M.
Herald ; Samuel Cook, manager of ditto ; and
Rev. W. Cdrnow, editor of ditto, rise to tell
the Australian public why the Herald, up till
date of writing, Oct. 30, suppressed all mention
of the Narandera (N.S.W.) child-flogging case
on Oct. 21 ? Will J. Carey, chairman of direc-
tors of Sydney Telegraph ; Watkin Wynne,
manager of ditto; and L. C. Brient, editor of
ditto, explain why the Telegraph likewise
suppressed all mention of this shameful case?
These men control the “ leading daily papers ”
of N.S. Wales ; they frequently permit eulogies
of the power and virtues and dignity and
responsibilities of a free press to appear in those
papers ; some of them have children of their
own ; yet when a motherless little girl is cruelly
flogged by her employer in N.S. Wales, they
have the appearance of using their power and
influence not to expose, but to shield, the
offender—is it because he is a bank-manager,
and “ in society,” and a pillar of broadclothed
Respectability? And this, though G. Martin,
Police Magistrate of Narandera, used this lan-
guage (see Wagga Express, Oct. 23) in sen-
tencing Mr. Roderick Thomas to pay ,£25
and costs (he was lucky to escape committal to
the District Court, where Judge Gibson the
other day sentenced a poor devil to three years’
imprisonment for stealing a ninepenny tin of
baking-powder —in the name of Botany Bay
justice !) —
The Police Magistrate said he had no difficulty in
making up his mind about the case, which had been, he
considered, proved'to a degree. It was true, no doubt,
that the little girl was not as good as she should be. She
probably gave a great deal of trouble, but there was a
simple course open to the defendant, who could have re-
turned her to the State or to her father, and thus relieved
himself of all further responsibility. The child herself
had made admissions which showed she was not good and
obedient, but she made the admissions so unreservedly
that it operated as a strong corroboration of her state-
ments in support of the prosecution. It was sufficiently
proved that the child had been excessively beaten with a
whip or strap, and he was satisfied, too, that the incident
of the punishment by means of the cold bath had been
proved by the evidence of the last witness called. To keep
a child, or any person, in a bath for half-an-hour was un-
questionably cruel. A strong, robust constitution would
very much feel a constant shower for even five
minutes. It must not for a moment be thought
that this was not a very serious offence. Both
here and in England the offence of cruelty to
children is regarded as grave and serious, and corrective
legislation is the result. It was only a few years ago
that a well-known case occurred in England, in which a
clergyman and his wife were arraigned on a similar charge
to the present, and, the offence being proved, the clergyman
was sentenced to nine months’ imprisonment and his wife
to three months’: this case, too, called for stern treatment.
There were people in such positions that imprisonment
would mean absolute ruin, and this case he thought would
be met sufficiently by a fine. He intended to inflict a severe
fine, though not the full penalty. lie considered the case
called for a fine of £25, which he ordered defendant to
pay together with all costs. In view of the fact that it
was necessary to obtain special, legal assistance through all
the local solicitors being retained, lie would fix the profes-
sional fee at £8 Bs.
The local feeling excited by the case (says the
Wagga Express) was “ without precedent.”
And what do “ the great metropolitan news-
papers ” do when they meet a case like this ?
They burke it —burke it /—in the name of Out-
raged Respectability and of “ the People’s
Palladium,” “ the Liberty of the Press ” !
A Suggestive Will-Case. *
In annulling the last will and testament of one
George Woods, a Northcote (Vic.) hotelkeeper,
Justice Hood seems to have committed a sad
professional error. With the best of intentions
to deter laymen from trespassing upon a law-
yer’s preserve, he described the ordinary printed
will-form as “ a certain trap to the unwary,”
a remark calculated to strengthen the ancient
belief that legal assistance is absolutely essen-
tial to the making of a valid will. But Justice
Hood didn’t pause at this point and then
branch off into judicial incomprehensibility.
He proceeded to discuss the trap for the un-
wary, and, in the course of proving how the
late Georoe Woods, when he acted as his own
lawyer, had a fool for his client, the learned
Judge made it clear to the meanest understand-
ing that the average will-maker is a fool to
spend a few guineas in employing a lawyer on
the job.
The form (said his Honor) is so printed as almost inevi-
tably to mislead. In the fold of that form are two blank
pages, and the penny-wise-and-pound-foolish persons
who indulge in the dangerous occupation of using
those forms would naturally conclude that those
pages are to be written upon. There is nothing
to warn anyone that if those pages are filled up then
the testimonium clause and signature on the first
page will be out of place. In the present case, the testa-
tor could not dispose of his property as he wished on the
first, page, accordingly he commenced on that page by
merely stating that this was his last will and testament,
&c. Having thus utilised the first page, he had then
turned over and continued on the inside pages to state
his wishes. He had then gone hack to the first page and
signed his name in the place there appointed for that
purpose.
Consequently, Justice Hood upset the will in
accordance witli the wording of the Act which
requires every will to be signed “ at the foot or
end thereof.” So much for the late George
Woods’ rather stupid mistake. His will went
for nothing in the Probate Court, for the simple
reason that he couldn’t cut it short and confine
it to the one page. His case should be a warn-
ing to all will-makers who cannot dispose of
their property in a few words ; also, it should
serve to advertise the usefulness of these
printed will-forms, and lessen the demand
for legal services. Furthermore, the George
Woods case should set the Victorian public
wondering why the Vic. Government, bristling
with lawyers as it is, should permit a “trap for
the unwary ” to be sold at law-stationers’ shops
when there is no earthly reason why the issue
of printed will-forms cannot be controlled by
the Crown Daw department. Considering that
Governments permit the sale of printed forms
for the purpose of legal will-making, the possi-
bility of anyone falling into the “ trap” which
George Woods fell into ought not to exist.
Justice Hood drew a wrong moral from the
Woods will-case. He spoke as a lawyer
desirous of enlarging the sphere of legal prac-
tice, and increasing the annual crop of fees ;
whereas it was his duty, as an officer of the
State, to suggest a simple improvement in the
Wills Act which he was then administering.
Testators should at least be safeguarded, by
Premier lawyer Turner’s Government, from
forms constructed to trap the unwary.
A Hard How to Hoe.
It is a tough job for a workman to get compen-
sation at law under any Australian Employers
Liability Act. There is a pitfall at pretty well
every step ; but about the commonest of all is
the one in which a Lithgow (N.S. W.) workman
named Hannan was sent floundering the other
day. Hannan had sustained injuries ; but, as
the co.—a N.S.W. mining concern—well knew
of the accident, he did not give formal notice
within the statutory six weeks. Before proceed-
ing further, it was therefore necessary to make
an application in Chambers to dispense with
the notice. Argument concluded, brothers
Owen and Cohen snorted that such ignorance
was no excuse—and refused the application with
costs. Now this very likely is good law; but it is
still more likely bad sense. No doubt notice is
necessary in many cases, perhaps most; but, if
it can be shown that the employer has not suf-
fered in the preparation of his defence by the
absence of formal notice, it is outrageous that
the right of action should be entirely taken
from the injured workman, no matter what his
excuse may be. And, even if the employer has
been prejudiced in the preparation of his
defence by the absence of notice, why should
not the injured workman be permitted to go on
making the best of his case, with the responsi-
bility cast upon him of proving everything
right up to the hilt, and provided that
the action is brought within, say, 12
months ? Certainly, the difficulty would
not arise if the injured workman performed the
very simple act of giving notice. But if a man
knew the law just as well as Mr. Justice Owen
does he wouldn’t be shifting mullock or cutting
scrub at ss. a day ; wherefore some considera-
tion might appropriately be shown to him.
Anyhow, he needn’t be made the victim of
technicalities ; and surely nowhere else is ignor-
ance more severely punished than it is by this
absolute bar to action. It isn’t always ignor-
ance, either, that stops issue of the notice.
A good many large employers make it
clearly understood that every attempt to com-
pel the payment of compensation will be fought
step by step, while, on the other hand, for
the first few weeks, at any rate, the hope is en-
couraged that an equitable arrangement will be
mutually made. But the period in which
statutory notice must be given having expired,
too often the injured workman finds himself
“ left.” What is badly wanted, then, is that
the Court should dispense with notice when it
can be shown that the employer was so well
aware of the accident as to negotiate for a
settlement, and, further, that in any case an
action may be brought within, say, 12 months,
with all the presumptions against the workman
where no notice of any kind has been given.
+
Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.L.A. :
Dear Bulletin, —In your article on the MVS harry arbi-
tration scandal you remark that “the fees MVSharry
pays h ! s counsel are his own business.” On the contrary,
it's the country’s business, for, as the Crown admits some
liability and is only arbitrating about the amount, the
award must be against the Railway Commissioners, and
will carry costs. Therefore, the miserable country will
have to bear the whole of the costs of this long-drawn
farce—some £50,000 ! [lf this miserable country does,
this miserable country is more kinds of an ass even
than it looks.-Ed. B.] Is it likely that, under any other
circumstances, the plaintiff bank (there doesn’t appear to
be over-much M'Sharry in it now) would pay away tens
of thousands of pounds to counsel and arbitrator ?' This
is a worse scandal than even the Dean Commission busi-
ness, and the Govt, is doing all it can to keep the matter
quiet, both Ministers Brunker and Gould having refused
to answer questions in the Assembly as to the fees being
paid to counsel, &c. This sort of thing is one of the re-
sults of our beautiful contract system. In N.S.W. the
lawyers frequently get more out of a railway contract
than is paid to the engineers and navvies who do the
work.
The flogging of the ten-yea.r-old girl by her
employer at Narandera (N.S.W.) represents an
abuse which will always be possible in com-
munities where the use of corporal violence on
the young is sanctioned by law. So long as
gaolers flog children, so long as teachers flog
them, with the sanction of authority, so long
(probably longer, but certainly as long) will the
fiend break out from time to time in the private
employer or other temporary custodian of
juvenile delinquents, and child-torture be
scored up to the nation’s shame. The chastise-
ments which parents inflict are tempered by the
sense of continuous parental responsibility and
the action of natural affection ; but employer,
school-teacher, and gaoler are unrestrained in
these respects. And, if school-teacher or gaoler
may flog a child, why may not a reputedly up-
right employer? The perception of the im-
morality of anyone except a parent inflicting
coi poral punishment on a child has influenced
most civilised countries to ban the punishment
wholly. The flogging of juveniles has been
obliterated from the laws of France, Italy, Ger-
many (all through the Confederation), Austria,
Russia, Switzerland and Sweden. The only
civilised countries in which it is recognised by
law at present are England, Scotland, Ireland,
a few parts of the United States, Norway, Den-
mark, and the Australias. Denmark is the only
country where girls up to 12 years are whipped
bylaw. Despised Japan interdicts under heavy
penalties the use of corporal punishment in
gaols, schools, or factories. “ Copy Japan ”
should be a good cry in this matter.
“ Shark,” to The Bulletin
In re the complaint made by “ D.,” in your issue of 10th
Oct., the conditions imposed on “D.’s” wife when she
opened an account in her married name arose out of the
bank’s foolishness. The law had nothing' to do with
them. N.S.W. legislation removed this particular wrong
years ago. Under the present law, a woman has just as
much right to open an account and draw cheques in her
own name as her husband has. The bank possibly takes
the precaution of getting the husband’s consent, to avoid
the risk of being mixed up in any quarrel between him
and his wife as to the ownership of the money she is
banking. So far as the law is concerned, a woman now
runs much less risk in marrying than a man does. A man
may have to pay debts contracted by his wife without his
knowledge. If she runs into some expensive personage
on her bicycle, the husband has to stand the racket. If
she publishes a libel, he must pay or go to gaol. A man
who keeps a bull is answerable to anvone the bull may
gore, only if it can be shown that he knew the bull had a
propensity that way. Not so, if he keeps a lion or a bear.
He is supposed to know that such animals are vicious,
and is bound to see that they don’t do any harm. The
law puts the man who takes a wife on the same footing as
one who keeps a wild-beast show. It is no defence to
plead that he didn’t know she was loaded.
“Cruel Wretch” (a dominie) to The Bulle-
tin :
Arguments have been used for and against, chiefly
against, corporal punishment in Public Schools. Most
people think it is quite easy to manage a few hundred of
children, of assorted sizes, temperaments, and home-
training, by kindness, &c., and that punishment is un-
necessary. Yet where is the family of only two or three
in which the parents do not at times resort to the slipper
or the strap? Most people are agreed that young children
at least do not need the cane, yet I have seen youngsters
of from six to eight years, generally members of our over-
indulged families, or “ mother s own and only darling
boy,” defy a whole school, howl, kick, bite and absolutely
refuse to obey any order, even threaten the teachei-A
“ I’ll tell me father on you, and ’£‘ll put you in gaol.
’E’ll give it yer.” A few sharp cuts with the cane are
absolutely necessary in such cases if the teacher is to
remain master of his school. Of course, he should keep
his temper, and confine his blows to the hands, or that
part of the anatomy which was the favorite in the old
days of “ the birch.” All teachers who box ears, or in
any way injure a child mentally or physically, should be
severely punished themselves, but a few minutes’ pain
caused by a tap on the hand is really more salutary and
harmless than many other punishments which invariably
take the cane’s place when it is perforce shelved. Cases
of childish insubordination are rare—about one in a hun-
dred. The child seldom attempts it twice, though
his brothers are likely “to show off” when they
in their turn begin school life. It is a result of home-
training, or, rather, the want of it, though the teacher is
blamed for the whole business. Let those who wish to
abolish the cane beware lest they introduce worse evils—
the detention of children in school when they should be
at play, the imposition of long, wearisome tasks which
exhaust the brain, standing for hours, kneeling in corners
to the injury of kneecaps, holding slates above the head
till the circulation in the arms is impeded, and, not least,
the merciless ridicule and sarcasm, of the teacher. I have
seen girls in mental agony under a teacher s sarcasm
and it was a lasting pain, for days after they would burst
into tears at the least reference to the subject. Moral
suasion is possible with a teacher for each scholar and
the same teacher all the time. It is impossible, without
penalties for wrong-doing, when a teacher has many
pupils and has them for a few' months only.
♦
Mr. C. J. Heydon’s 13 consolidating measures,
passed through N.S.W. Council last week,
without criticism or even formal Parliamentary
reading, may turn out to be an unsatisfactory
second stage in a badly-begun business. It
may be remembered that a previous Administra-
tion organised a gigantic commission to consoli-
date the scattered statutes of N.S. W. A sum
of £6BOO was voted for a start, but no one on
or off the commission could approximately indi-
cate where the expense would end. The com-
mission split itself up into seven commit-
tees, with a Judge at the head of each
committee, and the Chief - Justice at the
head of all. The scheme looked well on
paper, and was influential and select enough
to have held its head up for several years,
whether it worked or not, but £4295 slipped
away and the prospect of having to ask
another credit stared the purseholders in the
face. Then it was seen that very little con-
solidation had been achieved, '[’he present
Premier, glad of an opportunity to squelch an
idea of his predecessor’s, flouted the scheme,
and in poured the resignations of the
Chief Justice and other Judges, and
the pretentious Commission felo de se’d.
Had the Commission started with a credit
of £50,000 it would have got so used to
doing nothing before a fresh vote was
required that it would have felt itself justi-
fied in demanding another £50,000. That was
the first stage in the history of N.S.W. Statute
Law consolidation—-and the country escaped
with marvellous luck. Mr. Heydon.’s lone hand;
unfee’d arrangement is the second stage. But if
the Assembly acts as the Council has acted
(and it is assumed it will) where is the effective
guarantee that the consolidation will not break
down in important respects? The Attorney-
General, Dr. Cullen and others, take the bills
solely on Mr. Heydon’s word, and the balance
of the Council does the same. If this one-man
idea, minus criticism or reading, suffice for the
requirements, what a grotesque farce the Com-
mission idea was !
The plan of the new Vic. Parliament shows
the parties to bo in a bizarre position. Of flu* 65
Govt, members, the majority are in the corner,
whilst, of the 28 Oppositionists, only nine occupy
the_ purely Opposition benches. Kven Mnmy
Smith and Frank Madden sit in the Opposition
corner.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896.
ASSETS ••• ••• ••• ... ... £45,161,239
Increase m Assets during 1896 ... ... ... ... 3 284 283
SURPLUS ... 5’,995!246
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ... ... 552 744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 190,646,265
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896 ... ... 540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT ML C •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ' ‘ ’
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
free by post.
Q RAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS— White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
1 ropical Australia.
B. MOUHTCAST..E Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
€ Qive me orje
Of
your pljotos"
Is a gentle appeal often urged by
a friend, and the excuse gener-
ally comes “Oh, I haven’t got a
GOOD one.”
IDEAL Portrait?
as their name implies, are per-
fect representations. They are
good likenessesand will always
meet with the approval of your
friends.
ix Enamelled Cabinet Portraits, with
Beaut if ilv Finished Enlargement, in
permanent Bromide or Opal
Any style or pose No extras, J/ \J
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 George Street, '
(GROUND FLOOR. NO BTAIRB )
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANOE TO NEW MARKETS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
‘Her Majesty’s “Two Little Vagabonds."
Lyceum “The Prairie King.”
Tivom Rickards’Combined Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Gay Parisienne.”
Royal “ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins.”
Bwou Prof. Bristol’s Educated
Horses.
Alexandra “ Cinders.”
AthbnjEum Hall Lynch Family Bell-
ringers.
Opera House.. Rickards’ Variety Co.
Further consideration of “ Two Little
Vagabonds,” at Her Majesty’s, confirms The
Bulletin’s impression that, despite abundance of
'boiled flap-doodle, the play is a dangerously top-
heavy production liable at any moment to come
■down with a crash. Only good staging and better
have prevented the crash, so far. The
wicked captain, who isn’t so very wicked after all,
continues to be a highly domesticated and uncon-
vincing warrior ; the husky crib-cracker, for whom
the drawing-room window is so obligingly left
open, doesn’t get any less suggestive of an emi-
nently respectable butler undeservedly on his
uppers ; and the cough-with-the-boy-to-it is still a
deplorable combination that cries out as violently
as ever for an indication of its origin. Also,
the alcoholophilic lady with the brogue is still
at intervals entirely oblivious of that circumstance;
and the policeman who more successfully remem-
bers that he is Oirish requires all the more
explanation on that account as a “ village-con-
stable ”in Kent. But Titheradge props up one
side of the drama as the violently-jealous husband,
with as little rant to the square inch as the gen-
tlemen who ornament the gallery could reasonably
be expected to put up with ; and the other side
rests principally upon the plump and capable
shoulders of Miss Einilie Hughes, who skilfully
avoids overdoing a part that was obviously bom
to be overdone. Mrs. Maesmore Morris, also, as
the fair cause of all the trouble, continues satis-
factorily to confute the unholy assertion that
though she may be a dream of loveliness, she can’t
act for sour apples ; and, as the remainder of the
mumming is fair to middling, the boy-burdened
cough will probably continue for some time to
expire beautifully to slow music and the promul-
gation of the most unexceptionable sentiments.
Lily Titheradge, as conscientious as the man who
blacked himself all over when he played Othello,
works really hard in sliding down the pole, and
barks her wrists and bruises her ankles realistically
every evening during the week and twice on
Saturdays.
** * *
“ Fallen Among Thieves ” continues to
draw moderate houses at Sydney Lyceum. The
series of cine.-pictures thrown in without extra
charge by a generous management are described
as jubileee reproductions ; but the audience isn’t
bored as much as might be expected, as only two
views of the event are given. “ The Prairie King”
is announced for Saturday ; and the imagination
riots among pictures of Mayne Reidish heroes in
Mexican saddles rescuing Maud Williamsons
from the clutch of infuriated Indians. P.S. —The
management particularly desires it to be known
that “ The Prairie King ” will be accompanied by
a Tank of the finest water.
*# * *
Two of Rickards’s companies have had “ a
pretty wedding,” and settled down to married life
at the Tivoli, where the Biograph is now mixed
with the Minstrels, and the man who goes to see
Fanny Wentworth takes Arthur Sherwin en
passant, as it were. The combination is a strong
one, and the seduction of it has put a new edge on
the blunted enthusiasm of blase variety-goers, who
receive with approval the suggestion that Rickards
should be first president of the Commonwealth,
with authority to engage 100,000 new variety
artists straight away, and charge them to roads-
and-bridges account.
** * *
“The Gay Parisienne,” which ran for
several weeks in Sydney, started a week of useful-
ness at Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday. Any-
thing that fills a want is useful, and the public
appears always to want an entertainment of “ The
Gay Parisienne ” variety when it is produced in
the Firm’s best manner. This is a two-act enter-
tainment, the characters mentioned on the pro-
gramme being joined together by an elastic thread
of libretto from the pen of an aptly-named
author George Dance. The greater part
of the incidental music was composed by Ivan
Caryll, but the joint efforts of Dance and
Caryll don’t strike one as having given
rise to “ The Cay Parisienne’s ” popularity.
Whereas a Gilbert-Sullivan opera success owes
everything to the librettist and composer, the
success of the musical farce aforesaid springs from
numerous causes, mostly unconnected with the
hook or the score. A respectable amateur per-
formance of a clever opera makes a passable enter-
tainment. Any amateur dealings with “The Gay
Parisienne ” would be insufferable, consequently
one is brought to the conclusion that success in
the present case, like many a bouquet thrown
across the footlights, is really provided by the
management. The show must be smart at all
points, else is there no health in it whatsoever.
Here endeth the first lesson.
» • * *
Two principal performers dominate the
wild proceedings, and share three-fourths of the
applause. Miss Willoughby and Ernest Shand
were the principals at Sydney. Their parts are
now taken by Miss Ada Reeve and Bert Gilbert,
who lately came over from London, and will he
considered fri vollers of the A 1 brand. Miss Reeve
is a bright, brainy little comedienne, with a
French method and a fresh, sweet voice, whilst
her companion in crime (for they are understood
to be a pair of eccentric blackmailers pursuing an
insane Ebenezer) is a nimble “ droll,” also a brisk
burlesque actor and singer. The performance of
both these newcomers ranges from good to excel-
lent. John Coleman, in the Ebenezer part, Miss
Alice Leamar, as a singing servant and vastly-im-
proved step - daficer, together with John Burke
and a gorgeous array of artists whose assistance is
hot required, supply about one-fourth of the
musical comedy. Scenery, dresses, and a ballet
quartette party —also the orchestra under Leon
Caron, and the limelight man, and a final display
of paper-rockets—deserve honorable mention.
** * *
Harry Rickards has engaged himself to do
four turns at Melb. Opera House during Cup
week, and the reappearance of that renowned
veteran is once more a matter for joy. Wootwell
and the Avolos are back again after a brief in-
terval, whilst a dozen other people, who haven’t
gone away lately, remain there the same as usual,
supported by cinematograph pictures of the Derby
and Cup.
** * *
“Mrs. Quinn’s Twins,” at Melb. Royal,
is a more tangible affair than either of the two
previous outbreaks, which were only billed for a
week. Moreover, the new bill runs parallel with
the opening of a St. Patrick’s cathedral, and seems
well calculated to catch the people as they come
away from divine service, annyway, bedad ! The
groundwork of “Mrs. Quinn’s Twins ” is a harm-
less Irish drama, dated back to the time when
heroes invariably fell into the clutches of a
press-gang, and always came back just in
time to save their best girls from marrying
somebody else. There doesn't seem to be
any traysonable conspiracy in this drama.
The hump - backed informer merely informs
against a young man who meets the colleen under
an assumed name, and after a considerable amount
of misunderstanding the young man receives his
colleen from the hands of a noble squire, where-
upon the other squire collapses and the base in-
former is devoured by a virtuous peasantry. The
Twins are in no way responsible for what happens
elsewhere. They make an appearance whenever
the drama needs a rest, and they dabble around in
muddy places until Maggie Moore chases them
back to her tender care and spanks them with her
maternal boot. Sometimes she pauses to sing an
Irish song or two, and on these occasions Harry
Roberts is apt to bask in the genial sunshine of
Mrs. Quinn’s smile. Roberts scores heavily as
the hero, Miss Wood hill is a satisfactory colleen,
and the company at large calls for no particularly
adverse remark.
** * *
At the Alexandra an undaunted manage-
ment has set up “ Cinders ” for about as much
as that lurid melodrama is worth. “ Cinders ”
gives the gallery twenty seven reasonable excuses
for howling at Frank Norton, and the same
number of incentives to drop a tear for Miss
Rose Conroy, who gets ill-treated with complete
success. “Cinders” ought to keep the Alexandra
warm for a second week.
* * * at
The Educated Mule and his sixteen horny-
footed companions continue to gather round Pro-
fessor Bristol at the Bijou. Other shows carry on
a furious competition in sundry places. The
Lynch Family Bellringers are pitched at the
Athenaeum Hall, and William Cosgrove’s little co.
holds forth at the Cambridge Theatre, and the
Axemen’s Competition is (or was) happening at
the Exhibition Building. Likewise the Hibernian
Society has arranged a Grand Bicycle Carnival, to
be held at the Friendly Societies Grounds on Nov.
9th, when every available champion of the world
will test the new track.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The descending scale : “ Amy Sherwin, the Australian
nightingale ; Barton M'Guckin, the celebrated tenor ;
Arthur Deane, the well-known baritone ; Kitty Grindley’
contralto.”
A certain bright little Australian actress traces her
physical collapse to a very simple occurrence. When ex-
hausted one day, after some very hard work, some well-
meaning person gave her a glass of a French medicated
wine, Vin . It braced her up so that she continued to
use it, increasing the dose. The medication was
cocaine, and now—may the Lord have mercy on that poor
little actress 1
Harry Paulton tells a Brisbane interviewer: “ I am
just a little disappointed with Australia,” which is
reasonable, seeing that Australians in bulk are just a lot
disappointed with Paulton.
A Sydney cinematograph showman : “ On the right,
ladies and gentlemen, you will see the Queen, surrounded
by the Prince of Wales and other big bugs—beg pardon I
mean notabilities.”
Mysterious and thrilling cable in S.M. Herald of
recent date :
THE COWAN SISTERS.
London, Oct. 27.—The Cowan Sisters played before an
audience at the Mansion House last night, and were ap-
plauded. 1
Who are the “ Cowan Sisters,” anyhow ?
Haresfoot : “ Be quiet—l knew it. A smart aquilinear
child masqueraded under an impossible stage-name as the
little King of Rome, in ‘ A Royal Divorce.’ She is now
billed as Miss Solomon.”
Cockaigne : “ Forbes Robertson’s Hamlet succeeds as
things go. Only lacks passion, like Tree, Willard Bar-
rett. When is an Edmund Kean or G.V.B. comirm round
again to put the “ reserved force ” school of actors to
shame? The English public must be getting tired of
these “ scholarly ” mummers who do nothing in particu-
lar, and do it very nicely.” ° P
Frank Thornton has done excellent busines at Adelaide
Bijou. His only opposition was Bracy’s opera co at the
Royal, except for the few nights that the Hambourgs
played to big houses in the Town Hall.
Gertrude Jerrard, the Melb. Lyric Club damsel who
contrived to go ’Ome on a complimentary benefit two or
three years ago, has lately made an appearance in a new
comic opera at—Portsmouth.
The white steed bestridden by Julius Napoleon Knight
at the battle of Waterloo (Melb. edition) is probably an
aged blood relation of George Rignold the Fifth s famous
charger. He has the same sad expression in his rheumy
eye.
At an East London hall, reoently, in a tug between a
4-ton elephant and 120 men, the beast simply walked
away with the lot, and did so every time the number was
increased bv ten, till, when 170 were on the rope, some-
body made the end fast round one of the posts that sup-
ported the roof. Then the elephant took a pull in
earnest, snapped the post like a carrot, and brought down
half the roof.
A London ballet-performer and pantomimist of con-
siderable reputation has already christened himself ‘ The
Klondyke Nugget.”
The Age refers to Ada Reeve’s appearance as “Julie
BoV-Bow,” instead of Julie Bon-Bon, in “The Gay
Parisienne.”
The drama of the “ White Heather,” Drury Lane
Theatre, London, has a fight on the ocean floor between
two divers.
A.B. : “Miss Blanche Lewis. authoress of ‘Cinders,’
now put on at the BijoU, is wife of Mr. Albert Nor-
man, of Mr. Bland ftolt’s co. Has there been any other
play by an Australienne acted in Australia? Miss Lewis
was Sinbad in a Christinas pantomime, Melb. Opera
House, a long time ago.
Fred. B. Norton, who perpetrated “A Cruel Wrong,”
lately played at the Alexandra, Melb., is Melbourne’s
most übiquitous and ornate advt.-cariv&sser. Norton
begs forgiveness for “ A Gruel WrOilg,” on the ground
that he was young and reckless \Vhen he wrote it.
Apropos of “ A Royal Divorce,” what has become of the
Napoleonic tragedy which “Demos” Palmer wrote and
published years ago in his Imperial Review ?
“ What becomes of local plays constantly contracted
for and apparently supplied to promising minor actors?”
inquires a recent Bulletin correspondent. The Use of
the adverb is questionable, since apparently few plays are
locally manufactured, and still fewer “sold” (some are
given away on the chance of a u slant ” production
“somewhere, someday.”) HoWeVeh possibly the in-
quirer Is one who has not “Constantly contracted,” and
as one who has (sans adverb), perhaps I can tell him what
becomes Of those “ local plays.” Most of them go into
the purchaser’s trunk, there to lie till said purchaser,
having made all the money he can in Australia, accepts
engagements elsewhere, and goes to England or
America to produce them. The Australian actor who
buys plays here to form a possible repertoire (as
some, fortunately for the despised resident playwrights,
are doing) does not buy them for local production, but
for use after he has left Australia. Why? Because
as Boucicault, Holt and Williamson have said many times,
“ There is no money In the production of a locally-authored
piece.” Pantomimes, Wherein the “ Book ” (sUch as it is)
tails in after the scene-painter, mechanist, ballet-mistress,
and electrician, need hot be pointed to as triumphant
exceptions, tn no liiie more than play-writing is the
abhorred phrase that the prophet hath honour so true
in Australia. To catch the Australian public a piece
(good or bad) must have been “The reigning success in
London,” or Timbukhtu, or anywhere, so long as distance
lends enchantment. Managers “know their book,” and
that is why one of them, having approved a local play-
maker’s work, offered to produce it on condition that the
author’s name was omitted and the piece hilled Us “ The
Latest London Success.” He knew his audiehces 1 This
slightly explains why the plays that are sold go to
“ promising minor actors,” Whose pluck and confidence
(patriotism ?) make them more speculative than the average
promising (Very nliich promising) major manager. And,
yes, the birth of the local play usually does “ begin and
elid with the newspaper announcement ’’—and its con-
signment to the aforesaid trunk. Why should the buyer
and author hanker after, say, royalties for about 15 weeks
(a good “ run” for four Australian towns), when a success-
ful English or American production may mean as many
months? I, for one, consider selling for the “foreign
market” preferable to writing in shadowy expectation of
a local one. These remarks are probably “uninteresting,”
“dull,” and “ not worth print.’’ The truth usually isn’t
worth print. And the pessimism which teaches us to
scoff at anything which cometh out of Nazareth, except
prizefighters and scullers (not skull-workers, hut the other
kind), is far more popular—and readable.—B.E.
(“ Poverty Point ” continued on page 14-)
“ The Labor-party are the political pace-
makers,” says Hancock, Vic. M.L.A.
News has just reached Samarai (writes a
Bulletin correspondent) of the death of William
Simpson, leader of the party which found payable
gold early in 1896 at M‘Laehlan’s Creek, Mam-
bari River, Papua. He went back again some
months ago, and died from fever and exhaustion
at the police camp, Mambari.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph,‘which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only =£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
An anonymity has dropped £2500 into
Bishop Webber’s capacious begging hat. The
Bishop’s first hope was to bring back <£25,000
from England ; as ardor Cooled, he promised
Queensland <£lo,ooo as the fruits of his missionary
mendicancy ; but he had finally to arrive with
<£7500. Now he has the <£lo,ooo.
Dear Bulletin,— Squat, ignorant, un-
speakable Tom Bent was not knocked out by
Baronet O’Loghlen, but O’Loghlen was knocked
in by Bent. The opinion of the knowing ones is
that Bent went up for Port Fairy to split the
Prodistan vote, in order that O’Loghlen might
get the full benefit of the Holy Roman vote. So,
you see, there are still some political uses to which
Bent can be put.
Vic. : “Speaker Mason squeezed first on
the green benches of Parliament a quarter of a
century ago. In magnificent trust of the laurel
tree, he abandoned his billet on board the training-
ship Nelson, where he had *o convert the criminal
larrikins. Sydneyites and uther foreigners do not
understand that he is an Irish Catholic without
being 1 told, and, understanding that, they under-
stand a good many things, for the Hibernian yet
has a first call on billets. But sheer work, and
never being chucked out like poor Graham Berrv,
has driven Mason on. Also, like Premier Turner,
he has been helped along by business alliance with
Interest, as distinguished from the
Public.
In resigning his State Bank position Addi-
son, of the Adelaide stabbing-case, addresses to
b.A. treasurer a long letter, of which this is the
5* i ni an fully acknowledging his social
default in retaining, after the marriage of both,
his affection for a woman he had loved when both
were single, Addison denies that this affection
was ever translated into the slightest practical
impropriety; and asserts, further, that Mrs.
Nixon was only coerced into marrying Nixon by
the latter s threats that otherwise he would mur-
der Addison ; that the love-letters to Nixon which
did Mrs. Nixon so much harm in court were
extorted from her by similar threats ; that Nixon
was habitually and grossly cruel to his wife ; and,
finally, that Nixon’s account of the stabbing affair
was a lie from beginning to end
It is suggested that a suitable Court-dress
for one high Australian potentate would be com-
posed of tar and feathers. Isn’t somebody game
to prosecute for affiliation ?
In a N.S.W. (very) backblocks school.
Schoolmistress : “ Howld up your hands them as
pays—now, howld up your hands them as doesn’t
pay, and goodness knows there’s enough of yuz.”
Out Mungyea way (says Moree, N.S.W.,
News) a “ travelling woolshed ” is doing big busi-
ness. One Phipps, a trained engineer, is taking
round with him behind a small traction engine six
shearing machines, and works on contract. Al-
ready he has orders for 40,000 sheep.
Beware how you do your own doctoring,
especially where chemicals are concerned. A
Queensland Labor M.L.A. is just losing the sight
of one eye because he attempted to dress it with
sulphuric acid in mistake for botanic, j ust faticy
Sulphuric acid dressing for the COrrtea !
Gumleaf : “So completely is thb Austra-
lian arrtrriunitioTi-factory, which recently blew up
thrfe'e half-paid girls, worked by girl-labor that on
a recent visit I saw young girls in short frocks en-
gaged in barrow-work. ... It came out in evi-
dence, too, that at least some of the employes knew
nothing about any of the notices which it was
alleged were jiosted at different places throughout
the factory. Strange ! ”
The death of N.S.W.’s ek-Goveriior, the
Well-beloved Hercules Robinson, is described per
Cable as “ sudden ”; it was nb doubt due to a
seizure, the outcome of one of the chronic diseases
from which he had so long suffered. For many
months past he had been laid aside by dropsy,
caused by heart-trouble. Though many years
have passed since Sydney last saw him, Sir Her-
cules’ memory is still fragrant ih Australia. As a
blend of head, heart, and sport, he was a ttlah
among a million.
Mr. Griffith’s Bill to prevent barristers
pleading before N.S.W. Judges Who are theif
kinsmen ehcbuhtered the hostility Of the legal
magnates, and was courtted-out of the Assembly.
Jersortal action irt the matter by the whole of the
udges would render such a Bill unnecessary ; but,
in the past, the bench has displayed no sensitive-
ness in the practice aimed at, even in the face of
crying scandals. The public voice says that no
Judge should hear his son as an advocate, atty
more than any father should sit in judgment oil
his son in the Criminal Court. The pointed fee-
ing of Judges’ relatives by attorneys is A sufficient
ihdictmeht of the system.
Arthur A. D. Bayldoil, some of whose
poems have appeared in The Bulletin, is about
to publish his work in London. William Sharpe,
editor of Canterbury poets series, writes to Mr.
Bayldon :
You will deservedly achieve wide reputation. It is very
seldom indeed that either leisure or inclination ihvites me
to re-perusal of later Victorian poetry, but 1 look forward
to again reading Voiir “Sphinx.” Your blank vetse Is
excellent—occasionally Very excellent. With Petrarchikrt
care you may yet take a very high place indeed atnotig
contemporary sonnet-writers. The two 1 should select as
the finest are “The Sphinx’* and “Music and Moort-
lisrht.” The latter alone is proof that you are a poet, aild
not merely a Writer of verse.
One incident in the Age plan to “squash”
Randolph Bedford’s candidature for the Meib.
Eastern Suburbs seat was contemptibly humorous.
An Age reporter buttonholed the members of
Bedford’s committee, and told them—in the man-
ner of one who has damaging information to im-
part —that their man, although an ex-member of
the Age staff, had never been admitted to the
lie ‘porters’ Association ! The Reporters’ Associa-
tion, long since dead and forgotten as far as Melb.
journalism is concerned, was a mere conspiracy of
dullards (who, by the way, never dared to beard
their “proprietors”) to deny membership‘to the
brighter class of press-workers. And as a eoh-
spir '.oy it proved a dismal failure.
Sydney Telegraph Emphasises its suppres-
sion of the Respectable child-flogging case at
Narandera. by wailing in a long leading article
over the cruelties inflicted on neglected children—
in London ! Also, on Nov. 2, it reported that at
Berry police-court, on the previous day, a farmer
named W. Kennedy was fined £2 and costs for
thrashing a boy 15 years of age—a case on all-
fours with the Narandera one, with the difference
that the Narandera victim was a motherless girl
10 years of age, and was apparently much more
brutally treated. But the Telegraph reports
the Berry case, in which the assailant was “only
a farmer,” and suppresses the worse Narandera
one, in which the flogger was a Respectable Bank-
Manager !
Sunday Brunker, the man with the under-
taker’s soul, fell in badly the other night. Crick
arose, in N.S.W. Assembly, with a wooden ex-
pression in his countenance, and, in a tone like a
sermon, called Brunker the “Minister for War,”
and asked him what steps were being taken to aid
Hingland in its hour of trouble and to save the
hempire. Any other man would simply have said
“ Rats ! ” or advised Crick to take something for
it, or asked if he knew who struck Buckley. But
Sunday Brunker took this “ borak ” quite seri-
ously, and laboriously explained the situation,
until the broad grin of the House began to disturb
him. Then something seemed to strike the poor
old man, and he dragged his mouth round towards
his ears and professed to see the joke.


R. BELL i CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
A ITS. (
Reps. )
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildintrs, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z,
ai
The KOEIISTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect' Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MACE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
SIKi_JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Eeid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Burns, Piiilp & Co. Ltd.,
N. Q’ld & New Guinea.
Australasian
Representatives
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office Si Chemical Laboratory,
Tklkpiionhl
2444. 1
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
GOOD AS GOLD.
SHOTS SILKIES
AND THE NEW
Easy Buckboard.
75 King Stbeet, Newtown, SYDNEY.
PERTH— Robt. Wolfe, Murray-street.
GERALDTON— A. Meadowcroft, Marine Terrace.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commission of Enquiry into the working
of the W.A. mining laws has just concluded its sitting at
Kalgoorlie. A deal of heterogeneous and contradictory
evidence was given, but, on the whole, the witnesses
were practical and intelligent. Probably the best evi-
dence was given by manager Callahan, of the Lake View,
a highly-experienced American mine-manager, well-
known and respected in New South Wales, who sug-
gested some radical innovations. He rather startled
some members of the Commission by asserting that
the Westralian plan of neglecting everything else
for the purpose of catering for British capital was
not the “highest good;” that capital would come in
fast enough if the Govt, would simply make good laws,
encourage prospectors, and reduce vexatious charges ; in
fact, he rather pooh-poohed “ British capital ” as more a
nuisance than otherwise, till the Commission fairly
gasped. Again, Mr. Jodrell, a local solicitor, opened the
Commission’s eyes. He quite knocked over the placid
theory that because there are not many officials the public
must be satisfied with the administration of the mining
laws. The appeal courts are held in Perth, nearly 400
miles away ; and he explained that the public failed to be
enthusiastic over spending its money to “ educate the
administrators of the laws through appeals to the Supreme
Court.” He called attention to many clauses of the Act
being inoperative since they were to be administered only
“in accordance with the regulations,” but the
special regulation required had been forgotten. He
cited instances where two applications to mine
under a town site, though unopposed by the sur-
face-owners, and specially allowable by the Act,
had been refused because the Minister “ did not
see his way to grant them,” whilst a like application,
strongly opposed by the surface-owners, but in which a
Mr Wittenoom, brother of the famous Minister of Mines,
“ was present at and assisting in the pegging,” was incon-
tinently granted 111 As a sequel to the above a Gazette
notice lately appeared notifying that the two first-named
leases would be cancelled if rents not paid before end of
this month—leases that had never been granted would be
cancelled ! Mr. Jodrell further called attention to the
clause allowing alluvial mining on leased ground “ within
60ft. of the line of reef,” which, if it means anything at
all, means that a miner may work alluvial from 49ft. odd
to lin. of the reef; but this is taken to imply that the
alluvial man mustn’t go within 50ft. of the reef—just the
opposite to what it says. He pointed to heaps of other
such blunders ; and, further, showed how many clauses of
the Act are not allowed to be utilised—referring to resi-
dence areas and other matters—simply because a chuckle-
headed Minister refuses to let them be acted on.
Altogether Mr. Jodrell made it clear that of all laws the
W.A. mining law is the biggest “ass” in existence, and
the administration, to use an Irishism, a still bigger one.
* * * *
Pritchard Morgan and his partner, Mr. W. G.
Hall, seem from all accounts to have made a couple of
excellent deals in Westralia. They took up not a few
mines, and are working two of them —the others having
proved good enough to quit. The North Star, at Mt.
Malcolm, N. Coolgardie, is opened out at No. 1 level for
600 ft. The reef at this level (says a well-informed Bulle-
tin corres) O ident) was fair grade, and from end to end
averaged about 3ft., and milled 22dwts. At No. 2 level,
250 ft. has been opened on the line of reef and stoping has
begun, the ore being higher grade than above ; present
crushings go 27dwts. In No. 2 drive the reef has widened
to 9ft., goes down between well-defined walls and promises
Eermanence. The mill is 10 head, and the ore is being
andled economically, as the plant is automatic, and the
presence of plenty fresh water in the mine does away
with the usual hand ing of tailings (only worth a few
dwts.). The mill engine is strong enough to drive another
10-head—now being added. Returns began in April, since
when the mine has produced 25270 z. gold from 2314 tons
ore. There are some honest fair grade shows in the Mt.
Malcolm district, and plenty of fresh water at from 60 to
100 feet in both hard and soft country. Feed is also fairly
good, and large quantities of vegetables are being grown
there. The North Star has a good big corn paddock
below' the tailings-dam, which paddock is irrigated by the
waste water from the tailings, and promises to produce a
heavy' crop.
The Sons of Gwalia at Mt. Leonora, 10 miles
from Mt. Malcolm, is owned by Messrs. Morgan and Hall,
and is (continues The Bulletin’s informant) “practically
a gold-field in itself.” The property takes in over a mile
and a-quarter of reefs and formations, seven of which run
nearly parallel and are proved payable by milling returns.
They vary in value from Bdwt. to soz. and 6oz. The low-
grade reefs are from Bft. to 12ft. wide, and those of high-
grade vary from a foot to 4ft. and sft. There is an ample
suppl.y of water, and a 10-head mill is putting through
between 600 and 800 tons per month—a record for W.A.,
as the mine was only pegged a little over a year ago, and
is 200 miles from a railway' station. It has already pro-
duced 4271J0z. from 2856 tons ore. Another 40-head of
stamps are being added to the battery, and these will go
through as soon as the railway is opened to Menzies. A
large cyanide plant will also be put down, as the tailings
average loz. The mine is being vigorously developed in
readiness for the new battery, and when this starts the
Leonora will be amongst W.A.’s leading gold-producers.
It is one of the few regular gold-producing mines which
has not been floated, and the cost of the mining and mill-
ing (with whips and green-hide buckets and only 10-head)
is being covered at 325. lOd. per ton. Cages have just
been put into the main shaft, and steam-winding is in
progress now. The mine is expected to clear expenses on
6dwt. when the big battery starts.
• * * •
General Gordon Extended —meeting lately held
in Adelaide. Letter read from the original holders of the
lease, protesting against the proposed liquidation. “ The
lode had been struck at the 140 ft. level in the parent
mine, carrying gold assaying up to 70oz. to the ton.”
When, which, where, who ? “ Considering the boundary
was within 20 chains, and that the Gen. Gordon North
was developing well, it seems a pity not to give it a
further trial.” The same old wheeze of the paid-up
holder. The contributors have had their trial, and a
very severe one it has been. Where is all the gold talked
about in the prospectus, by the lies of which so many
people were fooled into taking up these worthless shares ?
The chairman did not know what was the best thing to
do. H. Bickford said his opinion of the property was
that it was not worth two straws. That, too, appears to
be the opinion of every man who has seen it and is capable
of telling the truth. The £4OOO said to remain should at
once be refunded.
• * • *
The almighty Kaufman has left Westralia—it is
believed for good. Now it is more than whispered in
London that the greater-than-Kaufman—Whitaker Wright
—is about to turn his attention to British Columbia “as
a field for investment and development.” It looks like
it. When Macintosh, the Lieut.-Gov. of the N.W. Terri-
tories, was in London lately he was banqueted by
Wright and co., and Lord Dufferin, the new chairman of
the London and Globe Finance, presided. Macintosh
ridiculed the idea of climatic difficulties, said the trade of
Yukon was going to be immense, the fields were of enor-
mous extent and richness. He remarked that he always
travelled with a specimen, and, at this moment, a man,
who had lived 10 years at Yukon, over six feet high,
vigorous and well-bronzed, rose to his feet. Macintosh
remarked—“ There’s an emaciated specimen for you ! ”
If Wright makes a move in that direction, thousands will
follow him. He is a champion mining operator, and
behind him there is another masterfully-silent person
whose name is seldom heard : Herbert Trower, formerly
of Sydney, once a clerk in Dixson’s tobacco-factory, then a
big tobacco and other merchant. After—well, not suc-
ceeding in Sydney, he floated the Wentworth mines for
half-a-million in London in the midst, and in spite of, the
Baring Bank crises. Kaufman, it is said, once asked :
“ Who is this man Trower?” “This is the kind of man
he is,” said Wright, producing Trower’s cheque, marked
good by the bank on which it was drawn for £500,000.
Yes, the L. and G.F. is a mighty corporation, but where —
oh ! where —would it be but for the Lake View —one of
the first half-dozen of the world's gold-producers? With-
out that it would have had to carry the Wealth of Expec-
tations, W.E. Extended, Paddington Consols, Golden
Crown, and others, which, up to date, have produced
little or no gold. Verily, the sweetness of one solid great
mine smothers the stench of cats unto seventy-times
seven.
• * * *
Clarke and Co., in their special W.A. issue: —
“ There are a dozen mines at Kalgoorlie that alone may
reasonably be expected to turn out, on an average, over
4(K>ooz. per month, when fully equipped, or, say, half-a-
million oz. per annum ; and more than a dozen more
that, on present prospects, may very reasonably be ex-
pected to become regular gold - producers; and, as
developments with depth in the past year have added so
greatly to the value of the field, is it not more than
probable that further developments will reveal more
wealth in this mineral belt? That Kalgoorlie will yet
supply the greatest boom ever seen in Australia we have
not the slightest doubt, but the time has not yet arrived.
Not until the mines generally are turning out the great
quantities of gold the developments of the past six months
foreshadow, will we see a boom.” Output figures are also
given, to show that W.A. is going ahead generally, and
that, without Kalgoorlie, it is destined to be a great gold-
producer. It is predicted that the total W.A. output this
year will be 650,0000 z., or 10,000 oz. above Queensland for
last year, and that next year Vic.’s '96 yield—Boo,ooo odd
oz.—will be easily passed.
* • • •
From a capable mining man now managing a
mine at Menzies, W.A. :—“A mine not far from here
went 17oz. 7dwts. per ton by assay—stone sent 61b. The
directors in Adelaide at once decided to have three tons
sent over. Result: 4dwt. to the ton. The manager, in
his next report said ‘he wished them well.’ He had often
said the same when thev were not feeling so sick.”
* * * *
Said that it is intended to increase the number
of Great Boulder shares ten times, and allot them to
present shareholders.
• • * •
The alluvial rush at Kanowna is obviously one
of the best of a great many occurring in that country
during the last four years. “It is causing a marked re-
vival in alluvial mining all over the country. There is
likely to be a great scarcity of water this, summer. A
fortnight ago it was 10s. per ioOgals., now it is 255. Some
3000 men are on the field, and as many leaving as are
going.”
* * * •
From Coolgardie: —“ Ano her month’s exemp-
tion granted to" the Lady Maud, Emily, and Surprise, all
belonging to one co. Also three months granted to Lady
Hampton ; excuse, that they have spent £5250. The Lady
Loch has started to get up steam again. New Australian
last crushing, 292 tons, 9660z.—0ne of the very few good
mines around Coolgardie. Pitiful to see the number of
mines, with machinery all ready, lying idle. The usual
thing is to apply for exemption on the ground of having
spent so much money, and time is wanted to get more ;
and, if the amounts stated are correct, it is marvellous
where all the money went.”
* * * *
The money (half-a-million altogether) has been
put up by the London and Globe Finance Corporation for
the Ivarihoe mine, and the new co. has gone to allot-
ment. Output to date —16,811 tons, for 36,7400 z. gold.
• * • *
Another gold discovery made not far from
Perth, on the Midland line. “ The stone is different from
that of Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie. Four tests have been
made, and each gave a return of soz. per ton. It is
regarded as a most important discovery—the nearest yet
made to Perth, and all offers to buy have been declined.”
» * * *
General Gordon mine, W.A. — Cable appearing
in London papers dated June 15 apparently official :
“ Battery of ten stamps now in working order, success-
fully started 13th June; 31,000 tons ore available for
treatment; will be able to crush 600 tons monthly ; mine
looks well.” Yet that battery only crushed a few tons
for a hideously disappointing return before closing down ;
another manager resigned, all hands were turned adrift,
and suspension Secured. Even all this and a lot more
things do not disturb the discreet silence of the tipster
who described it as “A second Great. Boulder,” and for
long never wearied in advising people to buy.
* * * *
Herbert Booth, Australian boss of the Salva-
tion Army, put up £6OO deposit to cover the right to farm
15,000 to 20,0n0 acres of land in the Collie country of Wes-
tralia for an “ Army ” farm. The Forrest crowd went
back on the tentative arrangement with old man Booth
for 150,000 acres for the over-sea colony.
» • * •
Printed that the insurance co’s have lost over
£31,000 in Westralia in the first nine months of the year,
including £10,850 in Fremantle, £B9OO in Perth, and
£8075 in Coolgardie. Apropos, a sign of the times: Evi-
dence was given at the recent inquest on the big hotel
fire at Coolgardie that the last three months’ account of
the pub. showed a small loss.
* * * *
SomeWestralian P.O. officials have been making
out-of-the-way “ perks.” At least one has. Afghans and
other Mahommedans will not accept interest; and when
interest has accrued in respect of savings-bank deposits
on the goldfields, the Asiatic has declined the unclean
stuff - and the official has pocketed it. A Minister) look-
ing eagerly for odd pence, got wind of the practice, and
that form of “perk” is now at an end.
B. H. Proprietary shares continue to pass to the
London register; at time of closing for the Oot. div.,
367,116 were held in Australia as against 592,884 in Eng-
land. Australia’s holders are thus distributed : —2713,
representing 195,616 shares, in Adelaide; 722, with
127,587 shares, in Melb. ; 222, with 34,613 shares, in Syd-
ney ; the rest scattered. On this basis of a shilling div.,
Australia gets £18,355 ; the other side £29,645.
* * * *
Pinnacles Group, stumped for money, still pot-
ters along, hand-picking a few tons of ore. And even
that makeshift has been interrupted by a strike of the
youngsters employed.
European smelters are offering less objection
than they did to the zino in the Barrier sulphide concen-
trates, and, consequently, a less thorough extraction, is
now aimed at in some mills, with the result of an in-
creased output. British concentrates, for example, now
contain 8* per cent, zinc for “ firsts,” and 11 per cent, for
“seconds.” The competition of the Illawarra and the
announcement that the B. H. Proprietary would start
concentrate-buying has, no doubt, had most to do with
the change.
* * * *
B.H. Consols, the “specimen” mine of the
silver-fields, is on another vein of 7000 oz. stuff, and con-
ditions art favorable for a fair run of it.
» * * *
S.A. shareholders in the Eveleen, the disastrous
Northern Territory silver-lead mine held by a Sydney-
registered co. in liquidation, are beginning to kick. Some
years ago they paid a liquidator’s call of ss. a share ;
now a demand for 7s. more has come along. As it was
half-promised that no further call would be made on
them, the shareholders have agreed to throw in 3d. a share
“ in order to employ a solicitor in Sydney to inquire into
the matter.”
• * * •
N.S.W. Attorney-General Want thinks Crown-
Solicitor Colquhoun wrong in advising that a mine is not
“ unworkable ” because the co. can’t get men at the price
offered; ergo, apparently, J. Want thinks suspension
should be granted. Now (writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent), I’m in a bit of trouble. It’s a case of bigamy, and
I'm committed. I want a lawyer. I’ve offered one half-
a-sov. to see the thing right through on condition he lets
me search him every time I interviewed him to see he
hasn’t “lifted ” anything belonging to me. He objects,
and declines the job. So I want suspension, and am by
this mail writing to the Attorney-General to hold over
the case against me till the next court, or such other time
as this fool-lawyer accepts iny terms. Of course he will.
* * * *
The Lucknow strike came to an end while
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lyne’s no-confidence motion
was still on the carpet, and the little wind there was in
his sails thereupon left them. The strike was declared off
on manager Lock agreeing to pay the old rate of wages
after Ist May, ’9S, and, meanwhile, to guarantee 7s. 6d.
per eight-hours’ shift to men employed on contract work ;
the new miners'-house-searching rules to be abrogated.
Manager Lock’s statement that the trouble could all have
been arranged three months ago had “ his own men ”
come to him in the matter is publicly regarded as rather
thin ; and an idea prevails that he has “ heard from
London ” on the subject.
• • • •
A Sydney agent who does an extensive business
in arranging partnerships and the sale and transfer of
businesses, told a N.S.W. Income-tax official some days
ago chat, if they put their heads together, they could
drive half the traders of Sydney to gaol for perjury.
“ Just,” whispered the confidential agent, “ show me the
profits they paid Income-tax on, and I’ll show you the
profits they gave me to bait partners or purchasers with.”
Another Income-tax story : A Sydney merchant took his
nephew into the business, and, to make room for the
young man, dispensed with the services of his book-keeper.
The ex-book-keeper was accepted as temporary clerk in
the Taxation Department, and in a fortnight after the
commissioners made demand on the merchant for £l5
extra as tax on income. “ Host non propter,” observed a
suave commissioner when bailed up on the subject ;
“ Propter etpostl” yells the vietjm.
Mr. John Howell is said to have acquired a
strong interest in Barrass and Conley’s Peak mine.
* * * *
Little flux now being drawn from Tarrawingee,
general-manager Stirling has been withdrawn therefrom
and sent over to superintend the Emu Bay railway works.
The new co. is promoted and governed by the old Tarra-
wingee “ crowd.”
* * * *
Nowra, N.S.W. —“ Large cyanide works will be
erected at Yalwal as soon as the litigation in connection
with the Homeward Bound mine is settled.” When is it
to be settled? It has been going on now for nearly four
years, and it all arose through a small lease being for-
feited for non-payment of rent-despite the fact that an
agent of the co. was given the money to pay over ! Yet
a co. which paid some £20,000 for the mine, and has spent
over that sum in plant and development, has had to fight
for four years to make its title clear, because an agent
forgot, or otherwise neglected to pay, a few paltry pounds’
rent. The forfeiture clauses are a blot on the mining
laws of Australia. Let the State fine, and fine heavily if
it likes, for non-payment of rent or neglect of labor-
conditions, but, for the sake of the industry, abolish the
monstrous principle of forfeiting and handing over valu-
able estate to the man who plays the part of informer.
And, let it be asked again, why on earth (granting that the
Yalwal mine was justly forfeited by the State) should an
informer be rewarded with a property worth, say, £20,000
at auction ? Why shouldn’t the State put £19,500 into the
Treasury and pay the informer £5OO for his trouble ?
• * * •
Wanted : a clear provision in the new Q. Land
Bill enabling mining to be prosecuted on reserves.
* * * •
The flickering of Brilliant Extended (Towers)
scrip is probably caused by the quality of the big body of
stone in the eastern drive having fallen in the last few
feet.
• * * *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* * * *
A chicken of one boom-curse has come home to
roost with an unlucky Australian Bohemian who was very
“thick” with the local branch-boss of a certain defunct
financial institution, which too many people have good
cause to remember. Said the boss one day to the Bohe-
mian—“ Want any stuff, old man? Yes! Well, if
twenty ’ll do, just sign that.” (P.N. for £5O, at six
months). Cheque written and sent to Cashdown Bank,
and, when clerk returns with the sovs., boss puts £5 aside
for his concern’s interest, “That leaves £22 10s. a-piece
for you and me. Let’s have a little bottle.” A few days
later manager is cursing his luck. “ D —d fool I was not
to make it £5OO ! Might as well had that as a miserable
£5O ! I ought to have guessed what the game was, from
the way they used to worry me, as soon as I had anything
like a decent balance here, to wire it along to head*
quarters.” “ Why, what the devil's up ? My blessed
directors have cleared with the sugar—that’s all!”
Later on, within a few weeks of expiry of statutory limi-
tation-period—a stranger, who has bought the book-debts
of the frizzled institution for something under Is. in the
£, gets judgment against Bohemian for £BO, amount of
p.n. and interest.
* * • •
The propriety of banks dummying shares carry-
ing a liability was again vindicated in Melb. Insolvency
Court last week, when an insolvent clerk in the deceased
City of Melbourne Bank got his release on liabilities,
£98,000 ; assets, £5. The bulk of the liabilities were on
shares in Wallachs Limited and City of Melbourne Bank.
The former concern had been body and soul the bank’s
property for some years prior to the bank’s collapse, and
the farce—if not worse—of a bank advancing money on
either Wallachs’ or its own shares, when the bank must
have known what hot goods to handle those shares were,
is simply a misappropriation of the funds entrusted
to the bank by its solvent shareholders.
* * » *
The new Vie. shipping co., of whose two new
steamers so much has been made, has, it is now stated,
sold the vessels to the A.U.S.N. Co.
• * * »
One of the Bendigo “ fifty ” (men who replaced
the Lucknow strikers) to a reporter as the train was
about to leave : —“ I’ve been out of work two years. The
miners have no union here, only an accident society. It’s
near time there was a strike here.” And, all things
considered, the Bendigo A.M.A. is a bit out of date- with
its veteran secretary “barracking” for the Freetrade can-
didate capitalist Lazarus; snarling at Labor-candidate
Hamilton; figuring, photographically, as a hero in Hirsch’s
Beacon ; and writing congratulatory notes to Ballarat’s
Mayor, Shoppee, over the Tillett business. Ye gods !
You would think that wages gold-miners were a set of
shopkeeper-deacons.
• * * *
The trustees of Melbourne cemetery have over
£20,000 in hand, and don't know what to do with it. The
only paying land-syndicate The Bulletin knows of.
* • * *
Thousands of acres of wheat around Hopetoun,
Vic. (writes a Bulletin correspondent), looks as if it will
never be harvested. Only 7 or Bin. high, yet out in ear,
and hopelessly smothered with weeds.
• • • •
In May last, the estate of C. H. James (described
as a “ sheep-fanner ”) was sequestrated Any ordinary
Victorian insolvent would, on pain of imprisonment for
contempt, have had to file his statement of affairs within
two months of sequestration, but James (proprietor of the
smellful Dominion Bank and arch land-boomer) has failed
to comply with the law up to date of writing. On an
application being made in Melbourne the other dav for
James’s committal for contempt, it leaked out that all the
creditors were satisfied, excepting the man who wanted to
put James away, and his claim was stated to be £l7 only.
The Bulletin yearns to know the true reason why' the
£l7 man should spend about ‘lOO on counsel’s fees for
such a small amount, especially' as the general body of
creditors’ claims, stated to be satisfied, are considerably
over £lOO,OOO.
• • • •
The unexpected developments re the proposed
Tasmanian railway co’s have (to put the matter mildly)
seriously disorganised the arrangements of at least two
people deeply' interested in one of the ventures. Heavy
bills given on the strength of one of the lines being a
dead cert, are rapidly maturing.
* » * •
A big Melb. retail-mercantile firm is oetween
devil and deep sea in re a bank and a religious institution.
The bank is walling to give concessions to enable the firm
to pull through, but the Godly' won’t budge an inch.
Probable that the firm will have to “ face the music.”
• * • *
Dear Bulletin,—Tn a Bulletin par. it is stated
that banking hours are seven a day. Perhaps you would
be surprised to know that the Melb. Savings Bank clerks
not only' work ten hours a day regularly, but have for
weeks past been working all Sunday.—R.A.
• • • •
The Svengali Mining Co. (Tas.) —promoted
“ on the off chance ” —consists largely of men who have
little to lose. Most of the shares having been recently
acquired bv a crowd who w-ere early acquainted with the
developments, a resolution has been passed to make all
the fully-paid £2 shares liable for another £l—this, ap-
parently, w’ith the object of freezing-out, the little men.
To the disgust of the crowd, another wealthy man has
undertaken to pay up all the new £1 liability of the poor
original shareholders. Now, what will the big men do?
• • * #
Labouchere, owner and editor of London Truth,
has done his best to prove that the Jameson raid was
part of a sordid stock-jobbing transaction by Rhodes and
co. to enrich themselves and impoverish the publio.
Henry Hess, editor of the African Critic (a paper no
doubt shored up by the S.A. Chartered Co. gang) is now
giving a very bad turn to “ Labbv,” who, at last dates, has
not defended himself. He has got hold of a lot of private
letters written b.y Labouchere long ago to a now-deceased
fellow-operator in the stock-market (millionaire Beit is
said to have paid £7OOO to deceased’s executors for those
epistles), and has published a number of fac sim'les, and
old extracts from the World tending to show that while
“ Labby ” was financial editor of that paper (in 1875 or
thereabouts) he boomed certain ventures and damned
others for his own requirements; that he thereby
swindled the public ; that he was first a “ bear” and then
a “ bull,” and was so satisfied with the result of his opera-
tions that he remarked in one of these letters : “ It seems
to me that this can be renewed several times.” A num-
ber of English papers are calling upon Lab. to disprove
the charges or resign his seat in the Commons and do
many other disagreeable things. If “Labby” has no
other way out of it he might say : “ When I recall the
things I have done since ’75 why trouble myself about a
little thing like this?”
* * * •
The mild boom in Mt. Deddick, an alleged
silver-mine in the Vic. Snowy River district, has enabled
the Mt. Deddick United to come out in a feeble way. The
stories told of the wonders of this camp recently induced
a well-known Broken Hill man to send along his expert—
a very old war-horse, indeed. The writer cannot give his
report, but the effect of it was: “No likee.”
% » * m
“ Henry Bratnober, who represents the Ex-
ploration Company in British Columbia, made an
attempt to purchase claim 31 on Eldorado Creek for
£25,000, but the offer was refused.” There is another re-
pot t to the effect that Bratnober had got off the track
somewhere in that country, and sought shelter in a cave,
where he was found curled up alive and well after passing
several days without food. Anyhow, it is quite evident
that the big Bismarck-like Bratnober has got toKlondyke.
He has been in all the most remote mining regions on
earth, and has bought millions of pounds’ worth of mines.
Three years ago the writer heard him swear that he was
full-up of looking for gold-mines, and soliloquise on what
a fool he was to travel round such a country. But that
was while sitting on a barren white quartz-blow the
“ great richness ” of which he had camelled over 100
miles from Coolgardie to see. Anyone who heard Brat-
nober curse things on that “blow” can picture him in the
Klondyke cave.
• • * •
Another wire comes from Europe that wolfram
is in keen demand. The metal is known to exist in many
parts of N.S.W. , but the ore has hitherto been passed by
as too impure. It might be worth testing again in the
new state of the market.


r
d
ORIENT ' ,
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE J
BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
\ G.PO )
SYDNEY.
“CORTO” ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO - fid. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
At a meeting held to sympathise with the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) church official lately fined for
cuffing a misdemeanant urchin during service, an
unspeakable reverend person (local paper report)
thus orated :
“ The main question was—was young Farrar wrong?
To his (the cleric s) mind it was a wrong thing to make
rabbits in church. He could not conceive of Samuel
making rabbits in the Tabernacle. Who, either, could
conceive of the Saviour when five years old making
rabbits? Or, who could imagine St. Timothy doing it ?
It was a most irreverent thing to do. There was a time
for everything. The church, during divine service, was
certainly not the place for conduct of the kind, and the
churchwarden was right in stopping it. A gentleman in
Islington had told him that he had once made a rabbit in
church, and, when the matter was reported to his father,
he received the greatest hiding that he could remember.”
And yet nobody seems to have howled ! The "un-
godly jester is simply not in it with the uncon-
scious humorist of the monkey-beard and the long
upper-lip.
W.A. Police-Commissioner Phillips’ post-
prandial boast that his men were the most intelli-
gent in Australia, gives extra flavor to the follow-
ing choice effusion lately addressed by a W.A.
“cop.” to his landlady :
Madam, I beg to instigate my abandonment as a
hoarder of your keeping, as the position I now occupy
calls me to achieve restricted policy of familiarity.
Thanking you for your kind patronage. I will lie honor-
ably pleased to comply with your small debt.
Even the much-derided Babu would find it hard
to beat this.
* * * *
Last Saturday The Bulletin sniffed with
interest the burning grease which Henry Lucy
poured over himself in S. M. Herald, apropos of
the Lueys’ receipt of the Dunmow flitch of baom
for conjugal virtue. (Dr. Brewer, in his “ Phrase
and Fable,” says of the flitch that “ the attempt
to revive this ‘ premium for humbug’ is a mere
‘ get-up ’ for the benefit of the town !”) And
after this paper had considered the egotistical
Lucy by and large, and had read the doggerel
composed in his honor, its eyes drifted to the
column adjoining the sacred shrine of Lucy family
gossip, and it read (), horror ! —this:
PREPARATIONS FOR WHELPING.
Some modification in the dietic regimen is generally
necessary with a bitch in whelp. If she lias been habitu-
ated to on'e meal per day, and that, at night, she should
also have a meal in the morning. However, cave must be
taken not to overfeed. . . . Every expectant dam should
have her kennel made ready after the seventh week, so
that she becomes accustomed to the surroundings. . . .
A few days before the eventful period the kennel
should be thoroughly cleaned and washed with hot water,
thereby destroying all eggs of worms that may he pre-
sent ; and another good plan is to rub into the dam’s coat
precipitated sulphur from head to tail. A final prepara-
tory measure used by most breeders is a dose of castor od or
other cathartic; but perhaps this is only necessary in some
cases The breeder can put away the old frozen
idea t hat castor oil is necessary at this period. It also has
the effect of vitiating the milk more or less.
The conjugal felicity of Henry Lucy along-
side the conjugal felicity of “a bitch in whelp!”
O, Mister James ! Mister James ! what a comical
dog you are !
* * * *
The lady cat-fanciers of England now have
their newspaper, and Westminster Budget gives
selections from what it terms the cult of cats.
“Mrs. Marriott has a fine young male.” “Her
Chinchilla kit has grown into a big, solid cat.”
“Mrs. Waldegrave Brodie sells her kits almost too
rapidly, as some unborn are already sold. She has
put up a delightful cattery.” “Mrs. Woodhouse
has a litter of five blues, by Kingfisher from
Lobelia.” Really, the tiles develop into grand
opera. “The Honorable Mrs. Montague has
eight, by the famous Woolooniooloo.’’ Wooloo-
miaw ! “She is sacrificing them at 355. each.”
“ Births,” in the cat paper, aTe Is. for two lines.
* * *• *
The late Duchess of Teck was the “ Bonnie
Mary ” of the Guelph family in her younger days,
and people used to cry out against Queen Victoria
for not giving her handsome cousin permission to
marry one of the British dukes, or marquises, who
would have jumped at the chance. Mary had to
waste her sweetness on the desert air until she was
33, and then his Serene Highness Teck took the
bouncing spinster to church. She grew rather
Mr. BERT GILBERT.
Miss ADA REEVE.
(Of the “ Gay Parisienne ” Co.)
Photo., Brown, Barnes & Bell, Liverpool. Photo., Beaufort, Liverpool.
appallingly plump after marriage (Princess May,
her daughter, is proceeding on the same lines), and
it is recorded of the Persian Shah that when he
saw Duchess Teck dancing at a Buckingham
Palace ball, he laughed as no Eastern potentate
had ever been known to laugh since the night
when Belshazzar got drunk.
* » * •
Cockaigne : ‘ ‘ The Tecks were as poor as
rats until Clarence turned his languid eyes that
way. It is a current joke that Lord Cheylesmore
got his title for buying the Teck picture-gallery.
I have seen it in print that the Duke of Teck ran
away to Vienna with Mrs. Rousby, the actress,
twenty years ago. The Duchess of Teck, as Prin-
cess Mary of Cambridge, was particularly attached
to Lord Hood, but the Queen interdicted it. The
saying in London used to be about getting things
on Teck.”
* * * •
S.M. Herald cable :
THE LATE DUCHESS OF TECK.
Many remarkable manifestations of sympathy have
been received by the Queen and by the Duke of Teck and
family.
MELBOURNE, Friday.
His Excellency the Governor has cabled the regret of
the people of Victoria for the death of the Duchess of
Teck.
The people of Victoria! “ Remarkable,” indeed.
Journalist: “Strange things
I have seen in the police-court. A
young fellow, arrested at a fancy
ball, dressed in blue and silver, as
Faust, locked up all night and
docked in court with the fancy
dress on. A young woman, at the
bar, in the complete evening dress
of a gentleman. A man brought
up for stealing chickens from the
gaol governor, on the very gaol pre-
mises. Another who picked a pocket
of a watch in the police-court audi-
torium.”
* * * M
Dear Bulletin, —Passing
through a Melb. suburb the other
day, a leaflet was handed me ad-
vertising a certain medical cure-
all, and containing laudatoiy letters
from a few local residents, among
others. I thought I would inves-
tigate. The first address was found
easily enough, but in place of being
occupied by the alleged testimonial-
writer, it was in the possession of
a well-known undertaker. I stopped
investigating.—F. Croson.
* * * *
A Seymour (Vic.) bootmaker
announces that parsons who “men-
tion ” his hoof-gear to their congregations will be
supplied gratis. That is the public estimation of
the church nowadays —as a handy vehicle for
“ mentioning ” somebody’s boots.
* * * *
Adelaide hospital troubles have revived.
This time there are dissensions amongst the resi-
dent staff.
♦ * * *
While the navigator of every colliding
mud-punt in Australia is solemnly hauled before
the local Marine Board to account for his action,
no news lias hitherto been heard of Baron Brassey
being summonsed to explain how he ran the Sun-
beam ashore in Queensland (to say nothing of
other occasion). Gov. Brassey is the holder of
a Master’s Certificate, and the cancellation of
this, if such a blasphemous proceeding could be
even suggested, would probably break the old
man’s heart —despite the fact that he is selling the
Sunbeam and will probably have no more truck
with big fry in the boat line.
* * * *
W. T. Stead, apropos of Gov. Brassey’s
Nineteenth article on the Jubilee in Victoria,
suggests what he calls “an admirable use ” to
which Colonial Governors might be put. “ They
might be made a sort of Imperial newspaper corre-
spondents to send home to the British people vivid
narratives of Colonial functions.” Yes, but what
newspaper would publish such rubbish ? Who
can imagine a “ vivid ” description of anything
coming from the ponderous dullard Brassey, or
the wheezy Nonconformist-Conscience Buxton?
The idea of making Governors “useful” is, of
course, good, in so far as it is a recognition of
their present uselessness.
* * * *
Gov. Buxton has again distinguished him-
self. He recently visited the Jamestown (S. A.)
show, and Mayor Cameron drove him from the
railway-station to the place where he was to stop.
Before alighting, H.E., thinking the charioteer
was a stipendiary Jehu, slipped half-a-erown into
his astonished hand. However, this was better
than the historic penny which a Victorian states-
man is said to have bestowed upon a disgusted
Echuca bootblack.
* * * *
A “ pleasant Sunday ” at Boggabri, N.S.
Wales. From Sydney D.T.’s country wires
BOGGABRI, Mondav.
The town was very lively on Sunday. Two criek-i-
-matches were played, horse-racing was indulged in, m-l
there were other amusements. Two men were fooling
with a gun, when one shot the other dead.
The poor night-editor hasn’t time to take tln-
humor out of the country wires.
• * » •
Tn the S.M. Herald, the other day, a par
beginning, “ Mr. Penny, J.P., found dead ” closed
with the jury's finding of “death from a revohvr-
“DOING TWO THINGS AT ONCE.”
shot self-inflicted.” The next announcement was
“ Suicide in the Domain,” and related to an un-
employed clerk ; this time Granny finished with
the bald statement, “A verdict of suicide was
returned.” The next day, two similar events
were recorded, the* headline's reading “Death of a
Doctor,” followed by “Suicide at Alexandria,”
and referring to a publican's decease. Verily, the
Herald’s cringe towards “ Respectability ” hath
no limits.
* * * *
Bulletin’s glad to see some of its
Brothers in the Vineyard get their wages reg’lar
and firmly adhere to them. Said Brother Yar-
rington (Anglican) at his West Maitland (N.S.W.)
farewell shiyooori Oct. 25, speaking for Self and
Sister Yarrington :—■
They had received their kind testimonial. It was not
the first of the kind. At his first parish of Balranald,
after four years hard and arduous work . . . purse he
AUSTRALIA SPEAKS.
Prate not to us of politics,
Of love, or books, or wine, or weather;
Of trade, or money, land and bricks.
Prate not to us of politics—
How’s Ranjy shaping at the sticks?
How’s Jonesey sending up the leather?
Prate not to us of politics,
Of love, or books, or wine, or weather.
T.D.
PROPINQUITY.
WY <£>TO) BTBVf&fIIT
I 1 1 ©fF<s®<
' / '&ls>saj weFfe
B.E.


Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIFE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE & -SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
-DOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; used with mar-
vellous success in the London Moorfield Eye Hospital.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 Genre'
street, Sydney, Open all Night—also Sunday
and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
X
SoftCa O'/as Shifts
Mack to Measure.
Post free SO - per 14-dozen throng-h-
-outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and I'nshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush .wear. State height., cheat
measure & size of collar worn. I’l 1C 1C IS to I 111 C US,
.Oentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for th»
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
now showed them and 137 sovereigns. Yass . . laboring
for five years . . . splendid buggy . . this purse show-
ing the empty receptacle—and 90 sovereigns. . . Ararat
in Victoria . . handsome testimonial and purse of 45
sovereigns. The money had gone, no it had not dis-
appeared. It, was invested in two pretty cottages, now
the property of Mrs. Yarrington, at Summer Hill. That
magnificent testimonial was not the only one they had
received there. . . Testimonial from the Sunday-school
teachers . . handsome testini mial from the worshippers
at St. Clement’s Church, Gosford . . a number of private
gifts from friends in the parish. But, nbove all that,
they received what they value l still higher, and which
they would never forget. The hearty shake of the hand,
and, they had seen the eyes fill with tears that showed the
heartfelt sorrow, and to which they had responded with
their heartfelt sorrow and their sympathy.
Brother Bulletin’s glad that Brother and Sister
Yarrington value the handshakes and the tears so
much higher than the cash and the pretty cot-
tages. Now, this Brother has still so much sinful
Adam in its clothes that it would possibly forget
the handshakes and tears while rattling the testi-
monial dollars and thinking how nice a third
pretty cottage would look alongside the other two.
Brother and Sister Y. are evidently not built in
that sordid way. But', in face of this Danae
shower among the vines, what becomes of the
bitter cry of the submerged parson ?
* » » *
Advt. from S.M. Herald :
\\J ANTED, Lady, about 20, as Daily Governess for
' * Private School. £1 16s. per quarter.
s£d. per day of six days a week !
*' * * *
Melbourne must really be marvellous.
Age advt. :
I >ERSON, young, goes out, Is. daily, shop, machining
sewing, house work. M.R., Abbotsford P.O.
* * * *
The best display of millinery ever seen in
Hobart happened a few days ago, when some 600
Christian Endeavorers met in convention in that
respectably-conducted village. The chief item in
the luggage of every one of the noble 600 appeared
to be a bulky bonnet-box. The good young men
of Hobart had a surfeit of prayer and petticoats,
and now wear a “ don’t you feel well ? ” look which
excites profoundest pity.
« « * *
A Yic. solicitor has imported four
Japanese servants, and pays them, it is said, one
pound a week, to be equally divided among the
crowd.
* * * *
Jjpliiey E. News advt. :
LOST, Fairy Bower, Manly, False TEETH ; ss. re-
ward on returning to Sydney Dental Company.
Fairy Bower and false teeth. Ugh !
A few years ago,
(M.L.) was washed
almost as disastrous
lately subsided. It
debris behind it —the
hopes of a young
among the rest. The
Dutchman was engaged
to a comely young
Hawkes Bay
out by a flood
as the one that
left a lot of
matrimonial
Dutch ni an
widow. She was
aged 25 ind
weighed a great
many pounds,
and possessed a
farm. One night
the deluge came
down unexpect-
edly, and drown-
ed out her place
along with many
others. Hans Van-
derschmidt was out
at daybreak among the _
rescuers, and by heroic
efforts he steered a crazy
boat through theflood to
the place where the lady’s
house-roof just appeared
above the waters with
the lady herself clinging
to it in her night-dress ;
she had been taken so
completely by surprise
in the night that she had
swarmed out of a win-
dow without wasting time
over her toilet. There was
a long, long pull back
again to the nearest dry
land, and forty yards from
shore an oar broke, JHans
promptly seized his intended
vrow in his arms and bun-
dled overboard, and started
to wade ashore amid wild
cheers from the adjacent
crowd. But he was tired and
stiff, and the mud was trea-
cherous, and the lady was
heavy and would slip down
into the water. Every time
she slipped Hans gave a tre-
mendous heave and lifted her
to his shoulder again, and
every time he heaved the
lady’s scanty attire went up
six inches or a foot, or thereabouts.
She screamed and struggled and even
bit ; the crowd on the bank yelled hila-
riously ; but Hans kept his eye steadily on the
water in search of snags, and gave the lady
a fresh heave at intervals of a few seconds.
Finally he struggled ashore, and stolidly de-
posited on the bank a fiancee whose one gar-
ment was in a string round her neck. Then
the hero’s eye fell upon her ; he realised the
enormity of his offence, and, uttering a wild
shriek in Dutch, he fled over the nearest hill
and never came back. When the crowd had
done laughing, the rescued lady was taken in and
hospitably dried, and, later on, when she had got
over her anger, she advertised extensively, asking
her lost Dutchman to return and all would be for-
given. But apparently he had fled back to
Amsterdam, for the advertisements remain unan-
swered unto this day.
« * * »
Over 1000 N.S.W. Seventh Day Adventists
have gone under canvas for the society’s current
tent-dwelling function, near Sydney, and its col-
lege at Coonabong (N.S.W.) possesses 87 pupils.
This curious faith appears to be spreading by
mere vis inertice —by which chunk of Latin
The Bulletin understands that when the dull
and heavy Faith falls on a man it knocks him
flat, and as he falls he knocks another flat, and so
on—-like heavenly card-houses.
* * * *
Be N.S.W. Judge Gibson’s diatribe about
the increase of perjury and declaration of his
intention to make an example of any false-swearer
he could bowl out, it would be interesting to know
what punishment for perjury would be considered
adequate by the Judge who gave a man three
years’ hard for stealing ninepen’orth of baking-
powder.
Small wonder that a recent Southern R.C.
Church bazaar panned out £ 150 net, if, as The
Bulletin is circumstantially informed, 20s. turned
out to be the value of an alleged gold watch, for
the raffle of which .£2O worth of tickets were sold.
* * * *
A haughty militaire, arriving in a hurry at
the wharf to welcome returning Jubilee N.S.W.
braves, inquired of a low-grade warrior whether
the men had landed yet, and was astounded to be
told that “they were not all drowned yet.”
Thinking the man was actually daring to take a
rise out of him , the great man thundered exceed-
ingly, and, upon the soldier repeating his state-
ment, reported him for insubordination. But it
was only a matter of a missing “h.” What the
man had really said was, “They’re not ’auled
round yet.”
* * * 9
Premier Turner, a few weeks back, sent
out a circular to Mayors and Presidents of shires
ARTIST AND CRITIC.—From an Early
Australian Point of View.
(It’s all right as long as the gentleman with the
club is NOT a Public Gallery trustee.)
throughout Victoria, calling upon them to supply
him with photos, of the most interesting persons,
places, or things in their respective districts, it
being his intention to paralyse the British investor
and the Royal Family with a picture-gallery at
the Agent-General's new office, representing the
wealth, beauty, enterprise, and intelligence of the
country. Turner loved his idea, and expected
great things of it, but it has occasioned the great
sorrow of his life. The Mayors and the shire
presidents have ’gleefully responded with about
two van-loads of photographs of fat presidents,
and purple Mayors, and woolly shire councillors,
and gorged aldermen, also with likenesses of the
large, substantial, over-dressed wives of these
people, and their elderly, ugly daughters, and
their fearful twins. Besides these there are hun-
dreds of views of the grotesque mansions of presi-
dents, and Mayors, and councillors, and their
mean butcher’s-shops, and pubs., and groceries,
and pictures of the Bullybinga pound, and the
Dingo Creek saw-mill, and of prize hogs, and fat
cows, and hunks of butter, and piles of cheese,
and entires, and hens, and other stock. The land-
scape department is filled with unnumbered repre-
sentations of the same old hanging rock, and the
same old cave, and bits of the inevitable “ crick,”
and the eternal hill and mount, likewise views of
the stagnant lagoon, and the everlasting dam ;
and Turner, sitting under the avalanche his folly
has evoked, feels his intellect totter, and expects
to be smothered beneath the dreadful accumula-
tion of pictorial hogs, dogs, horses, bulls, rams,
jams, butter, and aldermen.
• * * *
,A fashionable ladies’ doctor and his wife
are walking along the front at Brighton. He
bows to a lady of peroxided hair and palette-com-
plexion. His wife : “Do you know that person ? ”
Medicus : “ Only professionally, my dear.” The
wife : “ Whose profession ; yours or hers?” —
The Man op the World.
* * • *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent :
“For years advts. of a similar tenor to the follow-
ing have been appearing in the London dailies,
and they must annually cost the warped-minded
female who inserts them many hundreds of pounds.
She never replies to letters, except in print,
hough many * coin-sniffers ’ have been on her
ack ”
PERSONAL, &c.
"lUTY DEAR MEN. —Am afraid you quite misunder-
stand me. I meant you not to mind about me,
as I seem to be quite unable to fight against the im-
mense opposition, which I suppose comes from my
relatives, the women, and the detecs., and I also seem
quite unable to get personally acquainted with you,
so it seems useless to ask you to wait for me I have
not got a man for myself and for the last seven years
have never had a written love-letter from one of you,
except those printed in agony column of which I can’t
find out the names and addresses of writers. I was
thinking of your happiness and not of my own when
I wrote to ask you if it also proved too much for you
to go back and marry other girls I mean amongst
your own people for with one exception I have not
ever recommended you to marry any girl at all or
woman either. But as to forcing you to do such a
thing 1 never have, for it would neither benefit your-
selves or myself. I mean I consider it a pity for me
to be “in it ” at all as I seem to be such a poor hand
at finding out things, by myself, and unaided, and
my small income does not add to the possibility of
getting personally acquainted with you. For instance
there are many people whom I would be glad to en-
quire about but I am afraid to do it in the public
press in case some other women should hang on to
you, so lamin a fix. L.F.A.B.G. and thus I should
hurt you without benefiting either you or myself.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin, —In noticing the Naran-
dera child-flogging case, you represent defendant
Thomas as saying he “never stripped” his ten-
year-old nursegirl when he flogged her. May I
point out that in the Wagga Express of Oct. 23
(which gives a much fuller report of the case than
the Narandera Ensign) the amiable bank-flogger
is represented as saying : “ I did not order her to
strip herself until I punished her, neither then or
at any other time. . . I never ordered her to strip
herself until I punished her on any of these
occasions.” . . The double emphasis on the
“ until” is suggestive: to say “I did not order
her to strip herself when I punished her” would
be a very different thing. Bv the way, when you
are saying your prayers to-night, you might try and
put yourself for five minutes in that motherless
child’s place. The flogger has called you down
to the bathroom ; he has made you strip ; he has
seen your shivering body covered with sears, old
and new—scars on the arm, scars on the thighs,
scars on the abdomen, scars on the back so
numerous that, when a doctor attempts to count
them, he “ cannot arrive at a fair estimate ; ” you
have turned on the shower (remember, it is a nice,
cold morning); and now the flogger has gone to
the stable for his whip {vide laundress’s evidence,
which the P.M. believed), and you, with the cold
shower-bath deluging your shivering sores, you
are waiting . . . waiting , . . pricking your ears
for the sound of his returning steps . . . with the
whip . . . the greenhide whip ! Doesn't it make
you feel cheerful and early Christian, hey v Don't
you thank the goodness and the grace that < n
your birth have smiled, and have made you, not a
dumpling little heathen girl, reared in sin and
darkness, but a happy young Australian, in a
land of churches, and Sunday-schools, and polo-
playing RESPECTABILITY. Doesn't it . . .
—Ex-Respectable.
* * * *
Printed of a northern S. A. Anglican parson
that, besides begging the whole =£(>oo necessary
for the building of a new church, all but £~) of
which was got before the place was opened, he
“designed the leadlight and glass-stained win-
dows ; and the reredos and altar, ornamented
with tracings of a Gothic character to match the
building, were designed and curved ” by him, and
he also “made and carved the prayer-desk and
sanctuary-chair,” not to mention commoner car-
pentering. That parson’s name is E. E. Perrin.
* » * *
The alleged trick of the Bathurst palmist
and doctress who, after sundry passes, pinched the
abdomen of a patient and produced some “ tap -
worms,” which a doctor pronounces to be merely
the “ skin ” of an egg, has its prototype in the
practice of the Northern Territory blacks. One
of the tribe falls sick. The medicine-man works
up the excitement of the crowd, then calls for
silence, and in the midst of solemn incantations
makes a plunge, pinches some part of the sufferer’s
body and at once holds up a fragment of stick or
stone which he professes to have drawn out of the
body and which he claims to have been the dis-
turbing agent.
* * * *
The projected Metropolitan (Sydney)
Charity Organisation runs imminent risk of being
stung to death by sects and private parties inter-
ested in little schemes of their own. It is possible
to live by charity as well as on charity.
* * • •
“As a rule, he did not read religious
papers, as he derived no good in morals or religion
from them. . . . They set the church-people a
very bad example of unrighteousness.” This is not
Jos. Symes, or Bob Ingersoll, or any other
hardened sinner, but our dearly-beloved brother,
Pastor Be van, of Collins-street Church, at Vic.
Congregational Union meeting.
* * * »
A man with more conscience to the square-
in than The Bulletin ever heard of has just
turned up in the refunder to N.S.W. Treasury of
,£3O “ conscience-money.” This kind of repenter
is mostly in one figure. The real big steals, of
course, are “ business.”
* » * •
Journalist: “ How the Sabbatarian law
operates. Melb. Sportsman would be only too
glad to publish on Sunday morning its V.R.C.
Derby edition, giving the Sabbath holiday to
scribes and comps. But it is forced to issue on
Monday, wherefore all hands work all Sunday. ”
PALMISTRY EXTRAORDINARY.—A
HARMY SKETCH.
H. : “Herbert Booth says he has con-
gratulated ‘ the General ’ on Australia having
topped England in the self-denial collection. It
recalls to him the fact that while the Army makes
headway in Australasia, and seemingly does not
decline in Europe, America, or India, it is
on the wane at its very heart in England.
Same as with Buddhism in India, its birth-
place, where there are now only about two
million Buddhists, whereas this faith has
more adherents than any other on earth. A
grievous crux with General Booth is the develop-
ment of Socialism among his officers. He rigor-
ously snips it off, and weeds away the Socialists.
Any approach to the benevolence of Ben Tillett
is nauseous to the General’s backbone of financial
supporters, Cory, and other millionaires, who dump
him down a thousand pounds at a pop.”
MIGHT. IS RIGHT
ißuilfcTT* 1
Uflc* T/jC riohbi ng jjjj
■n ~^V S u p^ H£i st ] ( ~ will surely p^^- 1 pF
U3 /~\Ay fy/]ply
/j Nti s*y(-€T
i jj i
iR/yi* bolidy, 1 o^'’
' VX £
|SuO|- Ho
jo iNflep /js-s/je p^=s%s
/]£p | No
lie. upoW Lo3 AjrJ
iTs€ If, /Ay. ! ike
ACNESL STORRIE.


MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 40.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK ' SON.
The merits of ammonia are becoming gradually
understood. Its cleansing powers areas great as
they are healthy. In the matutinal bath, which
was recently threatened by certain water com-
panies , with a small tax, a tablespoonful of
Scrubb s Cloudy Household Ammonia forms a re-
freshing and useful addition. It has a softening
effect upon the water, and a bracing effect upon
the skin. A large shilling bottle also fulfils other
requirements, by removing stains from clothes
and brightening cutlery and silver. The praises
of Scrubb s Antiseptic Toilet Soap are also deserv-
lng of celebration, and amid the rivalry which at
the present day exists among various soaps, this
will certainly hold its own.*
V
0 0
Food
MR'1 a T5'
£
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 2, 1897,
Mr Dear Myee—
u y ear ’ s C U P will be known locally as the
China Cup.” So many race-goers went to Melb.
by the huge P. and O. steamer that half Sydney
was at the Quay either going off in the ship or
waving good-byes to the pleasurers. The women
wore their smartest frocks, and the departure had
the look of a society function. Gay dresses dotted
the green, and gave the point a garden-party
aspect. The departing show-folk, Ada Wil-
loughby and E. Shand, had an interesting send-
off. Ada has won more “ front ” admiration than
almost any visiting fbotlight fairy, but her depar-
ture wasn’t considered altogether a calamity
behind the scenes.. Jealousy, perhaps ? E. Shand
had also an admiring contingent. I never see a
theatrical leave-taking without remembering
Vincent Crummies bidding farewell to his “ lion-
hearted boy.”
In all my life I have never heard so many
divorce-rumors as are current now. All sorts of
people are named as impending customers of
Judge G. B. Simpson in his matrimonial jurisdic-
tion. The names of at least two prominent poli-
ticians are freely handled as “ co.’s,” and scandal-
mongers don’t hesitate to talk about an Australian
Governor. But I have authentic information, in
regard to at least three cases which have been
most circumstantially gabbled about, that there is
absolutely nothing (except malevolence) in the
rumors circulated j while as regards one or two
other cases, their significance is much discounted
by the fact that those “moving” are chronically-
necessitous persons, whose names, according to
public opinion, simplyspell blackmail.
At a high-toned concert, last week, two per-
formers had a disagreement on the platform. A
ruddy-haired ’eelloist was scraping a strain by
Popper—nobody seems to write ’cello music except
Popper and, occasionally, Dunokler—and his ac-
companist’s fingers tripped dutifully up and down
the piano-keys, when suddenly the astonished
audience heard the big fiddle break off in a loud
twang, the player hurling an emphatic remark at
the pianist, and beheld him abruptly disappear
down the platform-steps, while the accompanist,
looking like an indignant bantam, slowly followed
him.
Marriages are made in—thb registry-offices.
Said a Sydney employment-agency employer the
other day to a single man who had been worrying
him for work : —“ Look here, if you were married
I could fix you up with a first-rate place ; yourself
—coach, garden, &c. ; wife —cook and laundress.”
The man went away, returned inside the hour
with a wife, and took the place. A little thing
like marriage couldn’t be allowed to stand in the
way of £75 a year in these times.
Ilorence Schmidt’s numerous friends and ad-
mirers rallied round her on Saturday night at her
concert in the Town Hall, and breathed a sigh of
satisfaction at the brilliant way in which she
threw off the mad scene from “ Lucia,” the best
piece of the programme. In this she was assisted
by a smiling flautist, whose name I wouldn’t
attempt to spell. He raised the spirits Of the
entire house by his joyful look, and when his turn
was done he came in and beamed from a front
seat. The soprano, clad in a well-fitting blue
bodice, was handed up much assorted garden-
stuff, and made an effect a la Trilby by clasping
tenderly a large sheaf of white lilies, passed
respectfully up from the front row. As a counter-
blast t° the joyful fluter the baritone Staedtgen
vvailed forth a lay of the most soul-harrowing
sadness, and later took a top note that rivalled
sister Mary Jane’s. Mrs. Riley and Mr. Wood-
house sang well. The house was not crowded,
but the Derby-night is an off-night here, and the
Town Hall is too large for solo concerts, anyhow.
A hall sized midway between the vast Centennial
and the well-like Centenary is a long-felt want.
An unexciting little evening party was given
last Wednesday evening in the Equitable build-
ings by the committee of the new Teachers’
Registry, which has fixed its local habitation in a
convenient room in that sky-scraping palace. The
company received light refreshments and an ex-
planatory circular with the rules of the new ven-
ture which ought to prove as successful as it is use-
ful and badly wanted. The committee names are
freely adorned with M. A. and other learned caps,
and represent the highest dondom in this province.
Miss Garran arranged the meeting which went off
successfully. The circular shows some fine ex-
amples of scholastic jaw-breakers. Any vacancy
is to be filled up by “ co-optation,” which must be
a useful kind of stop-gap if it fills every vacuum.
University English is always Latinised into
corpse-like frigidity.
Superstition must be fading out among Aus-
tralians. It was formerly thought unlucky to
meet a squinting person on the threshold of any
new undertaking, but at a recent wedding in an
Australian capital the bride courageously allowed
two cross-eyed bridesmaids to follow her to the
altar. Such little outbreaks of defiance of fate
are called by goody folk a tempting of Provi-
dence.
The professional bridesmaid is the London
novelty. Young ladies, beautiful in face and
form, especially Americans, earn large fees as
bridesmaids to perfect strangers, and make it a
regular business. A New York millionaire hired
all the finest he could obtain in the markpt for his
daughter’s wedding. This is something to refresh
farcical comedy.
The parties in the arbitration suit now being
tried in No. 2 Jury Court, which has had a rather
longer run than “ Charley’s Aunt,” are arranging
a theatre-party in honor of the arbitrator, and
have invited him to choose between the piece
played at the Standard Theatre and the drama at
the Lyceum— i.e., between “ Rip Van Winkle ”
and “Fallen Among Thieves.”
The Hambourgs and J. Lemmone, assisted by
some well-known local artists, announce a concert
in the Town Hall on Friday night in aid of the
Consumptives’ Hospital. The artists will gener-
ously hand over the gross taking to the charity,
as was done by the two brothers at their recent
Melb. concert, at which they raised over .£2OO for
two deserving objects.
Brisbane folk, I hear, are becoming so economi-
cal that they are hiring servants on the co-
operative system. Two Nice families, closely
related, but settled far apart, share thus the ser-
vices of a Kanaka who does general utility for
gardens and kitchens of both houses, spending a
fortnight at each. Another house-holder, also
one of the Nicest, loans out the family slavey to
his married daughter, and poor overworked Biddy
has to serve two mistresses and trudge backwards
and forwards between the two—day-about.
An audience assern bled by invitation in the
ir’ii d kist week to hear little Frieda
JVliJJer, a child-artist of 12—all infant phenomena
stop short of ’teens—expound her musical dex-
terity on a concert grand piano. She is a gifted
child, and as a feat of memory alone her show-off
was notable. It was displayed not only in going
through one classical op. after another without
book, but in taking part in duetts for two pianos,
in these events the youthful pianist had some-
times to take a spell while the second instrument,
worked by Frieda’s teacher, did a lap or two
solus. It is a difficult feat to chip in again exactly
on the beat, but the little Hambourg in short
skirts never missed her time, showing that she
possesses a cool head as well as a cool hand. All
j'j flapping, flowers, and grown-up criticism
didn t give her a nerve-quiver. The music of the
near future will be a complicated kind of sound-
puzzle. Lvery fashionable noise-factory now
tu ins i. out dexterous piano-thumpers of the
brilliant executant” school, and no girl can
expect to score as a “promising amateur” with
anything less than a brilliant effort in five flats by
a foreign somebody ending in “ owski.”
Of all the pastels showing at the Society of
Artists by Alice Muskett, the design which the
committee lingered longer over in debate than any
other was the first to bear the coveted little red
ticket in the corner. The artist has learned
in Bans the newest notions in frames, as well as
methods; the snake twining among the lilies in
the bordering woodwork of the picture gives an
up-to-date impression of suggestion much more
than is actually expressed ; also, Miss Muskett
displays, since her return from foreign parts, the
Merode manner of ear-concealing hairdressing—a
fashion that hasn’t caught on here yet to any ap-
preciable extent. Many of the Naicest would be
ever so much nicer still, if they didn’t show their
ears.
A wedding which caused an excited social flutter
last week was that of Miss Dalton, of North
bydney, to Mr. Mark Sheldon. The R.C. church
in Ridge-street was crammed with guests and
populace almost as at some of the sensa-
tional hitchings in the city churches. In the sar-
torial show, the Cardinal, who performed the rite,
aided by many priests, was easily first. His
imminence, who had got himself up very dressily
in a towering hat and yards of silk, with
an elaborate crook of office, inserted an unusual
amount of preaching into the ceremony. For the
bride and bridegroom, gaily-decked kneeling-
stools were provided ; white for her, purple for
rum. The bride s passage down the isle had to be
cleared ahead for her through the throng-. She
looked orthodoxly nice in the usual bridal way.
At the subsequent garden-party at the bride’s
fathers.house there were hundreds of guests and
a room full of toast-racks, photo-frames and other
souvenirs, Pa helping to soothe the path of life for
his daughter and son-in-law with many thousands
AT el , Ul S, a y! a house “ for keeps.” Mr. and Mrs.
Mark oheldon are honeymooning at Melb. Cup.
Bke Australian Health Society, at its recent
Melb. meeting, discussed cookery. Our national
failing and its terrible results were discoursed on
by Dr. Neild, who has always elevated good
cookery to a religion. Like most intellectual
men > th e doctor is a small and dainty feeder him-
self, and his outbursts of righteous wrath against
criminal culinary mistakes, especially in baby
food, are refreshing to witness. A practical sug-
gestion which cropped up deserves immediate
adoption in Sydney quite as much as in Melb.—
inspection of hotels and restaurant kitchens. The
public would benefit, but the inspector who
pounced down unexpectedly on some of the dark
corners during the preparations for a meal
wouldn t have much appetite for his own dinner,
it doesn tdo to be too particular, though ; pro-
bably if a guest were to see a grand banquet in all
the stages of preparation he would eat but little
or it. The best cooks are not the cleanest.
Chinese are Francatellis in the art; but I once
heard a lady, who had stayed in a swagger Hong-
kong hotel and enjoyed its dainty dishes, describe
the horrors of the Chinese kitchen, into which she
penetrated accidentally. She lost her appetite for
a week.
Asmart little farce, “Nancy’s Nuptials,” by
W. Beattie, had a brilliant run of one consecutive
u jthe Opera House last Friday, before an
audience which lavishly spread itself over the
high-priced portion of the house, while back
benches were empty. The drama depicted the
misfortunes of a rising artist, Mr. Burns-Walker
who having abruptly married his model, Mrs.’
Kleming, was haunted by the fear that his irascible
uncle would resent the rash act, but the wiles of
Nancy won over the relative (Mr. G. W. Lambert
disguised m an overcoat and a Roman nose), and
the play ended happily amid a crash of plaster
from a falling ceiling which brought the climax.
i\/r' -recitation half of the programme,
Miss ©tel la Chapman gave forth a soulful poem
with lime-light effects and a blood-curdling yell
from the wings. The singers were Misses
Josephine Deakin, Miss Eva Mylott, and Mr.
Burns-Walker.
Tim lady who rules the destinies of Sunday
limes women’s page has unearthed a married
couple vvho live “ comfortably ” on .£1 a week
and advise others to go and do likewise. The
happy pair—“ they are still very young ’’—inhabit
a room costing 4s. per week, and have the remain-
ing 16 bob to face the world with. Thus the
female economist who advises such a step goes
l ess than John Davidson, in his “ Thirty Bob
a Week,” and he declared that marrying on that
sum was a naked child against a hungry wolf.”
However, this 20s. couple “ not only live, but
extst beautifully, in a room which, I am told, is
like fairyland.” Alas! Primitive man, who
lived in a cave and wore a dress-suit of wood, had
a much better time.
, One of the past glories of Wagga is that it gave
1000 golden sovs. and a cup of the same metal for
a horse-race in the days when Australia was
younger. Every new-comer to the town has it
dinned into his ears. Just now the local turf club
has a fit of rejuvenation. Efforts are being made
todig up ghosts of former palmv times—the times
when the .Wagga w_omen used to glitter in-earnest.
Mrs. - , wife of one of the T.C. committee men,
did a bold thing one day when the thousand-
pound cup was run for. Between each race the
lady took her carriage and drove home. On each
occasion the women on the stand and lawn were
transfixed with envy at seeing Mrs. arrayed
in a different costume of the latest fashion and
costliest fabric.
A picnic party of lads and lasses, after a glorious
day s ramble among the fairy bowers of a pic
turesque fern-gully under the shadow of Mount
Wellington lately, committed the indiscretion of
having its photo, taken. Everybody was very
tired, but supremely happy and careless, and the
girls, in their negligent innocence, thought not of
the morrow. When the finished picture appeared
in the photographer’s window, exposed to the
calm, critical gaze of an unfeeling public and
sundry Hobart mothers, there was much con-
sternation and many tears. For boys and girls to
caressingly clasp necks and waists didn’t seem
indiscreet —at a picnic, but 1 The photo.-man
soon sold out.
The poor and helpless widow seems to “ get
left ” wherever she is. Even in Charters Towers,
where money is abundant (a correspondent tells
me), there are folks mean enough to sweat her. A
seamstress for a wealthy drapery firm has to
keep six children on what she can make by
machining blouses at 3s. per dozen.
News arriving by post for the “ social column ”
is now regarded with suspicion in some newspaper
offices. One journal was cruelly “ got at ”in that
way by a baekblocks correspondent, who sent in a
flowery description of a high-toned revel in the
district-town, given by one of the local Nicest,
and attended by all the usual country-town
sassiety—P.M. and wife, bank bosses and wives,
medico and wife, &c. The par. ended with the
usual—“ Among those present were.” A few
days after the item appeared, there arrived at the
office a horrified epistle from the indignant giver
of the feast, declaring that he had been insulted
by the publication of the names of the alleged
guests, many of whom had never been inside his
house. The irreverent par.-writer had, to brighten
the news-item, rung into the party-list the names
of all the notorious petty-larcenists and drunks in
the township.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“On Derby-Day, ’97, the wind was certainly
tempered to the shorn lamb— i.e. , the weather
suited the book of the woman with one fete frock.
She, poor thing, unable to provide for all possible
aberrations of temperature, hopes for the best, and
at this time of year puts on festal raiment suited
to an alleged ‘summer gala.’ Last Saturday, ‘as
the clouds rolled by,’ the day grew glaringly hot
and sunny, to the disgust of wise virgins, who,
with purple and fine linen in readiness for rain
and shine respectively, had donned the former in
the shape of coats and skirts, handsome cloth
Russian blouses, and similar beacons of a well-
stocked wardrobe. But nothing looked so well
that day as flimsy muslins, thin silks, cool can-
vasses with lacy flounces, frills and tucks mean-
dering up and down the skirts or starting higher
at the back and sloping towards the front hem.
Gov. and Lady Brassey, who stayed at home
mourning for a deceased Royalty, probably en-
joyed a restful time. After all, wouldn’t it be
agm human nature to take sackcloth and ashes
seriously all on account of the demised mother-in-
law of an Heir Apparent once-removed ? In the
absence of official heads, tvvo coachfuls of vice-
regal relatives, visitors and suite arrived unob-
trusively on the scene, shepherded by Mrs. Free-
man-Thomas. This pretty young matron, like
Lady Hopetoun in her time, has laid on layers of
since her arrival in these benighted colonies.
With the fierce glare of sassiety’s eye ever beating
upon her, a woman either shrivels or expands. If
handsome and aware of it, she probably chooses
the better part.
“To return to Gov. Brassey’s daughter: she
looked much taller and more dignified on Saturday
than the small, kittenish person of her first Melb.
Cup. Her Derby frock was pale green silk, with
fal-lals of black chiffon and ficelle lace applique,
and a big black hat with plumes and ospreys blow-
ing in the breeze, and green roses nestling on her
hair bright brown hair, by the way, though the
owner is a regular brunette. 1 Sweet Alice with
hair so brown ’ is almost an unknown quantity
among Australian-born girls. Our sun undoubt-
edly darkens tress-tints. If you start life lint-
topped, you are ‘ mousey ’ by the time you turn-up
your corkscrews. Chestnuts and similar shades
deepen into the darkest possible brown, to all in-
tents and purposes black, that commonest of Aus-
tralian hair-colors.
“ The two Miss Brasseys, fairish young ladies,
more like ‘Uncle Tom’ in appearance than his
own dark-eyed daughter, duplicated one another’s
rather creased white satins fluted with pale green,
and .Tuscan hats with feathers and pink roses.
A dark-haired Sydney girl wore the simplest of
yellow pin-spot muslins, while Miss Sylvia Darley
looked pale and willowy in white silk and chiffon
and a floppy leghorn hat.
Talking of hats, the ‘ garden of flowers ’ has
had its day, so has the jumble, suggestive of
Josephs coat of many colors. Head-coverings
are still bright enough, but they have some con-
nection with the rest of the costume, and the
gayest specimens ring the changes on one brilliant
hue, with, maybe, black, white, or both, thrown
m. All-pink structures, for instance, were effective
items in the Derby millinery show, and seem to
have driven their scarlet predecessors off the field,
buch a peach-bloom confection, topping the white
silk frock worn by one of a family of pretty Kew
sisters, made up a color-harmony equal to a blend of
cochineal and condensed milk in a bi-colored
batch of cocoanut-ice.
As usual, the ladies in the vice-regal pen had a
neat rather than a gaudy time, and one visitor in
particular watched the racing world wearily
enough through her long-handled pince-nez. The
aides, as in former years, treated their fair com-
panions to short grass constitutionals, all but the
jj,. sheep of the flock. He only quitted the
saddhng-paddock for the lawn right in front of
his rightful fold, where he frisked conversationally
in the cheerful company of a golden-haired society
matron whose white-scrolled terra-cotta silk was
combined with cream pleated chiffon.
Sartorially speaking, the vice-regal attaches
were more-or-less uninteresting in dark grey, un-
brightened by a flower. The Governor’s son-in-
law wore a green tie to match his wife’s frock,
while the longest and leanest of the staff ‘took
on dreadfully, when he first arrived, about some
slight damage to his hat. As he hung over its
impaired glossiness, with all his soul in his eyes,
spectators thought pitifully of Evo finding mur-
dered Abel, and similar weepful chestnuts.
“ From the stand, Miss Elliott-Page showed up
on the lawn as well as most. Her white silk skirt,
striped sparsely with black, and festooned with
diagonal frills of black chiffon, had a bodice of
turquoise velvet, a chiffon Empire scarf, and her
hat was tipped rakishly to on6* side.
A poor little Indian ‘Prince,’ rather like a
fraal monkey, in drab tweed suit, brown boots,
and fez cap, seemed the loneliest waif at Fleming-
ton. He lingered wistfully near the band all day,
as “ R’ cheered him up to hear the music play,
and finally fell back on the society of his atten-
dant, a more imposing figure than his master, in
red tunic and white trousers. Meanwhile, the
tiny Princess,’ swathed in white muslin, crept
about mouselike, followed by a miniature maid.
Ihe latter s skirt, slit up the side, showed short,
skin-tight pants and bare brown legs, weighted
with heavy anklets, in odd contrast to the pigmy’s
meek, plastered, parted hair.
“Lady Holled-Smith’s Derby gown was black
silk, scrolled with purple. Miss Daisy Madden
came in cool, crushy, white muslin, and leghorn
hat, worn saucily askew. A huge amber-straw
coal-scuttle bonnet, heaped with ostrich feathers,
overshadowed a puffy, bunchy, yellow-flowered
muslin gown worn by a fresh-faced damsel wit!
parted hair, who possibly mistook the date of tht
fancy ball, and came to the races as ‘ my grand
mother when a girl,’ or ‘Dame Durden.’ Anothej
monstrosity in headgear was a ‘ flop,’ dipping
nearly to the wearer’s waist behind, and curling
weirdly in front ’midst a plantation of plumes.
A well-cut black brocade, with toque and sun-
shade of bright turquoise-blue, was one of the
most effective costumes of the day, and second tc
none in quiet costliness was Mrs. Everard
Browne’s primrose silk, all fleecy flounces of ivory
silk-muslin, tucks and lace.
_ “ Pastor Dr. Strong’s elder daughter was mar-
ried last week, not at papa’s church, but on the
Earental hearthrug. Dr. Strong sensibly loathes
ig wedding functions, with a gaping crowd in
the church, and much parade of flowers, teas
and hymns. His newly-married damsel was one
of the prettiest girls in Melbourne, and has
character as well as beauty. She married a son of
Brooks’ paper mills.
“ Visitors to the Princess’ one night last week
witnessed a spectacle in the circle that subtracted
all the glow from Gordon’s Turneresque sunset off
St. Helena. The tableau was provided by Prince
Najal Ismad, etc., etc., etc., from Hyderabad,
Princess Najal, ete., etc., andsuite, and the Orien-
tal grandeur of the costumes of the Prince and
the Princess, and the suite, quite paled the sar-
torial magnificence of Napoleon’s gaudy officers.
The Prince is a gorgeous, coffee-colored creature,
but his Princess remains a mystery, since nothing
of her was visible amongst her fabulous garments
but a pair of dark, glittering orbs. Comparing
this Asiatic reserve with the liberal display of bare
European woman scattered about the theatre, one
appreciated the wisdom of the Oriental system
that makes matrimony a monopoly for the man.
The shock of this discovery about coroner Youl’s
marriage fell upon Miss Youl. Since her mother’s
death, many years ago, she devoted herself to her
father and the family, with the greatest self-sacri-
fice. She is familiar in Collins-street, rather
petite, with something of her sire’s fine **nsible
nose. Imagine the fine, cheery old doctor, with
his secret! However did he manage to keep it?
‘Murder doesn’t always out.' One can imagine
him chuckling to himself, as he solemnly enunci-
ated the contrary. And when on earth was it he
went to Sydney, to get married ? It must have
been that invalid excursion. The widow inserted
her bombshell ‘ in memoriam ’ three months after
the veteran’s demise.
“ A leading Melbourne shop which gets Govern-
ment House patronage has the usual large-
framed certificates to that effect from Governors
Brassey, Hopetoun and Loch. But the Brassey
and Loch sheets are kept in the shop, while that
of the Scottish laird is shown in the window,
which incident is peculiarly illustrative of local
feeling.
“ Melb. Women’s Hospital Committee, an
aggregation of society dames, has decided to waste
a heap of expensive certificates owing to the word
gynaecological ’ being misspelt, inasmuch as it was
not engraved with a diphthong <e. Considering
that diphthong letters are semi-obsolete, and, at
the present time, are merely pedantic affectations,
and that, anyhow, the difference is infinitesimal,
this throwing avyay money by an alleged charit-
able institution is a sinful waste.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Vic. Penal Department the other day
found itself powerless to open the big safe which
held its books, accounts, and coin. For once Red-
tape did not carry the day. A quiet sub rosd
message was sent out to Pentridge prison asking
tlie Governor of that hostelry to send down the
best pick-lock he had in his charge, and the neces-
sary article arrived and did his work with neatness
and despatch.
Grantham, Q.C., the Tory hack who has
been elevated to the English bench (vide
cable), gets his appointment as a reward for much
impudent mendacity in the cause of law’norder.
He was one of the authors of the silly slander
that Bradlaugh once took out his watch and
challenged the Deity to strike him dead in five
minutes. It was a lie, but it served. On a sub-
sequent occasion, Grantham appeared for the de-
fence in a libel-action brought by Bradlaugh
against one Laker, who had said that Bradlaugh
had been had up for neglecting his family and
leaving them chargeable to the union.” Gran-
tham told the jury that Bradlaugh could not
possibly be injured by any slander ! However,
Bradlaugh got a verdict. Now, Grantham, after
a long career of dirty work for the Tory party,
goes to the bench. Moral: Blessed are those who
lie and slander for the cause of wealth and the
classes.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £lf J+s.
Catalogues Free.
S! H
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
575 George Street, SYDNEY;
860 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE
W, BALCHIN, Agent. SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Vic. : “A current mistake re Dunky
Gillies is that he wrought up from the ranks, be-
cause he dug with Lalor in a Ballarat goldmine.
Gillies is a man of education.”
Barrister Pennefather is the only alien to
his province holding an Attorney-Generalship in
Australia. Byrnes, Want, Isaacs, Kingston were,
most of them, born in or near their own capitals.
Bennett, the latest pilgrim to Lane’s
Oosme, will marry at Adelaide before going
thitherward. Bennett’s explanation of the col-
lapse of New Australia is short—“ Wine and
Woman.”
ALGYS OFFSPRING.
A LGY: “ Aw! first single and tirst single half to —
aw l — Blanktown.”
TICEET-SELLER: “ Yessir — but how old is the
child? ”
A LGY: “ Oh !— awl — it’s not a child it’s a
jiggaw! ”
'vmß
Concessions ro
CYCLISTS
COMMENCING StprfMAEft. II
Single journey oy rail on
SnnmoflY *»*o Sunday • • •
CYCUSI-S T-RAVCUINE
MILES orr ovrß . Will DC
issued Single tickets
ANO THEIR MACHINES will
DC CARRIED MALI* FARE.
VV'.pnpflTpiCK
t)tA(T|C MHNRCER
The sowl of the late Martin Loughlin
ought to be getting along comfortably. £30,000
of his Ballarat gold is building a church in Ireland.
John Kentwell, the first to grow fruit on
a large scale in N.S.W., died at Castle Hill last
week at the age of 93. Like most patriarchs, he
has left descendants like to the sands of the sea
in number.
Recorded that Jack Want, when member
of a Ministry some few years ago, received a wire
while in Tasmania to this effect: —“ Come back at
once ; bursting up.” Jack’s reply: “Burst and
be .”
A lately-deceased Melbourne millionaire is
not likely to turn in his grave on account of his
children’s extravagance. One of the gilded heirs
has been advertising for a small furnished house
at a low rental.
Australia will be curious to know the nature
of the cabled “ accident ” which eliminated poor
Mr. “ Lily ” Langtry so promptly upon his incar-
ceration in a mad-nouse. Asylum accidents have
sometimes an esoteric history.
N.S.W. Commandant French and Queens-
Dr. Kevin Izod O’Doherty, occupying opposite
poles of political thought, are now a family blend
of genial outlooks. The doctor’s son has married
the Commandant’s daughter.
On Thursday, Oct. 21, Dean Cowper, of
Sydney, now in his 8-th year, celebrated the 63rd
anniversary of his ordination. His first appoint-
ment was as chaplain to the Australian Agricul-
tural Co., at Stroud, N.S.W.
Premier Kingston, in his new role of the
sober, serious, dignified statesman, has electrified
S.A. Parliament. The old summer habiliments
have also been displaced by a black frock-coat and
semi-clerical hat. O Hingland, what crimes are
committed in thy name !
Obit : J. F. Small, aged 76 years, a native
of Parramatta and a 60 years’ resident on the
Clarence River, where, in the pioneer days, he
had many sharp encounters with the aborigines,
numbers of whom, as the yarn goes, did bite the
dust by reason of his unerring aim.
That Australian Minister of Instruction, of
whom all the good stories are told, is alleged to
have finished up 3ome remarks to the children of
a certain school with “ Now boys and girls, Ihope
you will all grow r up good men and women and
become great heroes and heroesses.”
Holdar M. : “ The initials of the Rev.
G. A. M. Pringle, of Brisbane, whose death in
Sydney transpired recently, remind one that the
name they form is usually seized by the comic
artist to denote the ‘call’-ing. Quote Parkes :
‘ Hi despise the man who carries a humbrella.’ ”
Joseph Rodgers, the gallant Portuguese
sailor who swam ashore with a life-line from the
wreck of the Royal Charter in 1859, died recently
in Liverpool (Eng.) Hospital. On his return to
Melbourne a big purse was subscribed for his
benefit. Latterly he had been in command of a
rb er tug-boat.
The late N.S.W. Railway Commissioner
Eddy’s will, executed many years ago, and proved
the other day, bequeaths to his wife everything
the testator might die possessed of. The estate
was sworn at close on .£lO,OOO. Mrs. Eddy lately
inherited from a relative of her own a somewhat
similar amount.
British Freethinker attributes to Wilkes
an anecdote which Parkes used to tell of his first
election —when he opposed fat little Kemp, of S.M.
Herald. “Hi canvassed very hard. One man
whom hi hasked for his vote replied : * Hi’d sooner
vote for the devil! ’ ” “ Yes,” said Hi, “ but sup-
posing your friend doesn’t stand ? ”
A new Yic. M.P. has an electioneering-
story of a dear friend, who promised him vote and
support, and, after election, confessed that he had
voted for the other fellow. “ Why,” asked the
M.P., “ surely you do not believe in his opinions,
do you ? ” “ No,” replied the enlightened elector,
“ but, poor fellow ! he’s got such a bad leg.”
Mr. Harmer, the little clean-shaven, spec-
tacled man with the comic legs, who is nominally
Anglican Bishop of Adelaide, writes his flock that
he has postponed his return from England until
February. Mr. Harmer will have been away
nearly a year, and could apparently stay away
altogether only that Adelaide is the “salary ” end
of the billet.
Apropos the consecration of St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, Melb. A few years ago, at a meeting
to raise funds for the big church, Dean O’Hea—
a very wealthy retired clergyman—offered to give
£lOOO if nine others could be got to give a similar
sum. Said Archbishop Carr, who presided, “Now,
no conditions, Dean; down with the dust,” and
the dust came down.
A. S. Bailes, returned to Parliament by
Bendigo (Vic.) electors in place of “Dives”
Lazarus, is an old Parliamentarian, and was sup-
posed to have lost his seat, six years ago, in conse-
quence of some uncomplimentary reflections upon
the life and character of Albert Edward, Prince
of Wales. Bendigo is now understood to have
gone back on Albert Edward.
Vic. : “A preacher tells me this, as a fact:
A little boy was dying, in the Warrnambool dis-
trict, many years ago. His mother called in a
local preacher to pray. He began, ‘ O Lord, if
Thou wilt—’ The mother said, ‘No, I cannot
have it that way, I must have my child.’ The
good man changed his petition accordingly. The
boy grew up to be hanged, as a murderer.”
Paddy Glynn, M.P. (S.A.), who, while the
Sydney Convention was sitting, was married
rather suddenly, expresses his opinion that it will
take him quite two years to get used to it, because
of the confirmed state of bachelorhood he had
lapsed into. Meanwhile, he admires the “ infinite
patience ” of his wife, as manifested in respect to
his gradually-disappearing Bohemianism.
Journalist: “ Duffy, in Melb.,
always wrote out his important politi-
cal speeches, and, however lengthy,
he would speak them verbatim. Thus
the Argus and the Age got the
proofs beforehand with implicit re-
liance, and would only send a re-
porter to put in the “cheer” and
otherwise, or interjections. Casey
thought he could do the same thing,
and furnished the Age with a full
copy beforehand of an important
Ministerial speech which he had to
give as a candidate at Mandurang.
However, the Age sent two reporters,
with the proofs. At about half-past
eight they forwarded a wire: “He
is not speaking one word of it. Dis.
the lot. Our copy will come through
directly.”
Henniker Heaton, before he
blossomed, was just a common, garden
variety of person, like any of our-
selves. He was connected with the
press, and somehow he turned up in
Mudgee, N.S.W., as editor of the
Western Post. Laurence was then
proprietor—known familiarly as
“Rum and Onions.” Now Henniker,
in those days, was a soft, gentle,
caressing sort of chap, with a draper’s-
assistant’s appearance and a Young-
Men’s - Christian - Society manner.
Probably he did not appeal to the
sympathetic approval of “Rum and
Onions,” whose manners were of the
three-pronged-fork order. Anyway,
Henniker, poor fellow, didn’t catch
on to the necessities of the position
of a country editor. He brought out
a paper full of nice ideas and sweet
platitudes, and be was so proud of it
that when, next day, he saw “ Rum
and Onions ” reading a number, and
thought that his face bloomed with
the blushes of approval, he sidled up
and whispered, “A good paper, Mr.
Laurence ; a very creditable- paper,
sir.” “Rum and Onions ” cast one
baleful look at him, felt the paper
between thumb and fingers, and
growled: “Good paper! Why not?
Of course it’s good paper ! Too blanky
good to be spoilt by your dam muck,
anyhow ! ” Henniker was a passenger
per coach next day, and coming to
Sydney found sweeter appreciation
from Sam Bennett. Dear ! dear!
and now he hangs out at the Carlton
Club with belted earls and coronetted
dukes—while poor old Laurence is
frying- -somewhere else.
“ One hears that brutal Guelph story
everywhere,” writes a Bulletin correspondent
from London. “ Sometimes it is this admiral’s
daughter, sometimes that admiral’s, but always
an admiral’s (the American papers give it as
Admiral S ). George apparently did not fancy
the idea at first, and his present miserable and
dejected air dates from that illness he had when
poor dear Clarence dropped out of the running,
and he found it would be politic to revel in the
charms of May. An admiral’s wife, who thought
she was scurvily treated by the Govt, at her
husband’s tragic death, gave the thing away. She
said that ‘the mother-in-law of a prince should
receive a better pension, anyhow.’ The Guelphs
stood in awful dread of the Duffs inheriting the
crown. Hence the prostitution.”
Dr. Charles M‘Carthy, the Sydney medico
of varied talents, who doesn’t “ fear to speak oi
’98,” was taken prisoner in the Franco-Prussiai
war. He left Dublin attached to an ambulance
party, and as soon after as possible got into “ the
thick of it.” Irish sympathies in that day went
wholly with France, but, as England stood
neutral, Irishmen who wished to fight on the side
of France had to go disguised a* ambulance men.
Premier “ Dick ” Seddon, at any rate, is
going to use his Jubilee titular honors. A Bulle-
tin man the other day received a Maoriland
official letter commencing, “ I have the honor to
acknowledge receipt of a letter addressed by you
to the Rt. Hon. Dr. Seddon,’’etc. Ye gods ! By
the way, devout Maorilanders note with holy joy
that “Doc.” Seddon, since his return from his
Jubilee jaunt, attends churoh twice every Sunday.
Molong Argus :
A candidate who stood for Molong in 1891 election is at
present stumping the country as a bicycle agent.
Also, a candidate who stood for the same electo-
rate a few years before, is now in Darlinghurst,
doing a life-sentence for murder. You couldn’t
hang so big a secret-society man as Willoughby
Andrew.
N.S.W. Agent-General Samuel when over
60 married handsome Miss Isaacs, the belle of
Auckland (M.L.), and a member of a cultured, un-
obtrusive, wealthy Jewish family. Major Alfred
Isaacs, Lady Samuel’s elder brother, a tine athlete
in his day and a very presentable amateur come-
dian, died in Sydney a few years ago. Two of
Lady Samuel’s sisters were married out of their
faith to two Auckland medical men—the brothers
Haines.
John Anderson, colleague of Zox for E.
Melbourne, is peculiarly gifted with lucidity of
expression. In a debate on sewerage rating in the
last Parliament the shorthanders “ took him ”
thus:—
I hope that this House will soon retrace their steps, and
seriously consider the position. It is not fair, or just, or
honest that when a portion of a people join in a scheme,
if only- for a time, I hope that the sense of this House
will take into its serious consideration the great injustice
they are going to give to a people who never deserved it,
a people who have always paid their engagements, and
intends to do so ; and the people I refer to who come
into this contract, and want to get out of it ; and I’m
going to remark, Mr. Speaker, they’re getting water now
at a moderate rate, and that was one of the conditions of
their being taken in, which cost an enormous sum of
money, because they have got the water now and don’t
want the sewage and if this House passes this it will do
one of the most dishonorable things ever done in this
House or any other.
AT THE MUSIC ALE.
“ I suppose a voice like that is a
lift? ”
“ Ya-as; it certainly isn’t the sort one would he expected to
give money for!”
Peter Russell, aged 95 years, died last
week at Singleton, N.S. W. He had resided there
80 years—how he must have enjoyed himself !
and well remembered many of the incidents con-
nected with the mutiny at Major Mudie’s, of
“ Castle Forbes.” Six men were tried at Sydney
in 1833 over this affair, five were found guilty;
of these three were handed in lower George-street,
Sydney ; the leaders, Hitchcock and Poole, were
taken to Singleton and hanged from a tree in the
centre of the town.
HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PERSE.
(Which is French, and means that his Eminence
didn't go to Melbourne to see the Cup — oh, no!)
Tas. Federal delegate Grant was born on
Nov. 9 ; James Service (Vic.) will be 74 on Nov.
12; ex-Treas. M'Millan (N.S.W.) will be 47 t Nov.
14 ; delegate Hassell (W.A.) was born on Nov. 15 s
and delegate Dobson, of Van Dobson Land, has a
birthday Nov. 24. Other notable personal anni-
versaries in Nov. are W. S. Gilbert (61 on the 18th),
Agent - General Playford (60), Chief Secretary
O’Loghlin (45) on the 25th, and Mark Twain (62)
on the 30th.
In a recent Black and White appears the
picture of a mug used by the Prince of Wales
when at college. Probably no utensil used by
Tummy would fail to excite the admiring rever-
ence of the “ loyal ” lickspittledom of England.
The Bulletin, for its part, would take a lively
interest in the portraits of all the “ mugs ” made
use of by H.R.H. since he left college—down even
to the poor creature who, the cable tells us, “acci-
dentally died,” the other day, in a madhouse.
Melbourne Paunch
Mr. Langton, in being rejected by all constituencies, has
one consolation in being the only Victorian mentioned by
name in Froude’s “ Oceana.”
It wouldn’t be much of an honor if true, but it
isn’t true. Gillies, the late George Verdon,
Astronomer Ellery, Mr. Service, Prof. Irving,
S’william Clarke (referred to as “Sir , a
baronet with £160,000 a year,” and as “ a distin-
guished, high-bred-looking man ”), vigneron De
Castella, and Andrew Rowan, all figure in the
four chapters which Froude devotes to Victoria.
The suicide of Land Commissioner
Warren, at Rockhampton, was a remarkable case
in several ways. Warren’s books were in perfect
condition ; he was well-to-do, correct in life and
perfectly sober. But he is alleged to have used—
by error or otherwise—defaced stamps on letters
(he collected stamps for his grand children ; had a
drawer full of defaced stamps ; and was 65 years
of age with weak eyesight); and certain o! his
upright subordinates plotted to expose him. The
charge so preyed on his mind that he took his own
life in desperation. And the total amount of his
default was at most a few— pence! !
It is claimed for the lately-deceased Mr.
Pentecost, lecturer at Newcastle (N.S.W.) School
of Mines, that he was largely instrumental in
setting on foot the silver-mining boom which led
up to the opening of Broken Hill. Thirteen or 14
years ago the old Board of Technical Education
sent out itinerant lecturers, and Pentecost went
to the Emmaville (N.S.W.) tinfield. At his first
lecture some specimens were handed up, and he
pronounced them silver-lead. Next evening he
lectured' on that combination ; and the day after
that there was a rush for silver claims. From
that time the excitement continued until in suc-
cession Sunny Corner a.nd Broken Hill were
unearthed. There had, however, been previous
silver finds at Boorook, but little came of them.
A Vic. journalist
Re Gowen Evans’ demise. Our world, in general, never
could quite “ place ” Mr. Evans at the Argus, or under-
stand how this apparent faineant came to be a boss apple
in the dumpling. Though fairly well-informed about
newspaper affairs, I did not know till now exactly that he
represented the Edward Wilson interest as against the
Lachlan Mackinnon. Editor Haddon has held the scales.
I must be permitted to think that the tri-partite general-
ship, like most such things, has not been so good as the
one-man-show of redoubtable David Syme, who, despite
the undeniable literary excellence of the Argus, has
fetched up the rough-cut, angular Age from 2000 in 1867,
when Gowen Evans arrived, to what he probably with
justice calls 100,000 in ’97. For data, to correct my
general impressions, I have referred to the flies of 40 years
ago to see what kind of a writer Edward Wilson was. I
find him distinctly inferior, sludgy, thin, hysterical, at
the time when he was to the Argus as Greeley to the
New York Tribune. He secured the proper editor in Mr.
Higinbotham. The cardinal mistake in the life of the
Argus was allowing Higinbotham to leave. Morris's life
of him shows that the reason was that the proprietary
could not go with him in his Liberal ideas. Therefore,
the way was opened for the Age to cut in. Comparing
Melb. with London, the Argus preferred to be the
Standard rather than the Times. All this added gall to
Attorney-General Higinbotham’s Parliamentary privilege
inipri6onment of the Argus p iblisher, for the alleged
libel on M‘Culloch, in saying his statement “ bristled
with falsehoods.” The Argus editors have been Wilson,
Higinbotham, Watts, Jarrett, Windsor, and Haddon.


„ 3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
J HE Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
Ihe Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
Ihe Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
bold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
72
tVi
Mr. R. MAOANSH, Commercial Hotel, Murrum-
burrah, writes: “ I could not sleep soundly, and the
result was that I felt tired and low-spirited all day I
suffered intense pain in the chest after eating, and
sickness after meals was a common occurrence with
me. I heard so much of Loasby’s “ Waiioo ” that I
was induced to try it, and now you may add my name
to the list of former dyspeptics who have been com-
pletely cured by that wonderful remedy.”
LOASBY’S " WAHOO,” price 2 6 every-
where, or post free from ’ J
Loasby’s “Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
“TWO GOOD THXICGS ”
• • Madb in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire SailCC
Holbrook’s Pure % iish Pick] os
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
CHEATIBS^Vd the a LARGESTSA^ OI ? ,S S * UCE > the met DELICIOUS, the
PICKLES are 8 Ve T ™- HOLBROOK’S
in Onions, Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow From aU g&r ’ and Ca " b ® had
Agent for New South Wale*:
Agent* for Viotoria:
Mr. Jambs 0. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Messrs. Wm. Pktwu&on k Co., MiLßOUitvs.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the new Vegetable Anti-Fat,
PHYTOLINE —.
.I ... . Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
-At tsatrvs Mares.««srs?. «—*" •* w, «•.—«•»
Stout people who grow red nt“efaLXnw a ° pol ? nd ® a n ' onth - an<l kept in splendid health.
“»« on reduce their*.,,*, mXgStßgfjf "**
PHYTOLIIME
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous
movements of stout
power of dissolving: and re-absorbing-the fatty tissues
people easy and light.
, making the
know/ 0r fema,e ’ aud is the °" ly harmk ' Bs
ruwSil)^ llfi tr'f lrll !w!!' t Medieine Vendors. Price, 35., 55., and 125.,
botU«* or Ww ojtp o*ju*) f,/» qi'v of tbo W all
Julius Knight's particular trouble, as Marcus Superbus
was to conceal his slight tendency to bandyness—not but
what his legs are straighter than a lot of ’em. Hence the
eternal posing and rather excessive padding of those all-
important limbs. Nobody ever saw the Roman Prefect
stand upright with his supports (Heavenly twins, the
girls called them, bless their simplicity !) in juxtaposition
after the manner of an Addie Conyers.
Dear Bollbstin,— Had “Paradis ’’ever seen the authen-
tic portraits of the rival empresses in Paris he would
surely never suggest that Miss Page bears any physical
resemblance to Josephine, who was two inches shorter
than Napoleon, and, as depicted by dramatist Wills, a
soft, dinging, lovable, lachrymose oreature, who is con-
tinually using the pathetio stop.” Now, Miss Page is bold
and vigorous, not to say masculine, in her method; is
destitute of pathos, and, beside Julius Knight, looks a
giantess. Miss Perrar wears the little bob-curls which
were the vogue at that period; Miss Page a modern coiffure,
which may be becoming, but is certainly not historically
correct. In what, then, does the latter lady resemble the
Creole from Martinique ?— Parisian.
The Australian theatrical world looks forward to a very
interesting event which will necessitate the temporary
retirement of a certain pretty actress.
A Sydney paper says that Mr. J. C. Williamsoft, so far
as London is concerned, has been formed into a no-
hability company. The idea of a no-liability concern is
distinctly humorous. 'Tis true there are many no-
liability theatrical managements, as actors learn to their
cost; but modesty prevents these managements from pro-
claiming the fact to the world at large by registration.
Williamson and co. have never been built that way. The
no-hability laws apply to mining co’s, and those only.
Let us hope W. and Al.’s London management may be a
gold-nnne.
Mahistick: “Maggie Moore, in Jacquelina, shows the
audience the actress’s dressing-room, with all her para-
phernaha. I have not seen this staged before. Recalls a
startling Graphic drawing by the unsurpassable Renouard.
He had the ohanee of pinning down Sara Bernhardt, of
the shoulder-blades, in her London stage dressing-room,
receiving Ellen Terry. Most daring it was, though the
artist was graciously confined to the desert waste of
i ulu ra ’ dow . n her parched back, with the vertebra of the
ichthyosauri. After the primal shock I thought, ‘Well
I have seen as much in a dress-circle,’though without
the tuck, frillage, or whatever they call it, of lingerie.
But, then, Melb. was too Christian Endeavorv to be trusted
to devour Th<sri>se Raquin.”
Helb. “ Jos. Symes’s Lyceum Hall, Victoria Parade, is
billed for auction. This excellent brick place was built
S r ," I Ti ) -Y admirers to replace his stand at L. L. Smith’s
Hall of Science, otherwise Polytechnic, Nugget Theatre,
Hudson s Theatre, Opera Comique, so triumphantly
bought over his head by the Y.M.0.A., which built its
palace there (only for the Salvation Army). Mr. Symes
f'as an unfortunate temper. Yet his conscience, more
than this, may account for the distraughrs in his fol-
lowers. His socialism is Tillett’s. He can’t bear
anarchism. Hence the split, which dynamited the cause
as the theologies would say, and made the Lyceum
worse off than the Hibernian Hall Mortgagees are of
the same religion as journalists.”
G - M - G - : “ There is material for a good burlesque in
The Royal Divorce’ ; stuff that would suit Maggie Moore
very muoh better than semi-sentimental
rubbish like ‘ Jaquelina,’ which Maggie collected from the
two ends of the earth to exhibit Maggie more than usually.
It should be Maggie Most.” J
Flora Graupner has gone to live at Regent’s Park, and
will not seek for an engagement until she has had a year’s
rest and study in London.
Hilda Spong, approached by numerous entrepreneurs
has finally decided to cast in her lot with Boucicault. A
six months’ engagement has been signed, and Miss Spon-
is to be leading- lady in a first-class comedy part.
SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PARSON.
PRSON : “My boy, you shouldn't beat that poor animal so. You should never ill-treat dumb animals."
B OY:Wot on earth's a cove ter do when he sticks yer up and won't shift?”
PARSON : “ Well! try persuasion, my lad, and kindness.”
BOY : “ Persuadin's all blanky fine fer parsons wot’s got nuthin' else ter do. I reckon this moke should ha' him a
parson, fer he am t fond o' doin' much-only feedin' an’ bein' a humbug!”
Army bandmaster G. A. Martin and violinist St.ael have
oeen appointed judges for the Interprovincial Band Con-
test to take place at Sydney Town Hall, Nov, 6th and 7th.
Martin is well-known in Maoriland as a very competent
judge in contests of this character, and no more familiar
", all , le I sbe found in the Sydney musical world than
that of Stael.
Reuben Fax is about to produce at Proctor’s Theatre,
A.Y., and appear in, a musical comedy of his own—" Old
Timepieces.” Theme, three played-out pugilists who
have turned laborers.
The rush of red-coated Life Guards in the seoond
aterloo. tableau of “ A Royal Divorce” was painted by
Gordon, junior. Horses and men show some good, bold
drawing, and the scenio effeot is aided by a mechanical
ba°c V kZ e nnd 0f *A® ? har^ ers suggesting a hill in the
may conceive an in-
visible Duke of Wellington roaring forth the apocrvnhal
command—“Up Guards, and at ’em,” whereupon the
Battik nf W w r + 0r ? aB u em ! the risin " «™und and carry the
Battle of Waterloo by storm, thanks to Bill Adams.
V iteB < » travelling Australian to The
f™™ from . London, lives entirely on its costumes
and the occasional prettiness of its music. The plot is
PnJZh “ Par i lC A ar ; th f dialogue duller than the usual
English vaudeville ; the joke which gets the most
laughter is when the Chinaman comic character savs to
tnT°Z’ - Yo l l welly great big number one
A°A Ma s t Tem P est , 18 a bright little actress, a fair
01 th *
Mesmerist Kennedy, now running an educated-horse
business r ° U The h Stral 'f-’ Wi -" n^ ver , reBame his o,d U»e of
business. The hypnotic sin has found him out. The
brawny professor suffers from a Svengalian heart-trouble.
Wool'lew Rl’^ Y ° U i aSk “ ' Vho> A the way > is Phillips-
vyooHey l He is a clever young Canadian, who jumped
into prominence in ’95 by writing a patriotic poTm
to • The ® ea Q ueen Wakes !”as a kind of reminder
onA 8 Ka,s ® rsblp ’. after that famous telegram to Kruger
has & k t ey Wlt k J ;. Bu11 and ca Since then Woolley
t,? Sb A t f ken U P by the Pali ‘ Mall Magazine, and has
turned out some very promising work.—Horace Cope.
Jt w .°ul d . b ® alarming reading if the numbers of
the dancing-girls injured permanently by practising or
Duhli I c P ' A h ’ lng t Ke ‘ spli . ts ' we *' e Siven to the Australian
, A . " ost every city medico has had one such case
through his hands. Where the demand for this evolution
Ini/hAA on!y knOWB -. U . iB not graceful, it is not novel,
and the danger is not in view of the audience, so there
ft"..?® . no l fa ?. o, l na J t,on on that score. The sooner the
splits is abolished on the Australian stage the better.”
iAA A!AAA 16 in Ade 'aide was built by one Solomon.
At first it didn t pay. One day Solomon was discovered
sitting on the theatre steps. “ What’s up, Solomon ?”
aS Q ed v. a P asser ‘ b y- The Hebrew looked up wistfully.
See here, my son ! ” said he. “ There vas vonce a man
named Solomon, in Jerusalem. And he built a temple
And he vos a vise man ! And there vos another man
named Solomon, in Adelaide. And he built a theatre.
And he vos a dam fool. Thar I ”
, th ® bad old days in Hobart there used to be a theatre
called the Albert. The majority of the audience were
accustomed (of necessity) to very early hours—had to re-
port themselves at 8.30 p.m., under penalty of “ adozen ”
and a weeks retirement to the “tombs” under Trinity
Church. Therefore, the performance used to begin at
five o clock. Many of the actors were also under necessity
“ w 1T rt rfiAf raBe ' ve8 ’ one ni g ht they were playing
Riohard 111 Enter a super. :“ My lord, Bucking-
A"? s ta ken ,; t> , 1 ? rf , w 'th his ’ead 1 ” roared Arabin, the
Richard., But he s took 1 ” exclaimed the other.
w 6.» X ro 7 t d 1A tragedian, “ orf with his blanky
Bad • .. Bu ,t the blanky traps has got ’im,’’ said the
And they had’ 86 P m6 ’ they " have me > too, Arabin.”
“ I will follow the example of my ancestors and refrain
from marriage. — Moli&re’s Sganarelle.
H. : “I never heard of ‘Murdered’ being cut on a
tombstone till I saw it on Mrs. Deeming’s, in the Melb
Cemetery last Sunday. There was a fifht over getting
the queei inscription passed by the trustees. The conse-
quence was the abrogation of a most obnoxious rule for
revising inscriptions, and nowadays the trustees will only
harrow the feelings of relatives in the matter of spelling.
Whenever you ask for a grave at Melb. Cemetery, the
custodian points you out where Vi Varley’s is, such*is the
universal interest that seems to be taken in her Every
woman inquirer wants to know if Tapley is married again,
lhe tomb of Mrs. Harwood, professionally Miss Margie
Chester, is second to none in beauty. That of Mrs. Gar-
ner, Miss Blanche Stammers, has, perhaps, the best in-
scription, She acted many parts, but was best in those of
wife and mother.’ ”
The Greenwood family still occasionally bobs up with a
dramatm performance, in Maoriland. Which recalls that
Wilhelm], years ago, had a great opinion of Miss Maribel’s
P° wer f a musician, and that Louise Pomeroy once
played Romeo to her Juliet—a creditable performance,
marred somewhat by the immature heroine’s imperfect
articulation, which caused her to address the generously-
busted Louise as “ Womeo ! ” « Oh, VVomeo ! Womeo !
Wherefore art thou Womeo ” became a cant phrase in
Auckland as the Greenwood barouche—liveried coachman
and all—drove past.
A travelling 00. struck a little township. One China-
man paid for admission, and seated himself in the stalls,
ihe co. decided not to show that night. Curtain rose,
THE PRACTICAL.
ARTIST (to cockatoo farmer) : “ I'd like to paint your cows; they”
FARMER (interrupting ): “If you want work, talk sense-tackle the hay dray . Rum idea
to Want to paint the cows!”
displaying mummers cording boxes, &c. John watched
proceedings intently. Caretaker passed, turning out
lights. Presently the “audience” tapped him on the
shoulder, ere the last glim went out. “Play all over’”
“Yes, John. Play all over.” Then John spake, “ O Cli’
what a play ! ” ’
N.: “ ‘ Confessions of a Ballet Lady. How Women are
Victimised in England,’ now going round the British press
is wormwood, and doubtless partly true—the emanation
Of a ballet-woman on the shelf. The report, or interview
says she has been ‘ conspicuous as a character-actress in
burlesque and comic opera.’ She calls the stage-manager
the tyrant of the stage.’ He is too apt to be an ogre
seeking to ruin pretty girls. They get on, according as
they favor him or not. She gives samples of the language
of one of the best-known bullies, who is one of the
greatest stage-managers in the profession.’ He called
out to the proprietor, before the whole company, ‘My
God, where did you get that girl with the horse’s face?’
His customary way of ordering is: ‘That thing in blue.’
That cow in red,’ ‘That girlwith the sailor hat,’ ‘That
fat woman.’ He has been known to send a poor girl into
Alfred Bucklaw- he came to Australia
in 'B9 as leading man in a W. & M.
dramatic co.—-is reckoned about the
best of several Marcus Superbuses (“ Sign
of the Cross ”) touring around the
English provinces. Bucklaw will be
remembered as a much-the-same sort
of actor as Julius Knight. Also, he is
somewhat younger off the stage, and
although he used to take himself seri-
ously he never went as far as Julius in
that respect. Tun Bulletin would ad-
vise the Firm to think of old friend
Alfted next time a beautiful hero is re-
quired for this susceptible country.
They were playing “ East Lynne ” out*
back. The erring wife, grown old and
plain and finding her mashing days over
had returned to her stern' husband’s
home and was dying to the strains of
“ vvh e» other lips.” “ Kiss me, dar-
ling, just once,” she pleaded tearfully.
Stern husband makes a gesture of dis-
gust and refusal. An old farmer, who
had never seen a play before, thinking
the broken woman’s request was about
to be denied, brought down his stick on
fchc floor with a crash and roared :
“ l '- iss llel % you - ! Kiss her or I’ll
break yer blanky neck ! ” The actor did
so with a smile, and the lady died amidst
a general feeling that things might
have been worse.
A case of wounded professional dig-
nity. Notice posted in the hotel bars of
a backblocks town i— 41 1 the under-
signed beg to announce to the public of
— : that I have not been asked to
assist with the forthcoming concert in
aid of the cricket clubs, notwithstand-
ing my well-known ability and willing-
ness to lend my voluntary assistance
to any movement of public importance
either charitable or social. (Signed)
77 —, Professional caterer for
public amusement.”
Haresfoot: “A little history of old
Melb. Princess’s Opened 1855, as
Astley s Amphitheatre by G. B. W.
Lewis with a troupe from London’.
Changed into Royal Amphitheatre for
drama. The old bills show that Marie
j) ctec * Jack Sheppard there.
When the theatre became the Prin-
oess s, the first conspicuous success
was of the Gougenheims. Next, of
Julia Matthews and Fawcett. There
were three brothers (Rowe) in Melb.
Jefferson s season, 1863, is memorable.
The house was under a cloud till Lyster
initiated opera-bouffe there, five years
later, with Madame Simonsen, Beaumont,
Farley. Later, the Princess saw his introduction of the
Oagli and Pompei grand-opera troupe. This was the last
distinguished record. Williamson, Garner, and Mus
fng V it™hut.” he h ° USe SeCOndary t 0 the Royal - often keep-
V 1 packed, suffocating gallery of
Royal the first night that Barry Sullivan appeared
in Australia. The ads. described him as ‘ The first Shakes-
The"nlav wnt <t r ’ h f e F, eafc intellectual actor of the age.’
wv, e »?lt* V Wa ?i, shockingly cast except for H. N.
Warner as the Ghost, Mrs. Chas. Poole as Queen and
Harry Jackson as Gravedigger. Joey Gougenheim then
Z^ erf ,i lly g^e^ufr^m her brilliant form at the Prin
cess s, attempted Ophelia. What a rage Joey and Adelaide
were in comedies like the ‘ Irish Heiress,’ and burlesques
like ‘ Fortunio,’ Ala Vestris ! Fat Paddy Belfield, known
as the Tailor, was the King' at the Barry Sullivan Premiere,
and the Argus said he 1 fell before he was pinked.’
Imagine Sullivan’s delight. But he retrieved with his
glorious management, beginning some months later an
unparalleled Melb. record of two years, only burst up by
a woman.”
Writes a blasphemous London correspondent of The
Bulletin Irving’s Napoleon in ‘Madame Sans-Ggne ’
is a huge joke. Tall, awkward, ungainly, with his
shoulders padded, his head lowered and eyes staring like
rn, to charge, he has not one bright moment.
Ellen Terry is sympathetic and lady-like, which latter she
ought not to be. Rbjane was as slangy as the real Madame
bans Gene herself, and gave the sayings of this famous
historical person as they are known to every street-boy in
T rance. Duquesne, who was in Australia with Sarah,'did
Napoleon —a striking likeness. Irving, had he any sense
of proportion, would have played Fouchb, which character
would have suited him better. The rest of the Lyceum
company was beneath contempt.”
a 'u An Psenist lady friend went out to Islington to see
Achurch do ‘ A Doll’s House,’ ” writes an Australian to
•ta, tV- LLETIN . rom London. “The theatre was packed
with Islingtonians, who never got such a surprise in their
lives. These Britishers lingered on in the vain hope that
something would happen, but nothing happened. Why
Nora left her man they could not fathom. He didn’t get
drunk and bash her; she never even had a black eye;
her maintenance was ample ; there was no other woman
m the background. The Islingtonians laughed at the
proposition that the separation was on account of “ in-
compatibility of. soul.” In short, they treated the whole
Ibing as a huge joke, and tolerated it good-humoredly
None of the people in it acted as they had ever seen
married couples act down Islington way. Achurch went
through her part heroically, and acted finely, though
running into flesh since her Australian tour.”
A Melbourne man with an alleged comedy in his posses-
sion interviewed a manager recently. He found the
great man sitting grumpily in a c-hair with a large, fat,
black cigar in his mouth and his corporation accumulated
in front of him, and explained his business. The manager
grunted heavily. Then the visitor went into details
about the plot and characters, and the manager grunted,
lie read extracts for half-an-hour or more, while the
manager fixed him with a hostile eye and grunted at
intervals. Then the author asked for a definite opinion.
Look ere, said the tired potentate, “ye can ’ave yer
Ti?°M in operas, an’ ye can ’ave yer bloomin’ comedies,
the bloomin legitimate drammer’s good enough for me.
lin goin’to shut up the bloomin’ theatre. Ye can take
the bloomin theatre if ye like, an’ ye can hire the bloomin’
company if ye like, an’ ye can put on ver own bloomin’
comedy if ye like. I’m bloomin’ well full of it.” And so
v.r i!i er , slfc5 lfc of Australian literature went where the
blighted dramas go.


One of the shows of Sydney is the shop of
A. G. Ring, 33 Imperial Arcade. The proprietor
has spent his life, including three trips round the
world, in collecting stamps, and he has now a
wonderful hoard. He has many stamps cata-
logued by the “perfesh” at J6lO, .£2O, and .£3O.
He has one stamp which is as precious to him as
the crown to the king—he would not sell it for
.£lO,OOO. He would fill any man up with lead
who would try to steal it. As a stamp-collector,
A. G. Ring is a boss.*
Queensland is not the happiest hunting-
ground for a missionary, unless the Gospel-man
can punch his forty whiskeys a day, and send the
scorner home on a shutter. It is not the Paradise
for a business-man unless his commercial instinct
will start sampling nightcaps at 9 o’clock in the
morning. It is no place for the politician who
cannot drink the Opposition under the table, and
captivate an audience of total abstainers with his
breath. Queensland has a nose that can scent
good whiskey a mile off, and a palate which can
never be deceived. And Q. has pronounced Sir
John Power’s whiskey to be the sweetest thing
it’s had.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Echoes From Australians.
DOWN ONE BOAD AND UP ANOTHER. PROM EVERY
TOWN AND CITY IN AUSTRALIA.
Hard to hold down the enthusiasm of our peo-
ple under such circumstances as these surrounding
the effects of Warner’s Safe Cure. There is no
place in the world where a good thing is better
appreciated than right here at home. Go where
you will, inquiries prove that Warner’s Safe Cure
has saved people from lingering disease and death,
and Australians give credit to whom due. Mr.
C. I. Bohler, Cowan Road, St. Ives Sydney,
says : “It is with great pleasure that I write you
in order to testify to the excellence of Warner’s
Safe Cure. Some twelve months ago I was suf-
fering from kidney troubles and affection of the
liver. After trying different remedies, I gave
Warner’s Safe Cure a trial, and after a few doses
experienced an improvement. The pain in my
right side disappeared, and I felt better in health
than I had for a long time previously. I only
took two bottles of this valuable medicine, and
felt so gratefnl that I have recommended it to all
my friends.”
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.*
FRANZ JOSEF . . .
PILSEMEK
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
YOUNG GIRLS ...
and boys arc generally eager to spend their pocket-money on other
things than train-fares ; yet how much money is spent in this way
every week ? The quickest and healthiest way backwards and
forwards from school is on a wheel, and the safest way is on a
very good wheel. Young people
LOOK BEST ...
after their own interests who persuade their parents to provide
them with an Ariel Cycle fitted with Dunlop Tyres, and so enable
them to keep their pocket-money, their good looks, and their good
health. The wittiest and the prettiest girls in the colony are
generally to be seen
OKT
ARIEL CYCLES!
and the only firm who sell them is the Austral Cycle
Ag*ency Ltd. Would it not be a good plan to write for their
Catalogue ? you could then show your parents the machine you
want, and explain our system of easy payments.
These
the Addresses :
Adelaide Bundle Street; Perth—Hay Street; Brisbane Adelaide Street; Charters Towers—Gill Street • Sydney -
rZsf fw TT 14 V Elizabeth Street; Christchurch -Litchfield and Colombo Streets ’ Dunedin-
(jeorge Street; Warrnambool—Kepler Street; Melbourne— 229 Elizabeth Street
Answers to Correspondents.
tVo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
G.P. (Vic.): Sentiments would do credit to an
arch-angel; verse would disgrace an arch-fiend Con.:
“ Perfect lips ” in that connection are too suggestive of
‘ 1 pufFeck lydies.”... .Tas. Enquirer: That was the price many
years ago A.8.R.: “Nom-de-plume ” —booh. Why not
“Pen-name?” W.S.M. : Unavailable E.D. (S.M.) :
Everything would depend on artist Wake : Yes, it
has been illustrated Nick : Work too “ niggling" for
effective reproduction. Study at the National Gallery
life-class and acquire some “breadth" and freedom
B.B.: A blatant ass, who takes himself seriously, is almost
certain to gain publio confidence and get into Parliament,
but a volatile, versatile visionarv who does not really be-
lieve in himself, Never H.M. : Sketches too labored,
but one may possibly serve as a suggestion Nikan :It
amused you, but it wouldn’t amuse the publio V. :
Heine was exactly in Disraeli’s position. His father
abandoned the Jewish religion. Heine was educated as a
Protestant Roslyn : You forget that if David Syme
were little Dr. Maloney’s friend he would have to auction
his loveliest prize cows right off G.O. :He who deli-
berately calls himself “ public-spirited ” is on the same
plane with the man who labels himself “poet”—or the
editor who accepts marmalade from correspondents about
the “ great services of your valuable paper or prints in
his own paper his own portrait or accounts of the
“society" glories of his own family circle Ortho:
The true inwardness of modern Christianity is displayed
in the fact that the Revised Version of the Scriptures,
which dares to amend a few of the grossest errors in the
ordinary version, and marginally suggests others which
it does not dare to amend, has never come into popular
use. The Bible Society prefers to circulate, and the
clerics prefer to preach, the old familiar lie ; rather than
the strange truth which suggests that a word of
God which badly wants tinkering must belong to a
mighty curious kind of Deity......E.N.D. : Thanks
0.L.: Thk Bulletin doesn’t live by singing in chorus
with Conventionalism C.A.: Bulletin hasn’t seen the
Metropolitan Coal Co.’s latest balance-sheet; but, from
what it; hears of same, argues that the Sydney Harbor
Collieries Co. will have a tough job to make things pay
J.D.M. (M.L.): Already dealt with. To pass such sen-
tences for escaping from gaol under such circumstances
was monstrously cruel—and illogical Alf. J. : Clever,
but unusable all the same .....Comquat: Too far-away
Exile : Par. used ; verse no good J.G.T.H. :No Bulle-
tin value B. Ringer: Pretty well done, but we don't
want unnecessarily to jump on anybody’s feelings
G.R. : “ Winslow ” too much dialect, too little point
J. East: The “ push”Jdealt it out to him—that’s all 1
Dingo: Can’t howl in Bulletin L.L. : Thanks—can’t
use R- Lauchlan : Fairish verse, but no novelty or
force L.E.D. : No’need to “ nip ” you. Might easily be
a lot worse, though it doesn’t fit Bulletin Tibi: By
your own rule, you were evidently more intended for
building boots than verses A. A. : “ Hanrahan,”
vast quantity of shell to very small kernel in
last verse Sphingos : Trite second-hand obser-
vation. Bulletin isn’t a Sunday school-book, anyhow
B.E. :It was another “ 8.E.” of course. Now, do you
really imagine you have a monopoly of those initials ?
We are sorry M‘G. : Kaiser Wilhelm was born in
1859, and so is 38 years old and no “ boy.” Prevention :
No—kill him rather than that ... Thomas N. (Rock-
hampton): No market for suoh ohestnuts... Doddy :
And you, too, have discovered that old wheeze ! The
Lepper : Yes, they appeared, but we can’t quote dates.
(2) Can’t tell till we see the matter H.C. : Your MS.
takes a week to read. Bad writing only tolerated in
absolute geniuses—and, so far, every valued Bulletin
contributor, male and female, without any exception
whatsoever, has written a plain fist .J. Lan.: “ Looking
for Work,” tame treatment of theme so well-worn as to
need forked-lightning verse. . .Mrs. F. W. (B.) : Items
all too point-blank. Should shoot moie round corner
L.K. : “ Invention,” well-invented, but drowned in words.
“Squire ” too Family Heraldic . ..H.E.H, : Over-remi-
niscent of Gordon’s “Stockrider.” Play more off jour
own bat A.K.M’D. :No “series” will ever pull Bulls
TIN’S leg Navvy F.: Sorry not quite up. Good pro-
mise T. W. Wright: Bulletin eschews parodies unless
of surpassing merit W.M.M. : Didn’t know before
exactly how bad a joke could be F. 0. Grant: Will use
on ® D. Capo : Got it all in last line—“ so perhaps this
affair is worth hardly a song.” J. Nibb : “Nocturne"
prettily nonsensical. How could a sea be “ dewy ” ? Will
look up other sketches Hermes: Strong enough, but
too malodorous for B. J.F.D. : Some of pars will do.
“Verse” undistinguishable from prose G. Booth:
Both completely off Bulletin track J.M.W.: Striking
subjeot, not concisely enough handled. Nikau :No
novelty of interest or treatment N.W. : Too flimsy
Theta: Burglar instantly arrested and lodged in—w.p.b!
W) Gar. : Metre boxes the compass ; rhymes box
each other. Risky joke; forwarded to W.O.T.U
Lendo : Harper polled nearly ap many votes as usual.
His seat has always been shaky. Religious cant spoils
him. Politically, he is to be commended for going back
on his Freetrade principles, seeing that there never was
the slightest probability of F.t. principles injuring his
grocery business MMS. : What brand of tin-god is
Ainsworth, anyway? Coro: The “Royal Divorce”
success is a natural result of the “Cross” boom. Both
dramas deal (fictitiously and gaudily) with great historical
events. The jingo allusion to British bull-dog courage is
not in the least responsible for the presence of crowded
audiences, in which the women greatly outnumber the
men A.H. (Melb.): Somebody else snapped your par.-
Ppmt W.P. : Wants brighter handling J.F.O. :
Declined T.S. : Drop it; we did Delegate : Poem
as long as from here to the Gulf, and as rough a road to
travel Iris : One nursery item spanked and put to
bed Grace (M.L.) : Telegraph tales tedious Stringy-
bark : Too stringy and not enough bark Von :
Verse getting weaker. What have j r ou been doing with
yourself? Norman (M.L.) : Fact is, you want to taok
your little ad. on his tombstone. Well, you won’t . .
Athos : Dull yarn Desolation (Ad.): Bit flat S.G. :
Too like “ Keep-a-Goin’” ! W.A.B. : Nicely rhymed ;
what does it mean?.. True Blue:Reoeived Die Hard :
On the contrary, we don’t remember an easier death
R.C. : Don’t care much for philosophy-in-verse ; and that
brand belongs to Matthew Arnold (vide “Empedocles”).
P.M.R, : Only album verses—and we don’t mean our
album F.W. (W.A.): Jap. par. doesn’t say a new
enough thing hard enough H.P.O. : Send printed
report and we’ll publish the paragraph F.: Flemington
Is socially as far in front of Caulfield as ever it was. But
Caulfield has a business advantage in being able to charge
for admission to the flat ~Q. Scotchman : Screed duly
enjoyed. But what has Burns's democracy to do with
his plagiarisms? Belle of S. : Lacks novelty.
Frances F. :No virtue S.E.O'B. : Thanks Query:
That young gentleman is a promising writer of prose and
verse ; but we also would like to inspect the originals of
the advertised testimonials in which “ Swinbourne ” (sic)
calls him “a graceful poet;” J. A. Noble “one of the
finest of modern stylists ; ” ami H. Traill (? H. D. Traill)
“ the most promisefu! of poet critics.” And this when,
according to the magazine of the college which educated
him, he is but 20 years of age ! H.A.C. : “Soul” not
up. . . Basil: Corpselight waltzing with a cowbell —
declined. T.H.S. (Alogo) : Sorry; don’t remember it
now. Leslie O. : Sent to artist afar off. Alone:
Berry yarn doesn’t read coherently. The vernacular of
the relator would be regarded as a misfit for the senti-
ments you express. Mind you, The Bulletin doesn’t say
it is a misfit. E.A.O. : Why, the first clergyman exiled
tc Botany Bay for participation in the Rebellion of 1798
was a Church of England man named Fulton. Miner:
Where was Warden King reported as saying Lucknow
lease “ unworkable ” ? Always send clippings verifying
public utterances R. Lauchlan : Fairish verse, but
nc novelty or force. J. liehlaw : “These yarns are
always much the same.” Yes, and too much similarity is
exactly what’s the matter with yours. Xerxes: Well
enough written, but interest too slender. A. Vining :
Par. only Alpha : Two items extracted C.P.P. :
“ Ore " not rich enough. Borak: You don’t poke it at
us, though ! Wallaroo : Will use par.; yarn funny,
but unavailable.
When the pelican builds her nest she
builds it pretty extensively. On Sandringham
run (Centralia) about 40 miles from the station, on
the edge of a dry lake-bed, may be seen a patch
of country about a quarter of a mile long and 300
yards broad, oovered with pelican nests about
three feet apart and apparently scooped out by the
wing. Thousands of eggs are to be seen dotted
over the place.
It is not an uncommon thing bo discover a
bullock with a horn growing out of its head and
into it again, but a beast has been discovered in
Nathaba (Vic.), the point of whose horn had
entered the skull below the eye and grown right
through, coming out again on the other side !
The bullock was apparently none the worse for it,
and when the horn was sawn and the point re-
moved it left a hole that could be seen through.
The writer has seen a bullock with the two horns
meeting at the points, and one growing into the
other. The point of one had been sawn off to
prevent contact, and then the animal had been
left to itself, with the result mentioned.
Dr. R. Semon, in his “ In Australian Bush
and Coasts of Coral Seas,” makes some interesting
zoological remarks. He came to Australia
specially to get young stages of Geratodus, the
Q. lung-breathing fish, Echidna, the marsupial
ant-eating hedgehog, and other distinctive beasts
of this continent. According to Semon the platy-
pus chiefly lives on one of the cockle tribe (Corbi-
cula nepeanensis). The platypus and the ant-eater
reproduce but once a year, and ripe and fertilised
eggs are found only in the left oviduct. Rats !
He also declares that the dingo is responsible for
the disappearance from the mainland of the Tas-
manian devil ( Sarcophilus) and the Tasmanian
striped wolf ( Thylacinus ), which, by the way, is
not a wolf at all, but simply a carnivorous mar-
supial.
R. : “ Vic. blacks of Buninyong district
continually repeat a tradition that once upon a
time Mts. Buninyong and Elephant quarrelled,
and heaved fire and rocks at each other. This
has been the slender basis for the contention that
the blacks lived in Victoria before the great vol-
canio period in Ballarat district which produced
the basaltic rocks overlying the gold-bearing
country. Now, however, geologist Hart, of
Ballarat School of Mines, has found beneath the
lower basalt in the Buninyong Estate G.M. Co.’s
mine, in the black clay at a depth of 238 ft., a
whole pile of fossil bones of kangaroos and walla-
bies. Biologist T. S. Hall, of Melb. University,
not only has identified the bones as marsupial,
but declares that one big rib-bone of the extinct
giant kangaroo has been altered in shape for some
purpose by human agency. Which goes to prove
that the blacks’ tradition is correct in substance,
and discloses a big eruption of the two now in-
active volcanoes.”


A CONFUSION OF TERMS.
D R. REID : “ What nonsense to say that I strangled Federation! ”
T HE LITTLE BOY OF MANLY: “Ah, you may not have strangled him. hut you let them break his blessed neck /”


•&V
;
Tvd^:
t b j s
<W' 1°
I
Tniss, cou lclj/o k- jf/i/e ?7?e.
a y/ass of frees- os' ~tufenee ?
n O
$
*
157
. *
(V
y YAe ccil^^-
§>
(tD l
gs '
•i
Of TV-' ' ”
,4l£>u sl>
|l /V <9 ef ’
, ' Jl „<fe' J ,C.
V /f
%, / ',>V lA
, f „eA >'" ,^'
x
\
1/ >
V
y'/'Zsfr
i Wk xf& orx-
Cjt-eeTL.
///e < jB ! u??e/~i'n -S Tie otr £/a./-f //-?j> r A^uc/jz/te..
MELBOURNIANA.


During the Orange-and-Green row at Cool-
gardie one poor Paddy was getting chips knocked
off his face by a burly Williamite when his wife
urged him to greater efforts with “Kill him,
w addy—kill the ! ” Poor Pat eased off for a
moment and said : “ Howly Mother, ain’t I batin’
the blanky sowl-case out of ’im ! ”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
At a magisterial enquiry re the death of a
Q* Kanaka who had performed “ the happy des-
patch,” the magistrate asked of the policeman
who had last seen deceased: “Did you think he
was in a state of insanity ? ” Replied Constable
M Goggerty: “Yis, your washup, he was in a
most unsanitary state,”
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from £3 3s. each.
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER ,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELSOURME.
BY
ROYAL WARRANT of ABBOIKTTMBKrT 1 to “ THE QtJEBKr.”
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE.”
Schweppes
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SODAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THF. WORLD.
M
hS
West’s Hydraulic Tyre Compressor.
(See letterpress on this page.)
The “ very wealthy ” Tagh Mahomet,
Afghan camel-driver and merchant, who came to
a sudden end lately at Coolgardie, panned out for
only after all.
West’s Hydraulic Tyre
Compressor.
(See illustration on this page.)
The accompanying block illustrates a re-
markable invention which has lately been
introduced, to Australia. It is a hydraulic
machine for setting vehicle tyres cold. It
consists of a heavy, cast bed-piece, to which
is attached a weldless steel ring of great
strength, on the inner side of which a num-
ber of hydraulic rams are assembled. To
the left of the illustration is a three-throw
pump of special design, which forces oil into
the rams, and makes them all converge
upon the tyre, which, with the wheel, is
placed inside of them. Hew tyres are made
to drop loosely over the wheel, and they are
then compressed on the wheel. Old tyres
may be tightened without removing the bolts.
Mr. 0. Napier Bell, M.1.C.E., who has
carefully examined the machine in use in
Sydney, says : “The essential feature of the
invention is that cold wrought iron can be
compressed within certain limits without any
change in its < ther dimensions. I do not
know that that property was ever known
before, as one would naturally suppose that
if iron were squeezed up so as to alter its
length, its width and thickness would be
altered also. I examined a ring of iron
about sft. 4in. in diameter and 4in. wide and
lin. thick ; the ring was 16ft. 9in. on inside
circumference ; after being compressed in
the machine, it measured 15ft. Bin., but the
width and thickness were unaltered.
I find that the specific gravity of the iron
was altered from its presumably original S.G.of 7.65
(as given in Kircaldie’s experiments)to 8.04, which is
tlie S.G. of steel.” Colonel Sir George S. Clarke
R.E., K.C.M.G., chief of the gun and carriage de-
partment at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich (Eng.)
where the machine is regularly used, has made experi-
ments similar to Mr, Bell’s, with similar results
Ihe Scientific American, in which a description
f Q “ e Machine was recently published (February 6
1597), also mentions some remarkable results nro-
duced by the machine.
Briefly described, the merits of the machine are :
it sets tyres cold ; it hardens and improves the material
ot the tyre ; it makes wheels perfectly round • it ob-
viates the charring of the rims inseparable from the
old process, and it enables tyres to be tightened wit.h-
bolts or injuring the paint.
The inventor of the machine is Mr. J. B. West of
Rochester, N.Y. , for whom it has brought a reward
which few original geniuses live to enjoy The
owners of Australasian patents are West’s Patent
yre Setter Company, Limited, Haymarket, Sydney.*
STRONG RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest cheapest and
best timekeepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £s,’£s 10s, £6, £7,
'V> 5 - ?„ nd 6 y ear s written guarantee. Silver Hunting Kev or Kevless
ft a , n 6 g ft 10 £ °P en - f ac e , 355. Shortwind Keyless, 7s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 16s 6d. nxtra quality. 20s guaranteed. Gold, £lO, £l2 10s £l5 £2O
Sen e d C fo^ e n r ce a bo o ok llofcherham ’ S and Walthara Levers. Send for price fsL
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s (id ; extra strong, ]os
15c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, ‘2os.
Silver, 3s 6d.
BSBBaB
S&T'
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 218.
160. Gold (as above), 35 s.
q
Gold Heart Amethyst Brooch, 15s.
09
15c. Gold 3-bar Pure White Diamond, £3 3s.
Large Diamond, £i 4s.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s; Large, 21s
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
18c. Solid Gold Nurled Edges
Dress Keeper, engraved, 255.
Raised Flowers, 30s.
Send for Size Card.
No. 1. 2. 3.
15c. Gold Front Stud Diamond,
No. 1,15 s ; Nos. 2 and 3,14 s
Ruby or Sapphire, 13s 6d,
12s 6d, 10s 6d. Pin and Screw
Front Stud, No. 1,25 s and 30s:
Nos. 2 and 3,21 s, 255.
Plain Gold Studs, 3s 6d and 6s.
Newest Style, very pretty.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
oc. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.,
255, 30s, 355, £2.
iiSlii
HIGHLY
RECOMMENDED.
Hand-made Wedding
Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 10s each.
15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold,
20s; extra heavy, 30s,
355, 40s. Send for size
card.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Diamonds,
£3; Double-cut Dia-
monds, £3 10s and £4.
Send for illustrations.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
180. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
15c. Gold, 20s;
15c. Gold, set with Pure White Pearls, 82s 6d.
15c. Gold, 4 Diamonds, Ruby and 4 Pearls, £3 6-
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
150. Gold, 3-bar, Pure Diamond, £3 ss.
Solid Gold Gfaain—
Single or Double,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c
Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO.
Pure Silver—
10s, 12s 6d, 158,205.
Send for price list.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; extra,
£3 ss. 16c. £3, £4,
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
Pure Silver Plated Butters.
Cut Glass, 15s 6d ;
Large size, 20s.
Send for illustrated book.
Sugar, Pure Silver, on Britannia
metal, 16s 6d ;
Similar patterns, 20s, 255.
Send fof illustrated book.
All
Articles
Post Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting: Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £8
Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All guaranteed.
16c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 6s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Bedstone, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 2-heart Amethyst,
Pearl Set, 355.
i :
m
Cold Brooch. I v Heart, 12s 6d.
cru uiir
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Bedstone, 35a
We guarantee you the
same satisfaction as if you were here to choose for yourself.
Send for
Price List.
A. SAUNDERS,
Our at. » k is Large and Up-to-date, and at Prices far below all others.
“ ALL AI:TIOLES sent post free to any address required.”
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), Sydney, N.S.W,


COLA ACUMINATA
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
m
mt
v ;
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
"To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“ Gentlemen,—
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it.—Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
FISHER’S XOKTIO
—IS THE —
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN -No ! No 1-ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
.SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faitldino & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faclding & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Fblton, Grimwadb & Co.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ri)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Crphrocatioi).
COMFORT IN WALKING.
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & 00., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST. 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Deafi)€ss“” HEM>
Wilson’s Common J
Sense Ear Drums K<l l<V<U
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
NOISES
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Dear inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelop’
JVTTJMftR K *ICi C«m (>« HUlVowm. Vtj
¥
‘Guinea
gold*
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31, 4897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE—
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Compeiitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. ~
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers £1 is.
Cloth Bound Books ~ £|QO
SEND THIS TOP PORTION
J
CHTSOAPf
Full particulars, Rules, &c. ( in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to BURGESS BROS., HOBART,
J, McKENZIE & CO,, LAUNCESTON.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
-
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Gold. Silver, [ead a Copper products.
WOEKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTTNG
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING eta’
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works being m the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and 1 luxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Ratos qnr>t.«d, and all information supplied on application to
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
Managing Director,
JOHN HOWELL,
f.w* PwiTOKfla M VPTTN r T AmR OVDVIV
They are the Best Is Books
IN THE WORLD.
POST FREE Is. 20.
n
M
msic
oQ
sg
Price
each
of contain of forth u a
a&.Thj 'Block. Collira StrcttMtlboorocT""
Allan’s Australian
... Music Books.
EACH BOOK comprises 32 pages of full-size
Music, carefully selected and edited, and free
from the errors so often found in cheap publica-
tions of this class.
The Latest Numbers
are THOROUGHLY UP-TO-DATE, and this
SERIES STILL MAINTAINS the LEAD
among Is. MUSIC BOOKS.
COMPLETE LIST FORWARDED FREE
No. 39. No. 39. No. 39.
Popular Marches for the Pianoforte.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 39. Contents :
1. The Washington Post Sousa
2. The Liberty Bell Sousa
3. The Yale March Van Baar
4. The Boomerang March from “Lelamine ” ...
Moulton
5. March in Scipio Handel
6. March from Masaniello Auber
7. Manhattan Beach Sousa
8. The High School Cadets ... ... Sousa
9. Trauermarch (from The Leider) Mendelssohn
10. Trilby Polka March Svcngali
11. March in Fidelio Beethoven
12. Rakoczy March Neumann
No. 38. No. 38. No. 38.
16 EAST PIANO DUETS,
Arranged Without Octaves.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 38. Contents:
1. “ The Irish Emigrant ” Barker
2. “ Annie Laurie”
3. “ The Last Rose of Summer” ... Moore
4. “ What are the Wild Waves Saying” ...Glover
5. “ Ring the Bell, Watchman ”
6. “I Dreamt That I Dwelt” (“Bohemian
Girl”)... ... ... ... Balfe
7. “ Within a Mile of Edinboro’ Town ”
8. “Ye Banks and Braes ”
9. “ The Blue Bells of Scotland ”
10. “Scenes That Are Brightest” (“Maritana”)
Wallace
11. “ The Old Folks at Home ”
12. “ The Campbells are Cornin’ ” ... Bishop
13. “ Home, Sweet Home ”
14. “Robin Adair”
15. “ Rule Britannia Arne
16. “ God Save the Queen ” Bull
No. 37. No. 37. No. 37.
CONTAINS
Ninety-Four Hornpipes, Reels, Jigs, Country
Dances, Barn Dances, Schottisches, Ssc.
Including all the Well-Known and Popular
Melodies.
Pbice, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 36. No. 36. No. 36.
Six Pavourite Pianoforte Duets.
No. 36. Contents:
Stephanie Gavotte Czibulka
Wilkommen Gavotte Kluss
Weber’s Last Waltz
The Merry Peasant Schumann
Minuet ... Boccherini
Spring Song ... Mendelssohn
Pkice, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
ALLAN & CO. Proprietary Limited,
COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
0
|y . SPEci/iCfj
HISKY
T
VLES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
(tup ! p»r T*«ot. Id 3d.


ONE CERTAINTY. ...
Not disputed by Dibbs, Lyne, Reid, or any other
Treasurer—
Billy Tea is the Best Value in the Market.
THE CORRECT TIP ALWAYS is
BILLY TEA,
and IT IS VERY TIPPY, TOO.
THE BILLY TEA is still FIRST FAVORITE.
needs no gambling dodge to retain its proud position as
THE LEADING TEA IN AUSTRALIA.
Ask for the good old BILLY TEA. One cup of BILLY
Is better than a trip to the Mountains. Yea ! Verily I
Try GRANUMA for Breakfast.
IT CURES INDIGESTION,
-—AND IS —
THE BEST PORRIDGE MEAL IN THE WORLD.
N€W YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ESTABLISHED 1845. PURELY MUTUAL.
Assets - - £38,513,664.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA
(With Power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, &c.):
The HON. SIR JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
G. C. WESTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country-
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction llooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Wholesale only :
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKZ < qur CHIEF/
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL RPOINTS
In only tentatively filling the Agent-
Generalship Premier Reid is keeping a big card
op his sleeve. You never can tell what may
happen.
Crick : “ From secrets confided to ladies,
the (N.S.W.) Govt, was by no means a happy
family.” Crick, then, is in the confidence of the
ladies ? Aha !
G. H. Reid is the twelfth Prime Minister
N.S.W. has had in 41 years of Responsible Govern-
ment. If Lyne consummates his ambition he will
■trike the unlucky number.
THE BUDGET BUBBLE.
R IP VAN WINHLE DIBBS : “Just you see me let
the wind out of it !”
Ministerial, “crises” seem to visit Aus-
tralia in epidemics. Simultaneous trouble has
just been encountered by the N.S.W., Maoriland,
S.A., and Sleep-a-lot Ministries.
Ed. Bulletin, — Mr. Christie didn’t make
the most stupendous failure during the recent
Vic. elections. Mr. Titus Wallis Farmer is most
certainly entitled to the distinction : he polled but
49 against two other candidates out of a roll of
2384 for Villiers and Heytesbury.— Fair Play.
The departmental answers to questions in
N.S.W. Parliament have grown to be generally so
ihcomplete and evasive that a small group of
members have determined on some near occasion
to check dust-throwing officialdom by moving that
the answer gi veil be referred back for amendment.
The motion will go with wings.
A big new daily for Brisbane is said to be
on the stocks. The necessary linotypes, it is
alleged, are already on the water. The affair ap-
pears to have been engineered by a prominent
Bananaland politician now abroad. Politics—
mainly of aforesaid politician’s peculiar brand
with a strong anti-TuLEGRAPH bias.
The Age and the Argus are now fighting
for the denarii of the bourgeoisie. It doesn’t ap-
pear much in their pages, but is there all the
same. As soon as Syme lets out the gathers and
gussets a bit, and patronises Labor, some of his
coppers get too hot to hold. In other words, the
Shopkeepery won’t have it. A good word for
Tillett, out loud, would have meant the smash of
twenty thousand circulation.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lyne is shock-
ingly artless in his grabs after office. For two
nights the N.S.W. Labor-party dodged the neces-
sity for tackling Mines Minister Sydney Smith on
the question of his Lucknow-strike bungle. On
the third night Lyne impatiently tabled his
motion of censure, whereas the obvious move was
to wait for the Laborists to bite first. Then he
would have had them under the whip.
Newsagents declare that the revolt against
the Age in North Melbourne since the elections is
most emphatic, and Argus sales boom. D. Syme
meets the agitation with a declaration in fat,
black letters that his circulation is four times
bigger than the other fellow’s. Ex-M.P. Prender-
gast recommends the Argus on the plea that an
open enemy is better (han a false friend, but this
is playing with fire. The Argus that is first en-
dured may eventually be embraced.
The election - programme of N.S. Wales
National Ass :
o Land-taxation only through local government, and
reconsideration of the income-tax.
b A reasonable customs-tariff, for revenue purposes.
c Economy in public expenditure.
e Amendment of the mining laws “ in such a manner as
to remove the existing discouragements to the invest-
ment of capital in mining enterprise.”
Which, saying the first clause of the first item, is
all indefinite enough to cover any political villainy
you like to conceive under any one of the head-
ings.
N.S.W. Govt, will, one of these days,
announce the dropping of the title “ Colonial
Secretary ’’ and the substitution therefor of Chief
Secretarj 7 , as in Victoria and Queensland. There
were but three Colonial Secretaries, properly so
called, in Australian history—Frederick Goulburn,
Alexander Macleay, and E. Deas Thomson.
These were subject to the Imperial Colonial Office,
and were in direct communication with the Princi-
pal Secretary of State in London. In those days
the title had fitness, but to-day it is an absolute
misnomer, defensible on no ground, and deserving
extinction if only because of its associations.
The Q. Govt, evidently doesn't want its
Land Board to be an impartial body. Its new
Land Bill provides that the Minister may order
the Board to re-hear any or every case without
giving reasons. When the Minister orders the
Board to re-hear a case he thereby distinctly tells
the Board that he isn’t satisfied with its decision,
and wants the verdict given for the other fellow—
probably his political supporter. And as the
Minister has power to sack the Board if it doesn’t
take this broad hint, it probably will take the
hint. If there is any appeal it should be openly
to the Supreme Court, not in secret to a politician
who has political supporters to placate.
H. : “ Let us found a jeremiad upon poor
Graham Berry. The only career worth having is
that which embraces a good business and a good
home, which are the things a politician makes
ducks and drakes of in his craving for the ‘ insane
root ’ (notoriety) that takes the reason prisoner.
Suppose Berry had stuck to the grocery, he pro-
bably would have enjoyed a happy life and
swarmed up to a place among Melbourne’s Dal-
getys, Grices, and others who have really sucked
the orange for all it is worth. But, no ! —mad man
must go neglecting his legitimate business and
family, missing all that makes life worth living,
* the applause of listening senates to command.’ ”
“Billy” Maloney, the big-hearted little
medico who represents the Labor Party of West
Melbourne in Vic. Parliament, is a real Eyetalian.
At a recent meeting he denounced Turner as a
“cowardly our,” Isaacs as a “thing,” and the
Vic. Ministry generally as persons abhorrent,
while he several times called on “ the holy name
of God ” and ‘ ‘ Almighty God ” for assistance, and
concluded by dramatically setting alight to a copy
of the Age with the remark. “ Boys, we will light
such a spark of freedom to-night as will not be
put out until the whole colony is ablaze.” The
cool-headed Trenwith, who was present, here
chipped in with the observation that he did not
believe in such “theatrical rubbish,” and the rest
of the proceedings consisted of the said Trenwith
being denounced as “a traitor to the workers’
cause.”
A QTIET DAY NEAR WALLUMBILLA, QUEENSLAND.—A SCRATCH PULLING MATCH.
A man walked from somewhere in Vic-
toria into an Albury public-house, a few Sundays
ago, and was served with liquor on the ground of
being a traveller. In the police-court, the man’s
statement that he had walked ten miles was not
impugned, but the publican and he were fined on
the ground that he hadn’t walked ten miles in N.S.
Wales, the Bench Solon being sure N.S.W. law-
makers meant that! Let us yell for Federation.
He walked the ten miles in Australia. That was
enough.
N.S. W. Agents-General under Responsible
Govt, have been W. C. Mayne, 0. Cowper, Wm.
Forster, and Saul Samuel, with J. P. Abbott in
the succession. Of those named, two were ex-
Premiers and three ex-Ministers of inferior rank,
which makes it appear that the post is regarded as
an ex-Ministerial perquisite.
ON THE PERFUMED
YARRA.
MRS OTOOLE: “Share, captain, dear, fwhat are thim 'dead
slows’ that shmell so bad?”
Fogarty, M.P., who lately moved the
abolition of Q. Parliamentary refreshment-room,
and, on his defeat, went to that self-same temple
and poured out libations to the priesthood of Self,
has raised his voice against Australian Federation :
The Australias, while a part and parcel of the British
Empire, have the British flag to defend them, and it is
not necessary to raise the question of federal defence.
Foxton’s new Q. Land Bill has got fine old
Tory patches in it. Lessees in settled districts are
to have priority of selection, on the principle that
“ to him that hath shall be given more even than
that he hath.” Also, in any part of the country
which the Minister, or Land Board, or one moved
by the other, or t’other moved by the one, or both
moved by each, shall choose to imagine is not
likely to be required for closer settlement for a
while, leases for ten years in “settled districts”
may be granted.
The Bible-League agents caused the har-
mony existing between minister and congregation
to be displaced by a most unfriendly feeling. They
were doing an immense amount of harm in the
land. It is not the business of the State to teach
religion—it is the business of the churches.” — Rev.
A. Rivett, to Melbourne Congregational Union.
In still another case, that
of the Kempsey bridge, the N.S.
Wales Govt, has refused to ac-
cept the lowest tender because
it came from Melbourne, and
gave the contract to a local man
at =£325 higher price. This by
way of encouraging local indus-
try, and artificially coddling the
cornstalk contracting business at
the cost of the taxpayer, and
doing all the other things which
Premier Reid denounces with
such a heart-rending shriek every
time the fiscal ghost gets on the
scene.
The Maoriland Govt, seeks
to make 8 per cent, the maxi-
mum rate of interest on mort-
gages, and 10 per cent, the maxi-
mum on I.O.U’s, bills of sale,
promissory-notes, and all other
loans. Consequently, the air is
full of the wild, blue shriek of
Fat Man about the impossibility
of regulating matters of private
contract, and the like. Fat Man
has proved at different times the
impossibility of regulating the
hours of child-labor, of fixing the
age below which children shall
not work in factories, &c., of
compulsory education, of sani-
tary legislation, of State bank-
ing, of State note-issues, of State
land-banks —of everything, in
fact, which interfered with the
blessed monopolies of Fat. And he has proved
an unreliable Jeremiah every time.
Barton, when N.S.W. Acting-Premier :
“ I hope I’ll never have a hand in appointing an-
other J.P. on the present system. It’s a disgrace
to the country,” Premier Reid, two years ago:
“ The present practice of appointing J’sP is a
political invention as little creditable to the party
that uses it as the parties on whom the title is
conferred.” Col. Sec. Brunker, twelve months
ago : “ The most disagreeable part of my work ;
I hope never to have to touch another list.” The
same Brunker, a week ago, in the presence of Reid
and with a claque of “ hear, hears,” replied to
Affleok, M.P. : “The Government have no inten-
tion of changing the method of appointing J’sP.”
The “disgrace ” seems to pay.
The unregenerate Copeland is the only
man in N.S.W. Assembly with courage enough to
bring in a bill to legalise Sunday trading. It
would be interesting to know what kind of a
chance Copeland thinks he has got. The average
M.L.A. doesn’t want to vote for the abolition of
the Sunday-closing law, and thus lose the snuffle-
busting vote, and he doesn’t want to demand the
enforcement of the same law and lose the soft-
tack-and-banana vote. It suits him very well to
be solid with the pious crowd by keeping the
existing law on the statute-book, and with the
impious crowd by letting it remain a dead-letter.
Besides, nobody will thank him much for legalis-
ing the Sunday banana, which couldn’t get on
very much better than it does now. Copeland has
logic and honesty on his side by demanding a
straight-out vote on the subject—but, all the same,
the average member will be unavoidably absent
that day getting his back tooth stopped.
He never learnt no fighting,
And not becos ’twas wrong,
For this was all his skiting,
And this was all his song:
“ I’ve got no need for slugging,
Yer see, I’ve got the pull;
If any cove starts plugging,
There’s my big brother Bull!"
His little song was chanted ;
But when, I do declare,
Big brother Bull was wanted,
Big brother Bull warn’t there !
So take this intimation
As how the matter stands—
Let ev’ry man and nation
Learn how to “ use their hands.”
DIYBO.


HEART & HAND
BRAND
pp
OTTO
HEg?
JOHN HUNTER
AT ALL HIS
ESTABLISHMENTS
THE
FAVOURITE
FASHIONABLE IN STYLE
ELEGANT IN SHAPE
EXCELLENT IN WEAR
AND IN FRONT OF ALL
EUROPEAN OR AMERICAN
Goods at LOW DOWN PRICE
EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace ..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
and also at his Branches in the City, Suburbs and
Colony.
/
S 6&
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
l Outvie every effort for the production of .
natural perfumes. /
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
4>
°fid Street
N.S.W. Government Railways.
PRINCE of WALES’ BIRTHDAY
(TUESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER, 1897).
Holiday excursion tickets win
be issued from all Stations to all Stations
(except for distances 13 miles and under, between
stations in the Metropolitan Suburban and New-
castle Suburban sections), commencing with the
day trains leaving terminal stations on THURS-
DAY, 4th November, and thereafter by all trains
until TUESDAY, 9th November, 1897, available
for return until MONDAY, 15th November, 1897.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS at 2d. per
mile First-Class Return (minimum, Is.), and Id.
per mile Second-Class Return (minimum, 9d.), will
be issued at Sydney and Metropolitan Suburban
Stations to stations outside the Metropolitan Sub-
urban Area by trains leaving Sydney as under,
I AVAILABLE FOR RETURN BY ANY
TRAIN UP TO AND INCLUDING MON-
DAY, 15th NOVEMBER :
SOUTH COAST LINE.
MONDAY, Bth November. —5.30 p.m. to Nowra.
TUESDAY, 9th November. —7.30 a m. to Wol-
longong and stations beyond only 7.38 a.m. to
Wollongong.
SOUTHERN LINE.
MONDAY, Bth November.—s.ls p.m. from
Sydney (only) to stations Picton to Goulburn in-
clusive.
TUESDAY, 9th November.—B a.m. to Goul-
burn.
WESTERN LINE.
MONDAY, Bth November: —4.50 p.m. and
5.25 p.m. to Mt. Victoria.
TUESDAY, 9th November: —8.10 a.m. to Mt.
Victoria, and 8.20 a.m. to Eskbank.
NORTHERN LINE.
MONDAY, Bth November: —4.4o p.m. and
4.53 p.m. (4.50 p.m. from Milson’s Point) to
Newcastle.
TUESDAY, 9th November: —B.ls a.m. (7.50
a.m. from Milson’s Point) to Newcastle.
SIMILAR TICKETS TO SYDNEY (only)
will be issued by the undermentioned trains
available for return up to and including Monday,
15th November, 1897 :
MONDAY, Bth November:—9.2o p.m. from
Orange.
TUESDAY, 9th November:—4.3s a.m. from
Nowra; 5 a.m. from Goulburn ; 5 a.m. from West
Maitland ; 6 a.m. from Newcastle.
Hand-bills and further particulars from all
station-masters.
By Order of the Commissioners.
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
Public Notices.
PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD.
50 Young-street,
Sydney, 29th October, 1897.
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION of Candidates for
JUNIOR CLERKSHIPS in the Public Service of the
Colony will be held in Sydney and at various country
centres, which will be fixed as far as possible to suit the
convenience of candidates, on the 20th DECEMBER next,
and four following days. The estimated number of
appointments to be made is 25. Candidates must be not
less than 16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day
of examination; of good moral character, and in sound
health. Persons already employed in the General Division
of the Public Service will be admitted to the examination,
provided their age does not exceed thirty years.
The subjects in which the candidates will be examined
are Handwriting, English (dictation precis writing,
grammar, and composition), Arithmetic (full course),
Geometry (Euclid, First Book), outlines of Physical and
Political Geography, and the Geography of the Austral-
asian colonies in moderate detail; English History from
the middle of the eighteenth century to the present time,
especially with reference to the colonies and depen-
dencies. Candidates will also be allowed to take any
two, but not more than two, of the following subjects :
Mathematics, English—a prescribed author—(the same ag
that prescribed for the Junior Examination of the current
year—Tennyson’s “ Gareth and Lynette ” (MacMillan),
Latin, French, German, Elementary Chemistry, and
Elementary Geology. Application to attend the examin-
ation must be made on a form for the purpose, which can
be obtained at the office of the Board, and must reach
the undersigned not later than the Ist December, 1897.
Candidates will be required to pay an examination fee
of 10s., which must be lodged with a clerk of petty'sessions
or the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded to
the Secretary of the Board with the form of application;
A list of registered candidates, with centres of examina-
tion, will be published in the Gov ernment Gazette after _
the time for the receipt of applications has expired, and
candidates will also be advised direct of the place at which
they will be examined. The regulations and copies of the
papers set at the last examination can be obtained at the
Government Printing Office and the principal booksellers.
By order of the Board.
9a31 J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
X
Reginald lk. F. fiCirray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE!.
X
League of Wheelmen
Summer : Cycling : Carnival!
AGRICULTURAL GROUND,
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6tl>.
PLATT-BETTS, World’s Record Breaker;
AINSWORTH, English Amateur Champion; and
WALNE, GREEN, REYNOLDS, &c.
£3OO - GREAT SYDNEY WHEEL RACE - £3OO
SCRATCH RACES. PACED RACES.
HANDICAP RACES.
2nd REGIMENT BAND OF 25 PERFORMERS!
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING. GRAND STAND AND RESERVE, Is. EXTRA.
VioliQS'
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
ACito HarpS.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
tyofttb HarrpopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordeops & CooccrtiijaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
(sOitarS & tyapdolipcs-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
i
■
AriStoQS & PolypboQS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Baod lo&trCiipcQtS of all kiQds
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
■" i K
EAST TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS.
t/Af/r£i>
ESTABLISHED
338 George-street, Sydney.
_Fqr Dunlop?,
Tyres.the best
RIM
DIJNLOPv/
welch/
RIM./
D unlops:;;
First in 1888"
.FOREMOST
EVER
.SINCE
Paying for
Experience.
when pur phasing a Cycle, be careful that you know
what tyres you are obtaining. Experience is usually
expensive, and has generally to be dearly paid for. Cheap
Tyres means expense, worry, and dissatisfaction;
t hey may look as good, but they do not wear as well
as Dunlops,” in which tyres are embodied the Best
Principle, Best Material, and Best Workman-
ship.
It having come to our knowledge that certain dishonest
cycle dealers are selling inferior imitation tyres as Genuine
Dunlops,” we would ask purchasers of cycles to obtain
a written guarantee that the tyres fitted are
Dunlop ” Tyres. It is very little trouble, but it will
save you endless worry and annoyance.
Pirst in
1803.
Dunlqp Tyre^
Foremost
ever since.
Guaranteed for 12 Months.
the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. ltd.
486 Kent Street, Sydney
Also at
Swanston-st., Melbourne;
Franklin-st., Adelaide;
King-st., Perth ;
Li tcli fit‘ld-at., Christchurch, N.Z.
Dunloi\
Tyrestv
perfectedS^v
FOR CARRIAGES I
OF ALL KINDS.I
"all
r ABOUT
"Dunlop
T VRES”
GRATIS*POST FREE
“ Don Carlos means to be president and
then King of Spain as soon as Cuba is pacified or
lost —the latter is almost a certainty,” writes Thh
Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ According
to Lord Ashburnham, the leading English Carlist,
the Spanish pretender fears to damage his prestige
by taking the reins only to lose a bit of Spanish
territory, i. e. , Cuba. For 20 years the Carlista
have been steadily organising, and the aged Don
feels certain that they are now so strong that
there will be little or no fighting over the ejection
and replacement. The loss of Cuba will, it is ex-
pected, cause a revolution in Madrid, and this will
be his opportunity to come forward and promise
the retention of the Phillippines—where the insur-
rection is but in its birth state —and Spain’s re-
maining colonies.”


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
money to Lend.
FURTHER ItrjHICKD KATES.
PAWNBK OKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D & I CO. (Limited).
74 CASTIiEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every =£l to =OlO
sd. per month for every pound over =OlO
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIAN LAND AGENCY.
The undersigned has now opened a department for
the sale on commission of land at Perth. Send particulars
as to price, &c. No sale, no charge. Immediate loans on
deposit of deeds. ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Valuator under R.P. Act, 250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE UNIVERSAL LAND -
—AND—
- DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Fixed Deposits received for a term of years at liberal
interest.
Advances made on Freehold Securities, Bills Discounted
on deposit of deeds, and all financial business transacted.
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . P 1.000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. .1. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. DIBBS, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
VV. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:—Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Business Announcements
Bai)d lostrOn)eots !
At Immense Reductions !
W. H. GLEN and CO.,
MELBOURNE & gYDNEY,
ARE now Selling MUSICAL INSTRU-
MENTS ot ALL KINDS
AT LESS THAN COST PRICE
FOR CASH ONLY.
A Eew of the Lines Now Being Offered
GAUTROT’S B FLAT CORNETS, new model,
30s. and 355. each ; usual prices, (>os. and 70s.
GAUTROT’S E FLAT CORNETS, 50s. each ;
usual price, £5.
GAUTROT’S B FLAT and C BASSES, 575. (id.
each ; usual price, 90s.
GAUTROT’S D and E FLAT ALTOS, 425. each ;
usual price, 80s.
GAUTROT’S G TROMBONES, 475. 6d. each;
usual price, 90s.
LECOMPTE’S ALTOS and CONTRALTOS,
355. each ; usual price, 80s.
BESSON’S 10 and 12 Guinea CORNETS for 100 s.
and 110 s. each.
GAUTROT’S A, B FLAT, and C CLARIO-
NETS, 455. each ; usual price, 84s.
FLUTES, 4,5, and 6 keys, best English make,
95., 9s. 6d. and 10s. each.
FLUTE FLAGEOLETS, 4,5, or 6 keys, 11s.,
12s. 6d., and 14s. 6d. each.
VIOLINS, good models, from 15s. each.
VIOLIN CASES, from 6s. 6d.
VIOLIN BOWS, from ss.
VIOLIN, BOW, and CASE, complete, for 21s.
ACCORDIONS, Imperial, 15s ; steel reeds, 17s 6d.
CONCERTINAS, 20notes, 55., 7s. 6d., and Bs. 6d.
each.
CONCERT and ELEGIE ZITHERS, in case,
complete, 555.
AUTO-HARPS, 3 bars, 19s. each.
AUTO-HARPS, 6 bars, 255. each.
BRASS and WOOD INSTRUMENTS by all
the PRINCIPAL MAKERS,
And all other MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and
SUNDRY GOODS,
AT
EQUALLY LOW PRICES for CASH ONLY.
Catalogues Gratis to any Address.
Instruments Sent to any part of the Australian
Colonies at above Prices.
All Country and Intercolonial Orders must be
accompanied by a remittance. We make no charge
for packing or delivery at Melbourne railway
station or wharf.
W. H. GLEN and CO.,
272 and 274 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE; and
359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Establish]!!) 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £OO,OOO 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business •• £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith, Ks C.M.G.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon, J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne. -
ryiHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
J- LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.’
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,705,363 13 5
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 44,636 6 7
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 760,000 0 0
2,805,78C
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuekett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addision. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Brano>> at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
rfIHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
•L (Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ... £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND ~ ... 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
-THE-
Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcoek, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents ;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TL: a F - - Ml . is noted for its Prompt.
■ v*® von/pai/y and Liberal Settlements.
™ United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital . £500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Colli xs-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies*
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2 p.m.
Ashiey, Monday, November 8, 6 p.m.
f Cargo and Stock only.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 13, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
ESPERANCE BAY
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2 p.m.
Ashley, Monday, NovemberB, 5 p.m.
Cargo and Stock only.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Bunninyong, Tues., Nov. 16,
p No Transhipment.
p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2 p.
-Burwah, Monday, Nov. 8, 5 p.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 13,
«>B 3
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 6, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, Nov. 9, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 13, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Is SONS, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via amebic \
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this fine are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : '
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every' assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
•4/V
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAIM & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists,
MelbourneJre Testiny & Technical GheillistS,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers.
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. Melbotiroe.
DICKSON * & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROM.TZRS,
3t QUEEN ST., MELIIOUENE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent—B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
;64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wallowra (from Melbourne)
Saturday, November 13.
S.S. Bullarra (from Melbourne)
Saturday, November 20.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Wallowra (from Melb.)
Saturday, November 13.
S.S. Bullarra (from Melb.)
Saturday, November 20.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
November 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Tuesday,
November 9.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :—.
For LondQn.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ Co’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Eoyal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A cconimodation, Attendance and
Caisine a nrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddelev & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street,
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from ,£4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35. T , _
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
lift.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS at CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
1 {lSbaSic ,IHMlcj -Li 1 * uy' i _ T .
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages front
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies. J.
MERGELL, Gen, Agent, Ex. Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


STEWART DAWSON & CO’S
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments—-the Finest in the World.
Inapproachable Variety. Uoeqtiafkd ValCie. Wogderftil Selectioi).
The most recherche and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
Firat in Elegance. First in. Business Resources. First in Popularity.
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2s.
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in„ 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £6 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
Biin. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, 66
Smaller Sizes at 120 to £4O.
toad!
No. 690.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; J-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
16et. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£l l7s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
7M>m> £1 la.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. fid.
Ladies’ RING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ot. Gold, £2.
lsot. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BiiACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Very Elegant tine Diamond BRACELET, .£45.
Tnis design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
mm
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in. t £2 10s.; 14in., £3 5 8 .
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £6 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds
18ct. Gold, £8 103.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Got. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ct. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
Oct. Gold, £1 155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles.
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, £1 is.
16ct. Gold, £ll7s. 6d.
Silver, 6s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
IBct. Gold, £4 10s.
Isct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 5s
45!
m
ffl
m
SM :
■P
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle
B%in. by £s 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 689.—G01d BROOCH, 14g. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 6g.
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
sE
a
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, t'7 12s. 6d
IMRy-.
aiiiii
«1 illilillMlllllMlii4
No. 687.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 16s. fid
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 l-Os.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE.—Thft ftlfiffanp.fi. varifthv. a.nrl ay tent nf'nnr af.nn.lra of T?TNI£ rj-OT.n cjtf d tit \ T->-m .. j . “
NOTE.—The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWKLLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES SUITABLE TOB BBT'e-piCT-rc u
Greorge-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


Packets
m&sdLinARS
"(MUt’
I :
n ,L £.
nulhciured by
sttofrrF/tiJMO L
Is.
iir i.|rMi r’liMin ir»
i .n iJi «■; jilt Li! t lit w ill . ii
[ifTnnnnri
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT," situated 031
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ Klua-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KINO STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ■ * ■ GEO. W• ELLIS.
o*°
RED BIRD.
' T^T H
Published in the Interests of the Qoold Bicycle CoLtd,
Australasian Branch— 64 King St., Sidney.
Agknts and
Dkpots
Everywhere.
AGBNTB AND |
Depots j
Everywhbrh.
The Red Bird Wilson chain, when in conjunction
with our cycloidal sprocket, makes a perfect-running
gear. The chain wheel has raised centre, which ob-
tains a half-inch pull on an inch pitch chain.
They are made with the only practical hardened
rivet which is proof against wear ; unlike the roller
pattern, they do not stretch. When you buy a cycle,
select one with a chain which has the greatest speed
and does not require to be replaced every few months.
Tub Red Bird Wilson chain is the chain with the
half-inch pull on an inch pitch sprocket.
The world’s mile record in competition record is
held by Martin on this chain ; time, 2min., unpaced.
This chain also won the great Austral Wheel Race in
record time.
We have been asked what are the little oil-bath
bearings? They are the only perfect bearings for
bicycles, and contain continuous oil-bath in which the
balls run. The advantage of this style of bearing
over the old can be well understood in a country
where grit and dirt can be picked up in any quantity
twelve months in the year. The little oil bearings do
not require to be cleaned ; they are always right.
The Black Bird.—Our new model is a high-grade
wheel, is better than others at twice the price (£l5),
and with a guarantee that guarantees, 'that’s the
Black Bird ; see a sample.
Red Bird racers will be fitted with wood rim, Elec-
tric single tube tyres, wood rims and Palmer tyres, or
steel rim and Dunlop tyres to order for 1897.
Tiie new pattern Electric road tyres are beauties,
and are wearing like iron ; you will know them by
their herring-bone thread, the tyres with the liberal
guarantee, and are only fitted to Red Birds.
When you see a sample of the new Red Bird with
the little oil-bath bearings, test its running qualities.
It’s like riding down-hill.
Red Bird— -Ruby Rim—and Black Bird cycles. Our
line for 1897 season will suit all pockets. Reputation
talks in the buzz of business. Dealers who want a
line of cycles with a reputation will get a line on our
agency. The Red Bird is a leader—always v, as, and
always will be. Building the best bicycle is our only
business. It is no experiment with us. It is no side-
issue. It takes the wisdom of experience to make
high-grade cycles. The Red Bird is the strongest,
fastest, and best cycle built. More notable events won
during past season on Red Birds than any other cycle.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE * MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Oalcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Saturday’s racing gave Clarion the best of Melb.
Cup chances “on paper.” The son of Carbine and Clare
showed himself to be all right by running away with the
Maiden Plate. Presently Metford, who finished behind
Clarion in the A.J.C. Derby, beat a pretty good field for
the Hotham Handicap, after which Amberite won the
blue ribbon easily, and was reckoned to have a great
chance for the Cup. Clarion had run second to Amberite
in the A.J.C. Derby, and was to meet his conqueror on
241 b. better terms in the Cup. Backers who considered
Clarion’s “ form ” and breeding were bound to like him
for the Cup, although'a 6st. 81b. boy is not usually a
prudent pilot in two-mile handicaps.
* * • *
The Derby-Day crowd at Flemington looked
larger, in the Grand Stand enclosure, than that of any
previous year since ’9l, whereas the Flat was seemingly
less densely populated than usual. Visitors from afar
provide a considerable percentage of the Stand takings.
Many of these are ex-Victorians who come from the West
on a holiday gambling trip, but the majority represent
N.S.W., Barianaland, S.A. and Tassy, and have only a
Cup connection with Melbourne. Therefore the infer-
ence that local enthusiasm for racing diminishes, whilst
the “ Carnival ” meeting becomes a stronger all-round
attraction than ever. Federation is in the air.
All of the six events oil Derby-Day were cap-
tured by foreign trained horses, though one of the winners
—Metford—has a Victorian owner. Out of 18 horses
placed first, second, or third in those six events, only jive
were trained in Vic. It is not surprising that the local
faith in local “ tips” should be shaken to its foundation.
Much suburban racing threatens to rob the Vic. thorough-
bred of his speed, by getting him so accustomed to a
“ stiff” run that he can’t gallop when the money’s right.
Amberite’s Derby —only half a second slower
than record time —was a true-run race, barring the foolish
mishap which caused Aurum to drop back, apparently
beaten, at the nine-furlong point or thereabouts. There
were but six horses going, and yet the favorite, seemingly
ridden on the reckless system that usually obtains in
Australian circular-course racing, came to blows with
Eiridsdale, and undoubtedly suffered from the scrim-
mage. Later on there was no apparent reason why
Aurum shouldn’t have won had he been a great
horse. The writer reckons that Amberite scored on
his solid merits, for he pulled up fresher than
his rival, who was somewhat, distressed. Neverthe-
less, the beaten favorite, with the fetlock of his near hind
leg bleeding freely, might have owed his distress to the
accident aforesaid. Ere this paragraph appears the Cup
has settled Aurum-Amberite discussion for the present,
and if Mr. Wilson's colt, handicapped by a split fore-hoof
and not improved by a wound in the foot behind it, could
beat the son of Carbine over two miles—then the writer
is very .much surprised.
The finish for the Melbourne Stakes on Satur-
day was full of incident. Firstly, the sudden collapse of
Delaware (broken down, it was said) when tackled by
Wait-a-bit. Then the taking-down of Wait-a-bit by
Coil, who had the race won until Battalion came, with the
latest of rushes, and beat him on the post by a nose.
Meantime, little Key was also making an unexpected rush
that lafnded her into third place.
Wait-a-bit, on Saturday, seemed once again to
show a lack of heart, or want of sprinting power. But
this opinion (printed before the Melb. Cup race) may be
brought into ridicule by the 2-mile event. The writer
confessed himself “off” Wait-a-bit a fortnight ago,
owing to the horse’s “ rotten ” performance in the Caul-
field Stakes, at which time he was palpably out of sorts.
What was wrong with Wait-a-bit on October 9 that he
should then run about 3st. below his “ form ” of October
30? Such startling improvements within the short space
of three weeks make horse-reporting the hollowest of
mockeries. The present writer was not the only one de-
luded in this matter. The Argus said of the Caulfield
Stakes: "There seemed to be no excuse for Wait-a-bit,
who finished almost as slow as a tortoise; but Amberite
never tried a yard.” The C.S. is a nine-furlong flutter,
and the “tortoise” was travelling like a hurricane at the
end of nine furlongs in the Melb. Stakes.
Positano, much less fleshy than when he ran at
Sydney, last Sept., cut a poor figure in the Melb. Stakes,
and the appearance of the handsome, snorting British
animal before and after that race put his Cup - backers
rather out of conceit with their investment. There seems
to be something unmentionable the matter with Positano.
The Maribyrnong Plate was probably won by
Lady Most.yn’s jockey rather than by the mare. She was
driven along close to the Lawn railings, and, with the
advantage of a clear run on the hard, untrodden turf, she
finished lengths in front of the others, who were mobbed
together on the opposite (and worn) side of the course.
Jockeys are the most conservative of imps. Because
they are accustomed to stick to the inside rails in run-
ning round the track, they prefer the inside even when
they have a perfectly straight course before them and
should be glad of a ohance to spread the field. Whilst
Vigorous and Essex, in close company, were having a
desperate struggle at the head of the mob, Lady Mostyn
was comfortably making her way to the judge’s box,
alone and unperceived by nine-tenths of the people m
the Stand enclosure.
* * • *
In 39 Y.R.C. Derbys the winner’s name has
only twice commenced with A — viz., Angler, in 1865, and
Amberite. A crowd will say, “ What about Admiral and
Australian Peer?” But both had a “The” in front, so
began with T, and ’Arvester doesn’t count for the same
reason. There’s not a single A among the sires of V.R.O.
Derby winners.
• • • «
The victory of Gaulus —with Grafter, another
Gozo horse, second ! —Aurum third —in Melb. Cup, gives
just the kind of advt., long needed, to boom the sterling
Gozo blood —so much fancied by that Sydney coterie.
Now, the value of Gozo horseflesh will go up with a rush.
* » * *
“ English stewards have a peculiar way of treat-
ing horseowners even suspected of ‘ hanky-panky,’ as the
Westralian exploiter has realised,” writes Tub Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “In June last his horse Bride-
groom was a hot 6-to-l favorite for the Jubilee Stakes, and
Clwyd, his stable-companion, a 50-to-l shot. At the last
moment the former was scratched, and the latter started
at s’s and won 'midst savage hooting. Then the handi-
cappers got a hint. Henceforward Clwvd carried 9st. or
more, until Calvert, recognising the position, sold it to
Mrs. Langtry for 1600 guineas. The first entry of the
lady owner—the Cambridgeshire—and Clwyd’s weight
went down to 7st. 91b.—an unmistakeable sign of what
the authorities' past action meant.”
* * • •
Four winners at the Y.R.C. Derby meeting on
Saturday were “ No. 13 ” on the card.
* * * *
A few more tote prices—from Wren’s, of Col-
lingwood, which since the recent ludicrously-resultless
raid on their fortified premises, is being carried on a few
doors lower down the street. Mentone races, Oct. 13—
Tricolor, 2to 1; on tote, £2 Is. to Is. ; Mardchal Niel, 7to
1 ; tote, £1 2s. 6d. to Is. ; Marshal Niel, for a place, £1
16s. to Is. Fancy Ikey Mo laying longer odds for a place
than a win, yet the law of averages shows its possibility.
* * * *
Giffen has just put forth the opening instalment
of his autobiog., in Melb. Sportsman. London publishers
will issue the whole book. Gif. (perhaps assisted by a
ghost) entertains in an easy style. Yet it is a job which
might rather be done by “ Felix ” Horan, of the Austra-
lasian, incomparably the best talky cricket penman that
has ever appeared, notwithstanding his weakness for the
Billv-Tommy-Sammy style of prattle.
* * * •
Giffen, in his autobiography, shows that his
course was by no means a track of roses. To be sure, he
drew great attention as a lad of 17, like the Vic. bowler
Allan, but he was most unlucky in the first season, when
his boyish promise had caused him to be pushed to the
front. He says that, but for uncommon forbearance, he
must have been relegated to those who make a coltish
spurt and all is over. The first time he was called upon
to do something great be made a pair of spectacles, while
his bowling failed utterly too. He recalls, as the happiest
moment of his life, when he was allowed, as a lad, to bowl
to W. G. Gr ce, at practice, in Adelaide.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I am indeed glad to see that
somebody has backbone enough to tackle the Australian
Cricket Council on its own dunghill, and I think that
Giffen should have the firmest support from all his fellow-
players. Of course we all know that the last Australian
Eleven had a decided breeze with the A.C.C., but that was
by cable, and the council swallowed the pill. Crack
cricketers should all remember Turner’s career; what a
sterling player he was, and, after devoting the best years
of his life to the game, what did he profit bv it? With
the prospects of immense attendances now is the time for
the players to reconstruct the financial conditions under
which they play, and if they don’t upset the A.C.C. now
they never will. The gods of crieketdom, Major
Wardill and Mr. Phil Sheridan, helped to make a very
fine hash of the last Australian Eleven, and if it is true
that the Major said Turner ought to play in place of
M'Kibbin in the coming test-matches, he ought to have
gone on to the cemetery and dug up a few more of our
old friends.—Pluggbr.
* • * •
Stoddart has brought a nuggetty team this
time, if appearances are anything, and they impress local
critics as being fit and strong enough to play all day and
travel all night (writes a Bulletin s correspondent” from
Adelaide). Hirst, Wainwright, Hayward, Hearne, and
Board, of the new men, are splendidly-developed athletes.
Druce, Mason, and Ranji., the two former overgrown,
and the latter puny, are the exceptions judging by
appearances. Stoddart himself looks stout and well, but
fears a weak knee, which, by the way, kept him out of
the latter end of the English season.
At the practice-nets (this was written before
the match) Ranji. greatly impresses in two ways. First,
he is an artist at wristy strokes, leg-glancing and cutting
being his specialities. But, secondly, he looks an easy
victim for a leg-before-wicket decision. Time and time
again he puts his left leg right in front of the wicket to a
ball straight on the leg and middle stumps. If the
Prince misses the leg glance he is out every time. But
those who know Ranji. smile and say that the batsman,
when in form, doesn’t miss ’em and the hopeful bowler
suffers.
Stoddart’s team will probably turn out to be
strong In all-round batting, but weak in bowling.
Richardson excepted ; the bowlers, bar Hirst, do not im-
press. Hearne will likely only succeed on poor wickets.
Wainwright and Hayward are better batsmen than
bowlers,, and Mason is only up-and-down. Hirst is a
really good bowler, with an ugly leg-break ; and Stoddart
will probably rely on the Yorkshireman as Richardson’s
main support.
Ranjitsinhji is delighted with Australian
wickets, taking a clue from Adelaide. He says the Ade-
laide wickets are unequalled in England, and are delight-
fully true and fast. “ 1 like them ten times better than
English wickets,” he says, “ and 1 think they will suit me,
especially when the weather becomes warmer.”
Hayward impresses the writer as being the
soundest bat in Stoddart’s crowd, and is as likely to make
runs as any of them. He is far and away the man of the
new men in every department. Hirst, Board and Storer
are hitters, and ought to do well on the fast wickets.
Long Tom Richardson looks well and fit, but he does nob
seem so fast with the ball as on the last trip. Summed
up, Stoddart has a good all-round team, strong in batting,
but in bowling—well, doubtful. As with the last team,
the trump-card is Richardson. Hirst may prove to be
the Bobby Peel of this team ; if not, then there may be
money in backing Australia.
* * * •
The Adelaide match ended unsatisfactorily in a
draw, after three and a-half days’ play, when the Eng-
lishmen had to move on to fill their Melb. dates. So far
as play went, the sides seemed pretty evenly matched ;
though the Englishmen had to do without Stoddart, who
was too ill to bat. S.A. made 408 in Ist innings, and 187
for 5 wickets in second ; England, for Ist only, knocked
up 475. In batting young Clem Hill carried off the
honors with a 200 lst-innings score, playing very soundly.
Ranji gave a taste of his quality, and took
credit for 189, offering a good many chances.
The prince, however, was not in good feather;
and nearly all of his side complained that they
were not “ fit ”to play. Jones, with 7 for 190, got great
bowling kudos; but the Englishmen’s umpire, Phillips
(who umpired the last ’Stralian Eleven in England) after
cautioning Jones on the second day, no-balled him on the
third, and he had to bring his pace down. The English-
men mostly relied on Hearne and Richardson with the
ball ; and in the first S.A. innings former got 3 for 86 and
latter 5 for 120.
* • • •
The only way to cure George Giffen’s knee is to
pad it with the required bank-notes each game.
• • * *
Stoddart sensibly reverses precedent by putting
up the whole team—amateurs and pros. —at the one hotel
in Adelaide. Perhaps there is something in the whisper
that it is hard to tell which are pros, and which amateurs
in this team.
* • » *
The management of Stod dart’s team will proba-
bly have to tinker with its tariff before “going to the
country.” The Wagea Cricket Association bucks at the
£l5O charged for a two-days’ match.
* * * *
League of Vic. Wheelmen has had to back
down before the country clubs over the matter of Xmas
Day racing. For years past Xmas Day and Good Friday
have been the big cycling days of Ballarat and Bendigo,
yet a few of the League pietists calmly ignored the vested
interests of these cities and prohibited any more such
meetings. A big row followed, with the result that the
League got scared and hastily repealed its law, at any
rate for the time being.
* * * «
Cyclist Barden having claimed the World’s One-
mile Handicap competition-record, a correspondent writes
to the Age, “ in justice to Australia,” that the W.O M.H.-
record was made on 17th Feb., at Adelaide Exhibition
Oval, in 2min. 2sec. (3 l-ssec. quicker than Barden), by
W. Martin, riding on somebody's tyres. “In justice to
Australia”!'.) W. Martin !
, * * *
The irony of fate was never more strongly in
evidence than in the case of a young man who came up to
Sydney from the Islands for his health. He seemed to be
improving rapidly when he developed pneumonia and
died suddenly. Two days after his funeral a ticket which
he had bought in a lottery drew a prize of £BOOO.
* * * *
The W. A. Rowing Club has taken to the rowing-
club-race-sweep industry with a vengeance. For Melb.
Cup, upon a £250 (Is.) subscription, the club offers £125
in prizes ! Half the subscription for expenses is pretty
“ steep,” even fora business-like institution that promptly
sues for unpaid yearly subscriptions, and won’t accept the
resignation of any member whose belongings are worth
distraint for the amount.
* * * *
“ Jack ” Parsons, the ex-champion Vic. cyclist,
was operated on last Sunday week by Dr. Plevna Ryan,
who found that the one-time god of the Vic. public could
not have lived more than two years, with the prospect of
sudden death at any time, had he stood off the operation.
As it is, Parsons is promised good, reliable health, with a
probable return to his old form.
A M.L. correspondent to The Bulletin :
“ A. H. Fisher, the young Dunedin bowler who has been
invited to visit Australia to practise in view of his in-
clusion in one of the test matches, is a left-hander who
has bowled for his province with great success for the last
four years against all classes of batsmen and on all kinds
of wickets. Singularly enough, the better the batsmen
opposed to him the better he seems to bowl, as witness
his great success against the Queensland, N.S. Wales (the
last two) and Australian teams that have visited us of re-
cent years. In Australia he will bowl on faster and truer
wickets than he has been accustomed to, but great confi-
dence is expressed here of his ability to succeed. He has
plenty of pluck and bowls with great judgment; in fact,
all his best wickets secured against visiting batsmen have
been the result of beating his men. His natural style of
bowling, with plenty of pace and command of the ball,
make him a troublesome bowler. He can break a little
either way—just enough to beat the bat —but depends for
his success chiefly upon his sudden change in pace and
pitch. Is a fair bat, who can hit hard and score fast when
once set: is also a fine field.”
* * * ■*
“ Albert Trott, who goes to South Africa with
O’Halloran for the English winter, has had a marvellously
successful season,” writes Tub Bulletin's London corres-
pondent. “ He heads the English bowling averages with
50 wickets at 13'84 each (for first-class cricket only, of
course). In minor matches, however, he has taken an
additional 200 wickets at a little over 6 runs apiece. In
his last game against a suburban 15 he took 11 for 18 and
made top score, 72. Middlesex are jubilant over his
wonderful improvement, and expect to do great things
with his aid next season. There is every possibility, if he
keeps up his present form, that Trott will be the best all-
round cricketer of ’9B in England.”
• • • *
Two veteran cricketers —Harry Trott and Jack
Worrall—nearly came to blows the other Saturday on a
question of stump-drawing in the South Melb. v. Carlton
match. As a preservative of youthful enthusiasm cricket
is a great game. The professors never grow old and
common-sensical. Look at George Giffen and his “ reso-
lution ” not to play in big matches this season ! _ He
intended it to shake the little world in which he lives,
moves, and has his being. And his little world was
shaken—though not as severely as George had expected.
• • • •
Unusual cricket incident. At St. Kilda (Melb.),
on a recent Saturday, N. Melbourne were batting against
the locals. The ground was wet, and a St. Hilda man
intercepted a ball which had just been fielded, and pro-
ceeded to dry it with his handkerchief before passing it
on to the bowler. Veteran “ Dick ” Houston, can tain of
the North, appealed (probably on the spur of the moment),
and the umpire promptly decided to add five runs to the
North’s score ! This was stretching rule 41 ad absurdum,
with a vengeance. Bowler Robertson had 25 runs hit off
him for five wickets, but his analysis reads five for 30 I
• • • *
It is noticed that Platt-Betts never ventures on
the training-track when there are more than one or two
machines out. Cyclists assert that the record-breaker is
frightened of getting a spill—timidity which would, oI
course, aocount for his failure in man-to-man racing.
* * * *
The average Australian athlete, with his eye on
the £5OO-prize of the A.N.A. Wheel-race, would regard
with a snort of disgust the myrtle-branches won by Flack
at last year’s Olympian sports. These dried-up twigs
represent the 800 and 1500 metres championships, and,
framed as a picture, were presented to Flack's school
(Melb. Grammar), at the smoke-night of the old pupils in
Melb., last week.
* * * *
Despite the awful sameness of cycle races, the
fine day and good programme should have attracted
more people to N.S.W. Wheelmen’s Carnival on Saturday.
The programme turned out well ; the finishes were
actually exciting.
The Championship of Australasia brought out a
fine squad of athletes in the first heat, and the way Walne
left Megson in the finishing sprint, deserved all the plaudits
the winner received ; also Green’s long, determined sprint
in the seoond heat was altogether too hot for Payne,
Body, Meadham, and the rest. But the final was exhi-
bition racin Walne sprinted nearly the whole of the
last lap at his top, and simply spread-eagled the field.
Platt-Betts’ attempt to lower the record was
an awful frost. When the record-breaker did his pre-
liminary round the track everybody was saying, “Oh,
what limbs! What a big gear! What a pocket Her-
cules But when he finished his ride, with the result
that he did the five miles in 10.38 (Lesna’s time is 9.59),
everybody sang a different song. “What did I tell you'
I knew the little podge wouldn’t do it.”
The Sydney Wheel Race, with its first prize
of £2OO, brought out some sensational riding. Elliott
won his heat by mere judgment; Megson won his by
beating pacer Hunt home. Prowse sprinted like Bil-
martin down the straight to snatch first place.
* » » •
In June last The Bulletin passed a remark
upon a Tasmanian law-suit, touching the disqualification
of a horse known by the poetic name of Gabby. The case
was simple enough on its surface. Gabby, last year, won
a race at one of the Brighton (Tas.) Turf Club meetings,
and was objected to on the allegation that he had run
inside, instead of outside, a certain boundary-post. Pro-
test dismissed. An appeal by the owner of the second
horse was informally lodged, and subsequently abandoned.
Nevertheless, Gabby’s owner couldn t get the stakes from
the club. After repeated applications, he took out a
summons, whereupon the stewards, or some of them, held
a hasty meeting, and decided to disqualify Gabby (who
had won other races in the meantime) for 12 months;
likewise the jockey was wiped out for two years. None
of the Gabbyites were called upon to defend themselves
at this sudden enquiry, yet the result went along in the
usual way to the Tas. Racing Club, which august tribunal
confirmed the sentences passed by the stewards of the
subordinate club. Gabby being now a “goner” for
immediate racing purposes, his owner brought an action
for damages against ttie Brighton Turf Club. The Judge,
in summing up, stated that the defendant stewards
had committed a “stupid, ass-like blunder,” but inas-
much as stupidity sans palpable malice is permissible in
racing law, the jury verdieted in favor of the stupid ones,
giving them the benefit of the doubt as regards malice.
The Judge could merely recommend the Tas. Racing Club
to remove Gabby’s disqualification. Months went on, and
the ruling powers ignored the Judge’s advice by doing
nothing in this little matter. When the Gabby party
asked for the apparent wrong to be righted they were
referred to the Brighton Racing Club for redress in the
first instance. The B.R.C. (a syndicate of five) was by
this time defunct. The Gabby party protested against
the absurdity of being referred to a non-exist<nt. corpora-
tion, but the Tas. Racing Club has stuck to its resolve tc
do nothing, except at the instigation of the B.R.C.’s
silent corpse, and so the Gabby scandal stands, and is likely
to stand evermore. It seems only a small scandal, from
the financial point of view, but as a suggestion of urgent
necessity for reforms in Tassy racing government its
length, breadth and depth are considerable.
• * * *
The L.V.W.’s adoption of the Brassard system
of awarding championships looks very like a sporting
failure in its first result. But any system of cycling
championships would be ridiculous in Australia, ai
AN ANNUAL INFLICTION.
The race is run, my “ cert.” is done -
They've “ done him like a dinner,”
And gloomily I try to shun
The pal who backed the winner.
But all in vain, with joy insane,
Amidst the ringmen’s babel,
He breathes the whisper once a.-aiu s
“ I got it from the stable.”
O, woe is me ! to think that he
Did get it from the stable.
Bill’s beaming smile disturbs my bile;
At other times I like him ;
But now he seems so mean and vile,
I’ve half a mind to strike him.
I feel the pain that prompted Cain
To murder brother Abel,
When comes the whisper once again 1
“I got it from the stable.”
Accursed gag 1 I struck a snag
he “ got it from the stable. ’
Last year to Dick—the dry old stick—
Good fortune was allotted ;
One friend at least is bound to p'.-k
The winner I've not “ spotted.”
Year after year I lend my ear
To some false prophet’s fable,
Though each in turn my pals appear
With “ Got it from the stable.”
Too late, too late ! They mock my fate
With “ Got it from the stable.”


Piles and flow to Cure them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Depdt for Australasia,
257 Ceorge-streetj Sydney;*
Prof. Kirk, of M.L. Agricultural Kept.,
Says some of the kauri trees at present growing in
the M.L. forests must have been growing in the
days before Abraham of Caaftaii —4000 years ago !
Good for Pastoracists.— 3o66 carcases mutton,
per s.s. Narung, and 1798 quarters beef, per s.s.
Aberdeen, have lately been shipped to Capetown
ftnd Natal. Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd., on
behalf of the C.C. and D. Co., Ltd., executed the
order, and it is to be hoped that their Valuable
efforts to keep this channel for disposal of frozen
meat open will be successful;*
The flight-flour Committee, having ob-
tained the permission of Major-General French,
have decided to hold a Naval and Military Tourna-
ment irt the Agricultural Grounds on Nov. 9,
together with a sports meeting, including bicycle-
races. The programme is a varied one, and in-
cludes events of all description. The military
events have attracted entries from the country,
also a large number of the contingent from Eng-
land will compete. Stabling for horses will be
provided, and seating accommodation is now
available for thousands, who will be able to view
the sports from the new grandstand. The price
of admissioh is adults is., children 6d,*
; Iri Melb. last week an ex-Vic. school-
teacher charged a young lady (also an ex-school-
teacher) with perjury at an enquiry which resulted
in his dismissal. Defendant was accused, inter
Mia , of having stated “ that you did not put hops
down my back ” ; and complainant’s counsel ex-
plained that he had known the girl “only in a
purely scientific way ”
He was a man of culture, who studied metaphysics and
the occult sciences, and wished to see the duplicity of
female nature ill all its nakedness, and a flirtation, which
Was all on her side, commenced. In seeking information
he found this simple, very plain - looking girl to be
possessed of a very extraordinary turn of mind, and
desired to find Out whether her iikings were anything
tilore than a sink of deception.
Ah, these “ simple, very plain-looking girlß ! ” In
A letter alleged to be written to complainant by
defendant these passages ocourred —
What do you mean by being so horrid to yours in soul ?
I have endured more agony during the last year than has
been the portion of some for a lifetime. What is all
that compared to such a love as yours. . . . You,
who are the light, I kneel to in the long silent watches of
the night, all the dreary night. You, oh, Charley, must
trust me. Don’t talk about hating me. You could not
possibly do so, even though 1 wished sometimes that I
Could, with your cruel, unjust opinion of me, and laugh
at me, and push me irt the water, and throw sand in my
hair. . . . That line from Lawson’s book is very good,
don’t you think
ft. would take a lot of preaching,
A lot of thumping on the drum,
To prepare our sinful wicked
Erring souls for kingdom come.
Annie (meaning defendant’s sister) was looking over my
shoulder just now and she read out, “ Must read it out for
yourself”; “What’s that for, Rach?” Of course 1 ex-
plained that it was just a love-letter for you, and that I
Was only stipulating that Bowanee, your divinity, should
hot be permitted to read it aloud while you lay in con-
vulsions on your conjugal couch. (Here follows matter
unfit to be printed.) How much I adore you ! I belong
to you always. I will follow you everywhere if you wish
it. I love you better than all the world.
On the other hand, a letter said to be addressed
by complainant to defendant contained the follow-
ing—
Protestation of love, pure and inextinguishable. . . .
You are my ideal ; the mainspring of my life. Why do
you keep aloof from me ? When I place myself at your
feet, you plead for me. Is my head cracked or soft? I
will worship you always all the days. ... I worship
the ground you walk upon. You are a hard mistress;
you don’t give me a moment of liberty. Allow me a little
love for another person, you monopolist. The chains are
invisible ; the pains I cannot discover ; yet I am held as in
the arms of Fate. ... lam yours for ever ; yours all
the days, all the nights, of my life. lam ordering a bike.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
ST,
ON Coolgardie Race Track, last January,
LADY’S GOLD HUNTING
Pink Enamel Face.
REWARD and GRATITUDE.
“YANK,”
This Office.
T
FREE —ALBERTS
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress: Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s ;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
Isos ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Aceordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60f "Os, and 90s ;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s; Zither Banjos, /5s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 255; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT Sc SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
TIIAMOND SONG BOOK.
600 SONGS, WORDS, and MUSIC, complete,
the greatest collection of songs ever bound together
between the covers of one book. National Songs of Every
Country, including War, Patriotic, Comic, Sentimental, &
Other Songs. Many old-time favorites long since out of
print, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the songs for a stamp. This wonderful book will be sent
(post paid) throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d., from
ANGLO AM. PUB. CO., Box 1163 G.P.0., Sydney.
Stamps 2d extra. Agents wanted.
SAHITfIS
I| Him,iiir» l |.Miiilnlllim‘lllll'iiii>l
MV "SANITAS” §
■&» ■ iS.,
"SANITAS" "S ANITAS
OUR TWO RECiSTERED TRADt MABKS -
"SANITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOtS NOT STAIN
disinfectant, ANTISEPTIC.
DEODORANT combined
A PEOPLE S HEALTH IS A NATION S WEALTH
I THE SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED j
L 0 BETHNAL CRttN, LONDON. E.
FLUID
1/-
ALSO
POWDER,
SOAPS,
SlllphUr (rmr.lgs.tl.iM;)
Candles,
AND
ALL KINDS OP
DISINFECTANTS.
“The list of 'Sanitas' preparations Is now so great
"as to comprise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant
"armamentarium The composition of most of these
"is based on ‘Sanitas,' a deservedly popular, pleasant;
"and moreover active compound."
LANCET, August 24th, 1895, p. ML
“How TO Disihfect.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
THE SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Before Starting)
r
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Go’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Remedy for Sea-sicTeness.
Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer ; Ask your Hotel
lor a Bottle.
2a. Oc3L. and 4:3. 6dL. ALL COLONIES
Also at the
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STCRLIN6 CYCLCS.
HE Ladies’ STERLING is so graceful that
it is distinct from all others, and is acknow-
ledged to be the easiest running machine
built. Which accounts for the fact that more
Ladies’ Sterlings
were SOLD in AUSTRALIA LAST YEAR
than ALL OTHER makes combined.
STERLING PCPOT:
75 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
r | IHOMAS H. HOY, or GEORGE F. HOY,
JL of Great Yarmouth j write to
0. J. HOY,
Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Un
UM
THE
Chicago
HAIRDRESSING
SALOON
AND
TOILET CLUB,
290 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The alterations to these premises'are completed. The
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Booms will be found replete with
every Modern Toilet Appliance, and none but first-class
Operators in attendance.
Ladies’ Hairdressing in all the
Latest Styles.
Manicuring and Massage of the Face, Meek, Arms
and Head by thoroughly Qualified Experts
... A Speciality.
Hair Dyeing Sc Hair Work of every description.
CHARGES MODERATE.
SPECIAL TERMS to SUBSCRIBERS.
Ah Extensive and Varied Stock of Toilet Requisities,
Perfumery, Natural Hair; etc., at Reasonable Rates.
Open from 8 it m. till 6.30 p.m. daily
(Saturday included).
Note the Address—
-280 Collins-street, Melbourne
(eight doors east from Elizabeth-street).
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames Sc Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an ‘ ■ n<i pc- pi n i »
Duplicate parts always in stock. * “trilAL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“ DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
99
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE. .
(||olf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. 43T Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various Pirst-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
0
MACKLTN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD; also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
6R€VILL€
BICYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4£in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring s you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
GrcVille TCirocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street. SYDNEY:
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
David Draham { (Jo.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
(j'Otl'llKQ’S —H
—H — SOitiogS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Fre#
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular Clotliing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
Reai. German Hollow Ground
R«on
> a
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & Co. e ’
po YOU SHAVE?
This the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public.' Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as if is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being- sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d , 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. AP
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREIV
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydhev.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and gSOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GUO. KING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Hotels.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLF/S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOTEL - -
VICTORIA $
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HAYES ... Proprietor.
Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
<§hoice (gree .Luncheon from 11 a.m .
Visit Jack and see for yourselves.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
- - Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms. '
Q. FOX, Proprietor.
Medical.
What is Health?
JffJieumatism, Sciatica.,
Lumbago, Jkc.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA HKKR, 145 Victoria Paradh,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on-
(these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate urio
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
flications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
acket of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
JectT - "FtTasTieen used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted ssealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.G.S., Eno.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
matters have been going since Bill Martin lost his
supremacy.
* « « •
When the final was being played in the billiard-
markers' tournament recently “Boko" Thompson lost
What chance he had through an efror of judgment. An
interested bystander remarked : “ 1 think I’d have played
80-and-so ! ” “Very likely,” said “Boko,” “hut then,
you see, I know something about the game.” He was
talking to Weiss.
* * * *
TheL.V.W. shows a very respectable spirit of
economy In the furnishing Of its HeW- premises. A house-
committee —presumably composed of prudent bachelors
Who Will be furnishing “ Ott their owh ” some day—picks
tip alarming sacrifices here and there, Which is a distinct
improvement On the ustial club system of giving a carte
blanche Order to somebody s particular friend in the
trade;
* * * *
I'he Dunlop cycle Is manufactured by, and is
the sole property Of the Dunlop Cycle Co., Ltd., of
Coventry, which is a company specially formed for the
manufacture and marketing of these machines —which
have shown themselves in many tests to be the fastest
cycles in the world. One of its recent victories over
“ Father Time ” was the wonderful performance by Mr. J.
W. Stocks, who rode 32 miles 448yds. Upon a Dunlop
cycle within one hour.*
* 4 * *
ThE Bulletin wishes to correct a printers’ error
htade in the Red Bird advt, in issue Of 30th Oct, The
terms-price of a Red Bird appeared at £26 10s., Whereas
the correct figure is £2B 10s.


The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair is
Ayer’s ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor,
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass.,U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World s Chief Expositions.
s
Ladies.- Cali and
see our .CHKAP
MACHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY AND Cl,
Sole Agents in Australia for
STURTEY ANT’S FANS,
FOR BLOWING, EXHAUSTING,
VENTILATING, &c.
MINING- MACHINERY
and MINING supplies,
—INCLUDING—
risk’s Celebrated Frue 8s other Vanner Bslts.
Please A ote Our New Address-.
7 4 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
435 Bourse Street,
Melbourne.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy wilfcompletely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drun -
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds , Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
S B?
“I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gaorge- st„ Sydney
ASCOTTE
o
o
‘ >
cD
o
V-
<
UJ
H-O
h
'O -
V
o
MASCOTTEKSS®
MASCOTTE
MtW^oyXMlbQfCffOL
Combines Strength, Purity and Solubility. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less thau one farthing
XHfi MOST REFRESHING, COOLING) & HEAIiIHfQL BEVERAGE.
4^
m
em
mi
m
Of
(Trade Mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAGES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Beat Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL &~IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATOR*
Haying been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any mnka
STYLE No. 14.
£9 9s, CASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
I®:
asss®Gf> >;
'an^rsx>aitimeßßS&i£BßiS£*.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGK ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILUONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., I/-, and 2- each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIUOCK & CO., KENT and UVERPOOI, STREETS, BVDWEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F o*
INFANTS
' "V
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co. Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
According to the official list there are five
different brands of Presbyterianism in N.S.W.,
most of them the outcome of secessions sprung
from the laughable and sometimes disgraceful bic-
kering of the holy men in Presbytery assembled.
Sydney City Council’s polo-like argument
over Surveyor Richards’ rubbish-mission to Eng-
land proves two things : first, that an influential
organisation can successfully nobble the bulk of
the Sydney press ; and, second, that this, when
achieved, is not quite the same thing as nobbling
the public.
S.A. Sheriff Boothby haa travelled on cir-
cuits for nearly 40 years. At one time he acted
as “whip” on the Southern circuit, a coach-trip
of over 600 miles to and fro. Boothby claims tp
have originated the Australian ballot-system.
Guy Boothby is his nephew, by the way, and not
his son.
Thus the London Tailor and Cutter :
H.R.H. the Duke of York, in Dublin, wore an exceed-
ingly stylish frock-coat, which bore evidence of skill and
taste both on the cutter’s and journeyman’s part. We
think it a pity H.R If. decided to have a breast pocket, as
it is apt to give the fore-part a rather crowded, overdone
appearance. As he has not yet attained to the propor-
tions of his father we do hot think the fore-part wide
enough to allow of this. The end of the pocket and the
top button were too near together. 11.R.H. wears his
vests rather to the long side, and leaves the bottom but-
ton unfas'i tied which gives an air of nonchalance that
modifies the stiffness too often surrounding a frock suit
of this class. The trousers were cut in the moderate
style, with perhaps a tendency to looseness.
Q. Worker prints this interesting prayer
with which Speaker Cowley opens every sitting of
Q. Leg. Assembly—for the last seven years the
most corrupt Assembly in Australia :
Most Gracious God, we humbly beseech Thee, as for
this colony in general, so especially for the Parliament of
Queensland under our most religious and gracious Queen
at this time assembled :
That thou wouldst be pleased to direct and prosper all
our consultations, to the advancement of Thy glory, the
good of Thy Church, the safety, honor, and welfare of
our sovereign and this portion of her dominions, that all
things may be so ordered and settled by our endeavors,
upon the best and surest foundations, that peace and
happiness, truth and justice, religion and piety, may be
established among us for all generations.
These and all other necessaries for us and Thy whole
Church, we humbly beg in the Name and Mediation of
Jesus Christ, our most blessed Lord and Saviour, Amen.
After that the Boodle ! Talk about Blasphemy !
They keep telling stories in Melbourne
about how David Syme, of the Age, dictates the
Government policy, and about the close friendship
between him and Premier Turner. Yet it is diffi-
cult to imagine Byrne and Turner as friends. One
of Turner’s great ambitions is to pay off the deficit
and pose as the financial saviour of Victoria.
Therefore his life is one long howl after revenue.
If the presumable millionaire Syme would peg out
this year the probate duty, added to that arising
from other recent deaths of wealthy citizens,
would probably give Turner illoo,ooo more than
he expected, and he would be the best and luckiest
Treasurer in the Seven Provinces. Therefore
Turner, being human, can hardly help hoping that
Syme may peg out, and it would be only natural
and patriotic for him to leave the door open on
the off-chance of the draught getting on Syme’s
spine. In a country where there are heavy pro-
bate duties an impecunious Treasurer, whose soul
is in his work, can’t hope that his wealthy
acquaintances are feeling well.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GrEORGrEi STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALINC HCRBAL R€M€PI€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
. his PEMEBIES contain*
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cnred of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn.— Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you (hat a course of
j our Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from One of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1896.
To Herr R'SsmussEn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
/ have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. <-UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. • eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. ButT.n Writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
Were of great, benefit to me and others. In one case,
When three hunters and trappers were travelling about
tlie ranges near mj* place on the Rose River, one was taken
Very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a Waggon to
W&ngaral ta (about 60 miles) nekt morning to see a doctor.
1 gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well, This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
iu affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herß Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
fey your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL and see numerous testimonials.
’
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr k as-musses.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills oured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. B. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom 1
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to be, yours t.ruly r ,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the laiver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
llerr Rassmussen. 9 3,97.
Dear Sir,— It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W. A
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your hemedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertisid remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. lam willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES.
J^SSWUS
! J
an«
3
ALFA LINE PILLS^
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD K NERVES.
AWARDED
TWO GOLD
ledals
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutelv free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SRIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure — Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfalinc Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costivene3s, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. ’ 1
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without’a doubt
without its equal, and may he relied upon r,o invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness V
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
.. 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the fchw
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
H RR will Post his Valuable Book.
Tile Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
nnyo'.e. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERR RA*SMUSSEN’S
hEM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be cfiven FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Hi ad Office or
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
e\v Zealand :
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
South Australia :
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street.
Victoria :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street,
Fremantle— Henry-street, next corner of High-st.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


G-00. Robertaon & 00., !
861 & 363 Grorgk Strbet, Sydnbv.
Wholesale St Retail Booksellers St Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fanoy Leather
Goode. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers' Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s oelebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English it Colonial Celebrities
<5
Amusements.
JIRIENDLY
SOCIETIES’
MELBOURNE.
GROUNDS,
PRINCE OF WALES’S BIRTHDAY,
9th NOVEMBER.
GRAND I BICYCLE : CARNIVAL
(Under Patronage of L.V.W.)
ALL THE CHAMPIONS ENTERED.
ENGL A ND’S CHAM PIONS AUSTIi A LIA’S
ENGLAND-J. GREEN, T. RELPH.
VICTORIA-DON' WALKER, C. O. TEBBUT, KEN
LEWIS, J. T. KUHLE, J. B. A. GARGUREVICH,
J. CARPENTER, H. A. HOURIGAN, J. KELLOW.
NEW SOUTH WALES—J. MEGSON, E. PAYNE.
QUEENSLAND—R. H. WALNE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—A. E. SAMPSON.
NEW ZEALAND—A. J. BODY.
CHAMPIONSHIP OF VICTORIA—BUCK JUMPING
RIDING COMPETITION.
A large entry of Leading Riders has been received.
This will also be an interesting item. Entries close 3rd
November, Hibernian Hall. All kinds of amusement for
old and young. Admission—ONE SHILLING; Grand
Stand, Is", extra. J. W. RYAN, Hon. Seo.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success of the latest arrivals from London,
Joseph—The Waldrons—Ettie. Tom Wootwell
Continued Brilliant Success of
EMILY LYNDALE. CHAS. DILLON. FRANK YORKE.
Supported bv the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
IHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Managing Director — Mr, Harry Rickards.
Re-appearance of Mr. Harry
RICKARDS. The AVOLOS-3.
The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee Pictures
OHAS. COGILL. J. W. WINTON. ATHAS & COLLINS.
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON.
And the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s 6(1, 2s, & 6d. Plan at Allan’s, Collins-street.
Performances every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne-
Lessees, Wilson Forbes and Erskine Scott.
SATURDAY, 6th NOVEMBER,
THE VERY SENSATIONAL DRAMA,
Estbsr 6 rey,tb€S3WiQg (Sir!
OF MELBOURNE.
By the Australian novelist, R. P. Whitworth.
tiW~ NOTE THE PRICES—Is., 2s. and SIXPENCE.
Box plan at Glen’s. Day sale at Bentwitch’s.
FRANK THORNTON.
mr 0 3\r TOX7R.
ADELAIDE, BROKEN HILL, Etc.
EIGHT WEEKS.
A SILVER WATCH
GIVBNT -A.'VST.A.Y.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s. (Lady’s or
Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN, or CHILD who
sends us the CORRECT READING of the following
PUZZLE :
T*E E*G*l*H W*T*H
C’M’A’Y L’A'S T*E W'Y.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY;
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
EVERY WATCH GUARANTEED.
The above Watches are Warranted Silver Cases, Jewelled
Movements, fete. , and the Chains are Splendid Patterns, of
First Grade Solid-Sterling Silver.
- Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch it Jewellery Company,
No. 9 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS (2nd Floor), PITT
STREET, SYDNEY; and at 33 and 35 Old Exchange,
Adelaide; or Courier Vestibule, Queen-st., Brisbane.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING at 8. SATURDAY MATINEE at 2.
The Sensational, Sympathetic, Successful Play,
“Two Littk VagaboodS-”
By Geo. R. Sims and Arthur Shirley.
Plan, Nicholson’s. jW~ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Directors ... MacMahon Bros.
7TH WEEK 7TH
Of the New Policy—Popular Plays at POPULAR PRICES.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE OF
FALLEN AMONG THIEVES.
SATURDAY NEXT, the Great Sensational Drama,
The Prairie King.
ADMISSION—2s, Is and SIXPENCE.
A GRAND
Naval & Military
Tournament
AND
SPORTS MERTma
(including BICYCLE RACES),
■will be held at the
Agricultural Grounds, Sydney,
ON
Prince of Wales’ Birthday, Nov. 9,
In Aid of the TRADES' HALL BUILDING FUND, for
PRIZES VALUE £.200.
Bicycle Eaces for Prizes value £4Blos.
INCLUDING
RESCUE RACE ON BICYCLES.
To be run under the Rules of the New South Wales
Cyclists’ Union.
Foot Races, All-Comers.
One Mile Flat Race.
Professional & Novice Handicap (150yds.)
And Obstacle Race,
for Frizes value £23 10s.
The Naval and Military Events include Jumping
Competitions on Horseback, Wrestling on Horseback,
Victoria Cross Race, Lemon Cutting, Cleaving Turk’s
Head, Tent Pegging, Tilting at the Ring, Balaclava melee,
Wantage Race, Naval Field Gun Dismounting, Cutlass
Exercise, First Aid Competition, Manual and Firing Exer-
cise, Bayonet Exercise, Tug-of-War, and Events for Mem-
bers of the Public School Cadet Forces.
The above events have attracted entries from the coun-
try districts, and also a large number of the Contingent
from England.
Accommodation for horses will be provided on the
grounds.
Vehicles will be admitted and stabling for horses will
be provided.
The Agricultural Grounds have, under the supervision
of Mr. F. Webster, been greatly improved, additional
terraces and a new grandstand having been built, and
every person present will have an uninterrupted view of
the sports.
DANCING IN THE LARGE PAVILION.
Admission—Adults, Is.; Children, 6d.
THOS. W. FURSE,
Trades’ Hall, Sydney. Secretary.
BTJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
Under the sole direction of Prof. T. A. Kennedy.
TO NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING, at 8.10 Sharp.
Prof. D. M. BRISTOL’S
Marvellous Educated Horses, Ponies Ss Mules.
PRICES—2s. and ONE SHILLING.
Family Matinees —Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
at 3 p.m.
rfIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A Lessee ... Miss Maggie Moore.
General Manager ... Mr. H. R. Roberts.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of the OLD FAVOURITE,
MA<s<Sl€ MOOR€.
jy POPULAR PRICES. ... Plan at Allan’s.
*NEW PRODUCTIONS WEEKLY.
j|>'irrivi iWSS’S THEATRE, MELBOURN E
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
TO-NIGHT, at 8. WEDNESDAY MATINEE, at 2.
The intensely amusing farce in 2 acts,
“Tbe <say PariSUim-”
By George Dance and Ivan Caryll.
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
Latest Novelties >0 Pianjoijd RiQgS-
Quality, Finish, & Durability Guaranteed.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
18 C 7
18c..Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s, £6,
£7 10s.
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
18c. La Parisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond, with
1- Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4..
POST FREE.
18c. Buckle.
1 Fine Diamond, £2.
1 Fine Sapphire, Ruby or
Opal, £1 15s.
18c. Band.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/-. Ruby or Sapphire,
30/-, 45/-, 60/-. Opal or
Pearl, 25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
18c. Gipsy.
3 Fine Diamonds, £2 55.,
£3, £4.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £1 155.,
£2 55., £3.
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s., £5,
£7 10b.
Send Size of Finger by a Piece of Wire or a Hole in Cardboard.
WE HAVE 1000 OTHER DESIGNS OF RINGS IN STOCK.
cfcr'c
NOTE Our Only Australian Address -
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Prof. DDRCOT’S MDSKAL
i Speedily produces a luxuriant growth of
l Hairon Smoothest Face or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. The only Remedy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d., Double Size, 10s.
8. D. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
MASCARA—HAWLEY. TasteksstativeT
SAVAR'SCUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Tbc Leading Pipe,
GBD
Wholesale Depdt:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Bonnington’s Sarsaparilla,
AN ALTERATIVE TONIC AND BLOOD PURIFIER.
Sores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic
FOR LIVER, STOMACH, & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
and Creates a Healthy System,
Removes
Stimulates
Plum
pro
Plum
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We (/uarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
Delicious to Plum Pudding-. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as'a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO. KFNT i.ni i ivrppnm gxpppxg svnvmy.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE ?
&
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie*
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
ouer Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Iflfluenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS GREAT VALUE IN KEEPINC THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S - FRUIT SALT’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its us e pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.—I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil." — [From the late Rein J. W. Nell, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
WEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford."
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT' on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT.
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WOR THLESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.


Per s.s. Duke of Buckingham,
Indramayo, Darmstadt,
Argus,
AND OTHER STEAMERS.
FiNN€Y, ISL€S & CO.
HAVE RECEIVED A FURTHER
197 Packages,
Making 832 Eales & Cases
OF CAREFULLY-BOUGHT
SUKIEH GOODS,
COMPRISING
THE LATEST NOVELTIES from BRITISH,
CONTINENTAL and EASTERN MARKETS.
DO NOT BE MISLED !
Adopt the True Tost—COMPARISON-
YOU WILL FIND
Best Values and Largest
Assortment by Far
—AT
FiNNEY, ISLES & CO.’S,
-k3JEt.X A.2^rjE3.
KELLIH’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
sun plies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Haiki»im:*m:ics aivi» its
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising- 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
varietv'of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croqui"nolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs’
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety, of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
, rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
•ISO A (>S!J George Street, Sydney.
SiaN£T>Cia^lfTEs
'%<b G<s> .
/> {
(<N
itf/fcy
M/£/i l e o
?ffHfl9 P
881
r
> o
cv
j:
OR Ml
\IN
S*3
l a
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist: “Zen vy? You. say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
L Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
Meteorologist Wragge waxes indignant at
the finical crew who carp at the poetical outbursts
in his official weather-bulletins. Clement pro-
fesses to see “idylls and stanzas in the rustling’ of
the wheat-fields on the Downs,” &c., &e. Further-
more, the rampant Wragge threatens to couch his
notices of phenomena in isobars, isotherms, iso-
brontons and diabletons, if the Press doesn’t stop
its eternal poking of borak.
The, young girl pavement-trotter has become
very numerous of late in M.L. cities, and the
Government has drafted a bill for the appointment
of “ discreet women ” as inspectors, with extensive
powers to stop and interrogate the girl who is out
at a late hour. She is also authorised to escort her
home, and see her safely deposited on the parental
bosom, or, if the late girl is a very hard case, to
take her to an establishment specially provided,
and leave her in charge of the matron, pending
inquiry. This is, at least, more decent than the
scheme of last year, according to which the
girl who was out after 10 was to be interrogated
by two large, full-blooded policemen, and then, if
necessary, 1 d before an amorous male J.P., to be
affectionately hugged by him, at a late hour, in
the execution of his duty. The worst that is
likely to befall the. girl who is beginning to go
wrong, and who falls into the hands of a big,
hard-faced “discreet woman,” is to have her hair
pulled a good deal on the way home. But,
unless the discreet woman is an enormous
person, and well-armed, and two of her go
togetl er acoompawed by a reliable dog, there
is apparently nothing to prevent her being
kissed by beery male revellers when she is out “on
jooty ” at midnight's so’emn hour; the reveller
can’t be expected to see how ugly she is when he
meets her suddenly on a dark, wet night, or to
know that she isn’t only a larger Tottie than the
average. And the Maoriland climate is cold on
winter nights as well as wet, and unless the lady
is allowed to take a drop of gin with her when she
goes forth to capture the sodden midnight Flossie,
bronchitis seems almost inevitable. Moreover, in
the early stages of her career, before the public
gets used to the new order of t hings, she will have
a hard time. She must needs arrest and escort
home on suspicion many girls out on perfect y
innocent, errands, and when Michael Mulligan,
pick and-shovel-gentlcrnan, looks out of his
wooden cottage and finds that a strange woman has
brought his weeping daughter home by the collar
and wants to ask if she is q iite respectable,
the next act will probably be a discreet function-
ary in petticoats with a black eye falling back-
wards off the verandah. The Buu.etin has no
desire to say.anything against the new idea,
which is probably about the best thing that could
be devised under the circumstances, but it reckons
there are rough times ahead for somebody. The
matter is full of complications. For instance, the
new lady functionary can t always avoid being
good-looking, and then Policeman O’Toole will
assuredly want to mash her when they are on the
same “bate.” And if she doesn’t let him do it—
well, the next time she is trying to arrest and
lead home a large, desperate, fighting street-Tottie
she may whistle for assistance trl all is blue, but
officer O’Toole will be too busy after an unregis-
tered dog at the other end of his beat to hear
anything.
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of sufft ring from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
“I owe much to you, my dear friend,"for
strength in moments of weakness, for consolation
in severe trouble, for new lights of thought a-nent ,
the barrenness of life.”—Parkes to Duffy, 1864.
mm
<3-0 X-> EIELL,-
KiOLANI) for Pi city Stamps. VVe
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6(1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Auslralasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred lOCetg'eiEi.
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
A BOON to SYDNEY.
i a
We
"2
b
-Wr
?7<r
k° S T l^£ s
Centennial Insect pomder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaohes, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers — Elliott
Bros., S. Jloffnwng & Co.-, Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale, Grocers.
BAXTER MEG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
OF VITAL INTEREST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “WORDS OF
WTSDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Thousands have been
PERMANENTLY CURED after trying all
other means. If you have been humbugged and
disappointed, write to-day for the Book and 5000
testimonial letters, posted FREE, SEALED and
WITHOUT MARKS.
Address : DR. IRVING CO.,
Corner HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
SES
X
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
I For the House, Conservatory
and Garden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
Gar .sn Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from $
Moth. |
Eids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of if
Parasites- %
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION-—Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
$
w
‘ u ■
FoR.
u
S VVoUNDC
(bUGMS (©LPJ tc J
oP
/MITATJOAIS'
MELBOURNE.
ffi®
POST FREE
watches-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
weddsi\Ig z CHristerIiHc Presents
H'-NEY/MAlSl- l755177-FH7ARFTlj 5t.
OPPOSITE C:P.Q.-
MELBOURNE.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office : King & York sts l
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Dmitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Wagons. Customs Entries Passed.
Tr~% otlaT Ja, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
“R ps.c on
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
13 Oc3 a■? t, ZE3Cfi.T3KXS
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
EAI'TIO!*. -It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain-persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that; all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
230 SUSSEX STREET, SYIIIVEV.
SAW MIL.LINS - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mils.
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on t ie CHEST
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing- cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on tbe chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
certain.
“ Mr: W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and flight and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave toy bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. 1 had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all. my friends.—
Yours truly, E. SMITH, I-Ialpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne s M dieine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of th : s medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, a d since then, which
was in the beginning of 13S3, 14 years ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. ’ The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its disiinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 51)
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. (Id. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle, of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.QOLLIS BROWKC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 2S, lSiio, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine 1 should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts?, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
i ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
! HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will prompt]?'
return the full amount,
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing' we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free!, giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL r AN r E AGSNCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
raffaFshepatic Effective.
U pURrFIER BLOOD SUIPHUR PIU S
.DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. . Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for is. 3 ! .
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Eigin-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sy&iry,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £X.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond witli
Dr. GIBBON S’,
it 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NcnfotiS WeakoeSs - - -
AND
Ccrcbro-SpiQaf Disease,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands' of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters ea,sy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth. Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.


n=
m
fldams’s Hotel and marble gar
AND
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS,. SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
0
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
—o
Hotel and Cafe have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728. WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
WKITfc DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Vi-r ‘t, *l‘> George-sfcree*. Sydney, for photos and
particulars of tho world-renowned Uapshu:g y>\u.,e. You may o»>': in the 'try latest of
l ought Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or eh*., y- direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of &0 per cent, as .compared with-buying them from dealers.
U»o actions are all check re pea tor v\ith front escapement, mule by the foremost firms in Germany,
llie hammers arc covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate, and thus tho Piano will not lose tone.
Wri6t pins are extra
long and plated. All
bxtss wires copper
covered. The clavia-
turo (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, henco
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE «c CO. LTD., SYDNEY,
Hammer-shanks ol
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hamburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastns and patirae. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, n’vl
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle coinpass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 48f George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
HUNTER’S KURANDA
-Paw Fruit S
auce.
PURITY
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
ill
this
New Sauce,
it bein'?
A Purely Fruit
and
Vegetable
Condiment.
Trade
m
PAPAIN.
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
ATTENTION 1 DYSPEPTICS.
Indigestion is at the root of more than half of our present day bodily ailments,
accentuated, as it is, by the almost universal habit of stomach drugging. Simply
stated, these distressing symptoms and their consequent evils are directly due to the
inability to properly digest the food consumed. No amount of medication can aid this
most vital and important function. The proprietors of HUNTER'S PAW-PAW
FRUIT SAUCE, knowing that their Piquant Relish contains a large proportion
of PAPAIN (the most active digestive ferment known to Medical Science), claim
that BYSPUCTIC TORTURES are entirely BANISHED by using their sauce
at meal times, besides which, its palatableness greatly enhances the enjoyments of
the table.
Manufactured only at Hunter’s Steam Preserving Works,
CAIRNS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Unnter’s
Paw- Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from all the leading WHOLESALE GROCERS, and from all the
leading RETAILERS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
J. BARRS JOHRSTOR & CO., 20 Lof us-street, Sydney.
ZROA.ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Hialaje.
ST E \M
Cultivating
Machinery.
m
m
im
wmm?# fwm
Traction,
PORI'ABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
£■ Giitf jjfcj
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po ta ;h Pa'!way
Lor o m o t i res,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MTNTNO M ACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, ftc., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd
II AI) COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
"AM Kit M. NOAKKS, M.1.M.K., Colonial Alanaobh.
Also Bapreseutative for the “r.IIiTLE” OIL ENGINE.
PF\
—
Jl^j
'' '
;
Telephone, 36 KOQAEAH—connected with Sydney Exchange.
Tlxe ‘ LlcK Hons© Hotel,”
•tant from Sydney, 30 minutes. LADY TO Bl NSO N’S BEAC H , On the Banks of Botany Bay.
.. . THE TAYC TE HEALTH EE SORT. .. .
LOFTY BEDROOMS, and Luxuriously FLRMSHED DRAWING ROOMS, READING ROOMS, BILLIARD
ROOM and BATH ROOMS.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties carefully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private Dinners,
etc., a Speciality. Grand Hall will accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths ; also, Electric
and Hot Salt Water Baths (a Sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints), only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and
Boating ; also, splendid Stabling Accommodation.
Terms: From 251- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
“ LICK HOUSE HOTEL,” or 16 York Street, Sydney.
Sr»BCIA.L KTOTICB
VUE beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying from us
’' direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manufac-
turers —not dealers.
OUR BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
dash rail and lamps, £7 15s. Our Special 3 SPRING STICK
SEAT SULKY, silver dash rail splash-baaTrds and lamps, £8
17s. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps,
£2l. ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather,
including break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l.
VII descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
M.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder.
Everywhere at 1. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOCJL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Loiv Rates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasb>ogtoQ N-SoGl & Co.,m’sp.s.,
150, 160, and 268 I*itt-street, Sydney;
Church-street, Parramatta.
AND AT
FREE. C\GI\RS
in
! brop!A';3» Pieccsnw
AGENT for the following
Poker
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES.
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers'
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOM A Ceos
—AND—
CIGATtS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CANT
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HFGH
LIEE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA.
ALPINA MANILA, &c„ &c.
Tobacconists supplied thro ighout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and oeltcr than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
c
>\S
s
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAiiivET, SYDNEY.


Spring BOds BOrst
MARK FOY’S.
A RIOT OF LOVELINESS.
THE VOICE AT THE TELEPHONE.
Hello! Is that the Hoyal Hotel ?
Well, look here !
The WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS you
recommended— *
the wife and myself found of
great benefit.
4
•'4 Ji
i V-.'v
I am sending you on a
cheque—
Let us have immediately, if
not' sooner—
Say, another half - dozen each
and small bottles.
large
H
H
H
O WARD'S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra
OVVARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver
plated, pash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollalira.
HOWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
nO WARD’S Violins, Bows, arid Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. (id., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
-all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra!
H
HOWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. Gd. to 12gs , all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from (id.
to 1 guinea,great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra!
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from (> 1 Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra!
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
H
|| OWARD S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
I 215., best German make. Queen-st., W’lfra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, front 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st.-, W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
H
H
HOWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from Gd. to 2’>gs. ; cash or terms.
HOWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and Getftian ; terftis. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver ; -terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Hori Grey’s Lone Hand.
[For the Bulletin.]
Throughout his career, the old warrior acted con-
sistently up to the idea that he had been dealt a
lone hand by nature, by Providence, by his
guiding star, by fate, or by the force which
changed the primeval jelly into the cell or sphere
and commenced the sequence of evolution which,
so fax’, has culminated in civilised man. Where-
ever it came from, he was always certain he had
it, and was calmly determined to play it on his
‘‘own.” We can talk thus about him during his
slowly waning life ; for, though autocratic, when
he considered the situation required it, to an
extent which earned for him the name of the
great Pro-Consul, his aims were always pure, and
the results satisfactory when the old boy was
allowed a "free hand. That is where his absolute-
ness differed from the autocracy of crowned
heads, and that is why we never hear the truth
about the latter, till tliey are not only dead but
very much decayed.
There was nothing of what the Maoris call
oho-rere about Hori Grey ; no rushing in where
angels would fear to tread, he didn’t care
whether the angel would fear to tread or not ;
he was there calmly and deliberately, when
he thought he was the man for the situation.
He studied his lone hand at every stage of the
game, and he consulted no one, colleague or out-
sider, as to what card he should play, unless
“ witli intent to deceive,” which was strictly diplo-
matic. The disappointment of feilow-Minister
vho had thus been shown the back of the full
hand (the truly liberal Montgomery) was said to
have been voiced as follows : “ Now if this old
man—this deep old man—does things too deep for
me—why, what a most particularly deep old man
this deep old man must be ! ”
* » * *
When, after esoteric deliberations, Hori had
made up his mind to a course of action, no amount
of pumping would extract from him a hint as to
the probable line of procedure ; his actions must
first speak. There are many amusing stories told
of the evasions he contrived, to prevent his inten-
tions being'known. It was impossible to “pull
hjs leg. ” He was perfectly unpumpable, for he
would not approach the remotest bounds of a
subject he wished to avoid. He not only
exercised strategic skill in getting rid of the
obnoxious subject; he contrived in a bare-
faced manner entirely to reverse the theme.
Instance his interview with General Cameron’s
aide-de-camp. ,
It is matter of history that the relations between
Sir George Grey, as Governor, and General
Cameron, as Commander-in-Cbief, were consider-
ably strained. Sanders, in his late!v-pub'ished
history, thus sums up the situation :—“ Hut,
vvorse than all, the power he had used so effec-
tively in 1840, as the Governor, the Premier, and
the Oommander-in-Chief, combined in one capable
man, was now allotted to Sir George Grey, to Mr.
Fox, and to General’Cameron, each of whom had
to be consulted and convinced before any impor-
tant step could be decided on.”
The General had battled his way through the
lower Waikato, and had dug a lot of more or less
useless saps before the stronghold at Rangiaohia.
He was putting in the time till he could gain
Grey’s consent to the assault, and he sent a letter
to the Governor by -the hand of Col. Pitt. On his
arrival in Auckland,-Pitt went direct to Govern-
ment House, and was shown into a room, where
Hori was sitting.
“Good day. Pitt. Fine day. Letter for me,
Pitt?”
Surprised that Grey-apparently knew his errand,
Pitt produced the missive.
“ Thank you, Pitt. Do you think Mrs. Whit-
taker a pretty woman, Pitt? ”
“ Really, Sir George, I have never considered
the point.”
“ That’s strange. What’s in this letter, Pitt?”
“I'm sure I cannot say, Sir George.”
“That’s as.it should be. But, tell me, Pitt,
didn’t you write it?”
“Well, Sir George, as secretary to General
Cameron, I think I may own that I am aware of
the contents, in a perfunctory manner.”
“Quite so, Pitt, quite so! And I think you
said you had not pondered over the beauty of
Mrs. Whittaker, even in a perfunctory manner,
you know, Pitt ? ” Pitt looked mighty uncomfort-
able. Hori followed up the question with another
more to die point:—
“By the way, Pitt, General Cameron wishes me
to authorise an assault on Rangiaohia, does he
not ? ”
Pitt respectfully referred Sir George to the
letter he was turning over and over in his hand.
But Hori Grey would not give a chance to face or
temper to indicate the sentiments with which he
would view the contents. So he thus closed the
interview: “Yes, a charming day, as you remark,
Pitt. By the way, which door did you come in
at ? ”
“ This one, Sir George.”
“ Just so, Pitt. Suppose you leave by this one ;
it will be a charming variety. There are some
lovely shrubs in the grounds. Good-bye, Pitt.
A pleasant ride, Pitt! So you don’t think Mrs.
Whittaker a pretty woman ! lam sorry for that!
Good-bye, good-bye !”
• * * *
A different man was Mailing, a pioneer of settle-
ment in the pre-colonial days ; an athlete equal to
Selwyti : a stalwart Maori-fighter, and subse-
quently a Judge of the Native Land Court, and
the author of that inexpressibly charming book
“ Old New Zealand—by A Pakeha Maori.” When
the germs of war were smouldering with a heat only
observable by the expert, Mailing held a confiden-
tial position in the Waikato, and things came to
his knowledge which he-thought should be com-
municated to the Governor. He rode in such
haste to Auckland, that when he reached Govern-
inent House his pants had succumbed to saddle-
friction. Now, Grey had exceptional means of
acquiring information on native affairs, probably
from both sides, and it is only on the supposition
that he was perfectly acquainted with the state of
native feeling that we can account for his recep-
tion of Maning. The latter found Grey in the
gardens devoted to the care of rare birds and mar-
supials. “Good morning, Maning; glad to see
you. • Charming day, is it not ? ”
“ Good morning, Sir George. Haven’t had
much time to notice the weather; I have hastened
to see you in my travel-worn state, to tell you of
the serious aspect of affairs in the Waikato. The
natives are not only sullen, but I am much in-
clined to think they will break out in open re-
bellion.”
“Indeed, Maning, that’s serious. But let me
ask you, whose opinion I value, what is your
idea with respect to a great Southern Continent?”
Maning was dumbfounded. The crisis was so
important that he could not believe he was being
trifled with. At length he replied, “Really, Sir
George, if I had any definite ideas on the subject,
the very serious business I have on hand prevents
me from explaining them at present. I can
assure you, Sir George, that I fear an outbreak
every day. ”
“ Just so; I appreciate your care'and attention.
But just look for a moment at the bird behind you,
the great Solomon Island Emu ; a bird evidently
allied in species with the moa, the apteryx, and
the kiwi, and yet separated in its native habitat of
to-day by thousands of miles of ocean from that
of the birds I have mentioned.”
“ Very true, Sir George ; but might I ask you
to give me vourattention for a few minutes, whilst
I explain my reasons for being alarmed.”
The Solomon Island emu stalked solemnly
around, unobtrusively curious about the visitor.
He was particularly attracted by the spot where
in Maning's clothing the saddle had wrought a
“ solution of continuity. ” Grey stood watching
the bird, and, as was his habit, occasionally stick-
ing the point of his walking-stick in the ground
and flicking it upwards with a sudden jerk. As
Maning made his last appeal for attention, Hori
turned courteously towards him: “You are very
good. Quite natural on your part, Maning.
But now, just look at that bird and ask yourself
again if he is not a direct link in the evidence
for the former existence of a great Southern con-
tinent?” To emphasise his words, he dug his
stick in the ground and flirted a pellet of clay into
the Solomon Islander’s eye, whereupon the bird,
hastily concluding that this strange assault must
come from the stranger thing he saw, made a
sudden onslaught with his beak upon the patch of
white in the tightest part of the pakeha-Maori’s
pants. Then Hori was the calmest of the trinity,
as Maning hurried away, damning Grey and the
emu in a strictly impartial manner.
* * • *
But, in all probability, Grey had already decided
how to play the lone hand, which he did to some
purpose when he jumped the claim of the military
commanders, and assaulted and took the Whareroa
Pa with a levy of colonial boys and friendly
natives. And there was no melodrama about
him ; he didn’t play to th.e gallery or seek indivi-
dual kudos. The unborn millions about which he
was continually chaffed were to him a reality
kept steadily in view, and Bentham's “greatest
happiness of the greatest number ” was improved
in his aspirations to include the minority.
Observe the immense vitality of the democratic
mind in a moribund body, displayed when he pain-
fully dragged himself to visit Dick Seddon, that
he might welcome one the Tory papers called
“ the Lancashire working-man.” Long may he
linger—we don’t want him to R.I.P. just yet.
Maoriland.
BORIN STUDHOLME.
Having consideration of the dingy, in-
fected police-court Bible, Vic. Crovvn Law Depart-
ment signifies by circular that in future persons
desiring to take the oath in the Scotch form are to
be permitted to do so. The Scotch invariably
take it without sugar.
Richardson, W.A. ex-Minister of Lands,
last year sent out a surveyor to look for rabbits in
the S.E. The explorer found them all right, near
Twilight Cove, and recommended that Govt,
should import thousands of cats and let ’em loose
in that dismal territory round Eucla to prey on
bunny. As if Westralia hadn’t enough wild cats
already !
Writes a Melbourne correspondent :
It is to be feared that The Bulletin Scripture know-
ledge is “a bit off.” (See recent par on Barrister
Higgins’ Biblical plural voting analogy.) Judas did
become a landed proprietor. Read what a little Melbourne
school girl called “The Acts of the Opossums,” chap. I,
verse 18 : “ Now this man purchased a field with the ie-
ward of iniquity, and falling headlong he burst asunder
in the midst.”
The Bulletin respectfully replies that its Scrip-
ture knowledge isn’t in the least degree “off.” The
Bible gives two accounts —that of Matthew being
that Judas went to the Council, and threw
his 30 pieces of silver back at that reverend
body, and then hanged himself. The other
account is the one quoted above. The Bulletin
accepts Matthew’s version for various reasons.
The story of a man hanging himself is compre-
hensible, but that of him bursting in a paddock
looks highly improbable. Also, there is a certain
dramatic force in the picture of Iscariot aiming
his bag of ill-gotten money at the joint head of the
Sanhedrim, and the littlo pile bouncing on the
pavement of the temple, and this paper absolutely
refuses to part with that beautiful incident. If it
didn’t happen then it ought to have. Anyhow,
for 1860 odd years it has been an accepted fact
that Judas d'id hang himself, and that involves
the acceptance of Matthew’s story according to
which he didn’t buy any land," and The Bulletin
declines to have its religious views upset at this
late hour by anybody.


Are you blessed with
Boys ?
IF SO,
Our Suitable Suits
a Strong at Knee and Stout
at Elbow, to fit 8 to 12 years,
HALF-GUINEA,
are well worth seeing at
Hordern Bros., Pitt-street ( Only)
(Economy is Nature’s first laufj
P.S. & N.B.—We tiave also School Suits at a Crown (o.
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Pills.
S * I * A]xr:l=> FIRST AND TJNRIVAU.EP,
A Newcastle Lady added to our List of Cured-
Remarkable Recovery of the Daughter of a Prominent Citizen.
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, DEBILITY AND INDIGESTION ROUTED.
(The Newcastle Herald investigate the ease.)
Those who enjoy complete immunity from physical suffering can never realise the terrible gloom
which overshadows the lives of thousands of their fellow-creatures, who, from various bodily ailments,
, X
X
/i\
! '
are compelled to suffer physical torture year.after year,
with faint hope of alleviation. For these pain-worn suf-
ferers the greatest sympathy must be felt, and when facts
are adduced to show that after years of suffering some
special medicine has effected a complete cure, it is felt
that the merits of the case deserve wide publicity. Such
an instance was recently made known, and a few days
ago our reporter called upon Miss Holt, 9 Perkin-street,
Newcastle, in order to learn that lady’s story, which is
recorded as it was told. “Five years ago,” said Miss
Holt, “ I met with an accident which has practically
robbed me of so many years of my life. When I was
fourteen years of age I fell down a flight of stairs and
seriously injured my back. As a result of the accident I
suffered from intense pains in the back, and terrible
headaches, attended by neuralgia. Not a month passed
without an attack, and in time I became so ill that life
was burdensome. I could do no work in the house, the
slightest effort exhausting me, while the constant attacks
of neuralgia were more than I could bear. Every remedy
was tried, including homoeopathic treatment, but all to
no purpose, and in spite of what was done I grew worse
. . . „ »nd worse. About six months ago a small pamphlet
was left at the house containing information about Gould’s Tiny Tonic Pills. My father, upon
reading it noticed the reference to neuralgia, and, as I was then suffering bodily with that
terrible malady we decided to try the medicine. He purchased a box of pills, and, to my great relief,
y le ime the box was used, the headaches were completely cured and the neuralgia greatly mini*
ise . After talking the first box of pills I neglected to obtain a second supjily, and was again
relapsing to my former condition. I procured a second supply, which were used with the most grati-
fying results ; but to make sure, continued the treatment, and now, after taking five boxes of pills, I
hnd iam completely recovered. Not only have the constant headaches and neuralgia disappeared,
but the pain and swelling in the back caused by the fall five years ago, have been entirely removed.
Lrt!!l T )onths sl nce I had an attack of any kind, and, where formerly I was incapable of the least
woman ’nnli an now P er . f ° r iP household duties without feeling the least fatigued. I feel quite a different
of Gonld’e T^ 1 ' u nn e sitatingly state that my present good health has been brought about by the use
occasronfl v^ll? 10 P -I IK „ A ? ked lf s , he Co ” t L n , l i« d to use the PiUs, Miss Holt replied that
y, le now quite well, she uses them if felling at all low-spirited with the never-failing
result that two hours later all traces of depression are removed. Miss Holt speaks in most en-
thusiast lo terms of the medicine which has effected such a complete change in life, and is borne out
ip all her statements by her mother, Mrs. Holt. From a confirmed sufferer she has become a robust
woman, and no greater testimony to the value and efficacy of Gould’s Tonic Pills could be desired
than the present appearance of good health as seen in Miss Holt.
THAT
extreme tired feeling afflicts nearly everybody at this season. The
hustlers cease to push, the tireless grow weary, the energetic become
enervated. You know just what we mean. Some men and women endea-
vor temporarily to overcome that
is unsafe, as it pulls powerfully
long stand such a strain. Too
and the result is seen in urn
prostration,” in every direction. That tired
weak, impure blood ; for, if the blood is rich,
imparts life and energy to everv nerve, organ
necessity of taking Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver
TIRED
FESsEa-
feeling by great force of will. But this
upon the nervous system, which will not
many people “ work on their nerves,”
fortunate wrecks marked “nervous
ing is a positive proof of thin,
red, vitalized and vigorous, it
and tissue of the body. The
Pills for that tired feeling is
QUID
IK
ONI
IVE
therefore apparent to everyone,
ood it will' do you is equally
piestion.
and the
beyond
Remember that
GOULD’S
Tills put the digestive organs, the stomach, the liver, the bowels, in perfect
order, and thereby make the blood pure and rich. They don’t have to do any-
thing else. Nature does all the rest. All diseases live and thrive on impure
blood. Keep a stream of pure, rich, red blood flowing into a diseased spot, and
the disease will not stay. A man lives on rich, pure blood and disease dies on
it. That’s the difference. Gould's Tiny Tonic Liver Pills strengthen and tone
the digestive organs so that they can manufacture pure, rich blood—make men
and women strong and healthy ; bring good appetite, good digestion, and build
up solid healthy flesh. •
Such ailments as Indigestion, Headache, Debility, Dyspepsia, Fulness after
Eating, Sour Stomach, Heart Palpitation' Liver Troubles, Constipation, Piles,
Lossof Appetite, and Kidney Complaints are cured by Gould’s Pills. Pale and
sallow faces, pimples, and face sores, female irregularities, general weakness,
lame back, influenza, lack of energy and ambition, etc., etc., will also become
things of the past after they are used.
_Gould’s Tiny Tonic Pills are obtainable from Chemists and Storekeepers, or
apply to the Australian Branch of the E. A. Gould, Sons and Co., 19 Macquarie
nace, Sydney; price, 2s. Gd., or half a dozen for 14s. 3d. When you purchase
Gould’s Pills, see that every bottle bears the signature of the proprietors, E. A.
Gould, Sons and Co.
GOULD’S BILE BEANS for Biliousness.
D.
PER BOX.
THE PURGATIVE PILL OF THE AGE.
FOR SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
D
PER BOX
Homeward Bound.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
With tallow casks alldunnaged tight, with tiers on
- tiers of bales,
With cargo crammed from hatch to hatch, she’s
racing for the sales.
A clipper barque, a model ship, a “ flyer ” through
and through,
O skipper bluff ! O skipper brave ! I would I
went with you !
’Tis turn of tide, ’tis time to sail, the flood is out-
ward flowing ;
Another glass, another shake, and then, my lads,
for going !
Black eyes ’long shore beam bright farewell, blue
eyes with tears grow bonny—
Around the capstan-head we go—“ Yo-ho!” and
“ Whisky - Johnny !”
He swings her round — The Aberfoyle— in slow and
stately way ;
Her house-flag flutters main-truck high; she’s
heading down the bay.
Then as his hawser slacks and strains, whilst
wharf-men cheer and shout,
Midst bo’s’n’s pipe and captain’s curse, the tug-
boat hauls her out.
’Tis “Good-bye, Sis!” and “ Good-bye, Sal! ”
and “ Good-bye,* Liz and Polly ! ”
Good-bye to all the girls ashore, and all a sailor’s
folly.
Blue Peter flies ; the hatches down ; our boys have
spent their money;
“Stand by, my lads, to ease her lines ! Stand
by ! ” and “ Whisky Johnny ! ”
Her master’s face is flushed and red—you see, lie’s
“ had a few ” ;
His voice grows husky as he roars loud orders to
the crew
(But when the wind comes up afar, and all is dark
as Death,
He will not lose his self-control, nor will he waste
his breath ;
But on the poop he’ll take his place, though seas
sweep o’er the railing,
To look the devil in the face with eyes that know
not quailing ;
He’d see her down if need should be, and when
all hope was gone he
Would raise his voice above the sea, and give ’em
“ Whisky Johnny ! ”)
Her sails were bent ten days ago, her decks are
scrubbed and clean,
Her spars are white as seagull’s breast, her hull is
painted green,
Her blocks are greased to run with ease, her yards
swing easy too —
.The time is short, the way is long— she has her
work to do !
The tide has turned, the wind is fair, the joys of
land are over—
Whilst ships are made to roll the seas, poor Jack
shall be a rover.
So sweethearts dark and sweethearts fair, look
blithely sad and bonny,
And wave your handkerchiefs once more—Heigh,
ho ! and “ Whisky Johnny ! ”
He’s cast his lines ; the tug’s about —her master
shouts “ Goodbye ! ”
Now some will sulk and some will laugh, but one
mayhap will sigh,
As from the ratlines glancing round, a second as
she swings,
He sees the land to starboard lie and thinks—of
foolish things !
’Tis homeward bound! ’tis homeward bound!
we’ve done by now with grieving,
For underneath our feet we feel the Old Eternal
heaving.
So lend a hand to loosen sail, and dry your eye
there, sonny !
The girls ahead are just as fair—“ Wey, ho ! ” and
“ Whisky Johnny ! ”
O, when he crams the canvas on, and shapes his
course away,
She dips and dives and shakes herself, like sea
bird at her play ;
She riots like a wilful child from punishment set
free,
To feel beneath her buoyant keel the open, joyous
sea.
For “ Homeward Bound ! ” for “ Homeward
Bound ! ” the breeze itself is singing,
And fore-and-aft, through shrouds and lines, the
melody goes ringing ; ■
She gathers speed “ More sail! ” he cries ; and as
he .claps it on he
Sings softly to the ship he loves, the strain of
“ Whisky Johnny ! ”
Hull down, at dusk— The Aberfoyle —and ere the
dark afar,
A line of foam upon her wake, she hails the
Evening Star.
A watchful shark on guard astern, a porpoise at
her bow,
An albatross to lead the way —she’seutting through
it now.
The waves may roll, the winds may rant, the
hungry sharks may follow
On hills of water she may pitch, in holes of water
wallow,
But on her course she yet will keep, that gallant
barque and bonny,
Until the dockers hear the ring &i “ Wey-hey !
Whisky Johnny ! ”
The last to leave of eight or ten, the first to sight
the Nore,
She beats the record homeward bound, she leads
the fleet once more.
And won’t the skipper greet his friends, and won’t
the agents cheer ?
And when her lines are fast again, O. won’t it
flow—the beer !
To Cousin Sis and Cousin Sal, and pretty Kate
and Polly,
To all the Jews and “seamen’s friends,” and all
the me-smates jolly,
To foaming pints and cosy fires and waiting blue
eyes bonny
She “ paddles in ” with joyous lilt of “ Wey-ho !
Whisky Johnny ! ”
From a recently-set Glasgow memorial-
stone—
By favor of Almighty God, in the presence of the Lord
Provost and the Town Council of Glasgow.
“ Nous an'res ! ” as it were.
Indiana State Board of Health has ordered
all schools to he provided with pencil-sterilizers
and safety drinking-fount tins. The, sterilizer is a
Russian iron oven, heated by gas, gasolene, or
alcohol, in which pens and pencils are to be heated
daily to 275 deg. Eahr. :
A Bit of a Wag.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
Smith-Jones was a dandy from the crown of his
tall silk-hat to the soles of his spruce tan shoes.
His coat was always stylish, and no Democratic
wrinkles marred the clear-cut contour of his curv-
ing vest. Nothing less than XXXXX would ade-
quately indicate the measure of his excellence in
personal appearance.
His pompous propriety, accompanied as it was
by the super-sensitiveness of overweening vanity,
must have been painful to himself. It certainly
was to his acquaintances and fellow civil-servants,
and would have been intolerable but for the fun
we got out of his peculiarities.
Smith-Jones was a stickler for style and good
form,” and had been known to walk home of a
wet afternoon rather than ride in a cab that had
lost the freshness of its paint and was not strictly
spick-and-span in every particular.
How lie could tolerate that pup of his—an ugly,
bushy-tailed specimen of no particular use or
breed—we could never quite understand. The
pup may have’ loved Smith-Jones, which was
very doubtful ; that he admired that conceited
individual with an awe-inspiring admiration was
apparent in every action.
As the pup grew into ungainly doghood his
abject worship increased. He seemed to live for
the express purpose of gazing at Smith-Jones with
a look that loudly proclaimed his canine belief in
his owner being the only true god. To anyone
but Smith-Jones the soulful earnestness of that
dog’s gaze would have been exasperating.
“ Oh, yes,” agreed Smith-Jones, when one of us
praised the dog, “ he’s a good animal ; but you
would never believe the trouble he gives one. One
has a p ‘sentiment that he will inadvertently do
someth,ng dreadful one of these days.”
A suggestion that Smith-Jones should leave
Carlo at home, tied up, was not taken He
objected to cruelty to dumb animals. All the
same we had our suspicions that the dog's open
admiration several times a day was almost indis-
pensable to its owner. So, though the character-
istics of eacli grew further and further apart, the
dapper civil-servant and his dog went to the office
in company as usual.
When passing street shop-fronts the painful
anxiety depicted on Smith-Jones’ face was a
caution to Carlo, and if the poor brute even
looked at another dog his master’s remonstrances
and entreaties and hurried surreptitious threaten-
ings were irritating to everybody within hearing.
In his spare time, Smith-Jones was given to
airing his figure on a certain street corner. There,
with expanding chest, and feet planted well apart,
he would discuss “form” and “style” and the
inevitable Carlo, with any A us he could manage
to button-hole.
At these street-corner meetings Carlo developed
the habit of pushing between his master’s legs
from behind, so as to get an uninterrupted view of
the face he so much admired. Meanwhile, his
great bushy tail waved majestically from the cleft
of Smith-Jones’ “street-sweeper.”
The habit was incurable. Nothing could lure
Carlo from his favorite position. Even kicks, or
prods with Smith-Jones’gold-headed malaccacane,
failed to shift him. The more he was kicked and
poked the more intense grew the look of admira-
tion in his big, brown, beseeching eyes. Even-
tually the dog won the day, and was allowed to
worship in peace.
But at last came a change. Somehow —never
mind how, but the reported remark of a girl had a
little to do with it —Smith-Jones was apprised of
the fact that the dog’s tail habitually stuck out
between the coat-tails and perpetually wagged
with a slow and solemn wag. Next day, Smith-
Jones walked down to the office without his com-
panion.
“ I had to get rid of him,” he told us in strictest
confidence, and with a perceptible shudder;
“ people actually conceived the astonishing im-
pression, don’tcherknow, that I was wagging my
own tail ! ”
JOHN DRAYMAN.
“Safrica.” A Bulletin present to the
South African papers.
A Melb. correspondent asks :
Is there any “record” in existence of rapid writing
(literary value apart as long as no verbal blunders)?
September Windsor asserts that Miss Bradd. n can write
about 1500 words an hour. Surely impossible to keep
this up even mechanically. The writing is—of course!
“ beautiful,” “clear,” and all the rest of it.
The fastest writer The Bulletin ever knew could
polish off 2000 words in one hour (not in the next)
—33 words a minute to Miss B.’s 25.
Sec. 27 of Q. Civil Service Act provides
that—
When a vacancy occurs in any Dept, of the Service . . .
it shall be filled by the promotion of either the same class
or that immediately below it.
Sec. 29 provides that —
If, in any special case, it is expedient in the interests of
the Public Service to appoint some person who is not
then in the Service, and to place such person in any class,
the Governor in Council may appoint such person
accordingly without either examination or probation, &c.
The latter provision is now being run for all it is
worth, and barristers, lawyers, and surveyors,
who are unable to earn their living at their'pro-
fessions, are run into the Civil Service under Sec.
29 if their social influence is strong enough. The
Lands Dept, seems the present dumping-ground ;
probably the Stipendiary Magistracy will be next
attacked.
The pretty complete demonstration that
the Australian artesian system doesn’t run through
the Victorian mallee, and so south to the ocean, is
on the whole satisfactory ; at any rate, the chances
are that a still larger area of back country is
watered ; possibly the southern outlet is in the
Australian Bight. Meanwhile there are few
more depressing sights in Central Australia—land
of depressing sights though it be-than the waste
of artesian waters that have been tapped—in the
far north of S.A. especially.
Wife of liigldy-paid civil-servant to ditto
of ditto: “Oh, no, my dear! it’s all humbug
about people really wanting employment. Why,
only the other day, a man came to our place and
asked for work, and—would you believe it !- when
I offered to put him on the garden at Is. a day the
impudent fellow actually said he couldn’t think of
taking advantage of my generosity, and couldn’t
I make it sixpence/”


IMPURE BLOOD
Is the Cause of very many of the Ills to which Flesh is Heir.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and enriches the Blood, as testified
to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Storekeeper, Breeza, New South Wales,
Who sends his portrait and tells the following interesting story:
I
1
is
%
t
w//>
>ll
“In the year 1890 my ankle broke out, and I went to a doctor who told
me I was suffering from blood poisoning. He prescribed for me but did me
no good, and I tried several other physicians without benefit. 1 went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, and after a month’s treatment there came
out worse than ever, feeling greatly discouraged. I suffered terribly for
four years, until my wife, hearing of your Sarsaparilla, got me a bottle.
She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon I noticed that the sore
on my ankle began to heal, then the pain diminished, and after a course of
six bottles I became as well as ever I was in my life, and I remain in the
best of health.
Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went through.
I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer with impure blood,
and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who have tried it.”
Be sure that you get the original
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
and be not deceived by the numerous imitations of this wonderful medicine.
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.. IT. S. A.
Leading Hotels.
Visitors to
- Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. _ First-class Board and Residence <£l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
QTJEBKT’S HOTEL,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
if- MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform hlg
friends and the general publio that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
Epfsa:
gsisioilM^
EMPIRE he- HOTEL,
Hitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
...
Terr
{
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
B-tr
TH6 GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.RO.
•jcoixao xv
aavoa so
skooh
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E BTOYE, cvmuFv mc in
Manager. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
ATKINSON’S
Newest Perfume
AOLINE
“Most Refresh trig.” (Regd)
NICE ALWAYS, BUT
DELICIOUSLY REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMB.
A true natural perfume
made from flowers.
Not a Chemical Preparation.
“AOLINE" PERFUME.
“ AOLINE”
“ AOLINE"
« AOLINE"
“ Most Refreshing.’*
TOILET SOAP
For the complexion,
TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
SACHETS.
Delightful for Handkerchief*,
Gloves, &e.
“AOLINE” TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
4. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OF THE CEREBRATED
“WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
“ A Charming Scent."—H.R.H. The Duchess of York,
DON’T BE NERVOUS
Nor trembling, nor go about in timorous mood, filled with
unreasoning dread. A few doses of
. . EEEOHAM’S PILLS . .
will so effectively tone up the nervous system and fortify the general health
that you would be able to remain unshaken in the presence of
v 4 MihA %
w
J
M
fS
%
\
J
■5.
TiOOK OF JNATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Da. LAFAYETTE M. BYKN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS OxST APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours op Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream op Love, and
all Zola's Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free, Is 3d.
komancb of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
8d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court op London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Hrptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits op Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, 1/6 post.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbassou's Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Ktique te : ai ties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/0 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French, unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price. Is : post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE Is. ... " per Post, Is. 3d.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
■ — ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.


‘|ibee’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
“ DCslbcc”
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
Baflet Girl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
“ Tales of tlie
Convict System,”
WortbiOgtoi) P(iri)pii)g Eogii)* Corppaoy.
(Australasian Bramh.) SlmpSOn BrOttierS. (Australasian Bramch.)
32 Clarence-st..
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-.
Sydney, X.S. W.
(iiflpSf
V , . -
son
Mill®
.
i
REGULAR PATTERN.
Agencies s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Aliee-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARED & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these giandmedicines have not Jeen
recognised bv thousands of su tei ers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest‘directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, fRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkorii-st., London. J! Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & lOE CO., LTD.
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BETTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION ; ICE-M AKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Mi’k, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade-for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SBO
Agents
at I.T) KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SENI> ORDERS TO THE ‘ HEAD OKEICE,” HARD .UK STREET—THEY VYILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION^
H. PAX’ESON, MaNASER.
'
I !
FOR THREADING PIPE.
J «
isitr
m* 5
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINARY"
STOCK.
THEE
OSTEK PITEDTUINTIItE DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cue off from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation, lor sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. I urther particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR
THE - -
ALL SINGER S 5 WING MACHINES.
Sl l™ CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Baking Powder-
v INSOLVENT .ESTATE X
—OF—
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
m I'lliiiOLTl!N
The Trustees OTer to the Public, to dear,
Tli3 Bala nos of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double y rip, box spring tuggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price US, reduced t 2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, .with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
. 10 10s, -reduced 13 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading' Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, wit h cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced t!i
each, complete.
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments unequal for quality, with oartridge maehinesaridcleaners complete. Usual price <2l, red need £7l Os ea. complete.
S Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £O, reduced £2 is (id each, complete.
4 \V",n '.Hester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced l'4 15s each, complete. .
4 Single-barrel Duck Clans, large size .bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price £Io,
reduced C 5 5s each.
BoQQiQgtoo’&
TTfTSH MOSS
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaint. .
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoQQingtoo’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion.
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver. Box
