

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S
The Bulletin
Voi. 18.—JNo. 904. j
[Saturday, June 12, 1897.
Peg:stered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. Gr» WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
. —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
. EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
smoke- TWO SEAS Tobacco
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
c* v-p
<RAci^A^ocK>
R. A. HERVEY, Agent., 171 Clarence Street, Sydney. I
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. Co.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Boston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Rustqx,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADB ENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbf.nt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrjcal Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wii)€ & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“ recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A. SplendidL Luncli for Is. 6a.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence, 10/- per day.
Before veiling the City write’lo the Manager for
Card of Tariff, (jorrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BXUSB^KTS.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETEEMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
T ZEE IE
<aros'/QQorHot?l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDNEY.
For TEEMS, please address the Manager.
sEED DIED
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
THZE
B
est
icycle
uilt
■
Australian Branch i
64 King* Street,
Sydney.
Depots-
I MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
I WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
Use “Pioneer” Sole Leather,
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ABE
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
THE BEST IK THE WORLD.
uiummw
TANNEHS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery : Lane Cove River.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SIAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARH, SYDNEY.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBA RT.
——
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hr.dley, Proprietress.
* GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
xi Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Visitors to
- Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS PACKETS OF 8 FOR l s .


THE RED PAGE.
BALLAD OF THE WOMEN OF PARIS
By Francois Villon.
Albeit the Venice girls get praise
For their sweet speech and tender air,
And though the old women have nice way»
Of chaffering for amorous ware,
Yet at my peril dare I swear,
Search Rome, where God’s grace mainly tarries,
Florence and Savoy, everywhere,
There’s no good girl’s lip out of Paris.
The Naples women, as folk prattle,
Are sweetly spoken and subtle enough :
German girls are good at tattle,
And Prussians make their boast thereof}
Take Egypt for the next remove,
Or that waste land the Tartar harries,
Spain or Greece, for the matter of love.
There’s no good girl’s lip out of Paris.
Breton and Swiss know nought cf the matter,
Gascony girls or girls of Toulouse;
Two fishwives there with a half hour's chatter
Would shut them up by threes and twos ;
Calais, Lorraine, and all their crews,
(Names enow the mad song marries)
England and Picardy, search them and choose,
There's no good girl’s lip out of Paris.
Prince, give praise to our French ladies
For the sweet sound their speaking carries ;
’Twixt Rome and Cadiz many a maid is,
But no good girl’s lip out of Paris.
Trans, by A. C. Swinburne.
It seems odd that Stephen Crane, an American,
should receive so little honor in his own country.
Recognition of the value of ‘ The Red Badge of
Courage ’ was instantaneous in England, yet
even now American criticism of it seems hard and
grudging. Some of Crane’s short stories are said
to have been refused by ‘Harper’s,’ ‘The Cen-
tury,’and a score of the best magazines in the
States. Yet it is difficult to understand how any
capable reader could miss seeing their fresh,
strong, indubitable genius. Whitman suggested
that the American public preferred verse which
was ‘either the poetry of an elegantly weak sen-
timentalism, at bottom nothing but maudlin
puerilities or more or less musical verbiage, aris-
ing out of a life of depression and enerva-
tion as their result; or else that class
of poetry, plays, &c., of which the found-
ation is feudalism, with its ideas of lords
and ladies, its imported standard of gen-
tility, and the manners of European high-life
below-stairs in every line and verse.’ This state-
ment has lost little of its essential truth in the
passage of forty years; and the effects of the mental
attitude and capacity which it implies extend to
prose as well as verse. It is singular how bad is
the literary taste of the mass of readers in the
Great Republic ; and how weak are the minds
which topple in thousands at the shock of
ephemeral crazes.
• * * *
The Society of Artists (Sydney) is not too well
satisfied with the results of its experimental
auction of produots. The second day’s sale, in
particular, was a very sad proceeding. There
were a few painters, and a few brokers, and a
very few of the public whom it was desired
to stimulate into patronage of High Art at Low
Prices. While the company was waiting for the
auctioneer a couple of haughty, well-dressed
ladies entered, sniffed at the blanks on the wall,
and remarked audibly, ‘ O dear, everything good
has gone. We’d better go too.’ Then they
Haughtily rustled out, followed by the reproachful
glances of the painters. Then a prosperous person
entered, button-holed a painter friend, assured
himself that one of the friend’s dozen pictures
had been sold, and loudly bewailed his own ill-luck.
‘No! he had set hie heart on the one ; he would
have nothing to do with the eleven.’ Then the
auctioneer came in breezily, and proceeded to
knock down impressionistic masterpieces athalf-a-
guinea and a guinea in jovial fashion- -
‘Gentlemen, I’m not saying anything about the merit
of these works of Art; you probably know more about
that than I do.’
Chorus of painters : ‘Wedo ! We do! ’
Voice of auctioneer: ‘“A Quiet Afternoon.” Only a
guinea and a-half offered for “ A Quiet Afternoon.” I
would give a good deal more myself fora quiet afternoon.’
Chorus of painters : ‘ What disgusting prices! Grand
idea this auction sale for us poor devils ! ’
Voice of auctioneer : ‘A bust! a miniature bust! only
feur shillings I’m offered for a bust. It’s the cheapest
bust I’ve ever had anything to do with.’ (Laughter of
brokers.)
Chorus of public as sale ends: ‘Rubbish, these pictures!
They can’t be any good or they would have brought
bigger prices. Anyhow’ (illogically), ‘we've got some
bargains.’
O Art ! Art ! Art!
* » * *
Pagan: According to ‘The Saturday Review,’
an English parson brings Northern Nansen to
task for his ‘godless’ book. There is not one
mention of an Almighty in hundreds of pages.
This is the last thing the ordinary reader would
miss, but—the tradesman’s eye ! Nansen should
have taken a hint from H. M. Stanley’s prefatory
Pharisaisms (how well he knew J. Bull \) —
Constrained at the darkest hour to humbly confess
that without God’s help I was helpless, I vowed a vow in
the forest solitudes that I would confess His aid before
men.
Nansen will know better next time. After eaGh
florid piece of soenio description, and after each
account of marvellous escape, he will place a foot-
note at the bottom of his diary’s page: ‘ Here
thank God for his wondrous works and the cer-
tainty of a second edition. ’
H. G. Wells commences in the magazines
what promises to be the most brilliant of the
scientific romances with which his name is asso-
ciated. The idea is a simple one : all the planets
are cooling as the sun’s heat lessens, and Mars,
35,000,000 miles farther from the sun than Earth
is, has grown so cold that the highly-intelligent
inhabitants perceive themselves threatened with
extinction. So they resolve to migrate to Earth,
and fire at our attractive planet hollow shells
filled with warriors, like the Trojan horse. As
the story commences, one shell has hit; and the
Mars-men are commencing to make things lively
with heat-rays which have all the destructive
force of Lytton’s vril. It would be a nice exercise
for the imaginative students at our local Univer-
sities to continue the story from the point where
Wells leaves off.
Katharine Tynan in ‘The Academy ’ —
People engaged in literary work will understand the
difference between a literary reputation and a public one.
Those whom writers, in their own circles, delight to
honour in more or less degree are just those whose names
have never reached the outside public. Yet in those
circles all work of real merit is known and praised, and it
is but the beginning of the wave that will carry a reputa-
tion in ever-widening circles farther than we can see. Of
course, there are always critics who are true tasters,
though the noise of the crowd may temporarily prevent
their being heard. I would say that critics to-day, as a
class, are men and women who honestly and humbly
endeavour to serve literature. Of ‘ log-rolling ’ I have
no knowledge and no experience. Critics are gentler
nowadays than of old. They w : ll not trample the life out
of a Keats, or scarify subjects too robust to die of their
treatment. That many of them go wrong is inevitable.
The noble pleasure of praising intoxicates some out of
discretion, but at least it is a nobler form of failure than
the criticism that lay in wait to bludgeon genius and
garrot young talent.
1 ♦
Some little items—
Arm-in-arm with Lord Rosebery, Louis Becke is tread-
ing literature’s Primrose path. His news includes an-
nouncement that the story of the Bounty mutineers, of
whioh Angus and Robertson hold the book rights, has
netted £l6O for serial publication ; that his name goes
with Jeffery’s to a life of Governor Phillip ; and that he
has blossomed as a reviewer (of Lyne’s ‘ Parkes ) in a
London daily.
Mark Twain’s note-book of his round-the-world lectur-
ing tour will include regarding Australia now, what
exactly?
Louise Maok’s new story 'Teens’ —for publication in a
few months—makes her school-days at Sydney Girls
High live over again in. charming fashion. Fathers
of daughters in short sweet skirts will surely have
no peace till they purchase.
A glance at the first sheets of the Boake book of noems
shows that it is progressing famously—or, at all events, as
famously as oan be expected when the backwardness in
Australia of the arts of drawing for illustration, and
engraving for illustration, and printing for illustration, is
reckoned for. ‘ The Picturesque Atlas,’ of course, most
be left out of comparison.
‘ Age * London corres.— 1 The fact is, of course,
Marcus Clarke struok a patch of extraordinary richness
in those old Tasmanian records. That he turned them to
account as Kipling, or Guy Boothby, or even Boldre-
wood, would have done, his most ardent supporters dare
not assert.’ Pass Kipling. But Guy Boothby 1 Boldre-
wood 1 Poor Marcus!
Austin Dobson adapts Lucretius for the Omar Khay-
ydm Club—
• Medio de fonte leporum
Surgit Omari aliquid.’
R. B. Cunninghame Graham, in 'Sat, Review': ‘As
regards Mr. Wilde, I should have thought that by this
time he has suffered enough to atone for all his talents.'
* Grave and Gay ' are a Dunedin (M.L.) firm of circulat-
ing librarians.
Paperknife : ‘I had probably not read a line of Dyson,
though never missing a “Bulletin,” till finding him so
acceptable in the Melb. Public Library to-day. Original as
Chirgwin with the churchwarden-pipe dance. “Banjo”
and Lawson do not mine as he. I commend him to
Ballarat and Bendigo.’
Says some new-chum reporter in Melb. * Age ’ of May
15 —‘The Railway Commissioner has authorised the car-
riage of fodder for cattle and sheep from Melbourne or
elsewhere to any bona-fide sheep or cattle ranch at rates
20 per cent, below the ordinary charges,’ &c. Do we
want ‘ ranch ’ and its irrelevant foreign associations when
we have the well-understood ‘ station ’ ?
♦
George Meredith, in his recently-published
‘E<say on Comedy,’says, as nearly as he dare,
thu„ the Englishman is an oaf who doesn’t know
the comic spirit from a Cheshire cheese. In the
Saturday Review Bernard Shaw points Meredith’s
parable—
‘The English public,’ says Meredith, ‘have the basis of
the comic in them: an esteem for common sense.’ This
flattering illusion does not dupe Mr. Meredith com-
pletely; for I notice that he adds ‘taking them gener-
ally.’ But if it were to be my last word on earth I must
tell Mr. Meredith to his face that whether you take them
generally or particularly—whether in the lump, or sec-
tionally as playgoers, churchgoers, voters, and what not
—they are everywhere united and made strong by the
bond of their common nonsense, their invincible deter-
mination to tell and be told lies about everything, and
their power of dealing acquisitively and successfully with
facts whilst keeping them, like disaffected slaves, rigidly
in their proper place: that is, outside the moral con-
sciousness. The Englishman is the most successful
man in the world simply because he values success-
meaning money and social precedence—more than any-
thing else, especially more than fine art, his attitude
towards which, culture-affectation apart, is one of half
diffident, half contemptuous curiosity ; and, of course,
more than clear-headedness, spiritual insight, truth,
justice, and so forth. It is precisely this unscrupulous*
ness and singleness of purpose that constitutes the
Englishman’s pre-eminent ‘common sense’; and this
sort of common sense, I submit to Mr. Meredith, is not
only not ‘the basis of the comic,’ but actually makes
comedy impossible, because it would not seem like com-
mon sense at all if it were not self-satisfiedly conscious of
its moral and intellectual bluntness, whereas the function
of comedy is to dispel such unconsciousness by turning
the search-light, of the keenest moral and intellectual
analysis right on to it.
• * • •
Now the Frenchman, the Irishman, the American, the
ancient Greek, is disabled from this true British common
sense by intellectual virtuosity, leading to a love of
accurate and complete consciousness of things—of intel-
lectual mastery of them. This produces a positive enjoy-
ment of disillusion (the most dreaded and hated of cala-
mities in England), and consequently a love of comedy
(the fine art of disillusion) deep enough to make huge
sacrifices of dearly idealised institutions to it. Thus, in
France, Molibre was allowed to destroy the Marquises. In
England he could not have shaken even such titles as the
accidental sheriff's knighthood of the late Sir Augustus
Harris. And yet the Englishman thinks himself much
more independent, level-headed, and genuinely republi-
can than the Frenchman—not without good superficial
reasons; for nations with the genius of comedy often
carry all the snobbish ambitions and idealist enthusiasms
of the Englishman to an extreme which the Englishman
himself laughs at. But they sacrifice them to comedy, to
which the Englishman sacrifices nothing ; so that, in the
upshot, aristocracies, thrones and churches go by the
board at the attack of comedy among our devotedly con-
ventional, loyal and fanatical next-door neighbours,
whilst we, having absolutely no disinterested regard for
such institutions, draw a few of their sharpest teeth, and
then maintain them determinedly as part of the machinery
of worldly success.
Besides, the Englishman is a serious person : that is, he
is firmly' persuaded that his prejudices and stupidities
are the vital material of civilisation, and that it is only
by holding on to their moral prestige with thesliffesfi
resolution that the world is saved from flying back into
savagery and gorilladom, which he always oonceives, in
spite of natural history, as a condition of lawlessness and
promiscuity, instead of, as it actually is, the extremity,
long since’grown unbearable, of his own notions of law
and order, morality and conventional respectability. Thus
he is a moralist, an ascetic, a Christian, a truth-teller,
and a plain dealer by profession and by conviction;
and it is wholly against this conviction that, judged
by his own canons, he finds himself in practice a great
rogue, a liar, an unconscionable pirate, a grinder of
the face of the poor, and a libertine. Mr. Meredith
points out daintily that the cure for this self-treasonable
confusion and darkness is Comedy, whose spirit overhead
will ‘look humanely malign and cast an oblique light on
them, followed by volleys oC silvery laughter.’ Yes, Mr.
Meredith ; but suppose the patients have ‘ commonsense *
enough not to want to be cured! Suppose they realise
the immense commercial advantage of keeping their ideal
life and their practical business life in two separate con-
soienoe-tight compartments, which nothing but ‘the
Comic Spirit ’ can knock into one ! Suppose, therefore,
they dread the Comic Spirit more than anything else in
the world, shrinking from its ‘illumination,’ and con-
sidering its ‘ silvery laughter ’ in execrable taste!
* • • *
Surely in doing so they are only carrying out the
common-sense view, in whicn an encouragement aad en-
joyment of comedy must appear c. 9 silly and suicidal and
‘ unEnglish ’ as the conduct of the man who sets Are to
his own house for the sake of seeing the flying sparks,
the red glow in the sky, the fantastic shadows on the
walls, the excitement of the crowd, the gleaming charge
of the engines, and the dismay of the neighbors.
No doubt the day will come when we shall deliberately
burn a London street every day to keep our city
*up to date in health and handsomeness, with no
more misgivings as to our common sense than we now
have when sending our clothes to the laundry every
week. When that day comes, perhaps comedy will
be popular too; for, after all, the function of comedy,
as Mr. Meredith after twenty years’ further considera-
tion is perhaps by this time ripe to admit, is nothing
less than the destruction of old - established morals.
Unfortunately, to-day such iconoclasm can be tolerated
by our playgoing citizpns only as a counsel of despair and
pessimism. T>iey can find a dreadful jov in it when it is
done seriously, or even grimly and terribly as they under-
stand Ibsen to be doing it; but that it should be done
with levity, with silvery laughter like the crackling of
thorns under a pot, is too scandalously wicked, too
cynical, too heartlessly shacking to be borne. Conse-
quently, our plays must either be exploitations of old-
established morals or tragic challengings of the order of
Nature. Reductions to absurdity, however logical; ban.
terings, however kindly ; irony, however delicate ; merri-
ment, however silvery, are out of the question in matters
of morality, excepting among men with a natural
appetite for comedy which must be satisfied at all cost
and hazards ; that is to say, not among the English play B
going public, which positively dislikes comedy.
• * * *
No doubt it is patriotically indulgent of Mr. Meredith
to say that ‘Our English school has not clearly imagined
society,’ and that ‘ of the mind hovering above congre-
gated men and women it has imagined nothing.’ But is
he quite sure that the audiences of our English school do
not know too much about society and ‘ congregated men
and women ’ to encourage any exposures from ‘ the vigi-
lant Comig,’ with its ‘ thoughtful laughter,’ its ‘ oblique
illumination,’ and the rest? . . Is it clear that the
Comic Spirit would break into silvery laughter if it saw
all that the nineteenth century has to show it beneath the
veneer ? There is Ibsen, for instance : he is not lacking,
one judges, in the Comic Spirit; yet his laughter does
not sound very silvery, does it? No: if this were an age
for comedies, Mr. Meredith would have been asked for
one before this. How would a comedy from him be re-
lished, I wonder, by the people who wanted to have the
revisers of the Authorised Version of the Bible prose-
cuted for blasphemy 'jecause they corrected as many of
its mistranslations as they dared, and who reviled Froude
for not suppressing Carlyle’s diary and writing a fictitious
biography of him, instead of letting out the truth 1
Comedy, indeed !
Writes ‘J. Jingle ’ —
‘ Yellowbush ’ says ‘ we shall not see Australia as it is
until we have separated the immigrant from the native
author.’ How are they to be separated? Must the immi-
grant return to his native soil before versifying his
Australian impressions ? Must he prefix eo his verses
—‘These are only foreign ideas’—so that the native
readers may not be led into thinking the poem Australian,
when the author learned to read and write in Spain or in
the North of Ireland some twei ty years before ? A man
need not necessrrily be born in Egypt to paint a truthful
picture of a portion of the right bank of the Nile. Why,
then, must he be born in Australia in order to truthfully
pourtray, in verse, an action or a scene occurring in
Australia?
I do not claim Gordon as an Australian poet. What I
do claim is that, together with his other work, Gordon
wrote some typioal Australian poetry. As a bush poem
the * Sick Stockrider ’ stands alone. Where is described
so well the glorious rush of joy-in-living that runs
now and then through the hard life of the ca!tie-man?
And if an average man were born forty times over into
this exceptionally horsey country, could he write a de-
scription of a race to equal Gordon’s * Melbourne Cup ’ ?
Similarly, ‘ Geoffrey Hamlyn ’ is none the less a purely
Australian novel, though it is written by an Englishman.
You are born in England, emigiate at 18; at 30 you pro-
duce a novel. In it there are graphio descriptions of
Australian scenery ; the dialogue reeks of the bush, even
to the blankies; and the characters are Australian to a
man, woman, and child. Lastly, the book is a huge suc-
cess. Say, is it an English or an Australian work?
Australian, by St. Blanky !
A COLOR SCHEME.
( Showing the fate that overtakes the average girl artist).
’Twas in the Latin Quarter
That pretty Susan Worth
To her painting class each morning
Along the street tripp’d forth.
Now, there was a jolly artist
Lived in the Rue Sufflot,
Who daily to the Beaux Arts
With pots and paints did go.
So they often passed each other
At the early hour of eight,
But her thoughts they dwelt on colors,
His on technique up to date.
(Interval of two short montht).
When last I saw sweet Susan,
Au cinquierne au droit c,
Smilingly she welcomed me,
And happy seem’d her lot.
* Of course, you keep up painting V
She gently shook her head.
‘ My Jack is a great artist,
He paints for both,’ she said.
‘ Well, then, you draw a little,
Sketch a bit, as sketching goes ?'
‘ No !—dear Jack needs a model,
And so ’ —she said —‘ I pose.’
Kate Adatr
in ‘ The Quartier Latin.'
George robertson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S "-TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. 6d.; posted. Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from THE
Bulletin ), by Price Warung ; price, 25.: post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; price, 2s. fid.;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
A. ff. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address: GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
“ nnHE BULLETIN ~ PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
BUT AS THE PAYS CHAN6E,
.... MEN CHANCE TOO.
Nothing—at least hardly anything is immutable. Our tariff is continually changino’; one
the Premiers altered his mind about the trip ’Ome ; and the surplus—well, we know-how thj
fluctuates. After these chameleon tints it is refreshing to turn to something that is coi
sistent. The superior smoking quality of
CAMEO CIGARETTES
is only equalled by their popularity.


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN.
yotiog
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away from
the city and unable to come to his’office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/—. _ 127 Redfern Street,
AP b P y r Tet a u t r e n M p e os 1 t° me REDFERN.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Sheer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box 920. York Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than £1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
■“■of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
AddreBB “MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
O' R I CORO-
tS St** c£ °f £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important dements of the human frame.
In cases of Vis, or four quantities in one for .Vis. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO URNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales— W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Medical.
DFTSPEER,
20 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life. •
ALiLi CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq..;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
‘JOHN DURANT!
'i
FULL DIRECTIQHSI
„. enclosed;
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
“A BORN PHYSICIAN.
The Greatest and Most Successful -Practitioner in the World,
i mode of Treatment is unfolded in his last work (nearly 100 PAGES). PRICE Posted, Sealed
£l, including ONE MONTH'S MEDICINE, for any Disease.
■4s\ "
r '
m
if
But few of noted specialists have sprung- into pre-emi-
nence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Oollins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ,
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed in an
acute or chronic case of long standing, where other physicians
have failed. He addresses himself in particular to cases that
have baffled the skill and science of other doctors. His name
is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect cure of every case he
undertakes. Consult him this day. It may save you much
mental and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life.
YOUNG MEN.
You will find this distinguished doctor your best friend
and benefactor. If you are troubled with want of sleep, a
tired gloomy feeling, and loss of energy, which impair both
your body and brain, and absolutely unfit you for study,
business, or the proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering
from these or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before
it is everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands j our trouble, and can treat it
with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN.
There are many of you afflicted with weak, aching back
and kidneys, loss of mental and physical power and vigor,
and not unfrequently accompanied by an impairment of the
general health. In justice to this celebrated specialist it can
be truthfully stated that in all such cases of middle-aged
men, as well of young men, his success has been almost
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female complaints,
liver lun°\ chest, throat, stomach, bladder, kidney and heart
disea’se ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE.
Sunreon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double com-
press, price £2. Constitutional or acquired weaknesses
treated successfully.
, , r. , • , ; ,w.irwp-H a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
CONSULTATION is free to all, but whe ™ i f 1 f .^ e en e < j consult the old and successful Specialist,
appropriate medicines sent. Before confknng your c f , ffer j n<r New edition of my latest work, “ Mens
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may save future sunermg.
Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free to men. held Government Appointments.
N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising a hs \^° Comns stree t, Melbourne.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M R C.S., Eng , M
- this Pack?,.
• EQINNINQ.
WEAK
MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
specifics, &c., when I will .kbA e9B a ii(i Failing
Homoeopathic'Treatment, w hich is a.c°mP ®Lfg ent sealed
Vigor in young and old men All ,nri Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrallv-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Weloome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Eiizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will' assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
I
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CL T RED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical,
PERFECT HOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
YS/'EAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,.
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the urriters
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes “ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to yopr numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted t«
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
9
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : 1 The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“Gentlemen, —l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what'
ever use you like of this.’’
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that lam well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick , Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ha FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A,
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac.


TATTERSALL’S
NSTER PRIZE LIST.
registered
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
IIOSEHILL C. June 19.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name I
£
Address
shares in the above.
MAITLAND C
June 21
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
GRAND NATIONAL H. July 3.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name,
£
Address
Waterloo Coursing C. July 22 & 23.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
SPRING H. About 28th August.
50,000 Subscribers a/t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
116,000 Shares at £1 Each Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Shares at fl Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd
3rd
4th
Oth
Oth
Empire Hotel, Temora
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc.
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,065
valued at
valued at
8,100
8,000
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
valued at
valued at
valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
4,000
4,000
3,550
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the
he Hi ’filiation fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the nnH™ f„i • ri. TT
Ca,i. 4 dvalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus: f 16 Homestead - °r
Tatteisails Second Distribution
—OF—
City ai)d SobOrbao
Freehold - Properties.
100*000 Shares of ss + Each.
Ist Prize.—Terrace Houses, Glenmore
Hoad, and large Dwelling-House,
W oollahra...
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
Value
£8,500
£5,000
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, hut have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
gee the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
Jnthony Hordern 8 S ons
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
j in curing affections of the Throat
I and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
; Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas=
ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
flo ||ot Hesitate j
BUT Call and See.
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
PURIFIED -
- HEALTHY
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Laivler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1, 3,5,6,8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
Madame Rodney,
HiHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
The “Sorting Universal”
B°iler - Feed Injector.
MANUFACTURED BY
L. SHUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed Injector in this market.
It is working in thousands of cases to the very best ad-
vantage. It takes water at a temperature of 150 deg.
Fahr. It is worked entirely by one handle. Send for
special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
AT THE END THAT IS NOT.
H fwonL me \ W i hy do f fc thou think of me?
not \ have th e grief be thine
Is all f ir fh t 0 sweet B| inshine
ls ai i frtr thee—the shade is mine.
Kemember not my tears.
Heart of me, quickly forget me !
Mvhl 6 to , H' a g u> ‘ with pain.
My heart s cloak is the bitter rain
Ut tears of murdered thought—me, Cain.
Hear not, though deep my cry !
Heart of me, live in the sunlight!
Let me alone my hell endure ;
i hou couldst not turn what is too sure—
-1 hou must not share the pain. No cure
there is for self-dealt death.
H r T,’ thou whom the Gods love,
Me, God-forgotten, ah ! forget.
Nor hold within thy heart regret
At Vv y d , eath that lingers yet—
(G, Death, why cry I vainly ?)
Heart of me, mine is one fierce prayer—
l nou shalt not see my misery,
Ihou shalt not hear my heart’s great cry,
I hou shalt not care though damned I die—
My Heart, thou must not know !
Adelaide.
ROSAMOND BENHAM.
WEST OF THE WORLD.
West of the World ! all red suns sleep
a Hee °y car Pet of crimson cloud,
And the weary winds from the eastward creep
xo their shining goal in the western steep,
in the golden arms of the starry crowd
West of the World.
World ! all true hearts ride
10 a further bourne than the best have trod,
lul they cross the last creek gleaming wide
And wave their hands from the last divide ’
Ere they drop their load at the feet of God-
West of the World.
West of the World ! all dead hopes drift
On the heaving heart of the hiding Day
lo the clinging shadows that show no rift,
With a lingering step that is all too swift
1 1 or the eyes that follow their trackless way—
West of the World.
GLENROWAN.
MY WEIRD.
Oh ! stern accusing Eyes of Hate,
Your terrors on my slumbers wait!
You haunt my days, dread Eyes of Fate !
It was not so, Girl, years agone :
Then the dear lovelight softly shone
In twin stars, lit by love alone.
And if I vowed my love would last,
I knew not then love could be past;
When smiles are gone, tears hold not fast.
You loved ; I wearied; now, you know,
In silence where deep waters flow
Your Hate holds what your Love let go.
The white face with the darkened eyes,
With child’s look, calmly, sadly wise,
They hid it where the rushes rise.
So strangely like you, I might deem,
I saw your face, Girl! in that dream
Of a pale face beside a stream.
But your last 100k —it had not worn
The fury of a woman’s scorn :
’Twas but a dream, of madness born.
A dream ! but yet I surely know
Two dark eyes watch where’er I go,
With dead hate in their smouldering glow.
Will the old love that made Youth sweet
Flash from dark eyes a greeting fleet
When you and I and Death shall meet ?
IAN GLEN.
FOUR FEASTS.
I dug in my garden plot to-day,
And now and again desisting,
I watched the earthworms, brisk and gay,
In the deep black loam of the yellow clay,
Crawling and wriggling and twisting.
And I softly laughed : “Ha ha ! ho ho !
You’ve been having a fine feast down below
In the richest spot
Of my garden plot! ”
And the worms kept wriggling and twisting.
My ducks came out with a “Quack, quack, quack,”
And after me, waddling and wobbling;
They followed closely my spade’s fresh track,
And I saw by a glance behind my back
How the worms they were greedily gobbling.
And again I laughed : “Ha ha ! ho ho !
Eat on, my beauties, and fatter grow ;
For the worms are sweet,
And they’re cheaper than wheat! ”
And the ducks kept gobbling and gobbling.
In fancy I saw, some weeks ahead,
Those ducks grow fatter and fatter,
And I thought of a glorious Christmas “spread,”
When a couple should grace my table’s head
In a gravy-brimming platter !
And I merrily laughed : “ Ha ha ! ho ho !
My time for feasting will come, I know ;
I’ll be fairly in luck
With a fine roast duck ! ”
I was counting my chicks—no matter !
Then a graver thought came over my soul,
And gloom took the place of jesting ;
For a sombre vision before me stole
Of a sexton digging a deep black hole
For my worn-out body’s resting.
And I laughed no longer, but sighed : “ That’s so »
The ducks and myself to the earth must go.
And the ‘ Conqueror Worm ’
Shall wriggle and squirm
And enjoy the final feasting.”
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (under cover)
toanypartot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6<l.
Sols Agents :
The Result .
Craig & Aitken. c:c*o32 Gsorse-st, Sydney,
ED W A R D a 1
&
WORLD-RENOWNED
air Producer * Restorer
DRESSING Spe ciall y prepared and perfumed for Toilet
UAKUCNE ’ Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey ITair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
ot an y Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2 6size)4 6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World
EDWARDS' “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN. LONDON W.c‘
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fru ts
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
CUVTAun F sPr ls , Deliclolls with BIRD’S
The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
and re c d .isfpra ano £ her ' A portion of ‘he Fruit
fnrm5 USta d * w ?. en served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD
can bo obtained
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
wherever
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Birds Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
E %g Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Bc&Soq’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other Maker in the World.
fading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
*** Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms.
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
A qykes
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Rubber Manufacturers .
•9
WATERPROOFS
TTY Cl no AT« TVr A riTATrTAOITTJn
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING c gOATS, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
RUBBER HOSE,
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS Am bpuwhdoi „
SUCTION HOSE,’STEAM'HOSE,' DIVING FIRE hSIe. H ° SE '
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
Every Variety of ~
TEA !
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
* sr SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. IS*
jomts. It can never ahr.nk, crack, or sag ,n any climate, and thus the Piano will “o? lie tone.
Wrist pins are’ extra
long and plated. All
baas wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires arc two sixes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-'
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.!
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone. 1
Compass, seven octaves. 1
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos .can
be'had in walnut, pi
ebony, with,or without
gold .engraving, with
™™L P J? el rh?!?; Stn3 and patir , au ; 1 Renaissance candelabra. : ‘ touch ’tf eaand
chasers bo insurance, and duty.- Testimonials from thousands of actual pup
on£?n£L lif; including eminent musicians of world-wide* celebrity. Governor* of
***» * C°- *&>.. «4 Geo*.


Australian M(it6al
Established 1849.
ProVideQt Society.
The Oldest- Mutual Lite Assurance Society established . T .„, TTTC . Uvfuv vfar i
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR .
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R H . I
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. BENJAMIN SIR RR g
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEEGE, U.A., •>
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling^
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to , ,
vieldinir Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000. _
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
k
tei2/6.DA?£i)Pwrc
OTCtUSIVE 05* ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
«pHE WONDERFUL
WaterbOry Watcb!
For Correct Time and Little Money
Uaterbury (Hatches wat ch the |||orld f
THE UNIVERSAL TIMEKEEPER.
IRO^ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Psip
mm
Traction.,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Lofydoi? ai)d tydboGrije Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS at
Suits —455. to 90s. Trousers— from 12s. 6d. to 25s
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M, BAUMABSHE, Manager.
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Kail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. Gd.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
ill 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Sc Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Sc Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
s*^
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-oavment
Svstem, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY The whole of
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION
The Most Complete System of I aluieas
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes: “The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . • ~
scale on which they work enables them to employ
capital and labor in the most effective and, economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable pr
each individual transaction. Being able to keep t.neir
chairs full from morning to night, they can emploj tie
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
0J- Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
•Dodalla, Cheese
■ * The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
■—{oclalla "Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
fJodalla Hams
' ■ * In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SXI»NE¥.
—THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
* tv&Xr
jiiil
:r*: h.
ft •••::-
gl S&tWg
SIT#
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10/- per night. TWO
DINING BOOMS. Boarders, 30/- co £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN - -
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 05 Pitt St-, Sydney,
Chaikman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 416 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
£3" INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896— divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making ,£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Tire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
-—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C- ZEILIDIRIIDG-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Important Announcement by Dixson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers,
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Price Hitherto XTll"
kIIOWU Here a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Vuelta Abajo).
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-clioice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for 6d.!! —will at first no doubt
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming the great cost of production, just
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight to be made at a profit. DIXSON
and SONS intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “BONANZA”
comes as a pleasant surprise to many tvho, though capable of appreciating a
good Cigar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury.
Note-—Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin
Register erf at the Ctenjernt ■ Post Offee, Sydney , for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 18.—No. 904.
SATURDAY, JUNE 12, 1897.
Price, 6d.
Mr. Garrard (Minister for Education
and Labor) said it was c'sar the gardens
had not been managed on business lines,
and the proposal to give the society another
£ 1000 could not be reasonably entertained.
The more successful the Sunday opening
of the gardens was, the more Sunday labor
would be required in working
the trams. On that ground
alone he would oppose the
motion. Call him a Sabba-
. tarian or call him what they
liked, he would never be a
party to any arrangement
which might eventually mean
more extended infringement of
the Sunday liberty of workers.
THE TWO JACOBS. '
The One in Cage : “ I
thought I was the original and /
only Jacob ; I now see my mis-
take. Allow me 1 ” ,
A Salvation expert might be engaged to teach the
elephants the celebrated “knee-drill and other devout
tricks.”
The directors, by a
little judicious label-
ling, might enlist the
co-operation of the
clergy and Sunday-
school persons.
History, both Natural, Religious
and Profane, might be inculcated into
the youthful mind, at the expense of
an extra straw per week.
WHAT '* IT." MAY COME TO.
Leo : “ Look here ! this is Lent, isn’t it ? ”
Keeper : “It is.”
Leo, : “ Then no more raw horse for me !
Bring me some carrots ! ”
A MORAL BEAR.
( Bear (at bottom of pit): “ ’Scuse me, sonny ; I
ain’t on for no bun-business to-day. I’m a six-day
bear, I am, and don’t intend to work Sundays, Act
o’ Parliament or no Act o’ Parliament I ”
THE SUNDAY OPENING OF SYDNEY ZOO.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. ales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum £ { ° ° a
Half-yearly ... ... ••• 0 H „
Quarterly... ... ... ••• 0 b o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added rvhere required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal bote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you even)
week for a year. . .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political , Social , or other Articles,
Verse , Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Au*-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ire
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event ,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draum —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
i b Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.—lF. M. Smith <1: Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
Us. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
7%£ Vfetrflefztfi.
SATURDAY, JUNE 12, 1897.
The Great Ikey Mo Problem.
Something of a rather vague and misty
character has happened to the gambling
industry of New South Wales, and, for the
moment, a bewildered Ikey Mo can’t fully
realise the situation. Hitherto, the letter of
the cornstalk law on the subject of betting
has been very clear and precise, but a quaint
interpretation has been cast upon it by the
courts, which entirely altered its apparent
meaning. According to the statute, it is
illegal, in a general sort of way, to use any
place for betting purposes. A place, in the
popular acceptation of the term, is any region
on the earth, or the sea, or below or above
either of them ; according to the customary
reading, if any man is engaged in betting, or
in anything else for that matter, or if he
merely exists without being engaged in any-
thing, that fact is sufficient evidence that he
is in a place ; the idea of a human being who
is in no place at all is beyond human com-
prehension. Nevertheless, the law decided
that a shop was a place but that a racecourse
was not; therefore shop-betting was illegal
and racecourse-betting was perfectly lawful
and justifiable. This interpretation of the
law lasted for many years, but quite recently
a British court created a new precedent,
which has broken out in New South Wales
with great virulence. It decided that a race-
course was a place after all, therefore race-
course-betting is also illegal. On the strength
of this, the New South Wales law has
descended with a crash of sudden enthusiasm
on bookmakers who bet upon racecourses for
cash, while those who bet on credit are, so
far, left to carry on their business with im-
punity, for some reason not too well defined.
The new reading of the law, so far as The
Bulletin can see, is hardly important
enough to merit all the excitement it has
created. Betting in shops or offices kept for
the purpose has been admittedly illegal for
many years, yet there are about a hundred
well - known betting establishments and
“totes” in and around Sydney. Some of
them have offices in the principal business
streets ; many have their names in large
letters on the brilliantly-lighted window to
let the police know that they are there ; and
quite a number are—or were—wont to regu-
larly advertise their addresses and their un-
lawful trade in The Bulletin and other
papers, so that the police might know where
to go and summon them six times every
week or oftener. Yet nothing happens to
them except that they are fined a small
amount each about once in three years,
as an average. Therefore, it is evident
that, with the kind of police force
and magistracy and Parliament and Minis-
try that New South Wales possesses, it
really matters next to nothing whether betting
is legal or not. On the strength of the new
decision a temporary show is being made of
/suppressing the cash Ikey Mo who plies his
business on the racecourse, but presumably
this burst of energy will also die away, and
the illegal Ikey Mo on the racecourse will
have the same impunity as the illegal Ikey
Mo in the shop. By-and-bye it will pro-
bably be found that the credit Isaac Mo is
as illegal as his cash compatriot, and then
another temporary panic will strike the com-
munity, and for a little while there will be
another rush of legal proceedings and small
fines. Then, presumably, that excitement
will also die away, and the four gay male-
factors—the shop Mo, the small Mo who
keeps a tote, the racecourse cash Mo, and
the credit Mo—will march abreast placid and
unmolested. That is to say, they will be
fined once in three years or so as a small
matter of form, and nothing more.
* ♦ ♦ *
The shop Ihey Mo is not obliterated by
the strong arm of the law, because the police
systematically leave him alone—presumably
in consideration of valuable “tip” received.
The God- fearing Ministry doesn’t inquire
why he is left alone, presumably because it
doesn’t care whether the law is broken and
the police corrupted or not, and also, pre-
sumably, because some members of it are
themselves notoriously of a sporting turn.
The racecourse cash-Hebrew will, presum-
ably, be left alone also, when things simmer
down, provided he also tips the force liberally
and regularly. So will the credit-Hebrew
when his turn comes. Beyond the fact that
there will be more tip and more corruption,
the new departure, so far as The Bulletin
can see, makes no difference whatever. It
only means that the mean and dirty and
venal system which so many N.S.W. Govern-
ments have winked at will continue to be
winked at, only the venality will be more
extensive and the wink consequently larger.
* * * *
If, however, racecourse betting on credit
is, by some accident of the law, really not
illegal, while cash betting is, then the only
thing which any consistent Ministry can do
is to introduce new legislation making both
either lawful or unlawful. If it makes them
both lawful, then it has no earthly excuse
for not legalising the totalisator, which is
simply a bookmaker in another guise—only
one that gives fair odds and never welshes or
uses unpleasant language. And if it makes
all these lawful, then there is no excuse for
not legalising lotteries under proper super-
vision, and making both them and the tota-
lisator pay a proportion of their profits to
the State Treasury. In fact, there is no
excuse for not legalising lotteries, even apart
from the bookmaker question. The N.S.W.
Government shifted “ Tattersall ” out of
the province, but it makes no effort to
prevent his consultations being advertised in
the Sydney and other papers, and though it
stopped letters going through the post to
“Tattersall” in Sydney it doesn't even
ask Parliament for authority to prevent
letters from New South Wales going to the
same individual in Hobart. It allows the
Cornstalk to gamble in lottery-tickets just as
freely after “ Tattersall’s ” expulsion as
before, and it carries the letters and money
of that sinful person in its mails, and is his
partner and agent ; therefore it is itself a
godless, gambling Ministry whose virtuous
professions on the subject are a matter of
ridicule. If, on the other hand, it makes
credit-bookmaking illegal in order to bring
it in line with the same sin when done on a
cash basis, The Bulletin respectfully sug-
gests that the GoD-fearing Ministry should
cease to be a blatant and time-serving hypo-
crite over the matter. Let it take steps to
ensure that the police will institute a
separate prosecution against every book-
maker and betting-shop-keeper and “tote”
man for every day he pursues his business,
and have him fined six times a week regu-
larly so long as he continues in the trade.
Let it get Parliamentary authority to stop
carrying “Tattersall’s” letters and cir-
culars through the mails and cease taking the
wages of sin from that individual in the
shape of postages. Let it shut down on all
gambling advertisements, and then it will at
least be honest, even if it is very stupid
and wholly impracticable.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s view of the matter is that
gambling can’t be repressed, and that it is
very doubtful if it ought to be. Gambling
may be an evil ; so probably are drink
and tobacco, and opium, and horse-racing,
and war, and many other things that waste
time and money to no purpose. But if all
these pleasant vices were abolished the
muddy stagnation that would ensue—the
howling of the mental desolation that is to
come—the placid, cow-like calm of a blame-
less life that would settle down upon every-
body, might prove an evil 20 times more
objectionable. Therefore, this paper believes
that suppression is neither possible nor
advisable, and with that conviction on its
mind it advocates State regulation instead.
Its theory is that the totalisator should be
allowed on every racecourse under proper
supervision and provided the . racing club
pays to the State an annual license fee and a
share of its v percentage on the money in-
vested. It believes that a limited number of
totalisators should be allowed in Sydney and
other large towns under the same conditions
to accommodate gamblers who don’t care to
attend races. Further, it has an idea that
the State should either authorise some
wealthy and responsible person or co.
or syndicate to run lotteries in the province,
on condition that the State gets a percentage,
or else that it should run them itself ; and,
finally, that it should license a certain num-
ber of bookmakers in order to provide an
outlet for that class of betting which the
tote does not accommodate. And, haying
thus provided means for honest gambling,
that it should shut down on all unlicensed
gambles remorselessly.
* * * *
The Bulletin advocates this policy because
it believes that gambling is irrepressible and
not wholly objectionable. But as the
Gon-fearing Ministry of New South Wales
holds that it is wholly objectionable,
and that it can be repressed, this
paper respectfully asks it to act up to
its convictions. As a step towards this end,
it is hereby suggested that it should make
credit bookmaking illegal, should increase
the minimum fine upon the tote-keeper,
betting-shop man, and the Ikey Mo (whether
he bets for cash or otherwise) to £lOO, and
give a third of the amount to the informer in
order to make sure that the law will be en-
forced, and should get Parliamentary autho-
rity to stop carrying “Tattersall’s” cor-
respondence, and also to shut dow T n on every
paper which publishes his advertisements.
This would show that it really believes
gambling should be and can be put down,
and also that it seriously desires to put it
down. If the attempt succeeded, well and
good. If it failed, then some method of
regulation could be tried in its stead.
The Cornstalk Railway Deficit.
Ox no less than 39 lines the earnings fall below actual
working expenses. . . It was by the expenditure of
borrowed money upon works of this kind that the great
Protectionist boom was vamped up, and Victoria turned
into a temporary “ paradise of labor.” . . The money
was simply squandered in creating a state of fictitious
prosperity, of which Protection was given the credit. No
doubt we have similar sins of our own to answer for, but
they are on nothing approaching the Victorian scale. . .
In the other colonies it is the same, more or less, but the
case of Victoria with her 39 railways, all of which would
be dear at a gift, is quite unique. —Sydney Telegraph,
17th May, 1896.
It is one of the standing legends of New South
Wales that it has the best-paying railway
system in the six eastern provinces of Austra-
lasia. This is ascribed partly to the magnifi-
cent wealth of the country, and parlly to the
prosperity naturally created by Freetrade, and
partly to other things. What New South
Wales is especially proud of is that its railway
system is not like that of the other provinces—
especially not like that of Victoria. In Vic-
toria the railway deficit is published every year
or much oftener; also, the list of railways
which don’t pay working expenses and interest,
and the loss upon each ; and the demand that
the railway deficit shall be abolished, or that
somebody shall be sacrificed for not abolishing
it, is loud and incessant. And the Syd-
ney press writes articles like that quoted
above and “ feels good ” over the matter.
Meanwhile the local deficit is never, so far as
The Bulletin is aware, published in any
paper, or alluded to in Parliament, or men-
tioned in the Financial Statement, or set forth
in any of the Statistician’s publications, and
everybody takes it for granted that no such
thing exists, or if it does exist it isn’t worth
mentioning.
* * * *
As the Telegraph truly observes, there
are 39 Victorian railways which don’t pay
expenses; and it might also add 19 more
to that list without deviating from the
truth to any extent worth mentioning. The
total loss on these 58 lines, according to the
latest published account, reached the immense
sum of £334,228 per annum. As an expression
of the other side of the case, the following is
the list of unprofitable New South Wales lines,
as supplied on page 451 of the “ Wealth and
Progress of New South Wales,” and the losses
thereon for the year ended June, 1896 :
Railways. Loss on W orkmg Ex-
„ penses and Interest
Uoulburn-Cooma £43,453
Murrumburrah-Blayney 40^855
Cootamundra-Guudagai 5*628
Cootamundra-Temora 3137
Narrandera-Jerilderie 10,701
Culcairn-Corowa 7!925
Sydney-Riama ... 422U4
Kiama-Nowra ... 12634
.Sydenham-Belmore 7,518
Blacktown-Richmond 6,091
Wallerawang-Mudgee 29* 704
Orange-.Molong ' 4732
Molong-Forbes 1149
Nyngan-Cobar 2*184
Hornsby-North Sydney 20*184
Werris Creek-Tarn worth 4,493
Tamworth-Armidale 34*907
Armidale-Jennings 64.683
Lismore-Murwilluuibah 32'018
Loss on 19 non-paying lines £374,200
There is nothing in these figures to be especially
proud of; in fact, the list is among the most
lamentable things of its kind in Australasia.
And yet the Sydney Foreign-trade organ, for
the sake of boosting up its imported calico
policy, weeps over the Victorian boom rail-
ways and states proudly that the cornstalk
trouble is on “nothing approaching the Vic-
torian scale.”
* * * -4
1 he looses in (question arc no new dis&stcr
caused by drought or other accidental causes
Ihe figures supplied go back four years. For
1892 there were thirteen railways on the deficit
list, and the total loss was £311,000. Next
year there were sixteen, and the shortage
expanded to £324,000. Then, in 1894 the
losing lines had increased to nineteen and the
loss to £358,000 ; while for the year ended June,
1896, there were again nineteen, but the loss
had increased to £374,000.
. • • *
Still the general supposition in the province
is that the New South Wales railways are, on
the whole, a paying investment. But the
Auditor-General blights this idea in one act.
On page 197 of his report for 1892 he sets forth
that the total loss on the railway system from
its beginning in 1850 until the end of 1891
(41 years) was £6,6/1,834. At 30th -June,
1896, the loss had increased to £7,735,213, sc
the average loss for the last \\ years wa>
£236,306 per annum. The last year, fron
June, 1895, to June, 1896, was apparently 'he
worst of all, the loss, as shown on page 208 of
the Auditor-General’s latest report, being
£321,690. Between ’92 and ’96 the gross
revenue declined by £338,000, despite the fact
that over 330 miles of new line were opened in
the interval. The moral, apparently, is that,
taking an average of the last few’ years, there
is very little indeed to choose between the
deficits of the two provinces. The principal
difference seems to lie in the varying degree of
publicity given to the shortages.
• » • *
The old, weary, fiscal controversy has pro-
bably a great deal to do with the prevailing
misconception. For some unexplained reason,
Victoria is to the Cornstalk the typical Pro-
tectionist country— the Lord alone knows why,
seeing that both Tasmania and Maoriland are
more distinctly Protectionist than the place of
the exploded land-boom. New .South Wales,
on the other hand, is the typical Freetrade pro-
vince, and the struggle to manufacture proofs
of the extra blessedness of that policy is very
keen. Victoria has practically no Freetrade
party within its own borders, therefore the
Victorian press isn’t under the perpetual neces-
sity to concoct evidence in defence of Protection;
when it does concoct it, w'hich is frequently,it is
mainly from love of controversy. The domi-
nant party in New South Wales, however, has
a strong Protectionist minority to confront in
its own territory, and in the struggle to keep
the hostile faith from spreading it has to be
constantly constructing evidences of the
material advantages of Foreign-trade, and pro-
ducing real or imaginary facts about the pro-
sperity in its own province and the ruin in the
province next door, and about the difference be-
tween New South Wales now and the same pro-
vince in the days of the “ Dibbs deficit.” And
one result of the legend that has been built up
about the surprising prosperity of the New
South Wales railway system and the awful
state (owing to Protection) of the adjacent
systems, is that the cornstalks refused almost
unanimously to hear of any proposition for
federating their lines with those of the other
provinces. There is no visible reason why they
should have refused ; on the Auditor-General’s
showing, the New South Wales deficit can
hold its own reasonably well with those
of its neighbours. But the legend had
somehow taken root, and as a conse-
quence one of the most important advan-
tages of Federation is likely to be thrown away.
The N.S.W. representatives were not wholly,
or anything like wholly, responsible for the
disastrous resolution arrived at in the Conven-
tion ; still they were so far responsible for it
that their vote, if cast in the Federal instead
of the provincial interest, might very probably
have turned the scale. And but for the widely-
accepted legend that the New’ South Wales
railway system was a concern of great profit
which no sane person would dream of casting to
the adjacent swine of the other provinces, the
matter might have been view ed very differently.
That stupid legend has a vast amount to answer
for.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Remedy for Deadlocks.
When the Federal Constitution was under dis-
cussion one matter on which the Progressive
and Conservative elements diverged widely
was the question of deadlocks between
two branches of the Legislature. The Pro-
gressive party held that, when the two
Houses were hopelessly at variance on any
point, there should be an arbiter of some sort to
decide between them ; the Conservatives held
that the matter should be allow’ed to settle
itself by blasphemy or public agitation or foot-
ball scrum, or else to remain permanently
unsettled. The case for the Conservative party
is explained by the Australasian as follows
It should be plain to anyone who takes up the inquiry
without prejudice that deadlocks result from our setting'
out with the proposition that all laws shall require the
assent of two Houses of Legislature, and then proceeding
tc encourage one of these two Houses to consider that it
has the right to demand the passing of any Act it chooses
to set its heart upon. A contradiction in the constitution
gives rise to deadlocks. The people have never yet been
prepared in any country enjoying constitutional govern-
ment to hand themselves over body and soul to a single
chamber, yet every deadlock has arisen out of the claim
of one House to legislate as a single chamber. If the
remedy for deadlocks, under the Federal Constitution, is
to take the shape of machinery for enabling the
House of Representatives to get its own way,
when it thinks that it has the popular vote with
it, what need is there for any Upper House at all?
This is the Tory case put in a nutshell. It is
beautifully and refreshingly illogical, and there-
fore it is all the more Tory. The proposition
that “ All laws require the assent of two
Houses of Legislature ” is absolutely true ; the
rest of the case is bunkum. There are two
matters—not merely one—to be considered ;
the law which it is proposed to enact, and the
old law or the old system which it is pro-
posed to supersede. A deadlock implies that
each House supports a different law. If, as has
happened more than once, the Vic. Assembly
passes a One-Man-One-Vote Bill and the Council
throws it out, that means that one House
assents to the proposed Manhood Suffrage idea
and the other assents to the existing Property
feutirage idea. But neither idea has the assent
of two Houses of Legislature ; one of them
might have had the assent of two previous
Houses of Legislature, but neither has it now.
Therefore the Australasia N.’s logic goes right
down in a heap. When neither idea has the
assent of both Houses then one is just as un-


constitutional as the other, and there is no
more reason why the old policy which one
House assents to should prevail than the new
policy which is assented to by the other House.
When it can be done there is no doubt that it is
advisable to have the assent of both Houses.
But it can’t always be done ; the existence of a
deadlock on any point whatever is proof that
some law is being kept in force unconstitutionally
by the assent of only one House, and, therefore,
the old law which the Tory paper wants to pre-
serve is, by the Tory paper’s own showing, as
utterly indefensible as the new one which the
Democratic parly wants to enforce. And if
neither party changes its sentiments, then, on
this one point, a law must exist by the assent
of one House only. And which one ? The
Tory idea is that the stagnant House should
always get the benefit of the doubt, and that
every law which exists by the assent of only
one House should do so by the assent of the
Tory House. The Democratic idea is to create
some third power to decide between them, so
that the vote of one House and of that third
power, whether it is the people or the two
Houses sitting as one, will decide the question.
The Bulletin believes that some remedy for
deadlocks is absolutely necessary for exactly the
same reason by which the Australasian tries
to prove that it is not necessary—because no
law should be enforced by the authority of one
House only. If having a remedy for deadlocks
means letting the House of Representatives
“ get its own way ” every time—which it
doesn’t— then it necessarily follows that not
having a remedy—the policy which the Tory
paper advocates —means letting the unrepre-
sentative House get its own way every time.
Therefore the Australasian gives itself away
horribly by its own words.
In re Gentleman One.
“ A Layman ” to The Bulletin :
“ Rus. Roberts ” correctly states the case when he
says that Gent. One is a court officer, and, in that capa-
city, subject to a jurisdiction “ to which no other class of
persons is subject." But he then compares that jurisdic-
tion to the jurisdiction possessed by the Public Service
Board, and argues that whereas the board, in its pre-
liminary inquiries into charges against an officer, does
not take the public into its confidence, so neither should
a court in like circumstances, where a solicitor is con-
cerned. That sort of reasoning could go on for ever, but
the public in this matter sees exactly what it wants,
and will get there, not by beating technical and
other windmills, but by asserting its own case thus ;
bet solicitors, if they want a professional tribunal to try
purely professional charges, get one as like the
Public Service Board as they wish. What that board
® a yd° with them in the initial, and generally even in
the final stages, will be to the public a matter of absolute
indifference. But if, as now, Judges who are paid to
administer public justioe occupy open courts and the
public time to point out that one set of defendants are to
be shielded from the publio gaze, because they are
solicitors, while another set, smirched with similar
charges, are to be thrown naked to the world, because
they are not solicitors, common sense cannot but revolt,
the present writer has reason to know that at
least one Judge on the N.S.W. Bench regards his
position in these transactions as anomalous. Many
solicitor-cases involve criminal misdeeds. In ordi-
nary jurisdictions, the Judge who in the course of
» trial becomes aware that perjury has been committed
Bends the supposed-perjurer for trial; and in bankruptcy
or commercial affairs, or in divorce affairs, if the case
unexpectedly discloses crime, he promptly commits or
forwards the papers to the Attorney-General’s office. But
lr \i j case ?>. an d they are numerous, in which the
mi- n solioitor’s affairs show him to have been a false-
afhdavit maker and criminal extortioner or holder-on of
clients moneys, these Judges—the public guardians of
equal-handed justice—suspend their “boy” or strike
, I *L the roll, but never say a word about com-
mitting him for his false affidavits or profes-
sional garrotting. “Rus” says clients have their
tw. 4 a^er the Judges are done with him.
mats just the aggravation. There’s nothing then
w go for. An 1 this most important point is raised by
inis remark of “ Rus” and others : If an aggrieved client
chose afterwards to prosecute an erring solicitor, would
not the question of seeking to find a man twice guilty
come to the front ? Would not the erring solicitor go to
him r : t r. ,al the ve rdict of guilty pronounced on
him in the Full Court hanging about his neck? Think
oack on a few of the cases in which solicitors have been
suspended or disrobed and this will be clear. The de-
mand then is either that the professional conduct of
sohmtors shall be sent to a board, as “ Rus ” suggests, or
that if his actions come before the court Gent One is to
tie the same as any other gent in the eye of the law, and if
perjury or any other crime crops up in the evidence that
Gent One, like any other gent, is to be committed or have
his case forwarded to the Attorney-General for the deci-
..ion of the Crown Law Department.
Buckley’s Chance!
\\ rites M'Guire, from Melbourne, to The
Bulletin :
Seven weeks have passed since Buckley, the Melb. safe-
roooer, made an assertion from the dock at Melb.
Lnminal Court which east upon Yic. Penal Department a
siur of cruel and barbarous injustice. The allegation
" as one wn, ch Bucklby averred would be borne out by a
teference to the books of the department; but, though
such investigation could be easily made in ten minutes by
a small boy at 10s. a week, so far nothing has been pub-
Ushed either in support or disproof of the prisoner’s
word. Buckley was accused of safe-breaking, and, in
pleading guilty, he said that his whole career of crime,
extending over 12 years, was the outcome of a sentence
for assault and robbery he received when a boy of 17.
Buckley claimed that he was found guilty of this
ciime, and was sentenced to five years and three
oggings of 20 lashes each. He had served two
years and had gone through the torture of
two flagellations when evidence was forthcoming
in proof of his innocence. The Govt, of the day kindly
granted him a free-pardon, magnanimously remitted the
remaining scourging, and told Buckley, the man with the
scored back, he might go. No mention of compensation
was made, and though Buckley made efforts to obtain
s ° me redress for the humiliation he had passed through,
all he could get was an intimation that the Queen could
I™ no wrong and a snuffling injunction to lead a pious
life. That is Buckley’s story. Whether it is a lie told
for purposes of mitigating his sentence, or a solid-slab of
fact, is questionable, but the silence of the Vie. Penal
Dept, on the subject makes it possible that Buckley told
the truth. If so, the law has been the big brute it
usually is, but a bigger ass. If what Buckley says is true,
then the State that scarred Buckley’s back scarred
Buckley’s mind ten times as seriously, and, having trans-
formed the boy into the tiger, refused to give the tiger
the chance of becoming a man. A few issues ago there
was an inquiry on the “Red Page” of The Bulletin,
asking for the origin of the expression “ Buckley’s
chance.” How does this stand in the competition ?
4
Tasmanian Sweeps.
“ Raspberry Land ” to The Bulletin :
The regulations just issued by Tas. Governor-in-Council
dealing with lotteries under the Gaming Act of last year
seem most inefficient. It is set forth that those
desirous of going into the sweep business must deposit
with the Treasurer £lO,OOO by way of license, money to
be returned should the promoter relinquish said license.
All lotteries to be subject to the provisions of the Audit
Act; Govt, inspector to be present at all drawings ;
names of lucky ticket-holders not to be divulged to out-
siders. License may be revoked for bankruptcy of the
licensee or by his breaking any of the regulations or
the provisions of the Gaming Act. If the promoter be-
comes incapacitated Ministers are to appoint some person
or persons to carry on the business until the expiration of
the license. As no determining date is specified in the
license form gazetted with the regulations the licensee
(or the Govt, substitute for a gone-bung licensee) may, if he
likes, apparently run the show until the resurrection day.
But, apart from the slovenly construction of the regula-
lations and the monopoly given by the high figure de-
manded as deposit, their chief weakness seems to lie in
the arbitrary fixing of the amount totally regardless of
the size of the sweep man or the proportions of the public
risk. Under these beautiful conditions a perfectly
“square” sweep-promoter conducting a small business
would be absolutely crushed out of the field. At no one
time may he hold more than £3OOO of other people’s
money, and his profits may never exceed £2OO per annum,
yet he is asked to put up and lose the interest on £10.000!
Unless, therefore, a sweep-man can make a profit so high
that he won’t miss £3OO a year —interest on £lO,OOO at 3
per cent. —he must stay out of the business altogether.
It will hardly pay to lose a certain t 300 for an uncertain
£2OO. The big man may have £50,000 or more of clients’
money in hand at a stated time, yet he is just as
likely as the small man to button up on
the lot, and calmly refer ticket-holders to the Treasurer
for a four shillings in the pound redress. The whole
arrangement looks like a frantic desire on the part
of Govt, to bolster a monopoly, and suggests the edifying
spectacle of a large, voracious Fysh relentlessly pursuing
the small shrimp of i 300 extra revenue up a particularly
noisome sewer-pipe. Yet the legislators who allow this
sort of thing have hitherto stood aghast at the bare men-
tion of a State Lottery Department.
A Pair of Police-Constables.
At one o’clock on Sunday morning, March 14,
a man named Thomas Clarke —old, sick,
out of work was sleeping with other poor
fellows in Sydney Domain. He had just been
discharged from Camden Convalescent Hospital
—had no money, no food, no home. Up came
two Sydney policemen, Hammond and Cham-
bers, who had been spending a jolly evening at
the Hotel Metropole, and were apparently “ on
for a lark.” They were not on duty; they
were in plain clothes. And they—or one of
them —began pulling off the bags and news-
papers with which the miserables sleeping in
the park had tried to cover themselves.
Great fun, this !—a man never looks so silly as
when he’s woke out of a shivering nap—and to
see how quickly a full-fed policeman’s boot
tames the protests of an empty stomach ! —it
would make a cow laugh. But Clarke pro-
tested—Clarke was a new-comer who had seen
better days ; in spite of his age and his illness,
he still hid somewhere among his rags a spark
of manly spirit. Then Hammond— Senior-
Constable Hammond, sworn to preserve the
peace— Hammond, full of meat and beer,
rushed at Clarke, the weak and un-
fortunate, and struck him brutally on
the head. Clarke, who had doubted
whether his assailants police, knew it
now. He ran away ; Hammond followed ; and
the Technological Museum watchman, standing
as near as he dared, saw the blows and heard
the heavy thud ! thud ! thud ! as Hammond
knocked Clarke down and struck him re-
peatedly with his stick. “Help! help!”
cried the beaten wretch-it makes honest men’s
blood tingle —and Chambers stood and looked
on ; while the watchman and the broken-spirited
outcasts on the ground listened fearfully. They
guessed what they would get if they meddled.
Then Chambers called his comrade off, and he
came off. Clarke got Jp with his face stream-
ing with blood ; but there was grit left in him
yet. He followed Hammond and Chambers,
calling “ Police ! ” Constable M‘Q,uaker came
up, saw Clarke’S condition, and affirmed that
he was quite sober. At the police-court Ham-
mond and Chambers (his brother-in-law) lied
unblushingly. They said Clarke stopped
them and asked for a shilling and a match ;
Hammond refused, and pushed Clarke down,
when he cut his face. Two other witnesses
corroborated Clarke; and Hammond was com-
mitted for trial; while Chambers was dis-
charged—with the public congratulations of the
court officers 1 At a first trial of Hammond
the jury disagreed. At a second trial last week
he was found guilty and sentenced to six
months’ imprisonment. And now, after Chief
Justice Darley has declared that there was
“ gross perjury on one side or the other,” and
the jury has found that the perjury was on the
side of Chambers and Hammond— what is
going to happen to Senior-Sergeant Chambers,
who, though he asked Hammond to come off
his victim, did not take the victim’s part, and
swore point-blank that there was no assault at
all ? Also, what is going to happen to Ham-
mond for his perjury ? George Dean got 14
years for exactly the same offence.
The Stale Premier.
Apropos of John Downer’s election to the
leadership of the S.A. Opposition, it is one of
the quaint'features of Government by Contra-
diction that it is the minority that almost al-
ways elects the Premier. The Opposition is the
minority ; often a very small and discredited
and low-spirited minority indeed. This dis-
consolate fragment gets together and chooses a
new leader, because the old leader has either
thrown up the business in disgust, or has lost
his seat altogether, or is utterly discredited in the
general rout. By-and-bye, the wheel goes round
and the minority becomes a majority, and its
elected leader becomes Premier. But it isn’t
the majority which elects the Premier ; in most
cases at least it simply, through force of cir-
cumstances, gives in its adhesion to the man
already appointed. The Government is made
by the Premier, and the Premier is made
almost every time by the disgraced and rejected
and chucked-out scrag-end of a party which
chooses him for its head, and agrees to follow
him till the loaves and fishes come round again.
Reid and Dibbs were each made head of the
State by the vote of about one-third of the
N.S. W. Assembly. James Munro was made
Premier of Victoria by about a dozen votes or .
less; when the opponents of the Gillies
Government consisted of practically two men
and a dog, and the dog wasn’t feeling at all
well, they nominated Munro as their head
because that ordinary person was the best
of a very small and ordinary gathering.
When the party increased to about fifty
and came into office, Munro wasn’t the
best of that crowd by a very long way, and if
the Premier had been elected by open voting
old Banker James would have had only the
ghost of a chance for the leadership. But he,
became head of the Government as a matter of
course, because the little handful of men who
formed the first beginnings of the party had
appointed him. Lyne will probably, some day,
be Premier of New South Wales in like manner,
because about 20 men in a House of 125 elected
him to the billet in the days when his
was at the bottom of its fortunes. The Bulle-
tin advocates the election of the Premier and
his colleagues, and the old Conservative politi-
cians denounce the idea as revolutionary and,
unconstitoosh’nal, and things like that, and de-
mand the preservation of the good old system
which has been hallowed by age and other
things. But under the fine old constitoosh’nal
system the Premier really is elected as shown
above, and there is nothing at all revolutionary
in the election principle. The chief point of
difference between the two systems is that The
Bulletin and the other advocates of the Swiss
Executive system want the majority to elect
him, while the old constitoosh’nal party wants
him to continue to be elected by the minority.
The other point of difference is that the advo-
cates of the new system want to elect him
fresh, and the supporters of the old arrange-
ment want to have him stale. Sometimes six
years or so elapse between the time when a new
leader is elected by some small handful of sur-
vivors just come back from a disastrous election,
and the time when the same man becomes
Premier. By that time he is often very stale
indeed, especially if it happened that he was
only a makeshift person from the beginning.
The election of a stale Premier by a minority
vote instead of a fresh one by a majority is
about all the discrepancy that separates the two
methods of government.
Q. Lands Commission recommends the Govern-
ment that scourged Tattersall’s sweep out of
the territory, and turns up the whites of its
post-office eyes at all sorts of betting, to con-
tinue the system of ballot for land selections.
Now, the ballot was introduced in substitution
of the auction, or the sealed-tender system, in
order to give Short-purse a fair chance against
Long-purse. Result: Long-purse gets there
all the same, and dummying is rampant in the
land. The key to the whole position is the
rigid enforcement of a five-years’ compulsory
personal residence on the selection or grazing
farm, no transfer to be allowed, anil
the successful applicant to be debarred from
making any new application in any part of the
province, during that period. This would shut
out Long-purse, because he could not, or would
not care to, conform to the conditions. That
being once ensured, why not revert to sealed
tenders, and let the State get the highest rental
that it can for its land ? No one is likely to
offer more than the land, under cast-iron con-
ditions of personal residence (the crux of the
agreement) is worth to him.
Melbourne Argus has now finally abandoned
its time-worn yelp for a Freetrade revolution in
Victoria. Says Fat Man’s organ The
Canadian Liberals are pledged to remove the
40 per cent, wall, but the Laurier Govern-
ment does not propose to blow the wall up in
ruins, but to take it down course by course,
and no other policy is likely to be pursued by
any colony where the protective system has had
a long reign.” Poor old Argus ! The protec-
tive system gazes with equanimity at the pro-
spect of being “ taken down course by course,”
because any course that threatens danger to an
established industry will be carefully avoided.
If Australia should ever return unanimously to
the Freetrade principle it will be when foreign
goods can no longer find a market in competi-
tion with the local article.
One of the Pentridge (Melb.) officials refers to
the competition in “ converting ” prisoners that
is waged among the snuffling chaplains of rival
religious sects, as though it were quite a new
and surprising feature of gaol humbug. Charles
Dickens, in “ David Copperfield,” depicts the
same sort of competition between visiting
magistrates at the Model Prison. One gentle-
man trots out Uriah Heep (No. 27) as his par-
ticular pet lamb; another takes the polite
Littimer (No. 28) under his care :
It appeared to me that the gentleman in spectacles
backed his Twenty Eight against Mr. Creaklb’s Twenty
Seven, for each of them took his own man in hand.
“ What is your state of mind, Twenty Eight?” said the
questioner in spectacles. “ I thank you, sir,” returned
Mr. Littimer, “ I see my follies now, sir. I am a good
deal troubled when I think of the sins of my former com-
panions, sir; but I trust they may find forgiveness.”
And so forth. Each precious convert attached
himself to the patron who offered him the
strongest inducement to play the hypocrite,
whilst the less artful prisoners were passed
over as irredeemable sinners. At Pentridge,
seemingly, an old hand puts himself up to auc-
tion, and the shepherd who undertakes to
procure the largest amount of prison “conces-
sion,” or future assistance, snavels the interest-
ing penitent into his little flock. It is a war of
cants, from which no good result can issue,
hence the combination of chaplains to prevent
the Salvation Harmy emissaries from invading
their “field of labor.” The Harmy fellows
propose to plough the field on a practical
worldly system, and manure it with rough com-
mon-sense talk, and raise respectable crops as
time goes on. Given a fair chance, they
could do a great deal in the reformation way.
The average convict is quite capable of an am-
bition to become much the same sort of per-
son as the red-coated “ captin’ ” who calls him
brother, but no average mortal, in prison or out
of it, can cultivate an enthusiastic desire to
resemble a chaplain. The artificial, repellent
pietist in the long black coat identifies himself,
by profession, with all the virtues, wherefore
the felon, feeling himself hopelessly out of touch
with every form of “ goodness,” doesn’t enter-
tain one genuine thought of reformation as long
as Aminadab Sleek is the object-lesson. But
when the hallelujah.missionary, rolling a bit of
chewing-gum round his teeth, asks, “ Why
carn’t yer try to be like me, seein’ as how I
mighter been like you ? ” the tribulating male-
factor will, in a fair number of cases, promise
to do his best if they give him a blanky show.
There is nothing ridiculous in the idea. It
appeals to the man’s sense of eternal fitness in
things.
A London weekly (the Reeeree) points out
that the waiter-tipping system has long been
diverted from its original purpose. “As
tipping became general the proprietor of the
restaurant, as well as the waiter, saw his chance
of standing in. Presently waiters were found
to be willing to do their Work for nothing; and
eventually they paid for their tables, which is
now the custom at all restaurants and hotels
boasting a generous clientele. The result is
that, with all his tips, the waiter is no better
off than ever he was. If he received <£loo in
tips he would have to return .£9B of it as table-
money to his employer, who, in his turn, under
stress of competition, would have to reduce the
price of his wines and dishes.” In the case of
railway-porters, the tip system amounts to a
discretionary tax on the general public for the
benefit of shareholders. Porters accept nominal
wages, and really live upon tips, which are thus
practically appropriated by the railway co.
towards a reduction of working expenses and
consequent payment of dividends.
The other day the Orange Institute or Victoria
held a half-yearly meeting, whereat “ the chair-
man made an earnest appeal for all Protestants
to join the Orange Order.” This seems a proper
time—in fact, any time is proper—for mention-
ing that the Orange Order is quite disreputable
in the Eye of the Law, as well as hateful to all
reasoning Protestants of the English and Scotch
varieties. Founded by a gang of Ulstermen,
after a faction fight, the first Orange Lodge was
a society for depriving Roman Catholics of their
unlawful blunderbusses and other instruments
of destruction. In its palmiest, goriest days,
Orangeism was discountenanced by the Lord
Lieutenant of Ireland, and since it spread to
England in 1808 the precious dis-Order has
been once nominally dissolved, and once tempo-
rarily suppressed by Act of Parliament. At
the present time it would be wiped out alto-
gether if it were an infectious disease, which it
isn’t. It is merely a hereditary weakness, and
every Orangeman who dies without issue is an-
other nail in the Order’s coffin.
Melbourne Punch is moved by the persistent
emigration from Victoria to make a few remarks
in its old, familiar strain :
The old feeling of want of confidence is arising in our
midst. . . . Any country whose leaders are fonder of ex-
perimental legislation, rather than the practical and the
sound, cannot be expected to make substantial progress.
We are drifting, slowly but surely drifting, and can ex-
pect nothing else until many of our windbag legislators
are replaced by statesmen of eool and calm reflection and
moderate views.
Every time anything goes wrong in Victoria,
Punch feebly throws this same slab of mist at
the Turner Government. But it never by any
chance gets down to particulars, or explains
what are “ moderate views,” or what a states-
man of calm reflection would do that Turner
hasn’t done, or would leave undone that
he has done. It always approves strongly
of “the practical and the sound,” but never
explains what is the practical or the sound, and
it objects to “experimental legislation,” with-
out once mentioning what is experimental.
Punch’s political creed and that of Victorian
Conservatism in general boiled down : “ I am
strongly in favor of—ahem. I believe if—ahem
—-isn’t done this country will go to wreck.
The one great curse of this country is—er—er—
er. If er—er—er —h’m were carefully avoided,
and we went in unanimously for er—er —er
hem, the result would be an immediate restora-
tion of our former prosperity. We are lost for
want of er—ahem —h’m. Nothing, nothin<j can
ever restore our vanished glory and replace our
lost wealth and raise us again to our pinnacle
except—er—ahem. Therefore, let us rise up
gradually as one man and demand—er—h’m—
er—er—h’m.”
In ; 90, -Q. Labor-leader Glassey was an
avowed Socialist; in ’97, he is an avowed “Con-
stitutionalist”—whatever that may really mean.
Bimeby Fat Man ?
'Twas a Glorious Jubilee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The population of the United Kingdom is 40 millions
—mostly fools.”— Carlyle.
Old Casper, one fine evening, sat beside his cottage
door
And smoked his pipe, and sipped his beer, as in
the days of yore ;
And playing near him on the green,
Were Peterkin and Wilhelniine.
Old Casper watched the youngsters play, until his
eyelids closed;
Mayhap the old man’s eyes were weak, mayhap
the old man dozed ;
When suddenly he heard a shout,
Which made the old chap stare about.
Old Casper saw young Peterkin come tearing o'er
the grass
With something glitt’ring in his hand that looked
like gold—or brass —
“Oh ! Grandad, what is this I’ve found
A-lying there upon the ground ? ”
Old Casper took it from the lad, who stood ex-
pectant by,
Then clapped his specs, astride his nose, and this
was his reply—
“Thishere’s a medal —a brass ’un—see,
Twas struck for the Great Jubilee.”
“The Jubilee,” quoth Peterkin, “I’ve heard of
that before :
You told us once of crowds and glare, and shouts,
and dust, and roar.
Now, say what made the people shout,
And what was all the row about ? ”
“ I mind it well,” old Casper said, “the Queen,
for three-score years,
A-sitting on the throne had been —just think of it,
my dears ! ”
“Oh, yes, I see ! ” cried Wilhelmine ;
Was she a very noble Queen ? ”
“Dunnow my lass,” old Casper said, “ I really
bean’t aweer
Of any noble hact of hern ” —here Casper sipped
his beer.
“ But then, you see, my little dears,
Bhe’d been a-sitting sixty years.”
“ Oh, fiddlesticks ! ” said Wilhelmine—she was a
forward chit —
“Surely the Queen did something great. Now,
Grandpa, think a bit.”
“ She sat for sixty year,” said he,
“ And ’twas a famous Jubilee.”
“But, Grandad,” Peterkin demurred, “you told
us that before.
What good is sitting on a throne ? There must be
something more.”
“ I mind o’ nothin’ more,” said he,
“ But ’twas a glorious Jubilee.”
Tan.
J.P.M.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion Brough Comedy Co.
Her Majesty's “The Sign of the Cross."
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Opera House “Fatinitza.”
Royal Harry Furniss.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “My Friend from India.”
Royal “ A Life of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Bijou Vaudeville Co.
Alexandra “ La Grande Duchesse.”
“The Solicitor” waa put up at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, and is practically the last
sustained effort of the Brough Co. ; after that
haggard and distracted Gent One makes his exit
the rest of the season is mainly one-night revivals.
“ The Solicitor ” is one of those farcical comedies
that are full of doors and have an erring wife, or a
husband in a dreadful state of mind, or a burglar
concealed in every room, and a distracted lawyer
lurking on the stairs, and an infuriated brother
lying low in the umbrella stand or ambushed in
the hat-rack, and the only place where nobody is
concealed is the tea-caddy. Most of the leading
male characters belong to the Condensed Grena-
diers—at least the very moderate size of some of
them certainly suggests that the Grenadiers are
condensed. Brough, as a sedate, middle-aged
lawyer in a large way of 6s. Bd., is induced by the
least-compressed Grenadier to steal and drive a
hansom for a lark. In the course of the evening
he drives his wife to a strange house, and when he
stands up on his perch, and thus nearly lifts a
half-strangled horse off its feet, he sees her over the
blind kissing a strange soldier. Then he drives two
burglars who are just escaping with the plunder.
He is afterwards retained by the cabman’s
daughter to defend her dissipated parent, who is
charged with having a silver soup-ladle found in
his cab, and of being an ally of house-breakers,
and for three acts a storm of suspicion rages around
the cab and its tired-out horse. Strange, broken-
nosed people hang around and offer in a husky
voice trimmed with gin not to blast the law-
yer’s reputation by saying anything about the
episode, and to return the jewellery for a moderate
sum down. The lawyer suspects the burglar with
the powerful gin-breath of being the person who
embraced his wife. The undermining influence of
the cab brings quite a lot of people around late at
night to see if their husbands are hugging any-
body, or if their wives are being hugged by any-
body, and one injured lady resolves to wear dark-
green in the witness-box while the other decides
to be divorced in black. A gorgeous Grenadier
captain is badly chewed by a dog while trying to
escape through the back garden, and finally things
grow so badly tangled in Act 11. that they never
get properly unravelled in Act 111. after all.
• )* * *
“ The Solicitor ” is an amusing outbreak
with no specially new ideas in it, but with the old
ideas cleverly worked up. There is much glitter-
ing uniform and nice girl and thrill in it. Brough
makes the leading character highly interesting,
and Harry Roberts, Carey, and Ferris support
him very cleverly, The other Roberts —Ralph of
that ilk—is a somewhat mechanical warrior who
vaguely suggests a robust wooden doll. Miss Hill,
as a smudged slavey with a cold—the typical Bary
Jade of a cheap hash-palace —is a marked success.
Four other ladies—Misses Temple, Watt-Tanner,
Hardy, and Titheradge—fill four rather ordinary
parts creditably, the last-named being the most
successful of the four. The present season ends
on June 19, and it is proposed to crowd
“Thoroughbred,” the “Woman of No Import-
ance,” the “Passport,” “Second Mrs. Tanqueray,”
“In Honor Bound,” “A Pair of Spectacles,” and
“Niobe” all into the brief remaining space of
time. Then the co. moves on to Adelaide, Maori-
land, and India. That clever young actor, Harry
Pliminer, joins it on its departure from Sydney,
and follows its fortunes till the final disbandment,
which takes place in the land of the rajah and the
depreciated rupee. The writer trusts that the
Asiatic venture will be a success, but he dreamed
last night that he got up early in the morning and
found Brough in a state of dilapidation, and with
his hair sticking up through his hat, delivering
the chops at the back door, and Harry Roberts
removing the ash-barrel, and that looks somehow
like a bad omen-
* * * *
On Monday, J une 21, the deserted Lyceum
opens for one night only. On that remembersome
occasion Mr. and Mrs. Brough are to be tendered
a benefit by the citizens of Sydney, the perform-
ance being under the patronage of His and Her
Ex. and suite, and of everybody else who is any-
body, or thinks he is, or can get anybody else to
say he is. “ Dandy Dick ” is to be the bill for the
farewell night, and somewhere in between that'
affecting story of the racehorse with the burnt
tail some influential citizen will presumably make
the usual speech. That influential citizen, who-
ever he may be, is hereby advised in advance to
cut the speech as short as possible. Another
benefit (Titheradge’s) is fixed for next Wednesday
afternoon at the Criterion. And as Tith., by no
means a millionaire, has both publicly and pri-
vately deserved as well of his fellow-man as any
actor who ever trod the Australian boards, The
Bulletin hopes to see a packed house.
* * * *
The Sydney Opera Society’s little attempt
at the “Grand Duchess ” at Sydney Royal went
through with a respectable amount of success.
There was very little in the house except the
orchestra and a clear conscience, but the co. got
away alive each night, and that at least was some-
thing. Speaking seriously—if amateur opera is
ever spoken of seriously—the Society deserved
rather better luck than it got. The scenery was
plain, but honest. The chorus was dressed re-
spectably, and though it was nervous and some-
what scared and a little out of step it wasn’t in an
agony of embarrassment about what to do with
its four extremities, and there were no grievous
hitches in the stage management. (These re-
marks apply to the second night; The Bulletin
wasn’t present on Saturday, but the daily papers
described that opening performance as resembling
the stampede of an army of lunatics with its hair
all hanging down its back.) Miss Ivy Gorrick
sang the part of the Grand Duchess moderately
well and played it very well indeed; Frank
Weekes, barring a hideously-improbable mous-
tache, could pass muster as the General; and
Albert Leston played Fritz in a cheerful, larky
fashion. Also, little Claude Swan, as the mite
with the drum, was the best and most tuneful
drummer-mite this paper ever met. A few weak,
inaudible people raged here and there in an uncer-
tain whisper on the outskirts of the show, but out
of regard for the Grand Duchess and the drummer-
mite and one or two other people, the names of
these harmless musical blots are suppressed.
* * # *
Harry Furniss and his mentor, the Much-
Travelled Smythe, are due at Sydney Royal to-
morrow (Friday), and on Saturday of next week
Maggie Moore succeeds him at the same estab-
lishment. The lady who was sung to by Butler
opens her season with a new comedy-drama,
“Johanna.” Butler, it will be remembered, pro-
mised to call round and be an influential dead-
head in Maggie’s show as soon as he is acquitted,
and if he keeps his word there will be a big audi-
ence for one night, anyhow. If he isn’t acquitted,
probably a “ Butler Curse ” will set in after the
manner of the Dean anathema, and then business
at the Royal will go down to nothing. If a
Butler curse does start it will fix on Miss Moore
to a certainty, because that broken-nosed person
sang a song to her about how he wanted mother.
Possibly if Miss Moore got herself exorcised by
the Cardinal, and fasted and mortified the flesh,
and gave a benefit to the Consumptive Hospital,
and had her hair cut, and slept on the bare floor
for a while, it might alleviate the danger, but
even with these precautions the present scribe
wouldn’t be the person who was sung to by
Butler for a good deal.
* # * *
There is very little left to say about the
“ Sign of the Cross,” almost all the reflections
which that good moral spectacle gave rise to
having already been fully expressed. Therefore,
it is only necessary to remark that the pageant is
in good health and condition and going strong,
and so far no change is even spoken of. The cata-
leptic Nero, though his empire looked very un-
certain on the first night, holds on to the purple
manfully, and this week he is specially supported
by a letter signed “Susan Hampden,” in which
Her Ex. approves of the play in general and of
Williamson’s generosity in giving a benefit to the
Consumptive Hospital fund in particular.
* * * *
“ The Bohemian Girl ” finishes a fort-
night’s run at Sydney Opera House this week,
and “Fatinitza” is announced for Saturday.
There is a good deal of nice harem in “Fatinitza ”
and very little else, but if the co. does justice to
this feature of the case it should be good for a
week or two, anyhow.
* * * *
* MacMahon’s cinematographe in Pitt-st.,
Sydney, has laid on a large number of new pic-
tures since the last time when The Bulletin was
sufficiently rested to allude to it in this column,
and most of them are well worth a visit. The
Crown Studio “ cin.” has moved to new quarters
in King-street, and by an improvement in the X-
ray apparatus undertakes to show the visitors’
bones in a more aggressively bony aspect than
heretofore. Also, the Tivoli is doing as well as
usual at the old address, which time-worn remark
has become a weariness and a Jubilee and a dire
monotony. A time will certainly come when this
paper will hire someone to burn the Tivoli merely
to lend variety to the above observation.
* * * *
“A Life of Pleasure,” at Melb. Royal,
strikes one as a better-grown specimen of this
variegated melodrama than was produced at the
Princess’s three years ago. The valor of the
British troops in Burmah is spread over a larger
battlefield, and gallant Colonel Cosgrove has
added two stone at least to his fighting weight
since he first took command of the victorious regi-
ment. Also, the opposite bank of the Thames is
further back from the footlights than it used to be
and the deceived colleen has more space wherein to
curse her cruel fate. Bland Holt’s shows need
all the elbow-room they can get. He describes
this particular effort as “ a drama of love, luck,
and loyalty,” the emblem of loyalty being a Nor-
denfeldt gun, which crashed through a portion of
Burmese precipice on Saturday, and went near to
falling upon Tommy Atkins. With the scenery
built up anew, and several other first-night defects
remedied, “A Life of Pleasure” should prove a
payable Jubilee bill, although next week is likely
to be a sad time for theatrical managements in
general.
* * * •
It is a mixed narrative, especially in the
last act, where the five scenes of yore are boiled
down to one Scene, and sundry characters who
ought to be at divers places are brought together
under the same roof in an unreasonable medley.
Walter Baker, at the outset, promises to be a wiid
and stormy Irish hero. He offers violence to a
process-server, whilst the surrounding tinantry
fire off volleys of encouragement; afterwards he
threatens to commit a first-class assault upon the
wrong man, and then, as the hours go by, Baker
loses his grip of public interest. Bland Holt,
in a beautiful curly wig and an eyeglass,
is cheerfully heroic this time; likewise, Cos-
grove appears brave and noble for a change.
But the chief villain and his lady victim divide
the cream of the acting opportunities. Two or
three times during the evening Miss Watson and
Albert Norman form the centre of a strong situa-
tion, or have the entire situation to themselves.
The results are always satisfactory. Norman
casts Miss Watson off with some artistic force,
and the mental upset of the lady, culminating in
a reckless resolve to drown her feelings in a
vortex of champagne, is fully expressed. They
have nothing to do with the war in Burmah,
however; consequently, when the din of that
irrelevant campaign has died away, and Miss
Watson comes forward once more to^ea 1 papers
for her faithless A.N., she seems father like a
extinct volcano. Mrs. Bland Ho , . ,
comic warbler of high moral princip >
item in the performance. Charley Brown roars
gladsomely in a Hebrew capacity, and Mis
Vivienne plays Lady somebody with excellent
effect, apart from her weak voice. Corlesse, Ha y
Norman, and J. Montgomery alll the
other work worth mentioning, and do it very well.
The cast numbers about 35 people, exc f •
military rank and file. Bland Holt’s army s now
a really admirable stage force. The ™t°*Vordon
name of the army, and out of respect for. Gordon
and Brunton’s scenery, The Bulletin ™P lo^ s
manager Holt to dispense with his hideous ad-
vertisement-curtain, and spare his P atrol ? b
indignity of being recommended to buy a box oi
Green Pills between the acts.
## * *
“A Night Out” doesn’t grow in popu-
larity at Melb. Princess’s. For one thing, the
weather is not suited to a thin and frivolous
French farce. People, as a rule, are cold, and
critical, and severely moral in mid winter, which
is the time for problem plays, corned beef, and
any other sort of solid entertainment. Several
austere parents have been heard protesting" that
they took their innocent daughter to A JNight
Out,” and were quite shocked on her account,
but as they forbore from writing to the
papers the “disgust” of these occasional
Podsnaps has not proved a decent adver-
tisement for the show. ‘ A Night Pft
finishes on Friday. It will be supplanted by
“My Friend from India,” an up-to-date trine
that comes straight from London and Hew York.
Geo. Lauri and Miss Juliet Wray join the Poulton-
Stanley company for this occasion.
** * *
Anyone who has not already heard about
the Jubilee matinee, in aid of the Fever Hospital,
will please accept this notice as an exhortation to
rush along to the Princess’s immediately. The
matinee starts at 1.30 this (Thursday) afternoon,
and the programme is appalling in its magnitude.
** * *
A comic opera season, under the manage-
ment of Howard Vernon, is to open at the
Alexandra on Saturday night (12th). The ven-
ture has a promising appearance. Offenbach s
famous opera bouffe, “La Grande Duchesse, is
practically unknown, and therefore as good as a
novelty, to half the population of Melbourne,
whilst" Howard Vernon and Miss Fanny Liddiard
are attractive names. The two old favorites will
be supported by Miss Nellie Young, and three other
principals (warranted new) likewise a cborusof fifty
voices and a full band will assist in this musical
undertaking. For “ loyal ” reasons, or because
the house has been identified with calamity of late
years, the Alexandra is called the Queen’s Theatre
just now, but it will remain the same old Haleck
in spite of the alias. Why try to get rid of a once-
respected title? Simonsen’s first Italian Opera
Company sang for 12 weeks or more to first-class
business at the Alexandra.
** * *
Miss Elsie Adair and her travelling variety
show are staying at the Bijou until Saturday;
next week she will visit Ballarat and Geelong,
and probably return to Melbourne some time
later. It is a small show for a full-sized theatre,
in a city that has Rickards always on the job, but
it presents several neat little features, and brings
a certif. of merit from the King of Siam. The
tawny monarch in question was so deeply im-
pressed by Miss Elsie and Co. that he lent them
an elephant to ride upon, and invited them to
lunch at his royal palace.
** * *
At the Opera House, on Saturday night,
Rickards scored again with the five Kentucky
picanninies, who were duly landed on these
shores, in one parcel, as the 29th instalment of
new artists. The pics, run larger than was
expected. They have not, however, lost the
bloom of youth or the spontaneous impishness that
marks the difference between a colored coon and a
c ilorable imitation.
** * *
On June 17, 18 and 19 the A.A. Opera
Club will perform “ The Gondoliers ” at Melb.
Bijou in aid of one or more charities and in the
presence of vice-regal patronage. The Bulletin
is furthermore requested to mention that Mrs. G.
B. W. Lewis’s pupils will give an entertainment
at St. George’s Hall on June 19, in aid of the
latest and most fashionable hospital fund.
At Poverty Point.
“ The Heights of Alma”—Miss Stanley’s hat.
Spagnoletti: “Worthy Capt. Max Rinkel, the con-
verted circus-clown, is boss of the Salvation Army, Melb.
Workmen’s Metropole, and his spouse is matron—erst-
while Lady of the Iron Jaw. N.B.—No jokes allowed
about the steak.”
The much-talked-of Elder (S.A.) Scholarship of Music
dwindles to nothing, as per this extract from a letter
written by the holder in London, Wallage Kennedy
“ Really, unless a fellow has money, or can make money
the scholarship is not worth having. Out of £52 10s. you
have to find board and lodging, your own piano, of
course, all your own music, and travelling expenses, and
have to keep yourself in the vacation of three months;
besides keep up the appearance due to your position.”
Alma Stanley is a divorcee, or rather a divorceree,
having been the attacking party.
S.S. : “Wonderful is the similarity in personal appear-
ance of the American burlesque actress, judging by
samples seen in Melbourne to date. One American
variety artiste’s legs are exactly the same legs as those
flourished by every other American artiste in the eye of
the critic, and the passion for cardinal silk stockings
seems to be national. The contour of the face, the
manner of dressing the hair, the gold-stopped teeth, the
pie-shaped smile, the somewhat plump figure, the side-
long wriggle—these things are identical in every song-
and-dance dona from the land of wooden hams. Judging
by process blocks in Yewnited States journals, and maga-
zines, too, the Dorothy Usner type of face—mind you,
Dorothy was a beauty—is the only one known to Ameri-
can ’alls."
Grattan Riggs’ beauteous pink visage and his volumin-
ous, three-ply smile have been seen hovering about Mel-
bourne theatres again. Since Anson’s departure Grattan
holds undisputed possession of the beauty cake. The
writer once heard the two barracking. “ Never mind,
Riggs,” said Anson, consolingly, “ beauty is only skin
deep.” “Is it, then ?” answered Riggs. “Begobl If I
was you I’d get shkinned.”
Walter Baker, the solid man of Bland Holt’s co., was
smitten suddenly with illness one night last week, and
had to sit amongst the cobwebs and nurse his pain, whilst
Walner Gregory, who has the happiness to be Miss Wat-
son’s hubby, tackled the part, with prompters all over
the shop, and the book up his sleeve. Gregory battled
so pluckily with adversity, and made so good a job of the
harrowed' hero, as to suggest the advisableness of his
being put on permanently when a really beautiful hero is
called for. But manager Holt doesn’t seein to take to
’em under 14 stone. Report says he has a weighbridge in
his office, and selects his male pros, by avoirdupois.
Samuel Neriga, of the family of travelling showmen,
has died at Normanton of dengue fever. Out of a popu-
lation of 550, Normanton, at latest, had over 250 cases of
dengue, with 16 deaths.
The Melb. Druids, it seems, were not at all rash in
running their Easter show, at the Exhibition Building,
for a whole week. A grand bazaar was an important item
of the proceedings. All the bazaar profits go to the
Druids. The expenses are deducted from the “ art-
union ” profits, which, according to law, go to the aid of
public charities.
Theorbo : “ Farley was singing at a defunct hall called
the Old Ship, Sand ridge, when Lyster heard of him. As
soon as he appeared, as Captain of the Guard, in the
‘ Barber of Seville,’ the virtuoso exclaimed, ‘ Hallo 1 a
voice.’ His General Boom was downright genius.”
“ Never Allow your Donah on the Styge” is the newest
coster song. Appropriate for all ranks of society.
George Coppin has just turned into his 80th year.
The three Haytors add a very funny little show to their
Girard-ish business at Melbourne Opera House. They give
an imitation of one or two of the best-known cinemato-
graphe subjects, and their jerky, unnatural movements
in the wobbling flashlight are ridiculously reminiscent of
the original pictures.
Dear Bulletin, — Be a Pov. Point par.—it is surprising
to find that 99 per cent, of Melbourne playgoers accepted
the recent Princess’s production of “ Merchant of Venice’’
as the first within 15 years or so. Janet Achurch and
hubby Charrington appeared as Portia and Shylockatthe
Royal, with Bucklaw, Herbert Flemming, and (I think)
Maud Williamson in the cast. The Thespian amateurs,
headed by P. Duggan, wrestled with “ The Merchant” at
the same house not so many years ago, and George Miln
played Shylock, in the trial scene, for his farewell benefit
at the Bijou. The Achurch performance should have
been remembered, anyway, by the fact that Bucklaw
played the Prince of Morocco, a character omitted from
the Potter-Bellew revival. —Melbourne.
Princess Chimay—the awful Yankee heiress who eloped
with a gipsy person a while ago, but soon came back to
her old haunts—was lately engaged to appear as Venus,
and similar nude characters, at a Parisian ’all. The Gay
City prepared to revel in the spectacle of a princess mid
nodings on. Private boxes were sold at 500 francs, and
ordinary seats found eager purchasers at 20 francs. Un-
fortunately, the Prefect of Police put an indirect veto on
the revelation of Princess Clara’s outlines by informing
the management that he would close the hall if a riot
eventuated. The riot, it seemed, was a foregone con-
clusion. A Parisian club, of which Chimay is a member,
had arranged to hurl 100 live rabbits at Venus. “As to
what will be thrown from other quarters, I don’t know,”
said the Prefect. There were such alarming possibilities
in those missiles the policeman didn’t know of that poor
Venus decided not to appear after all. She went home
and had a bogus attack of influenza. Probably the public
didn’t miss a very beautiful show. The lady has been a
mother two or three times, and the Prince didn’t feel his
loss deeply ; ditto the gipsy. Indeed, the gipsy is s.iid to
have whacked her for not realising his expectations.
Dear Bulletin, — It’s not French prudery that relegates
certain histrionic happenings to “ behind’’—it’s the ex-
tension to the general drama of the cast-iron traditions of
French classical tragedy, which bars all violent or even
undignified action in view of the audience. As for
strangling, I once saw “ Othello ” done by a (good) French
company, and not only was Desdemona assassinated out
of sight and Othello prevented at the end from smiting
himself “ thus ! ” —but Cassio wasn’t allowed to get
squiffy, and even the fateful handkerchief was discarded
as being too undignified an item for tragedy. I forget
what took its place, but the whole thing—from the be-
nighted British point of view, of course—was about as
tragic as boiled-mutton-and-turnips !— Alex. M.
Fregoli, the protean star of London Alhambra, will
figure in Williamson and Musgrove’s Christmas produc-
tion, if money can do it.
Long wearing.
Shape retaining.
Well fitting.
Always pleasing.
That’s the Callaghan Boot.
Why not
try a Fair?
flies’ Glace Button Boots, 14/6,16/6, 16/6
Gentlemen ’B Calf Lace Boots, 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 28/6
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-street, Sydney.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT :
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company :
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost •
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income; ’
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective forms of investments, indemnitv
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life •
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
? ake JP ro . vision for declining years,
and to be free from business cares. J
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
l io S' T ™ N vv TREET ’ Brabane, Queensland.
73 King William Street, Adelaide, S A
St. George s Terrace, Perth, W A
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Thomas A. Edison, the great invefitor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only .£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
THE DIAMOND JUBILEE.
A High-class Portrait of Her Majesty the
Queen, specially taken for us in England,
will be given to every Sitter at our Studios
during this month of June, as a memento of
the Diamond Jubilee.
We take the opportunity of drawing your
attention to our really High-class Portraiture
at the Most Moderate Prices.
SIX Enamelled Cabinets u'ith
a High-class OPAL or BRO-
MIDE Enlargement.
Only j 0
Note the Address:
rai IDEAL PORTRAIT CO.,
430 George Street, Sydney
(opposite Main Entrance to New Markets).


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Attorney-General Want has decided (what The
Bulletin pointed out in its issue of May 1) that there is
nothing in N.S.W. Income-Tax Act to justify the collec-
tion of “arrears” as attempted by the Tax Commis-
sioners. This decision raises three very pertinent
Questions: (1) Who were the two alleged “ eminent
counsel” who said the “arrears” system was legal? (2)
On what clauses in the Act did they base their opinion,
seeing that no one else can find anything in that docu-
ment which gives any semblance of justification? Also
(3) why did the Commissioners waste the publio money in
getting opinions from outside counsel when Attorney-
General Want’s opinion is at the service of the Govern-
ment gratis ? Another point on which Want’s opinion
should be taken, before that eminent lawyer goes
away fishing again, is the trustee swindle. Ac-
cording to the Act every taxpayer is exempt up to £2OO.
But last year, if a person received income as trustee
for another, even if it was only £25 a year, the Commis-
sioners demanded income-tax upon it, whether the recipi-
ent had any other income or not. They took upon them-
selves to abolish the exemption in such cases. Where a
married woman’s sole private income was £25 a year de-
rived from trust funds she was charged 12s. 6d. income-tax.
And yet the law asserts that no one with an income of
less than £2OO a year is taxable. One victim who was
forced to pay this swindle-tax tells The Bulletin that,
after spending time and trouble in various ways, he got
his money refunded from the Treasury a few days ago,
and had to put a 2d. stamp on the receipt. On what
possible clause do the official blunderers justify this
high-handed piracy ?
For the first 11 months of the financial year (to
the end of May) the N.S.W. revenue was £8,433,228 and
expenditure £8,634,357 ; deficit, £201,129. This is
£373,725 better than the situation a month previously,
the deficit at the end of April being £574,854. A great
effort is apparently being made to economise or to shove
things forward into next year or both, the May expendi-
ture being only £519,079 against an average for the pre-
vious 10 months of £811,527. This tendency to shunt
things forward in the last two months of the year is the
worst feature about the Cash Basis system—which is
otherwise wholly commendable. According to Premier
Reid’s estimate, the shortage for the year is to be
£229,000, so he is now a little better than that amount.
By the way, why don’t other Treasurers follow Reid’s
example by publishing monthly returns of expenditure?
Most of them state the revenue monthly, but the expen-
diture is generally a blank.
* * * *
The N.S.W. loan expenditure for the past eleven
months was £1,374,881. It wouldn’t require so very
much of a dead lift in the way of finding new sources of
revenue to meet this amount of publio works expenditure
out of revenue, and put an end to the lamentable piling
up of liabilities. It only wants a strong, brainy man with
a strong majority to make the effort.
« * * *
Victoria has £2,085,776 of 4 per cent, stock fall-
ing due this year, and the desirability of converting it
into 3 per cents, and saving £20,857 annually in interest
is sufficiently obvious. The Government holds £919,000
on account of various trust accounts, and the conversion
of that amount is easy. As regards the rest, which is
also held in Victoria, it is suggested that probably Turner
may arrange, while jubilating in England, to float the
necessary conversion loan with J. Bull, without giving the
Melbourne market a show. If he does, it will be about
time that something serious happened to Turner. What
these provinces badly want is to shift their British in-
debtedness to Australia, not to transfer to Britain the
miserably small proportion of their debt which is held
locally. Moreover, the damphool experiment tried the
other day by Holder, of S.A., only ended by showing that
the London market gave worse returns than the Aus-
tralian one, even apart from the great difference in ex-
penses, which made the Australian figures better and the
British ones worse than they looked.
* * * *
The private enterprise syndicate which wants to
finance Mildura howls persistently outside the Vic.
Government offices, and though Acting-Premier Isaacs
came out last week and told it to go away it still remains
and howls. It proposes that the Government should
build a railway to Mildura, the syndicate giving a
guarantee of £3OOO a year for five years in case of loss.
On the other side, the syndicate is to supply Mildura
with water for irrigation purposes, the money being
raised by the issue of £200,000 worth of debentures, prin-
cipal and interest being guaranteed by the Government.
Summed up, the syndicate proposes that it should
guarantee the Government to the extent of £15,000, and
the Government should guarantee it to the extent of
£27o,ooo—in other words, it wants to start with a capital
of £255,000 supplied by the State and keep the profits.
Think of making an offer like that to a Jewish Acting-
Premier 1
* • * *
Queensland revenue for the 11 months, ended
31st May, is £14,000 better than for the corresponding
period of last year, but as Treas. Nelson anticipated an
increase for the year of £26,000 it appears probable that
he will get less revenue than he expected. Also, he anti-
cipated that the year’s expenditure would be £33,000
more than that of last year, but as the outgoings for 11
months are £93,000 more than for the similar period last
year he looks like being badly out on both points.J
« * * *
Alleged that John Forrest, while in London,
will gently sound the market about the prospects of
another £2,000,000 Westralian loan for the Coolgardie
water-supply scheme. If current rumors are true, it
would seem that half the Premiers have gone to London
on a mild surreptitious borrow, and, between that and
the things which Joseph Chamberlain may lead them into
during their festive moods, this country should have any
amount of reason by-and-bye to remember the 1897
Jubilee.
* * • *
The latest re-arrangement of the N.Z. Loan and
Mercantile Agency Co. is a severe knock to everybody
concerned. The iast time the Loan and Mercantile re-
constructed was in ’94. On that occasion it wrote down
its paid-up capital by £240,000, and made calls to the ex-
tent of nearly £Boo,ooo—so far as it was possible to sort
things out. It also fixed up a fearful and wonderful ar-
rangement of preference shares, “ A ” debentures, * B
debentures, and so on, until the final position of things
was something like the following : The first claim on the
assets was £2,013,870 of prior lien debenture stock at 4
per cent., secured by a first mortgage on everything, and
redeemable at a premium of 2J per cent. Next came the
■•A” debenture stook, £1,251,217 at 5 per cent., seoured
by a second mortgage over everything, and redeemable at
" P er cent, premium after the prior-lien crowd was paid
off. Then the “B” debenture stock, £1,043,007 at 5 per
oent., was secured by a third mortgage over all the com-
pany s assets and its soul, and redeemable at 5 per cent,
premium after the prior-lien incubus and the “A” de-
benture encumbrance were liquidated. Then the prefer-
ence shareholders (£456,789) had a fourth claim, and the
fifth and sixth claims on the co. were represented by the
ordinary shareholders with £725,125 of paid-up capital.
This was a horribly tangled but truly British
arrangement (the British financier, in all the reconstruc-
ii reve^e< l ifi prior lien debentures, “A,” “ B,”
"X” and deferred “ZJ” debentures with premiums
on them, also preference and second preference shares,
and ordinary shares, likewise plain shares and shares
with trimmings, frills and insertion in them and cut bias
ol Tk >assemen^er ’ tint it distinctly implied four things :
(1) The Loan and Mercantile was working on 4i millions
?o\ y? rro ' ve< l money and less than 1 \ millions of its own ;
(2) the borrowed money cost nearly 4| per cent, all
round, which was a practically hopeless rate ; (3) every
asset of the co. was hampered by three separate mort-
gages ; and (4) the co. was pledged to pay, in addition to
interest, £165,000 as bonus to the debenture-holders. The
Bulletin, in its issue of 27th January, 1894, said that the
co. was “ bound to come to grief unless it got rid of
some of its burdens,” and this paper’s office Jeremiah was
a true prophet.
Ab the end of 1895 the N. Z. Loan and Mercan-
tile had written off, so far as can be ascertained, £647,000
in all, reckoning capital and reserves. It has altogether
failed to pay interest on the“ B ” debentures, and after
satisfying only the prior lien crowd and the “ A” deben-
ture-holders it showed a loss of £28,000 for 1895 and
£6OOO for 1896. At the end of 1895 the auditors reported
that it was necessary to write off another huge sum to
cover losses, but the directors contradicted this flatly,
and after a severe moral scuffle the auditors retired—pre-
sumably to make wax' for people who wouldn’t say such
unpleasant things. In its issue of 4th January, 1896, The
Bulletin solemnly staked its little pile on the auditors,
and, so far as it knows, it was the only paper which did so.
It is now cabled that the capital will have to be
written down from £1,181,914 to £138,375, and it is also
necessary to write off about £1,500,000 of debentures, so
that £2,500,000 more disappears in one fell swoop. Also,
the interest is to be reduced and readjusted so that the
burden will be £104,000 a year instead of £145,000, unless
the profits make it possible to pay more. Then, by way
of further tangle, £lOO,OOO of preference shares, worth at
present nothing, are to be issued to certain trustees, and
the trustees are seemingly to issue “certificates” to the
nominal value of £1,000,000 to the shattered debenture-
holders and shareholders. In the present state of affairs,
the certificates will have no real value, and are only cum-
bersome foolishness.
The co. in two years made a loss of £34,000
without paying interest on the “B” debentures, and,
provided things get no worse, the saving now effected
should just about enable it to meet its debenture interest.
As for leaving anything to pay dividends, or start a new
reserve, or reduce the huge load of liabilities, or replace
the lost capital, that, on present appearances, seems hope-
less. _ The board announces, as it did before, that the posi-
tion is now absolutely sound. Considering the situation
of the co., with only £138,000 capital, and over £3,000,000 —
even after all the writing down—of borrowed money, on
which a high rate of interest is payable, the position
looks, barring another boom, of which there is no present
sign, more like being absolutely and utterly hopeless.
Further, seeing that it is less than two years since the
last assurance (given after another big writing-down) that
everything was provided for, the writing-off as lost of
2J4 millions—about two-fifths of the entire assets —is a
gruesome commentary on the intelligence or the veracity
of somebody. What the Loan and Mercantile wants now
is to call up £1,000,000 of new capital in cash, not certi-
ficates or brown paper; to pay off that amount of its
costly liabilities; and then to consolidate its “X ” and
“ Y ” and “ K ” debentures, and its first and second and
seventeenth prior lien pawn-ticket, and its first and tenth
and various mortgage certificate permanent debenture
stook into one simple and sane liability at 3 per. cent,
all round.
* * * *
Last week the shares of the A.J.S. Bank
(£7 10s. paid up) were being offered in Sydney at 9s. with
no buyers. All the calls made at the 1893 reconstruction
have been paid, so there is no immediate call liability to
account for this. Also, it is noteworthy that the price is
much lower than it was after the last disastrous balance-
sheet came out showing a loss of £48,200; then the
second re-arrangement and the big reduction of de-
posit-interest (now completed) were still matters of grave
uncertainty, and it was highly probable that if they
didn’t come off the alternative would shortly be liqui-
dation, yet shares were actually sold as high as 17s. 6d.
Apparently the market anticipates either a heavy writing
off, or the calling up, in whole or in part, of the remain-
ing liability of £2 10s. per share, or it believes that,
despite the reduction in interest, the June balance-sheet
will show another heavy loss—in other words, as this
paper suggested when the latest scheme was under con-
sideration—that the saving effected isn’t large enough. Or,
more probably, the market reckons that two or all three
of these things may happen simultaneously.
• * * *
The increase of fire-insurance rates in Mel-
bourne has raised the usual imbecile shriek for the estab-
lishment of a new co. which will charge “ moderate pre-
miums.” A new co., unless it had a run of extraordinary
luck, would have to charge higher premiums than those
now existing; most of them have large accumulations,
and the interest from these keeps them afloat, whereas
the new co. would start without any accumulations at all.
The companies can’t charge more moderate premiums
than they do because the intense competition keeps the
expense rate ruinously high ; and if another co. has to live
out of the business which isn’t sufficient for those already
existing, and there is another office and set of officials and
agents to be maintained, it only means that the expenses
will be Btill more, and rates must ultimately go up still
higher. It is less, not more, competition that is wanted,
and only some legal process for preventing the inrush of
more foreign companies, and weeding out those already
in, can bring that about.
* * * *
0. H. James, the father of the Melbourne
boom shows, among his liabilities, £171,399 to the Do-
minion Bank, £185,519 to the City of Melbourne Bank,
and £57,773 to the Commercial Bank of Australia. Three
lovely monuments to the times that are dead.^
Despite the reduced rate of interest, Commercial
Bank of Australia deposits have sold recently at 18s. 6d.
in the £. This should foreshadow a good balance-sheet;
bv this time the inside crowd have a tolerably dis-
tinct idea how things are looking for the end of June.
The 44- per cent, deposits of the National and Bank of
Victoria keep above par—about 20s. 6d. in the £. Colonial
Bank 2£ per cent, deposits languish at about 14s. 6d.
Reports are going round about the sale of a good-
sized Melbourne enterprise and a very large Sydney one
to English companies. This steady tendency of every
decent Australian enterprise to drift into the hands of J.
Bull is one of the reasons why The Bulletin advocates a
very large and solid absentee-tax.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and Build-
inP' Co (Sydney), reckons that it has a profit for the half-
vear impended of £2228, after allowing £lOOO for depre-
ciation, and a dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum absorbs £1642. The remainder, with previous
balances, makes £2269 carried forward. The Intercolonial
only owes £12,175 to depositors and all other creditors,
and its success is mainly owing to the fact that it trades
almost entirely with its own funds. Most of the collapsed
land and building companies went down owing to the
burden of a top-heavy mass of deposits.
• * * *
The writing-down of lost capital goes on vigor-
ously in Melbourne. Victoria Coffee Palace writes its
paid capital down from £40,000 to £20,000; and M'Cracken’s
City Brewery, Limited, reduces its capital from £500,000
to £250,000.
* * * *
One beer enterprise in Australia is paying, at all
events. The Swan Brewery Co., a Perth (W.A.) enter-
prise owned in Melbourne, shows a half-year’s profit of
£22,039, equal to 98 per cent, per annum on capital. It
spends £7609 in paying a dividend at the rate of 34 and a
fraction per cent., which leaves it with £44,365 capital,
£lO,OOO reserve-fund, and £29,211 at credit of profit and
loss.
• * * *
The proposal of the United States Government
to gradually call in the “ greenbacks” has created a howl
of joy among the opponents of State banking and State
note issues. The U.S., these people point out, has tried
the experiment of issuing State paper for many years
past, and now decides to give it up as a failure. This
view of the case is either misrepresentation or ignorance,
or both. The worst trouble about the U.S. paper cur-
rency is its woefully mixed character: it includes United
States notes, Treasury notes, gold certificates, silver cer-
tificates, currency certificates (all these are State paper-
money), and also the notes of the national banks, which
are strictly private institutions and number 3676. The
proposal of the Government is merely to gradually with-
draw the United States notes, and thereby make one less
variety of paper-money in existence, and even when they
are withdrawn there will be over £100,000,000 worth of
State paper in circulation. Probably, in course of time,
an attempt will be made to carry the reform further, and
have only one variety of State paper afloat. But the U.S.
Government hasn’t even begun to talk about abolishing
the State note issue.
* * * *
A huge slice of Tasmanian territory now hangs
to the watch-chain of Richard Chaffey Baker. At the
last moment the £lO,OOO Great Western Gridiron deposit
was cabled from Adelaide to Hobart by that exalted per-
sonage. Baronet Clarke was expected to put up the
amount, but he died a day or two before time was up, and
the bargain was declared off by his relatives. The wily
arch-promoter Palmer then seems to have engineered in
Adelaide, with the above result.
* • • •
A Bundaberg (Q.) storekeeper sent some goods
to Brisbane by rail; freight £l. He wanted to send a
similar lot to Gympie (about half the distance); freight
325. “ Oh, I’ll book ’em to Brisbane, and you can drop
’em at Gympie.” “ Wotyer givin’ us ? No fear 1 You
want to rob the department.” Wasn’t it the department
that wanted to rob the storekeeper 1
* * * *
It takes six transit commissioners—at a guinea
per sitting ; chairman, two guineas ; and sometimes they
hold an ordinary meeting for half-an-hour, and a special
meeting just afterwards for 20 minutes or so, and charge
for two sittings—to administer the street traffic of Brisbane
(Q.) metropolitan district. Which is only a pigmy area,
all told. While it takes only one commissioner to ad-
minister all the Q. railways.
* * * •
Sredwin Smith (S.A.) thinks Govt, bonds are
much better investments than house property, because
there is no trouble about the collection of rents, no fear
of frauds by agents, no risk of depreciaiion in value, and
no anxiety as to the continuity of the tenancy. He,
therefore, does not mind accepting less interest. As he
belongs to the “ Great Conservative Party,” which affirms
that the Kingston Govt, has ruined S.A., his testimony is
valuable.
» * • •
A lady turned up at the B.H. Junction meeting
in Melbourne, and made a diversion ; in an unguarded
moment she confessed her ignorance of mining, and then
the satirical man of the crowd got to work, and the direc-
tors were saved by bluff. But the lady started off with
a question that the directors couldn't face : What was the
cause of the creep ? was the most pertinent question that
could be put at the meeting. The chairman said the
creep was “ a normal subsidence.” The lady’s ignorance
of mining didn’t allow her to follow it up, and nobody
else apparently had the pluck to go to her rescue. She
could only suggest that the manager had too much to do.
Wherein she was mostly right, for he had too much ore-
extraction to do to allow of the timbering and staying
being properly attended to. And for the manager having
too much ore-extraction to do the directors were probably
to blame. To which extent they caused the creep.
Of course, it had to be owned up at the Junction
meeting that the creep was more extensive than the
manager had at first thought.
Block 10’s progress has been better than the div.
figures indicate. Last half-year it paid £20,000, which
was the same as was distributed in the corresponding
half of ’95-6, and twice as much as in the next preceding
half. But the actual profit for the three terms was:
Half-year to March, ’96, £8355; to Sept., ’96, £5740; to
March, ’97, £23,340. The earlier divs. had been paid out
of the reserve piled up while the kaolin “ chimney” was
being coined.
B.H. South pays a June div., and goes on add-
ing to its buddies for the further treatment of its slimes
from the concentrators. The prospecting work under-
ground still shows a very mixed body. The British also
adds some buddies to its concentrating plant.
The increase in the number of buddies, which
has lately been reported as to almost every B.H. sulphide
mine, is of great importance, inasmuch as it allows of a
finer crushing of the ore, and the consequent elimination
of more zinc from the concentrates. Where there is this
fine crushing, there are almost of necessity heavy losses
of silver which flows away in the slime ; and it is to catch
this metal that the buddies are needed.
The first div. in the B.H. British was paid on
the last day in May. The total was £15,000, of which
£6160 Us. was payable in respect of shares on the Aus-
tralian register. Of the 1890 Australian shareholders, 700
are South Australians and 550 Victorians.
* * * •
Unofficially stated that last month’s crushing of
411 tons from the Beacon mine, N.S.W., formerly called
Taylor’s Reward, returned 1131 oz. gold, but the exaggera-
tion of previous returns makes the acceptance of this
doubtful. Why can’t the 00., English though it be, make
its own announcement, and save all this uncertainty ?
• * * •
Barrass and Conley’s mine, now called the Great
Peak Freehold, is still the wonder of Cobar, N.S.W. The
syndicate having failed to float it on a basis of £200,000,
the owners applied a considerable part of the gold they
had taken out to its active and workmanlike development.
They erected a new 10-head stamp-mill, with engine-power
for 30, built a good dam, started a main shaft, and did
other good work. Not many weeks ago, in driving from
the main shaft to cut the “ brown lode” at 75ft., a forma-
tion composed largely of kaolin, and carrying rich chlo-
rides of silver, was cut. It was soon found good enough
to bag, the brown lode being left alone at this point for
awhile. Over 200 tons of this silver ore have already been
sold, netting over £lO a ton, and 200 tons more are now
being broken. Some 60 yards south they are working a
big auriferous formation, which mills 7 to 10 dwts., and
leaves about the same in the tailings.
Hill End news : “ The plant and 1< aaes of the
Hawkins Hill Co. have been sold in lots. The winding
plant and leases are being purchased by the tributors
working the ground; the rest of the machinery goes
away.” This camp seems even to have broken the heart
of the newspaper man who used to foreshadow for it a
boom every two or three weeks, and allude to the gold
cakes of some thirty years ago.
* « * *
Nundle, N.S.W. : “ Gozley and party have
crushed 250 tons for a yield of about 600 oz. of gold. The ore
was obtained from a reef which varies from one inch to
three feet in thickness.” There is also some variation in
“ about 600 ounces.” Is there no weighbridge in the
neighborhood ?
* * * *
Some interesting figures re the Westralian gold
output are contained in the May number of Clarke and
Co.’s (Adelaide) “ Investor’s Guide.” The gold export for
May (official figures) was 59,1110 z., which is nearly
10,000 oz. higher than that of the previous month, and
brings the total output for the first five months of the
present year to 211,9770 z. This exceeds the entire export
during ’94, and is only 20,0000 z. less than the total pro-
duction during ’95, while the total for ’96 was but
281,2630 z. Thus the operations of the first five months of
the present year produced more than those of the first
nine months of last year. Also, the Westralian output for
last month exceeds the Victorian output for any month
this year save March.
* * « •
Wired that Bayley’s Reward has got rich gold
again—in Cockshott’s shaft. 4cwt. stone gave nearly
708 oz. gold. Another pocket, no doubt.
* * * •
Q. Menzies shares have more rigging than a
clipper ship. If the crushing is good down they go. If
it is bad up they go. Pity some other W.A. mines were
not sold on similar results. They would be worth
millions.
* * * *
Mr. Modest Maryanski, the Polish mining ex-
pert, has returned to Westralia, after a visit to London,
Berlin, and Cripple Creek, U.S. Mr. M. got somewhat
excited on finding telluride ore in the Boulder Main Beef
mine, and cleared off in great haste, allowing the news-
papers to say he was going, not only to restore confidence,
but to bring back heaps of foreign capital. He has
brought back a diamond-drill p'ant “to test the con-
tinuity of the lodes on the field.” He asserts that “ Lon-
don capitalists have had their confidence restored in
Kalgoorlie.” This is news indeed, after the Premier and
other people have just left the province on the restore-
path. If restored, well, where is it? Confidence in the
Great Boulder and the other producers cf Kalgoorlie was
never lost; but the prices of the hundreds of mines sur-
rounding them, and on other fields, continue to fall,
“ cats ” continue to die, there are no new floats, good,
bad, or indifferent, and, look where one will, there is no
sign of restored confidence, cash or boom, unless it be in
the reduction in the labor conditions, by which many
hundreds of men are being thrown out of work in the
interests of the jobbing gang.
* * • •
Charters Towers May returns : 32,400 tons for
27,0000 z. This includes 7100 oz. from 16,0000 z. of sand
cvanided. Calls, £37,000; divs., £96,000. Croydon for
May produced £72380z. (cyanide, £18920z.); tonnage not
stated. Expected that June returns will make the half-
year’s total a record one for the field.
* * * •
Stated that there are 500 men too many already
on the Clermont (C.Q.) rush.
• • * •
The prices ruling for shell in Torres Straits are
as good as ever, and production shows no falling off. Yet
business is depressed, and Northerners want to know
why 1 Perhaps the solution lies in the fact that previous
to the Japanese invasion wages went locally into circula-
tion. Last year, however, £B5OO went through the post
to Japan, to say nothing of the amount carried home in
sovereigns by retiring Japs. That’s how the curse works.
* * * •
Gympie’s little boom keeps hustling. The Wil-
mots are still slumping — ls. 4d., Is. Bd.
• • • *
Mt. Morgan, for May : 7304 tons for 1ti,6700z.
The best for a long time.
• * * •
Charters Towers Brilliant and St. George : 858
tons, 1186 oz. Papuan : 501 tons, 13030 z. Moonstone :
148 tons, 4870 z.
* * • •
A Bulletin correspondent says that the Sir
Henry Havelock mine, at Charleston, near Georgetown
(Etheridge, Q.), crushed 4 tons heavy niundic stone from
a sft. reef for 14oz. 6dwt. smelted gold. But he doesn’t
sav whether the stone was picked, what was left in the
tailings, or the value of the gold. The last Etheridge
gold-escort took (12 weeks’ collection) 89420 z. gold.
• * * •
During May last Q. gold-yield totalled 67,1230 z.
64,4050 z. from quartz and 27180 z. from alluvial. The
Towers heads the list with 27,1850z.—18,8980z5. from
quartz and 82870 z. from tailings and concentrates. Other
chief returns : Mount Morgan, 16,6870 z. (quartz) ; Croy-
don, 72390 z. (53460 z. quartz, 18930 z. tailings and concen-
trates) ; Gympie, 64610 z. (quartz); Etheridge, 30860 z.
(23170 z. quartz, 3900 z. alluvial, 3790 z. tailings and con-
centrates) ; Ravenswood, 22520 z. (20960 z. quartz and
1560 z. alluvial) ; Clermont, 16930 z, (all alluvial); the rest,
each under IOOOoz.
* * * *
Holland’s claim at Black Flat, near Melb., has
suspended operations. Only three shafts have been put
down on the alleged goldfield—two by Holland and sons,
and one, across the road, by a syndicate of Richmond
tradesmen. The latter has been finally shut down and
wound-up. They struck a fine reef and brought up 20 or
30 tons—of road metal. The only claim that paid any
sort of return was the one adjoining Holland’s—called the
“ Mountain View,” which kept on crushing all the time.
’Twas a fine reef and went eight pints to the gallon every
time, at 6d. a pint., tailings being re-sold. The “ stuff ”
consisted mostly of malt and hops, with the usual
etceteras, and returned a handsome div. to proprietor
Moylan, who ultimately sold out and built himself a hand-
some house on the opposite corner, overlooking the scene
of his operations.
* • • •
“ Arrangements made for the sale to an Eng-
lish syndicate of the leases next to the Tasmania mine,
Tas., the leaseholder getting £lOOO and a quarter interest
in a co. with £40,000 capital.” Bull, nearly two years ago,
declined the big mine at what has since proved a moderate
price.
• * * •
The Tarcombe (N.S.W.) Co. has a one-’possum-
power battery, and the legal manager wrote re the ad-
visableness of erecting it. Whereupon a humorous share-
holder : “ Good suggestion. Put handles on the cam-shaft,
and the thing can be run cheap. Can get four boys at
7s. 6d. per week; two will turn the handles, while the
others supply water from jam-tins.”
Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98 100%, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, Far cheaper than Drug
■louses. 11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
Hy.tyarkwald,
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price
. - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAI
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crasher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
CYANIDE
OP POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
VA/EBER. lohmann & CO.,
SYDNEY-63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
w '
MONEY - ORDERS
1 ’ 1 ISSUED BY THE
CHEQUE BANK, Ltd.,
ARP 1 CHEAPER than ORDINARY Money
Orders and are Cashed by 25,000 Banks all
over the World. Apply for Handbooks.
JAS. MALCOLM, Gen. Agent.
135 Pitt-street (near G.P.0.)
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
STOCK
ONLY
SIR JOHN
Power’s WbiSkey.
Am. 1
Reps. (
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
The S'<npson guckboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, aa in an ordinary
Buckboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth— W. B. Gordon & Co.
Geraldton— W. Meadowcroft.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A..
THE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double Bedroom*
Bathrooms, lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard R<jom, &c.
Tariff - From. 4s. to Bs. per Day.


SOCIETY
A recent vice-regal accouchement seems
likely’- to provoke quite a tempest in the medical
teapot of an Australian capital, and the generally-
accepted “economy” of the Excellency in ques-
tion has been debited with another black mark.
Thus : A son and heir was born, the lady being
safely delivered by the accoucheur who has been
medicine man to quite a succession of vice-regal
families. A few weeks later Her Ex. was
stricken, supposedly, with dengue fever—the aris-
tocratic malady < ■ the hour. Another eminent
medico was called in, and the old vice-regal
physician was ignored. Then certain things
became Current talk.
Dr. X. had kept his professional mouth
closed up to this. Then it transpired that the
Excellency had not, as is supposed to be the vogue
of Excellencies, voluntarily forwarded a cheque as
his estimate of the deserved honorarium. But, a
few weeks having elapsed, His Ex. wrote to
Dr. X. requesting him to forward his account.
Dr. X. sent in a bill for (it is said) 25 guineas.
The Governor promptly sent a cheque for that
amount, together with a letter, in which
he is stated to have expressed the opinion
Jiat the charges made bore no fair rela-
DISTRUST THE EXPERT!
“No good asking that cockie for rations ; he was on the road himself
before he settled here!”
tion to the value -of the professional services
rendered, and hinted, if he did not say, that
advantage was being taken of the writer’s posi-
tion as Governor of the province. Dr. X. promptly
z'eturned the cheque with “ some remarks,” and up
to now, so far as is known, the matter stands at
that.
When Dr. Y. was called in to treat Her X.
for alleged dengue fever, Dr. X. seems to have given
his friends explanations as to why he had not
continued to act as the lady’s attendant, and it is
said he intends laying the whole circumstances
before his medical brethren as being in the nature
of an affront to the profession..
* * * *
“Big” Clarke the First did his best to
found a dynasty and solidify the family interest
by entailing the Rupertswood estate, but the Vic-
torian law only allows an entail to be fixed for
two generations, so Baronet Rupert may dissipate
the family pile at his pleasure. This arrangement
is bad for the hereditary title. A hereditary title
is a little less incongruous when the founder of the
family can make reasonably sure, by the entail
system, that a hereditary crust will go along with,
it. Otherwise the pile seldom lasts through half-
a-dozen generations. The time will probably come
when Australia’s only baronet will hold out a
gaunt, long-necked ration-bag to the cook for
tucker, and when the dog that trudges behind
him on the dusty Western track will look no more
baronial than the dog that trudges behind anybody
else. If anyone could draw a true picture of Aus-
tralia’s only baronet’s dog as he will be in 1960 it
might help a little in the good work of blasting
hereditary titles.
♦ * * *
Q. Gov. Lamington announces that he is
importing 33 cases of fireworks to brighten Record
Reign night at Brisbane. Then follows the list,
graciously communicated to the press :
Six batteries various ; eighteen silver tourbillions ; six
mines of jewelled-headed cobras; six batteries, “Flight
of Silver Comets ” ; twelve Jubilee commemoration bat -
teries ; six cracker mines ; three mines forming clouds of
fireflies; two Bin. (diameter) shells, “Poppies in the
Cornfield”; one Bin, shell, “The Lightning Flash and
Thunderbolt Shells”; one Bin. shell, “Great Golden
Cloud, Studded with Emeralds” ; one Bin. shell, “Triple
Japa
And so on. But what’s the betting that the
liberal-minded Gov. passes the bill to the tax-
payer, and doesn’t pay for one jewelled-headed
cobra of the lot ?
♦ * * *
A Victorian dental firm intends celebrating
the Record Reign by presenting 60 sets of teeth to
the “deserving toothless.” The “deserving
aged ” and the “ deserving poor ” have been much
heard of, but the “ deserving toothless ” sounds
novel. There seems a fine opening here for a local
chiropodist to take out 60 corns gratis from the
feet of the deserving corny ; also, if some philan-
thropist would give 100 hot baths to the deserving
dirty, or cut “on the never” the hair of the
deserving hairy, it would bring joy to many a
Numble ’Ome.
* * * *
Up to date, Queensland is the only Aus-
tralian province (barring, perhaps, Westralia) not
yet empimpled with some hideous effigy alleged to
represent Queen Victoria. But the leprosy of
Naaman is upon this Gehazi of provinces, and
the voice of the groveller is heard in the land —
“ A Statoo for the Di’mond Year !”
Sydney, with an ac-
tual population of 100,152,
and a real population of
half as many again during
business hours, has but
three postal deliveries a
day.
A dog-story up to
date : A faithful animal
walks with his master
into the city from South
Melbourne daily, then
catches a green tram at
the Equitable corner, and
rides home in glory in the
gripman’s compartment.
The dog never makes a
mistake in the car, and
when the conductor calls
“Fare, please,” it gives
three wags of its tail as a
canine equivalent for three-
pence.
* * *
T.D. : “At George
and Bathurst streets (Syd-
ney) intersection, last
night, three gatherings of
Christians combined to
make the hours hideous.
One was run by an upper-
crust parson from a fashion-
able church ; another con-
sisted of anasmio young
amateurs from the neigh-
boring Y.M.C.A. ; and a
tattered re 1 i gious-crank,
familiar to Domainites,
conducted the third and
largest audience. Fifty
yards away a Salvation
circle fired intermittent
volleys and banged the
big drum. The average
Christian who doesn’t
grasp this practical illus-
tration of the wrangle of
creeds is an utterly humorless creature.”
» * * »
. The hard-driven escort has a bad time at
Sydney Guvmentouse under the Hampden regime.
The last vice-royalties only used it on large State
occasions, but the present crowd can’t go out to
buy a packet of pms, or to get its hair cut, without
all the pomp and gauds streaming behind. And
on wet days it is a solemn thing to see the escort
trying to form himself into a hollow square outside
a shop while the rain flows off him in sheets, all
because the great functionary is having his solitary
hair briH'iantined inside, or something equally
thrilling is happening. To be a suite on a wet day
is a lugubrious billet.
* * * *
Despite Tasmanians’ loyalty and wishes for
glorious celebrations'of the record reign, they are,
none of them, at all forgetful of “self.” The
Hobart public librarian thinks <£3ooo for library
extensions would be an excellent commemoration
of the “event.” This is the popular suggestion, be-
cause Government will find <£lsoo, and the library
trustees have another <£lsoo (the loss of which
-will affect no individual trustee), and the corpora-
tion magnanimously offers to give up its back-yard
for a site. _ The Museum curator thinks the exten-
sion of his curiosity-shop is a national project.
This is pooh-poohed—the people would have to
contribute. A few doctors want convalescent
MALONEY’S OBLIVION.
HIS R EVERENCE: “ Have you any idea of the time, my friend?”
MR. SHYPOO MALONEY : “Don’t axe me, Father Murphy—why I — hie —
dunno even what day it isl”
homes of divers sorts, and people who can’t get
their letters delivered to suit them want a new
Post-office. As a sign of the “nearness” displayed,
the notion that the citizens of Hobart should pro-
vide .£5OO towards the book-shop extension could
find no seconder.
* * * *
The Mayor of Charleville (Q.) called a
meeting for a Saturday night to take steps to
Gorsave the Diamond Jubilee, “up to the
knocker.” Charleville didn’t roll up. The meet-
ing consisted of the Mayor, the Town Clerk, and
a reporter. Tambaroora for drinks. Charleville is
not too beastly loyal. Shove a Saturday night in
one soale, and the Crown in another, and
Charleville takes the night out with its best girl.
* • * *
In King-street, Sydney, last week, a band
played “God Save,” etc., but not a hat came off.
In Sydney, people don’t even doff their hats to a
funeral.
* * * *
The meteorologists agree in believing that
there will be indications of rain yesterday. The
Bulletin’s faith in meteorology—as at present
supplied—therefore grows more vigorous.
A precise and professionally-en-
thusiastic warrant-officer from Sydney
has just spent three weeks drilling the
Broken Hill reservists. The reserves
total at most 18, and the average on
parade has been 11. And against the
cost of this instruction what is there
to show? The reserves are expected
to put in 18 drills a year. No per-
manent instructor being on the spot,
one is supposed to .visit the Barrier
every 12 months and cram the 18
parades into three weeks.
Down South, it is related, an in-
structor once visited a country town
to cram a dozen parades into a fort-
night. The local “good fellows ” got
hold of him on his arrival and kept
him magnificently drunk for 14 days.
They then put him on the train and
farewelled him with mighty cheers.
* * * *
The other day in a Melb. sub-
urb a sulky collided with the kerb, kill-
ing the horse and throwing out the
occupants. The gentleman was des-
perately hurt, but the lady was unin-
jured and bent down over him asking
pityingly, “ What can I do ? ” “ Get
away—quick, for God’s —sake before
cop—pers take your name and ad-
dress, ” gasped the bleeding man. She
fled. Evidently not the right person !
* * * *
People who dine at Northern
hotels often note the curious circum-
stance that, no matter how fat be the
bullocks slaughtered at the abattoirs,
no particle of oily tissue ever appears
on the beef at the table. The expla-
nation is simple. Dripping is the per-
quisite of the Chinese cook, who,
therefore, carefully cuts off every
vestige of fat from the joint and adds it to his
little store in the kitchen barrel.
* * *■ *
By way of a startling novelty, most of the
Australian weekly papers will distribute among
their readers, at Jubilee time, colored portraits of
Queen Victoria. The Bulletin hopes to present
to its constituents something even more wildly
original and interesting—such as a copy of Ham-
let’s soliloquy or the Ten Commandments.
* * * *
New Guinea is beginning to cock its hat
over its right eye. It has imposed a duty of 14s
per gallon on grog, and Samarai has been brought
under the operation of the Towns Police Act. All
it wants now is a women’s league, bloomers, and a
pound of hairpins.
The Maoriland
hangman was recently
sent to gaol for drunk-
enness, bad language,
and “tearin’ me uni-
form.” This plainly
shows that he is an un-
reliable character and
unfit for his position.
No person who is just
about to make his exit
from this world, owing
to strained relations be-
tween himself and the
judge, should be ex-
posed to the possibility
of having a gin-breath
and an ungentlemanly
expression blown into
his ear in his last mo-
ments, and the chance
of having the rope fixed
by a person with a
shaky hand and a
feeble, glassy eye.
Maoriland should at
least keep a sober hang-
man. Moreover, in the
interests of decency, the
appointment of a hang-
lady Beems urgently
called for. When the
law regretfully scrags a
female she should at
least be scragged by
someone of her own
sex, not pawed with
undue familiarity by a
strange man. The last
woman hanged, for in-
stance, was a lady by
education and instinct,
and when the coarse
official male clod inter-
fered with her back hair
to fix the rope it was
probably a severe shock
to her feelings, even
though he was sober
and not using lan-
guage at the time. So
long as the gallows ex-
ists the hanglady is as
essential to civilisation
as the female doctor or
nurse.
A Vic. school-teacher appeals, through the
Argus, for boots for the barefooted children, in
order to “ fill their hearts with gratitude and
loyalty this jubilee year,” and a Salvation officer
thus appeals in Sydney D.T.: —
There are thousands of children who are destitute of
ordinary necessaries of life, and seeing that H.M.’s reign
has been so successful in promoting the happiness of her
subjects, we think it will be a fitting thing to celebrate
the great event of the record reign by feeding the poor
and hungr3 r children.
Loyalty, either to a monarch or hungry children,
evidently leaves no room for logic. And a sense of
humor hasn’t the ghost of a show with a man who
can quote thousands of destitute children as a
proof of the success of the record reign in promot-
ing the happiness of Her Majesty’s subjects.
* * * *
The Jubilee programme for Melbourne is
a foolish-looking collection of small items which pro-
mise to yield about half as much festivity for the
masses as can be obtained during aCup-week. Apart
from illuminations (and they are not expected to
outshine the scattered flare of 10 years ago, when
the average display was one burst of light to every
two and a-half acres of darkness) the programme
offers no excitement for the “ loyal ” citizen ir
Miss ALMA STANLEY.
Photo., Talma.
return for the loss of a day’s work, or more, by
order of Government. At the Exhibition som-
-15,000 school children will assemble for the deadly
purpose of singing “ Gorsave,” unless somebody
intervenes, with a reminder that the infantile
chorus can’t possibly leave room for any audience
worth mentioning. Other historic events arranged
for Jubilee week are a review of troops (Melbourne,
as a rule, hates troops, especially in cold weather),
a promenade of firemen by torchlight, and a pro-
cession of fragments from the local friendly
societies. The remaining joys in store are con-
certs and things, such as happen at any time,
and hospitalities at Government House, which in-
terest very few people who haven’t filed their
schedules and made fat settlements on their wives.
If “loyalty ” were centralised in the metropolis
DURABILITY AN D ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing -
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATBBIALS THOROUGHLY SZHTIRTTIuriK:.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all texturks, suita le for
BUSINESS - RIDING PICNICING
OFFICE - BUSH - SPORT
PROMENADE TRAVELLING and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
35/-
40/-
45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony,
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OK THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
I u ""“' CORTO an the band*, and beware vf iinilatwns


this dreary array of functions, or whatever one
calls them, would at least hold out the induce-
ment to sightseers of a big crowd in the streets—
provided, of course, that the week doesn’t happen
to be horribly wet. But each suburb and outlying
district intends to jubilate on its little own. The
list of public puerilities designed by the contend-
ing intellects of divers mayors and councillors is a
ghastly thing to ponder over. Householders in
one suburb are exhorted to burn a candle apiece
behind the front parlor window, as a token of
devotion to the Queen, ere sallying forth to some
given spot where the German band will play.
There is no end to the scheme of al fresco gaieties
in damp and dismal places. This notice, however,
had better conclude with a brief sketch of
Heidelberg’s fell intent. At Heidelberg, it
seems, councillor A. will commemorate the Jubilee
by supplying a bullock, to be roasted on a spit to
be specially manufactured by councillor 8., at an
immense fire, and subsequently to be distributed
among the villagers. The bonfire, estimated to
consume 20 tons of wood, will occur at Heidelberg
A “CROWDED OUT ” PICTURE.
Park, and by the light of this joyful conflagration
bicycle and pedestrian racers are to run their wild
careers, whilst the school children stand around
the hillsides, devouring buns gratis, and inhaling
pneumonia from the misty atmosphere.
When The Bulletin thinks of all the prema-
mature funerals that must result, sooner or later,
from one old lady’s longevity, it wishes that the
British crown had gone up the spout before Our
Sovereign Lady was born.
A sample
of dandelion
ale examined
by the emi-
nent Dr.
Helms, of
Sydney, the
other day,
contained
3.73 per cent,
absolute alco-
hol by weight
-equal to 7.40
per cent,
proof spirit
by measure.
That is the
scientific as-
pect of the
case. The
practical as-
pect of it is
that the pre-
sent writer re-
cently drank
a pint of the
aforesaid
“ non-alcoho-
lic” dandelion
ale at a time
when he had
taken little or
no food, and
found himself
about as“for-
rard ” as if he
had taken a
pint of
M'Ewan. Dr.
Helms’analy-
sis is evident-
ly all right.
Queensland police-officers are to be glori-
fied with “commemorative medals” —bronze for
the force’s acquisitions since ’B7, and silver for the
heroes who ante-date that great grovel. If V.R.I.
isn’t of much use otherwise, she does very well as
an excuse for hanging shiny things on the breast-
bone and looking as tremendous as possible.
» * * *
The penetrating powers of the Vic. police
received eloquent testimony at Prahran court,
when the bench remarked that “ some policemen
could get in anywhere if they could smell drink.’
For years the public has regarded the lonely
meanderer of the streets with a pitying eye, but it
"owseems that such sympathy has been wasted.
All that is needed is a balmy breeze of beer or a
waft of whisky, and the copious-footed wanderer
of the night has the open sesame of any pub. on
his bate
N.S.W. Comptroller-of-Prisons Neiten-
stein thinks a prisoner for debt should be made
work for his keep. There’s a lot more sense about
the Dutch plan of making his creditor pay for
him, and thus guaranteeing that he won’t be kept
m quod a moment after it’s discovered that he
can’t square-up. And a better plan still—don’t
put him in !
A recent Bulletin par. (from a lady corres-
pondent, by the way) stated that Melbourne
University students had been satirical at the
HARRY FURNISS.
A HAPPY PAIR.
expense of their venerable Chancellor for putting a
halfpenny in a kerosene-tin towards an Indian
Famine Fund collection, and that subsequently he
amended his jocular indiscretion by donating a
guinea. The secretary of the University Union
begs The Bulletin to contradict the aforesaid
yarn at all points. The Chancellor, who has ever
been most generous according to his means, was
not in the room when the kerosene-tin went round,
nor did he know aught of the collection until after
the money had been forwarded to the Argus.
And, as for chaffing him by means of placards, the
students would never dream of hurling disrespect
at an aged, invalided ruler whom they unanimously
honor. So there, now! The offending lady
romancer may consider her bonnet sat upon, and
her sunshade trampled in the dust.
* * * ♦
Moral of recent Melb. divorce-case: Beware
of the scented man.
RODERIC QUINN
Photo., Kerry.
This is an excellent portrait of Rod eric
Quinn, one of the most promising of young Aus-
tralian writers, whose clever and interesting
romance of “ Mostyn Stayne ” has just been pub-
lished by George Robertson and Co. Readers of
The Bulletin have long prized Quinn’s tales and
verses, which link with tender sentiment imagina-
tive power of a high order. And as Roderic
Quinn is still a young man, improving yearly, it
may justly be hoped that he will rise to a very
considerable literary distinction.
* * * *
Hostesses who entertain cycling-callers
find that serving afternoon-tea to them, in dainty
cups of Doulton or Crown Derby, is like casting
pearls before swine. Cyclists usually arrive with
a thirst which no ordinary cup’s contents can
quench and an utter inability to “ drink fair.”
* * * •
Exact copy (name only changed) of notice
in a Geraldton (W.A.) shop-window:—
NOTICE.
The remains of Patrick M-- will “move” fror»
his mother’s residence at 4 p.m. to-morrow.
No loss, but gone before.
• * * *
Three recent N.S.W. justice items : Boy
of 13 steals 2s. 6d. worth of groceries, and is
actually arraigned by the Crown Law Office at the
criminal sessions ; is very properly let off with a
“ bind-over.” Man steals ninepence worth of
baking-powder, very improperly gets three years,
R. S. SMYTHE.
including nine months’ “separate.” Sailor,
while drunk, fatally outs another man’s throat;
properly or improperly gets six months. “ Variety
is charming.”
* * * *
A carpe»ter has been sent up for three
months at Broken Hill for assaulting a girl named
Harris. The assault consisted of kissing the girl
against her will. By the way, what is the chival-
rous thing for a man to do under such circum-
stances ? Should the carpenter express his sorrow
at having kissed the girl, or should he aver that
her charms are so irresistible that had he the
opportunity he would kiss her again ?
* • « *
Modest ! From Sydney D.T. :
A/TATRlMONY.—Gentleman, talented, handsome
(21), wishes to meet handsome young lady of
means. Squattocraoy, Newtown P.O.
When the lonely cop is pad-
ing his beat,
And his soul is somewhat sad,
And his feet
Drag across the pave so drear—
Then he thinks that Heaven’s near
When there comes a breath of beer
Down the street.
And as that fragranoe blows
In its course,
To his well-developed nose,
To its source
Does that lonely cop. prepare
To trace it then and there—■
For they’ll get in anywhere,
Will the force.
No wall is built, ’tis clear,
That oan stop
A policeman when the beer
Starts to pop,
For his cheek, so hard and cool,
Beats the burglar’s little tool,
And the diamond-drill’s a fool
To the cop.
WHEN WILL IT END?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I looked upon the Sorrow that was gnawing at my heart,
And the question that came thrilling dry or night would
not depart:
“When will it end? When will it end? When will it
end ? ” it cried,
And in the corners of my room the chasing echoes died.
Then there came a Voice anon :
“ Hear the answer true, O friend,
This bad thing will never end :
It will simply j ust go on.
“While your pulsing heart is beating, while the blood
flows in your veins,
While the summer ripens cornfields and they fall in golden
grains,
While your sinews lax and tighten, while your lungs
breathe glowing breath,
It will haunt you, it will haunt you, it will haunt you
unto death ! ”
Then I smiled and raised my head :
“ You spake lies to me, O friend,
Saying it would never end,
It will end when I am dead ! ”
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
;mrrington*c"L"^
, f fHOTO*. OUTFITTERS
6:6 KING, STsvonel
NnS
A,rn... ' • \i —’
r//r rwAt / Buy ftioM**
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
SXTERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION
Use of Dark Rooms—FßEE.
T
C
-rsOSE’S CELEBRATED
JR ' LOTION
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sitrht, Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. 11. A. ROSE, Chemist, 631 Georce-street,
Sydney By' Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemisis & Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station anti Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager Beer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. bi
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Fred M. : Writing bad ; yet honestly believe
yarn’s worse A.K. : Your case is that a man entered
alleged hospital as a paying patient, desiring an operation
performed ; was asked to choose his doctor ; chose ; and
was told he would have to wait that doctor’s regular
visiting-day ; whereupon he left indignantly. Well, what
would you have ? Do you think that any honorary sur-
geon should hasten instantly to any hospital patient’s
special call? What about his private' practice? F.M. ;
Sonnet flat Wonga : Crude M.B. : Drover poem
wants a little more spirit—vim—fire Mossgiel : You
are wasting ink and paper O.C. : Cross between a
Methodist hymn and an Anglican sermon. Passed
G.G. : Give it to the local paper; we never grudge little
things like that to the local paper Frank G. :Do you
want to make the corpse writhe up out of the coffin ?
T.D. : Wants interest Uloola : “Buster” pretty poor.
Veldt: Verse merely parodies a recent piece—surely
you saw it? In Niece: Very tedious L.B. : Thin
B Moses : Too much Kanaka grammar about your
grievance.... Zany : Very nice—but what is it all about?., .
S. : Never heard that anything went wrong with his busi-
ness, outside of the Colonial Bank .... Melb. : What are
you giving us ? The lady has only a light voice of the
fiddle-stringy tremolo kind—and no future. Now that she
is getting fat, she sings as though she were short-winded.
Beech Forest (Vic.) : Victoria receives £385,000 a year
from the State and about 180,000 a year from the Duchy
of Lancaster Condobolin : Record Rain joke already
done to death W.T. (Cornishtown): What made you
select us as a target for your awful “ Thanksgiving
Anthem”? F.F. : Well, isn’t Punch the sort of paper
one would naturally read at a funeral ? Rebel: Poem
somehow reminds us of the back view of the legs of the
smallest Christian at Her Majesty’s Nebo: The mate
fell overboard, and a voice from the forecastle said it was
a “ blanky good job.” Then the ship went on as usual
E.D. (Perth): If you are “self-taught,” as alleged, you
must have taught yourself with a mud-shovel E.R. :
The mere statement that you saw a very large woman
with nothing on isn’t necessarily literature J.H.M. :
“Billy D.” won’t go Rattleah : Not quite dexterous
enough. Margot: Swinburne-and-water—and you’ve
drowned the miller Bures : Stiff, stale Tankerooka:
Don’t grudge you the pleasure of writing Costeen:
Not up Neranga: “The creeks bore gold in their
sinuey maze,” did they? Well, there’s no gold in your
sinuey MS., anyway Sydee : Too much dialect; too
little humor Aurum: No dialect and no humor.
J.H.M. : Better drop that lazy, spineless metre
Wilkins M. : Will try and use Alone : No, thanks.
E.S.E. : A dozen long stanzas about your lost
girl. We’re not vindictive, but we’re glad you lost that
girl Owen C. :No fresh light C.S. : Don’t care for.
M.T. :It is C.O. : No, he isn’t a “ bogus bush
bard,” nor does he merit such sweeping condemnation..
Made in Germany : Queen Victoria was born in England
on Sir Moses Montefiore’s advice Esa K. : Will print
as requested G. : Bathetic T.A.D. (Transvaal) :
No daily-newspaper narratives ; only well-condensed
paragraphs of all-round-Australian interest.. J.R. :
Not new. Victor Daley wrote long ago some verses re a
child’s description of the cemetery as “ Where the dead
men live.” M.A.S. : Sheer nonsense. Why, if Dr.
Manning resigned as Inspector-General of the Insane,
and entered on private practice, he would probably make
five times his official salary Theodolite (M.L.) : Good
story Eurotah : You don’t let us into the secret
Yarran : May print it in a maudlin moment N.B.
(Merc.): Sketches unavailable Tom Collins : Glad to
see amended version A.C. : Sufficient to say that no
well-advised politician would accept the N.S.W. Agent-
Generalship under present conditions unless he possessed
substantial private means and was prepared to draw on
them for semi-official purposes. It is impossible to occupy
the position respectably on £lB2O a year. House-rent
and taxes alone mean £5OO annually ; and the calls on an
A.G.’s pocket are numerous and heavy. Agent-General
Samuel cannot be grudged his pension whenever he
chooses to claim it Jawn : Wants better treatment
Breadalbane : In its own columns, anyhow, The Bulletin
isn’t a “valuable” paper, or an “esteemed” paper, or
a “ brilliant ” paper, or anything of the sort. It is sim-
ply a weekly paper—price sixpence. Please remember
the sixpence, also leave out the jam, and come to the
point. Furthermore, don’t call your own moon-maunder-
ings “poetry.” It is much safer to say “verse.” The
man who labels his own screed “ A Poem ” is on a par
with the miserable who runs a column in his paper
labelled “ Wit and Humor.” Humpy B. : Yes, it was a
tragedy C.L. A. : If you want us “to correct a mis-
statement,” set down as shortly as possible exactly
what the mis-statement is—don’t go in for eloquent
writing and preaching a sermon 4 foolscap pp. long. The
Bulletin is a little paper—it isn’t Hansard, or Shake-
speare, or the Bible; or a verbatim report of Dan O’Connor
or E. J. 11. Knapp A.R.D. : It might do re-drawn
J.F.D. : One may serve as suggestion G.G.S. :
Thanks E. : The patent-agent in question has a good
record as an honest man .... J,D. (Bollen): The most
blankly inane thing to hand this month Waddy : Below
par The Rake : It doesn’t rhyme anywhere, and some
lines are a yard longer than others, and there is no sense
in it, and it is a piece of dull commonplace written
illegibly on both sides of a dirty sheet of paper. Other-
wise it is very good poetry W.H.P. (Guildford) : Wants
better treatment Mostyn : Good for par. only A.D. :
Don’t care for overmuch. And why don’t you write like
that before Kipling ? Or why not worry out the strains
that are waiting for the next Kipling? This one hasn’t
exhausted the music of the universe A.R.P. : You
don’t even say it’s imitation—and the imitation is so close
that you might have said it was plagiarism L.R.M. :
“Prodigal” worthless Tuhoe : Thought equal to just
one dab of butter, and you’ve tried to spread it over a
4lb. loaf H.M‘C.: Twins —and he asked her which she’d
keep :in five pages W.H.P. : Yarn stale ; par. dull
M.B. : Better stick to verse. Graceful little sentimentalities
pass in rhyme which look very twaddlesome without it. ..
Bot. : Re counterfeit coins. The popular method of
“ringing” a doubtful coin is effective in most cases, as
counterfeiters usually work with a soft metal, such as
lead or some of its alloys. A good sovereign does not
always “ring,” and may be a legal coin without. But
the cases are extremely infrequent, as the mints “ ring ”
all sovereigns before issue H.E.M. : Not this time
A.O. : Trenwith unpopular ! Then why was he elected to
the Federal Convention ?......E.8.0. : Yes, what a lovely
creature is the gaolbird turned into an official of the
Salvation Army E.M.M. : Flabby Gold-dust: Senti-
ments beautiful; verse atrocious Wanderer : May use
one idea D.F. (Perth) : No, we learn in suffering what
you teach in song Armour : “ Fisher Unwin is helping
to boom Lyne’s ‘ Life of Parkes ’ by lifting him to the
rank of editor of S.M. Herald.” Yes, we noticed it; and
how does Curnow swear? J.L.C. : Sort of literary
farthing. Give us gold Eric W. : Yarn in petticoats—
and you? Tiz.: Hum! M.B. : Bush item rather
wants novelty R.S.W. : Worthless H.M.L. : It has
gone to Abraham’s bosom, in a general way of speaking.
D.M‘D.: Weak in the head, also gone in the hind-
quarters, and rather blue about the gills H.A.C. :
“Conscience” declined Holdar: Unusable M.F.K.:
Stiff Uloola : “ Feelin’ well ” didn’t leave us that way;
perhaps “ Dinner.” S.C.: Unsuitable C.W. : Nicely
architectured—with the pathos just in the right place, as
conventional ideas go Reklaw : Pretty lame B. :
You invite odious comparison with a Scottish gem—
“ When the kye come hame.” P.B.C. : Pointless
J.J. : Neither,up.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 8, 1897.
Mr Dear Mtee—
A popular player, who in private life is a
“ Mrs., was surprised, a few days ago, by seeing
her husband’s name in the passenger-list of an
incoming mail-steamer. She went to meet the
traveller and give him a wifely greeting, and
found, on enquiring about the bearer of the name,
that he was not her husband, but a gentleman of
color. The point of this true little tale is the
vague notion the profesh generally has of its
matrimonial belongings. It strolls casually about
the world, and may or may not meet its better
half at any turning.
Among the floating gossip and chatter at the
Fresh Air League ball in the Town Hall last week,
the women whose names cropped up as often as
anybody’s were two who are dead—Mrs. Carl
Fischer and “ Sappho Smith.” How in previous
years Mrs. Fischer had slaved to make this par-
ticular charity-revel a success, was told again and
again, and what “ Sappho ” had said ©f this one
and that one. It was a little remarkable, because
it shows a noticeable difference between Melbourne
and Sydney memories. Sydney folk have a public
memory, which is lacking in Melb. Hence the
hurry to get up the Clarke statue at once. A day
or two in Melb. is better than a score elsewhere
for consigning the past to cold oblivion. Sydney
remembers its notable people after their death.
Melb. often forgets them while they are still above
ground. It is risky for a Melb. man courting
publicity to live in a remote suburb ; by the time
the train has carried him to his home, the city may
have forgotten him.
The attendance at the ball, which was not so
large as usual, showed the want of an energetic
worker-up; or perhaps the stoutest-hearted
dancers are appalled at the prospect of eternally
waltzing round and round that vast acreage of
floor-space in the interests of charity. There are
so many charity-balls, and it is a long journey
from the northern gallery to the organ, and to
prance the distance backwards and forwards for a
solid four hours is hard work. The intended
decorations were drowned by the deluging rain of
the day before, and improvised ornamentation
was provided by roping healthy young saplings to
balcony pillars and tying up the electric-lights in
red paper-bags which shed a dim glow on all and
mercifully concealed wrinkles. The fancy sets
looked wooden ; ribboned polo implements and
glorified broomsticks with crinkly paper-heads
were clutched affectionately by girls who thus
each made sure of one stick for the evening The
supper-room door was guarded by a stalwart com-
mittee-man who admitted the banqueters in
sections, and once haughtily repelled an aide who
was hungrily searching for provender with his
partner. Govt. House was represented by all the
party, minus the head. Mrs. Ferguson, who
appeared for the first time in the most admired
of all her new gowns, a toney-looking confection
of blue and white, told her friends the exciting
story of the loss and recovery of her diamond
star : she missed it that evening on removing her
cloak at a friend’s dinner-party; a search was
made, and after hope was entirely gone the valu-
able was seen glittering in the gutter.
On board the Union Co’s splendid new steam-
ship Moana last week three huge entertainments
were given. On Friday and Saturdaynights guests
were received by Capt. Carey, who welcomed over a
thousand. The ship was swarmed over by hordes of
sightseers in every style of garb. The full glare
of brightness in the luxurious saloon drove out the
modest persons who came hatted and cloaked, and
they lurked in corners and on deck as if they were
passengers waiting for the ship to start/ One
girl rose to the occasion by taking off her hat
in the cloak-room, borrowing her young man’s
buttonhole-spray and pinning it in her hair.
The upper-deck, where dancing went on, was
a spaeious promenade, and theatre-wraps were
in evidence; one envied person strolled in in a
va,st - sleeved blue-grey garment, with spangly
trimming artistically applied, and much white
fur. A matron newly-returned from ’Ome dis-
played a short pale-blue cape which only Paris
could have produced ; beneath this dream dia-
monds glittered. Singing happened in the saloon,
which was crowded —the gazers above leaning over
the bannisters. One or two women looked like
Venus rising from the foamy deep—a great deal
of Venus and very little foam. The feeding was
a feature of the show —it went on everywhere;
and champagne flowed like water.
The girl who won the bicycle for being “the
most popular person ” at the Australian Fair in
aid of St. Mary’s R.C. Cathedral is a Miss
Hobson. The public paid 6d. a head to record
each vote, so an admirer with a £5 note to spare
might easily dominate the voting. Business was
brisked up during the last days of the Fair (which
will be opened again in Jubilee week) by the
popularity competition. One damsel stuck up all
and sundry with the request that they would put
in sixpence and vote for her; but her artlessness
was thrown away on an unimpressionable male
public, for she didn’t top the poll. Girls and the
clergy, between them, have wheedled out of people
£12,000 for the church, which, as the Rev. Tither-
adge remarks, is insatiable. What other church
could do the same !
Poke bonnets are on view and sale in some of
the fashionable shops for any woman loyal enough
to make herself a guy in honor of the Jubilee by
reviving the head-gear of 60 years ago. Some of
the bonnets are softened with lace and chiffon and
brightened with flowers, but the shape is still the
uncompromising “ Harmy ” scoop. It would be
disastrous for drapers if the example of Her Most
Gracious were copied in the way of fashion, for
that august lady wears white stockings and
eighteen-penny gloves, and the same kind of
ponderous black velvet bonnet, decorated with
white feathers on special occasions, has covered
the royal head for the last quarter-century.
For Jubilee night the arrangement has been
made to allow wheeled traffic, headed by a dray
containing some high-rank civil-servants, to pro-
cesh through the thronged Sydney streets for a
couple of hours to admire the illuminations. A
few miles of punctured gas-pipes to blaze forth in
flame on the night have been already erected in
Pitt-street, but up to date the preparations aren’t
taking anybody’s breath away by their magnifi-
cence. A “suggestion ” —one of many—has been
made that in order to give the public a chance to
get the best view of the illuminated war-ships a
shilling entrance-fee should be charged at Govt.
House gates, to be given to the Consumptive Home
fund.
The Victoria Club weekly meetings are now
established as solemnly-fashionable functions.
Chaperoned by two members as hostesses in their
turn, they prepare a programme, and all the com-
pany drink tea and munch light refreshments, for
which the two hostesses jointly foot the bill. On
Friday last Mrs. Russell-French and Mrs. Chris.
Bennett treated the company. Misses M. Wynn
and R. Reynolds sang, and Miss M. Fitz Stubbs
contributed her recent “Bridal Waltz.’’ The
most novel item of the afternoon was a juggling
exhibition by a child of 12, daughter of the Tivoli
electrician. The juvenile juggler was solemn,
and couldn’t be induced to talk, but her Provo-like
manipulations with bottles, plates, wooden boxes,
etc., were dexterously-clever, after only a few
months’ instruction.
Playing Beethoven is like stirring a fire and
making love. Every man has his own way of
doing it. Experts shook their heads over Law-
rence Phillip’s treatment of “the master” at his
concert last Thursday, but were enthusiastic over
his other efforts. His selection was unconven-
tional —a piano-recital without Liszt and Chopin is
a novelty—and he’s of a school as new as a man
can adopt without shooting ahead into the next
century. Modern composers don’t make that
frank appeal to the emotions on which the old-
fashioned writers of simple melody used to work,
but are all thinkers first and musicians afterwards
and get at the sensuous via the intellectual. Con-
sequently high-class concert-goers of to-day are all
musically literate, or assume to be. Piano-music
has developed much since the days of long ago
when a long-haired genius could bring down the
house with “Home, Sweet Home” with varia-
tions. A new soprano gave signs of a voice worth
cultivating, but used it nervously and crudely.
Lawrence Campbell, E. Strauss, and Burns-
Walker were all at their best and completed a
really fine performance.
At that very High and fashionable church, St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, where the parishioners are
still raging furiously at the Evangelical-minded
Synod nominators imagining a vain thing, a por-
trait of the Rev. Bond, the shepherd whom it is
proposed to import from England, has been hung
in the porch. This is a distinct score for his party,
as the photo, is calculated to win the most evan-
gelical churchwarden over to candles and incense-
burning, and attract the adoring attention of every
girl in the parish, for it shows a young and hand-
some cleric in his early twenties. As the hoped-
for incumbent is now over 40, his “present-day ”
picture might be somewhat of a disenchantment.
The face and form of another cleric, the Rev. A.
R. A. Bartlett, spoken of as a candidate for the
post, have been made familiar to the world by
Phil. May in his celebrated and now scarce
“Parson and Painter.” That the St. Mark’s
stipend of £5OO per annum, with perks for christen-
ing and marrying the local rich, should be regarded
as jhe blue ribbon of the profession shows several
things.
School-children are being presented with soft
metal medals at 3d. each which they hang on their
little pinafores incommemorationof “the 60th year
and longest reign of H.M. Queen Victoria.” This
intelligently-worded badge of loyalty has no re-
marks on Queen Victoria’s other reigns—it doesn’t
even tell how many she has had.
Matriculation exams, are on this week ; several
hundred boys are gathered in the Darlinghurst
Skating Rink, and over 200 girls are biting their
pen-handles thoughtfully in the University
Great Hall. It is a chilly place, and one kindly
schoolmarm has insisted on the girls of her coach-
ing taking rugs in which they sit comfortably
bundled up while they scribble away at their Latin
and physiology.
A few enthusiastic feminine wagerers went out
to Randwick on Saturday to see what they could
do by betting on the nod. The idea that there
was to be no cash-fielding depleted the stand, for
women don’t go to races merely to show their new
frocks. One sportswoman in Sydney wagers sys-
tematically, and keeps a “racing purse” and a
“housekeeping purse,” and both separate—a safe
plan. Contrary to expectation, some bookies
were doing business for cash in the usual way,
and their fair clients were “on it ” every time, in
a rather unusual way.
A Frenchwoman, with her head screwed on the
right way, and much fascination of manner, has
been doing well in Melb. by delivering weekly lec-
tures on her native literature to full and attentive
audiences. In Sydney this winter Madame
Juliette Henry intends to do the same, beginning
the course on the 16th June in Tattersall’s Build-
ings, Hunter-st. Madame has made a name for
herself as a lecturer, and, indeed, claims to have
given the Melb. lecturess the first hints for her
work, and some time ago a smart war of words
raged on the subject.
A Sydney medical man went to Bogan Gate
recently to report to the Govt, about the local
water-supply. The residents have damned a creek
into which they throw everything they don’t
happen to want. A tired-out inhabitant threw
himself in the dam, and a few days afterwards
the townspeople wondered what had become of
Jimmy Smith, whom they eventually fished out
of the water-supply.
Woman suffrage worked badly in a municipal
election in an out-back town where the two candi-
dates for this year’s Mayoralty were rival doctors.
Each was vigorously canvassing and working up
doubtful voters, but the election was generally
looked upon as a safe thing for one candidate
married to the daughter of a widowed property-
holder of the district with many votes at her com-
mand. To make all sure the son-in-law paid up
all back rates himself and drove mother-in-law to
the polling-booth with injunctions to be careful
and scratch out the right name. The old lady,
confused with oft-repeated instructions, elaborately
eradicated her son’s name every time, and trium-
phantly told him so when she came out from the
ballot—whereby the blow was softened for him
before the returns were known, and the rival
practitioner headed the poll by one vote.
A fine Sydney mansion was the scene of a swell
house-warming dinner-party, the other day.
Champagne broke up the drought effectually, and
a select quartette of prominent instrumentalists
were engaged to discourse sweet strains during
feeding-time. At the close of the spread they
were invited to an adjacent apartment, where they
were assured dinner would be served to them.
Two portly retainers laid out a large assortment
of silver, including a massive epergne, monogramed
napkins, etc. Expectations ran high among the
hungry musicians. Then the majordomo entered
with a large dish of—cold tinned herrings ! At
the same time, the assistant seneschal (in dress-
suit) placed upon the table a large decanter of —
water ! And that, barring bread and butter, was
all!
Miss Florence Schmidt, of Rockhampton (Q.),
a lady with a splendid soprano voice, gives a con-
cert at Sydney Town Hall, on Saturday night,
with good local support. Miss Schmidt’s com-
mendable object is to raise funds for a course of
European training, with a view to developing
into a second Melba, or something even greater.
Rockhampton isn’t a good place in which to
grow a great vocalist, but Miss Schmidt has
borne up against its stodgy atmosphere, has
learned four languages, and, with the aid of Signor
Steffani, has cultivated her talents with that
deadly persistence which makes ultimate success
almost a certainty. And the lady who brings
anything good out of Rockhampton deserves all
the encouragement this world can give her.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ The sensational story told the other day
in Melbourne Criminal Court about the “ drunks’
express ” —the midnight train from Melbourne to
Canterbury on wdiich, according to one witness,
females are commonly heard screaming for help
all the way—was probably spoiled by the name
of the prosecutor as much as anything else. She
swore to her thrilling tale of grief and outrage
under the cognomen of Eliza Muddyman, and
when the jurors had made quite sure that her
name was Muddyman, they acquitted the prisoner
straight off. Her only witness was named Foot,
and Foot stated that he never travelled in the
same compartment as a female upon the “ drunks’
express,” because it was “too dangerous.” In
other words, he had a very low opinion of the
ladies who travelled by the midnight drunks’
train and habitually shrieked for help. Probably
he thought that most of them shrieked until they
were paid to stop.
“A pretty Jewish wedding was celebrated in
Melb. on 2nd inst., the parties being Mr. J. H.
Joseph, a leading Perth (W.A.) merchant, and
the charming Miss Florence Jude, of East Melb.
“There was a smart mustering of military at
Lady Holled Smith’s garden fete for the Gordon
‘ Try-to-excel ’ boys. Colonels in grey check
* doubles ’ and sac coats ran dog-shows and raffled
hogs with impressive volatility. ‘Sweet Seven-
teens ’ went round proffering for sale ‘ infantry
brigade cakes ’ tied with blue ribbon in true-lovers’
knot, and pleading the cause of their brother
officers in meltsome accents. The members of the
‘ Lelamine ’ opera co. were billed for an act, and
this drew all the ‘society’ barrackers. The fete
was interesting from many points of view, and
successful. There was one hitch. A performing
dog (a decorated collie) refused to ‘ wag his tail for
his master.’ After many perspiring efforts and
desperate measures on the part of the showman,
the vice-regal party, with a suave apology, left the
ground and hastened into a more congenial atmo-
sphere, although Baby Brassey (who was there,
white-coated and tan-booted) wanted very badly
to stay and see that unhappy quadruped shake its
rudder.
“ Baronet Rupert Clarke threatens to abolish
his Rupertswood battery of “gentlemen” swash-
bucklers. It appears that the pieces of field ar-
tillery with which this body started 15 years ago
are now considered obsolete by the hawty youths
who compose it, and unless Govt, replaces them
with up-to-date guns they intend going on strike
under the direction of their boss. As the Minis-
try declines to spend money, the battery will pro-
bably fall through.
“ P r - Emily Ryder lost one great point in her
ladies only’ lecture, which Evangelist Varley
used to score freely with at all his addresses on
private ’ subjects to young men. No sooner did
the fat ex-butcher take the platform than he would
fix a cold, glittering eye at a far corner of the hall
and raising a sansage-like forefinger he would
call: 1 1 see a lady there in disguise. I must ask
her to leave the hall.’ Of course the whole thing
was only a trick of the trade, for no woman was
there at all, but the interest of the audiSnce was
worked to flashing point nevertheless, and after
Varley had apologised they would crane forward
to catch every word he uttered.
It would appear that the Austral Salonites are
feeling' the death of Baronet Clarke very keenly
though only on one occasion did the deceased
bart. visit that abode of adult womanhood, and
most of the members knew him not even by sight.
lor one month the pleasant Monday afternoons ’
have been put a stop to, and the debate which was
to have taken place between that club and its
rival —the Warrawee’—has been indefinitelv
postponed. J
‘' C J^ingolong\ s to the fore with a ‘Ladies’
Wood-chopping Contest,’ and the local paper is
filled with the wail of the much-shocked oldest
inhabitant. But there isn’t anything so shocking
in the matter—everybody knows that country-
women do chop wood, and, for the educated
assailant, a quiet half-hour’s belting at red gum
can tbe harder work than golf. We are not given
details of the costume the competitors adopted
but one can imagine the pride of the winner’s best
boy as he watched the beads of perspiration
trickling down the incomparable nose of his
“il” 1 " knook °*
Cards of invitation have been issued for the
Govt. House reception on 23rd inst., the first time
on record that Melb. people have had to produce
invitations at an afternoon reception That
function up to date has been a public struggle in
which all classes have joined in heated endeavors
to grasp the vice-regal hand. It is reported that
three thousand cards have been sent out.
Pnbbo T r fnJ S t 0 be £! held a conversazione at the
üblic Library on Saturday evening, June 19th
when the Loan Exhibition in commemoration of
the Diamond Jubilee will be opened by His Ex.
The beautiful new galleries are admirably adapted
for an entertainment of this kind ; the pictures
keep the chaperons amused, while the flirting
couples discover absolutely limitless nooks and
corners behind the cases in the Technological
Museum, where they can “canoodle” in safety
under the pretence of studying the unspellable
exhibits.
“In quite a large number of recent Melb.
divorce-cases the trouble arose through the hus-
band being away in Grass Widower Land—Wes-
tralia. This great, gaunt, gruesome province will
have a lot to answer for when its Day of Judg-
ment comes.
“A Melb. draper affirms that within three
weeks a thousand of his customers left in the mail
steamers for London, many without ‘ settling
up ! ’ and he says he may whistle for the money
they owe him till they recover from the expense of
their European orgy.
“ What will Bart. Clarke’s widow do with
the huge, barrack-like house in East Melbourne
left her by her departed spouse? It is a stupid
house for a hot country —utterly without verandah
shade. In fact, it is a slavish copy of the mansion
style of Grosvenor Place, London. It can’t be let,
it is too big for its owner, and sassiety having
forsaken East Melbourne for Toorak as a place of
residence, it would not fetch much if sold. The
house is very richly furnished inside, but it is
more fit to be a big club-house than a residence.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Artist Furniss and Manager Smythe.
It is remarkable that a dealer in brains like R. S.
Smythe should for six-and-thirty years have
managed all sorts and conditions of professionals,
from philosophers to chorus-singers, yet his course
has always run smoothly. He must indeed be a
man of infinite tact and a marvellous observer of
character. With any of his stars, which differed
so much from one another in glory, never a law-
suit in all those years. Latterly the Much-
Travelled has limited his operations to the higher
class of professional celebrities, as he calls them.
His latest is Harry Furniss, one of the most
amusing of the English Punch artists until
a few years ago, when he took to the
platform as an artist-entertainer k la George
Grossmith with pictures instead of a piano, and
in that rdle all over the United Kingdom, and
more recently in America, he delighted very large
audiences. Furniss must also be a man with
wonderful powers of observation, as his pictures
of English interiors, his splendid “series” of
English Parliamentary caricatures, and his
sketches of American life and character fully
show. He appeared in Melbourne to thoroughly
representative audiences, and there was but one
opinion as to the excellence and amusing nature
of his Pictures of Peoples and Parliament in Two
Hemispheres. He opens at Sydney Theatre Royal
on this Friday night.
Thomas Collins, a Cheshire man, the
pioneer settler of Narrabeen, N.S.W., has died,
aged 94. He had lived on his holding for 60 years.
One Far-Western (N.S.W.) station is keep-
ing its working horses alive during the drought on
chaff which costs £l7 a ton delivered. No wonder
boundary-riders are being mounted on bikes in
the country.
A striking feature of the ’97 drought in the
Far West of N.S.W. is that the stations with a
frontage to the rivers Darling and Murray are the
greatest sufferers, being the most bare of feed.
Their dams and tanks have also suffered most from
drift, dust and sand.
According to Mackay (Q.) Chronicle, that
portion of a recent issue of a Most Respectable
Sydney weekly paper that passed through the
Brisbane P.O. was impounded fora week, opened,
scissored of objectionable advts., and forwarded
in a mutilated condition.
The Bulletin is told that a certain N.S.W.
prisoner committed for trial on a sensational
capital charge has to pass under the gallows each
time he takes exercise—in the yard set apart for
officials during an execution.
Premier Seddon’s loyal boast that, in the
hour of peril, England will find the colonies be-
hind her, is delightful in its diplomatic vagueness.
The colonies, in that event, will certainly, as at
present, be behind England—they will take up a
masterly position about 15,000 miles in the rear.
A caucus meeting of the Q. Labor-party
was to be held on Thursday (when this issue was
published), _to settle the programme for the
coming session, and to choose a sessional leader.
A minority of Labor-members want to depose
Glassey, and Dawson and Turley are expected to
be nominated.
The unprayed-for tornado that accom-
panied the recent heavy rain in Sydney lifted a
suburban Presbyterian Church (the Moderator’s)
bodily from its foundations and knocked it up
against the fence. _ The Presbyterian Church will
now proceed to raise the wind again and shift it
back. By prayer or plate ?
Among Melb. Divorce Court’s recent full
crop of cases was one in which hubby related how
the house (whenever the Tertium Quid was pre-
sent) continually echoed with the sounds of pro-
miscuous kissing. The success of so noisily
demonstrative a lover shows how hopelessly crude
and inartistio women are.
Last week in a Sydney tram a would-be-
young lady wore a hat with a band which dis-
played in the centre the Queen’s head in gold; red,
white and blue flags to left and right; on one side
the date 1837, on the other 1897. Such loyalty in
a middle-aged girl is liable to be mis-interpreted
as proof of how long she has been wearing that hat.
" O Justice,” &c. In N.S.W. a bushman
gets three years for stealing a small tin of baking-
powder, while a policeman, for gratuitously com-
mitting a most brutal assault on a harmless,
broken-down man trying to sleep out in the park,
is let off with six months. Also that policeman is
allowed to select his own gaol, despite the perjury
which he added to his original crime.
Had the training - ship Sobraon been
moored so as to prevent her swinging to the wind,
the chances are that last week’s Sydney tornado
would have sent her and her swarm of imps to the
bottom. As it was, she heeled over till the water
poured in at her lower-deck ports. Had she gone
the rest of the way, the local bad-boy problem
would have been more or less effectually solved
for a year or two, at all events.
OVCRHCARP.
“Oh ! what beautiful gloves ! Where did
you get them ? ”
“ Why, from Waters’, of course ; I find they
keep the best gloves in town. One can always
depend on them. And so cheap, too 1 I hear
they have some wonderfully cheap gloves just
now, both in kid and suede.”
If . T. WATERS & CO.,
Australia’s Glove House . . .
CJeorye and Kiny Streets, Sydney.
WANOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
Blacktown, 27th May, 1897.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Istd.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—For fifteen years I endured the miseries
of Indigestion and Liver Complaint. I suffered con-
stantly from sick headache, and always felt tired out
and unfit for work. I tried numerous remedies, but
could get no relief. The wonderful cures claimed for
LOASBY’S “ WAHOO ” induced me to give it a trial,
with the result that lam completely cured. Many of
my friends are now taking “ WAHOO,” and speak as
highly of it as I do.—Yours truly,
CHARLES HONES.
WAHOO!
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Lobby's “Wahoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
matrimony.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGES
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain coven
Write for particulars to
Weldons Matrimonial Association
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.


Personal Items.
Mr. W. G. Sprigg, the well-known Melb.
man of affairs, is brother of the Capetown Premier.
Barrister Pennefather, lately elected to
Westralian Parliament, will be remembered as the
Vic. barrister who defended Cordini before Judge
Windeyer.
N.S.W. Acting-Premier Brunker’s recent
trip to Adelaide was the longest he had ever
taken in his life ! But, fortunately for his native
land, he has been to Maitland—and Parramatta.
Between children, grand-children, and g.
g. children, Her Majesty figures up 71 descendants'
who, with 160 cousins and cousins’ children, total
231 persons —all useless, and not many of them
ornamental. The Royal rabbit-plague 1
Says a recent Age leader,
speaking of Queen Victoria: “No
one can contemplate that august
figure of 78 without an involun-
tary feeling of veneration.”
To bear this out the loyal
David Syme prints in his
weekly journal a reproduction
of a recent portrait of the
Queen aforesaid, showing the
august figure about Bin. high
and 7in. wide.
The Vic. Old A‘ge Pension
Committee has evoked the informa-
tion that the founder of the Blue
Ribbon movement in that province is
now an aged and broken-down person of
no means, and an inmate of the Old Colonists’
Home. Apparently drink isn’t the only thing
which leads to poverty.
Rumored that Rider Haggard is to be the
next “ man of letters ” to be “ elevated ” with a
knighthood to the proud level of every draper, or
boot-builder, or tripe-seller who happened to be
Mayor of his particular Little Pedlington when
it went on its face to welcome royalty. Not,
however, that it matters much, after all, about
Haggard, who is only a literary man in the sense
of having had a very thick sale for very thin work.
A Melb. dealer has Ricciotti Garibaldi’s
sword, which Ricciotti had to pawn. On the blade
is inscribed, “ Armee des Vosges,” and on the
handle “Ricciotti Garibaldi.” Yet it is a very
old sword, perhaps 200 years old, and not made in
our era. The guard, round the back of the hand,
is formed of the curved wings, body and legs of an
angel. In one of Ricciotti’s braggadocio Melb.
newspaper articles,- he described how he pinked a
German with it, against a door.
One remarkable feature about the LL.D.-
ing of Australian Premiers by Cambridge Univer-
sity is the fact that their own Australian State (or
nearly State) Universities never seriously thought
their prominent politicians worthy of such notice.
Sydney University has been running since 1852,
and such men as Martin, Dailey, Forster, and
Parkes have as ably, and more picturesquely than
any of the present Premiers, figured right under
its nose without being offered any academical
favor. And the first Provost of Sydney University
was a Cambridge man.
A Bathurst (N.S.W.) resident of 50 years
went out last week, when Mrs. -DeClouett died.
Her husband was a well-known racing man,
remembered far and wide as “Dublin Jack.”
When Ben Hall and gang raided Bathurst one day
in the sixties the first place bailed up was
DeClouett’s, whose racehorse, Pasha, Hall was
anxious to annex ; but Dublin Jack locked the
stable and defied the ’rangers, who were afraid the
solitary old policeman left in charge of the lock-up
would arouse the inhabitants and come upon them.
So they decamped without the horse.
TEMPTING.
Now, gents, ’ere we ’ave ‘Snorky, the Woolloo-
mooloo Pet,’ who has broke more jaws than
any mam in Horstralia. Would any gent
like to ’ave a cut at 'im? ”
Cambridge University will confer the hono-
If ry d®?T6© of “Doctor of Laws ”on each of the
V 6OOl- ** Reign Australasian Premiers. Well, King-
■ton, Turner, and Reid are lawyers ; but just
lancy Nevermind Nelson as an LL.D. ? Or Dick
Seddon ?
Salvation Boss Booth, high-skiting at
Hah London, said that “though he didn’t
n Mr / Rhodes ’ s actions, he was bound
to speak well of the bridge that had carried him
safely over ; and Mr. Rhodes had met him gener-
ously upon three occasions.” The blood-and-fire
religion is just like the rest, after all. “Fork-
out . and no questions asked ! ”
Rupert Clarke, the Australian baronet, is
to have a walk-over for his kmented father’s seat
Chamber ounod ’ w hich is called an elective
The 1 have-beens ” they are often named,
These legislative men of means,
a n £ktly, too—their House is famed
As formed of fellows who have beans.
In the repairs to Uralla cemetery lately,
the grave of Frederick Ward, alias Thunderbolt,
the notorious outlaw of 30 years ago, was decorated
anew. For how many N.S.W. statesmen
does affection so green as this survive?
WHOOP! FOR RYAN!
J.P. (to Ryan, out back): “ Ye’re charged with
saulting Dennis O’Hooligan - how d’ye
plead?”
RYAN (proudly): “ Guilty, yer Washup. I
proved to him I was a better man, and it’s
yerself that will say so when ye see him, for I
gave him the father of a batin’—and glad I
am to pay for it !”
AN.S.W. District Court Judge, under a
sense of slighted merit,.gives it cautiously out
that, unless soon promoted to the Supreme Court
Bench, he will go back to th,e Bar. The present
Justice G. B. Simpson, did that, and gained the
point of his ambition. The late Justice Innes
also stooped to conquer after this fashion.
Dear Bulletin, —The correspondent who
“ thought Chief-Secretary Peacock’s guffaw was a
journalistic myth ” (until he actually heard it)
should turn up his old files of The Bulletin,
which published caricature sketches of the Laugh-
ing Peacock six or seven years ago. The Bulle-
tin didn't invent Peacock’s laugh, but it was the
first advertiser of the dreadful noise, and must be
held largely responsible for the fact that Mr. P.
has turned his racket to notoriety purposes, in-
stead of toning it down.— Binks.
An eminent Liberal politician in England
lately told a Victorian at ’Ome that it was well-
known that Rosebery offered the Governorship of
Victoria to Brassey, because the “ old man ” was
such a terrible bore to party leaders, that they
wanted to get rid of him for a little time. It is
most likely true ; for when Brassey gets a good
listener, he will plant himself up against the wall
and talk, talk, talk, hum-hum, ha-ha, until his
victim positively has to invent an excuse to get
away.
The London cables tell of the reception of
the various Australian Premiers, and of the result
of the Derby race. But never a whisper about
“ Tommy ” Byrnes, Q. Attorney-General, who
bragged to his Warwick constituents that he was
“ going ’Ome as the Second Representative of
Queensland.” Have the English sat upon him as
a deadhead interloper, or mistaken him for
Nelson’s flunkey ? Or did Tomjoe merely go to
England on the cheap because he was briefed by
the Q. N. Bank? Will “ Echo ” please get on the
witness-stand ?
A Conargo man to The Bulletin :
Editor Bulletin,— Be your par. about the Streaky Bay
tragedv, in which you suggest that as “Banjo’s” Clancy
has'not been heard of . . . enquire what sort of per-
son he was last seen with.” I beg to state that “ Clancy
of the Overflow ” gave up droving about four years ago.
Since then he has been opal-mining at White Cliffs. I
know Clancy well, but it is long since he was at the Over-
flow Station. Four of his sons follow his erstwhile occu-
pation of droving : I noticed a par. in a recent Bulletin
about two of them riding bicycles. They are not, how-
ever, the first drovers to use the bike on the road. Some
time before “ Garry ” and “ Will ” Clancy got their wheels
I saw a drover named P. Smith running over the saltbush
on the One Tree Plain between Hay and Booligal on a
Hike. Smith said it was worth two horses, a man, and a
dog in a dry season.
Premier Kingston did not take a private-
secretary with him, so the Acting-Premier’s time
is now taken up in attempts to decipher the
epistles of his chief. Kingston can’t read his own
writing of far-back date; probably the only legibly-
written letter he ever penned was his famous duel
challenge to Chaffey Baker, M.L.C.
R.C. Archbishop Murphy, of
Hobart, will be 82 on Waterloo Day
(June 18). He was born on the morn-
ing of the battle.
The magic-lantern view of the
Lord Chancellor, shown by Harry
Furniss during his Humors of Parlia-
ment lecture, is considered strikingly
like a member of the Vic. Bar—W.
T. Coldham, the barrister who op-
posed Premier Turner at last election.
In both faces it seems as if Nature
had wasted material on the forehead
and left herself short of stuff for the
nose.
Squatter Ricketson, one of the
broadest-chested and broadest-acred
of Australian land-owners, tells a
story of “ big ” Clarke, the founder of
the All the people of old-
time experience are aware that the
baronet s father was not overgenerous
in the matter of giving grass to travel-
ling stock. Ricketson, who fre-
quently accompanied his own mobs,
had camped for the night on one of
Clarke’s runs, when the old man
made a wrathful descent upon the in-
truders, and ordered them to move
on. Ricketson promptly grabbed the
founder’s ” nose between two iron
fingers and pulled it, not with in-
human violence, but in a quiet rumin-
ative style, that admitted of no fur-
ther conversation at the moment.
Thenceforth, Ricketson’s stock and
the owner thereof were left severely
alone when they travelled that way.
Barrister William Charles Wentworth took
part in an Equity case in Sydney court, last week
thus reviving interest in an old forensio repufca-
tion. The case concerned the rendering of the
will of the original Wentworth, whose grandson
the present barrister is. When he announced
himself as appearing in the case, a clean-faced
wig-wearer in the rear mumbled—
“ May this, thy last-born infant, then arise
To triad thy heart and greet thy parent eyes,"
distich out of his grandfather’s Cambridge
em on Australia.
As showing how much more honor
free - thought has from the present genera-
tion than from that of 50 years ago : in
1844, Fitzroy, then Governor' of Maoriland,
paid an official visit to the town of Nelson,
where George White (an old man of 60 years]
who formerly held an important appoint-
ment in the House of Commons) was Resident
Magistrate and Government factotum. Fitzroy,
calling privately on White, saw Tom Paine’s
works on his shelves, and, expressing his horror,
insisted on his destroying them or resigning!
White, a man of independent character but penni-
less, absolutely refused to do either, and was at
once dismissed.
Premier Turner, no doubt about it, devotes
his voyage ’Ome to a desperate attempt at getting
rid of his old self in favor of a new and lovely
Turner, whose appearance and deportment shall
“do credit to the province.” The story of this
modest attorney’s metamorphosis on the high seas
is truly painful. He undergoes hours of drill
every day, in company with the Jubilee troops
aboard, not because he suffers from a martial spirit
and a thirst for blood, but merely in the hope that
he will be able to cut a “dignified” figure, and
look like a Sir George, when he gets to London.
One can almost hear the unhappy man appealing
to Mrs. Turner, in the seclusion of their narrow
“ state-room ” —“How are my shoulders shaping ?
Do you notice any improvement about the legs ? ”
The voice of Mrs. T. replying : “ Stick to it,
George, and you’ll soon get a swaggah on you,” is
also audible to the imagination. Turner’s trade-
mark, his queer, crescent-shaped “billygoat,” has
been removed by the ship’s barber, and the im-
provement is said to be surprising. Note the
word “improvement”! It means that Turner
has more or less qualified himself for a tall hat,
frock coat, patent-leather boots, and spats. He
has thrown aside his original identity and degene
rated into a mimic.
From Christchurch (M.L.) Star :
During a banquet at Dunedin, to celebrate the Masonio
jubilee of Bro. Sydney Janies, one of the most respected
citizens of Dunedin, Bro. James disclosed the identity of
the fate Julian Thomas, “ The Vagabond,” concerning
which there has been a good deal of speculation. “ Per-
haps,” he said, “ many of you have heard of and read the
newspaper-writings of Julian Thomas, known as ‘The
Vagabond,’ who died in Melbourne in September last. At
the time of his death much curiosity was excited as to his
identity. This, however, was well-known to three of his
relatives and to other private intimate friends in these
colonies. It was thought best at the time, as he
had lived for a quarter of a century in Victoria, and was
highly honored under his pen-name, not to disturb
that name publicly, but there was no reason why
his true name should not be disclosed by his rela-
tives. As one of those relations, I have disclosed
his identity to my friends, and even to editors of news-
papers privately; but as I have lately been several
times asked if it was true, I now, on this occasion,
being the first time since his decease that I have spoken
publicly, take the opportunity of stating that his true
name was Stanley James, that he was born at Walsall, his
father’s name was Joseph Green James (my brother, a
solicitor), and his mother’s maiden name was Elizabeth
Stanley, of Leamington. My wife and myself have
numerous letters from him in our possession, and his
likeness bears a honored place on my wall. A N.S. Wales
paper stated that he went by the name of Sydney James
on his arrival in that colony. This is evidently intended
for Stanley James.”
Parkes used to relate that in the early
days of N.S.W. Parliament, some of the members
had a small “ school ” where, when debates were
dull or uninteresting, Ananias would reign
supreme, and undressed yarns were at a premium.
At one of these gatherings an altercation occurred
which threatened to end seriously, when Old Jack
THE SUPPRESSION OF CASH BETTING.
Ikey Mo will now field in Sydney Domain.
Robertson entered, and asked the reason of the
noise. One member had called another a liar,
and got the retort that he was a swindler,
and both demanded apology and retractation. “la
that all,” said the amiable John in a relieved tope.
“No use fighting over a blanky difference i of
opinion—you may both be right ! ”
When a leprous Chinaman was being con-
veyed per steamer to an Australian lazarette the
other day, he was boxed with a lot of sheep that
were for consumption by the inmates of the asylum
for the poor.
The joke o’ the canny Scot: “ There’s rtae
use o’ you,” writes one jeering Mac to another in
the columns of a Northern sugar-beet journal,
“usin’ the term ‘bastard’ to the people who
oppose you, hailin’ as you do frae Dumfries.”
Twenty-eight miners have just returned
from New Guinea utterly destitute, and are seek-
ing relief from the Q. Govt. Apropos, the sub-
stance of the following story is taken from Castle-
maine (Vic.) Leader :
Five men—M'Donald, Boyce, Kennedy, Dwyer and Dale
—left for New Guinea in January last. Landing there
“in good health and spirits,” they found the goldfields
peopled by men who were mere skeletons, of cadaverous
appearance, only haK clothed, and in many instances
without boots. It was a common experience to see
men of this description and in this plight, suffering
intensely from the effects of fever, dragging themselves
to their claims, supported by two sticks, forced to work
in order to obtain a little gold to procure the neces-
saries of life. This sort of thing gave the Castlemaine
party a slight shock, and they made up their minds
to go back at once. Some of the New Guinea boats
A PROBLEM IN ASIATICS.
Given the above, required to construct “ one
continent, one nation, and one destiny. ”
however, have got indifferent reputations, and they
fought shy of one ship from fear of shipwreck.
Sure enough, she foundered on the voyage home
The men then went to the first field they had visited, and
a couple of them lodged themselves in an old hut. “ A
functionary called the commissioner, who seemed to take
a special interest in the party,” warned them not to start
work in this place, and after two days the two men in the
hut were delirious with fever. With the commissioner’s
help they took the sick men down to the bay, and went
back to the diggings ; and two days later, when they re
ceived information that five passages had been booked on
the ship Clara Ethel, the other three were down with
fever also. Two of them died before the boat sailed, and
two others on the voyage to Cooktown, which occu-
pied four weeks. The only survivor (Dale) states
that on board the boat he was laid on the hard boards of
the ship’s bottom, and allowed to lie there till he became
fearfully chafed and fly-blown. Hearing that Boyce had
died, he crawled up to the deck to see him buried. The
body was simply bent double, tied with string cords,
and cast overboard, no weight having been attached to
sink it. The body floated, and followed in the wash of
the vessel within sight of the passengers for two whole
days. Presumably as a judgment of Providence, the boat
was wrecked, and the passengers transhipped to one of
the China mails. Dale spent five weeks in the Cooktown
hospital, and then came home. He winds up his story
with a little account of the New Guinea smells (every
country has its own peculiar stink) : There is abundance
of decayed and decaying vegetation, and this, subject as
it is to the excessive moisture and intense heat of the
sun, emits a most fcetid and offensive odor. The very soil
seems to be reeking with impurities, and at times, if a
digger’s pick happen to come in contact with a root’ of a
tree, the stench that arises is often smelt for a chain
distant.
Next train to Eldorado !
Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
T H. SQUIRE & CO.,
’ Pljotograpbk Stock Pealcrs,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
M \GIC OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pocfoet Kodah, price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM fob 12 EXPOSURES, 1 6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.


Municipal
HfISH
f/ou S f^
I One of the features-af the trip (writes*
i our special correspondent with the Vic* •
torian Mounted Rifles) is that Sir George
Turner has, on the recommendation of th«
VvM.R., had. his beard shaved off. t:s|
U/b /~/7~' S tfeorye »
/?7 7e?iT/on y~u sutost/tu/e,
/-or7Ae. O /teott-ci
7ef/~e/-s
arfifiz-o/ot-j <*-/&■— to
■ike. laytx-S
oecot Stor^'
T«E HUBILEE DINNERS.
/o iA//v A/tt-LL.
sTeps
\ I . - ■ .
/ Ac Cavc?fC f ?
/<, m cAeatSo za.s-/ Ao~
Co ?1 S A OTj.c/~ Cl Oltfoo
' ?770 u'C. on' c /<=*. z* S c. — ~AA a- / io-,// >
be. ccee eyo/bt-AAe, Ao AA C. — /totSoA/EL.
QQ
MmAt *
;? C\
A
<«*>* /(
~' [ A!
I^/T
t' W
*. Sir—ln,connection with the abo.ve
distribution we learn’ that a quantity of
beer has been sent (among other dona-.
Lions) to be given away, chiefly through
the various ladies' benevolent societies
of Melbourne and suburbs. We, the
members orthe'Fitzroy-Ministers’ As-
sociation, would strongly protest against
such action, as directly inimical to the
work. that the ladles are self-denyingly
engaged (n.
M [ of w
d^ s V"
/ c -‘-
.The President of the Legislative
Council issued to-day a writ for the
election of a member to fill the vacancy
occasioned by the death of Sir W if
Clarke. sir Rupert Clarke,
eldest son of the deceased baronet, is
the only candidate mentioned for the
seat, and is certain to be returned with-
out a contest
HoJ[C Jmfl
This (voMiWfITMJN
/ Box
/will SE.
/
AT 6 p.m on
' \ THE Ib*IN%T.
A BICYCLE PROCESSION.
Cyclists have determined not to allow tho
26th of June to pass by without marking th«ir
presence in the community ~
The approximate order will b£aß
follow.: Eiffel tower bicycle floating national
colors, a representation of the Queen on a
bicycle
o z-i. re /y ~/?ecx so}iah/e~
&7?c/ 7?i &A& 71 ctnClT~
da77%.
Soccfpes/e.c/ ~/A/'n^'.
tf's i
I / /
S \ V
/Sto zr £1 $ TP
on ~yA e. D >?c<ess /le'/f A g
oust-, S'/-u./oe/-'iT," v
MELBOURNIANA.


MORE MORAL EFFECT.
“ In the hour of peril England will find the colonies behind her.” — PREMIER SEDDON.


POLITICAL
POINTS
According to Ashton, M.P., N.S. Wales
Premier Reid’s net salary is only =£l3oo a year.
After all, politics are mostly wind and dust and
ashes.
The entire N.S.W. Civil Service is being
circularised for funds to oppose the Govt.’s Privy
Council appeal in the case of Adams v. Minister
for Works.
It is understood the Jub—hie—ilee is to
be signalised by such a shower of Knights that
they will come down like a rain of frogs, and
smash the ribs of the umbrella of Republicanism.
Daniels, M.P., himself a sort of patriarchal
grazing-farmeir, prophesies that there will be no
Land Rill passed in Q. Parliament this session,
because the Government wants to go to the country
next time with the war-cry—“A liberal Land
Bill! ”
It is 16 years since Victoria abolished the
Civil Service pension system, yet the outlay under
this head is still .£291,000 a year. And when
Treasurer Turner considers the long list of sturdy
old pensioners who won’t peg-out there is murder
in his eye.
THE HEIGHT OF AFFLUENCE.
SIN FAT (noticing the visitor's rings) : “ Him you
sissetah? Welly rich; all a-same heap
money” To visitor, sweetly : “ You keep-a
pub?”
C. H. Buzacott, who, when editor of Bris-
bane (Q.) Courier, supported the Nelson Govt.,
now that he edits and partially owns Rock-
hampton Record finds that “the Ministry has
become corrupt and inefficient." Not so. The
Ministry always was so; it is Buzzy who has
become open-eyed and candid.
So they will celebrate the Record Automa-
ton by “feeding the poor”—lovely phrase!
Horse-feed, cattle-feed, pig-feed, poor-feed—all on
the same plane. But ’tis a good idea : Loyalty
resides in the belly—Fatman proves it. “ Let me
fill a nation’s stomachs,” says the wise autocrat,
“ and I care not who fills its souls.”
The Tozer (Q.) Govt, continues to accept
lowest tenders for public contracts, with full per-
mission to the contractor to sub-let, to the sub-
contractor to sub-sub-let, and so on, as long as
there is a famishing slave compelled to accept a
chance for half-tucker. This in all departments.
It is accepted as a fact in Melbourne Tory
circles that Duncan Gillies will stand for Toorak
at next election. He had hopes of Barwon, but his
old colleague, Levien, will not make room for him
there. Reid, the member for Toorak, does not
want to stand again, and M'Kinley, the former
member, is such an abject cipher that his opposi-
tion is not to be feared.
Whig : ‘ 1 England is one-third Republican,
two-thirds Royalist. So what is the use of talking
about a Republic—yet ? It would steep the
land in blood and be a Cromwell error. Republics,
like Topsy, must grow. Meanwhile, console our-
selves by looking on Royalty only as a symbol.
We put the clothes on a puppet, and worship—
what ?—ourselves. Play-aoting.”
S.A. Register has analysed the Federal
Convention Hansard of 1218 pp. N.S.W. filled
432£ pp., Yio. 284, S.A. 274, Tas. 111 J, and
W.A. 23J ; the balance was formal matter. Bar-
ton as leader, spoke nearly one-sixth of the whole
volume. Of the 22 representatives who talked
most 16 are lawyers. As to interjections, Barton
is again easily first with 454, Turner, Reid and
Isaacs coming next.
A traveller, who recently visited the New
Hebrides, told the Endeavour Beacon (Cook-
town, Q.) that natives there “are sold like sheep
at .£6 to £8 or <£l3 a head on some of the trading
vessels. A dealer will visit a vessel and offer a
lump sum for the natives aboard, afterwards re-
tailing them out to his customers at an advance of
from £1 to <£3 per head according to demand.”
Apropos of much soulful rot that has been
published _ about the peaceful reign of Queen
v ictoria, it is interesting to note that Britain has
fought 39 wars during the time that peaceful old
lady has occupied the throne, and spent about
£280,000,000 in bloodshed and disembowelment.
Also, the bloated armaments of Britain, which
cost £12,600,000 in the first year of Victoria’s
reign, have kept on bloating till the annual bill is
now over £40,000,000.
Premier Seddon, banqueting at the Lon-
don Institute of Mining Engineers, told the com-
pany that if ever Britain experienced an hour of
peril she would find the colonies behind her. This
“ patriotic note,” says the cable jingo, “ was
greeted with enthusiastic cheering.” What an
utterly unnecessary item of intelligence is that
same “cheering.” As if we didn’t know they
would express their— hie —partially intoxicated
feelings in the usual manner !
In the Central district of S.A. Leg. Coun-
cil, where Labor was beaten last month, only 6438
persons voted out of 14,204 on the roll; in King-
ston’s constituency the proportion was but 488 out
of 1296. The races on Adelaide course (admission
free except to grand-stand) proved too powerful a
rival to the ballot-box —hundreds rushed off to the
course immediately after leaving work. In a less
degree this was true also re the Southern district,
where Labor-member Kirkpatrick lost his seat.
The horse v. the State !
Ex-Governor Onslow, of Maoriland, orating
in London: “My Maoriland experience of the
eight-hours day is that it tends to better work,
more comfort, and greater opportunities, but I
only approve of an eight-hours day when it is
effected by voluntary arrangement.” The Fat
Man’s yearning for “ Freedom of Contract ”
again. The eight-hours system is a good thing,
according to Onslow, yet it shouldn’t be enforced
because of something not explained. Why not
apply the “ voluntary arrangement ” all round ?
Honesty is a good thing, especially as it enables a
British earl to walk the streets without being
stoushed and robbed, but it should only be effected
by voluntary arrangement between the criminal
classes and the person they contemplate robbing.
‘ ‘ Premier Kingston may
yet accept knighthood,” writes
an Adelaide politician to The
Bulletin, “to spite certain
of his enemies who are alleged
to have forwarded to high
officials in England details of
one or two incidents of the
past, notably the pistol episode
with Baker, his implacable
enemy.” Alas, has it really
come to this ? Is the fiery
Kingston really looking round
for an excuse ?
Q. Parliament meets on
15th inst. The Enabling Bill
for the appointment of dele-
gates to the necct Federation
Convention will be introduced,
and, if passed, the Common-
wealth Bill of the late Con-
vention will be presented, as
in the other Australian Parlia-
ments, the Enabling Bill pro-
viding all the necessary ma-
chinery for doing this. Act-
ing-Premier Tozer doesn’t ex-
pect to get the Bill through
before nearly the end of A tig.,
for as soon as it is passed Par-
liament will adjourn for a
month, to enable the Q. dele-
gates to attend the Sept. Con-
vention. The Labor mem-
bers threaten to stonewall
everything unless an Electoral
Reform Bill, enfranchising the
working nomads, is at once in-
troduced.
The S.A. Judges have
decided, after long discussion,
that Ilolder, though not a
lawyer, can legally be Attor-
ney-General, so they will re-
cognise that gentleman’s sig-
nature at the foot of official
documents. Whether they will
“ see ” him, should he appear
personally before them, is
another matter, as he isn’t en-
titled to wear the long petti-
coat of the profession, and a
legal person who isn’t falling
oyer his petticoat, or getting
his artificial back-hair into his
mouth, is of no account in the
superior Courts. The anxiety
of a man, whenever he be-
comes a barrister or mayor or
Speaker or anything else in
particular, to get into woman’s
clothes and wear back-hair is
one of the things which no
man without back-hair can
understand.
S.A. Parliament re-opens this week.
Holder meets the Assembly with a larger majority
than his absent chief had in ’96, as the two bye-
elections furnished liberal members in Glynn and
Peake, as against Ash and Harrold, strong Oppo-
sitionists. By the way, Holder’s enemies are
alleged to have a nasty personal scandal in pickle
for him.
The N.S.W. Works Committee definitely
recommends that the new Sydney railway ter-
minus shall be in Hyde Park, at the top of King-
street, so after years of wrestling with the subject
the old, inconvenient, out-of-the-way Red fern
terminus seems doomed at last. Sixteen Govern-
ments have fallen asleep on this subject, but the
Reid Ministry is the first which has seriously
tackled it. Estimated cost of extension, <£850,200.
Viator: “The last Imperial-colonial con-
ference in London broke down through the extra-
ordinary conduct, as the Australian members
thought, of Lord Salisbury, then in his second
Premiership. Brusque to a degree, he went right
in their teeth. For instance, over the New
Hebrides. Berry, as Agent-General, made a
mighty splash. Salisbury as good as told the con-
ference he was going to let France take those
islands, and that the French had a right to them.”.
According to a Johannesburg paper, the
whole of Transvaal Kruger’s fearsome military
preparation is only a vast scheme tor the relief of
the burgher population, which, owing to crass
ignorance, rinderpest, antiquated farming methods,
dislike of hard work, destruction of the waggon
transport industry by railway extension, is practi-
cally bankrupt and face to face with ruin and
starvation. Kruger’s scheme is to form the Boers
into a standing army, on regular wages, and tax
the Uitlanders to pay the expenses.
It is announced that Rupert Clarke will
probably be returned unopposed for the old
baronet’s seat in Vic. Leg. Council. It is only
once in a pink moon or thereabouts that a Vic.
M.L.C. is not returned unopposed. The blank,
not to say blanky, indifference of the people to
their House of 48 Rich Landlords is the most
hopeless feature in the politics of the province.
Nobody has been injured at a Vic. Leg. Council
election, except through cold caught by falling
asleep in an exposed situation, for over 20 years.
Since trial by jury of 12 was established,
English Courts have been always endeavoring to
prevent juries disagreeing. The unanimity of 12
being the cardinal feature, several jurists argue
that when a jury reports a settled disagreement
half-a-dozen or a dozen of the bystanders who
have attended throughout the hearing should be
added to the jury, and such additions should be
kept on supplementing the original body until 12
out of the entire lot would be unanimous either
for conviction or acquittal. This, these jurists
contend, is the essence of trial by jury, and gets
rid of what to all parties is a tedious and stupid
block.
SOME, BUT NOT QUITE.
SHE: “Tm so giddy, Mr. (dayboy; I must sit down.”
ME: "Ah, do—there's a nice seat out in the garden”
SHE: "Thanks; but I'm not quite so giddy as all that.”
John Downer has been elected leader of
.A. Oppositmn, and ‘ Turncoat Bill” Conlev i'r
a thing of the past. Downer’s election 8
unanimous; Copley fell so utterly that he
get even one vote from the party he lately *
the party which lately shoved Bill in froit
position. 6 ' *» th « »*«> ‘o eZet'L
A SKETCH. — By Mr. Caleb Porter, of the
“ Sign of the Cross ” Company.
Gr. Randall, Queensland emigration agent
in London, told an interviewer lately that Queens-
land doesn’t want any readers of Reynolds’
Newspaper to come out here. Randall should
have said the “ Nelson Government ” instead of
“Queensland.”
Premier Reid’s baby, the forthcoming
Sydney Exhibition, will be handed round for the
inspection of English influential during jubilee
week. If Reid obtains Chamberlain’s imprimatur,
it is expected that the necessary sanctions will be
unceremoniously wrung from N.S.W. Parliament.
The forecast of a shrewd Brisbane (Q.)
politician: “ Believe me, one of Tozer’s next
moves will be to say to Bully Palmer, ‘ You must
resign the Presidency of the I,eg. Council ; Nelson
wants it.’ And also believe me that. Tozer will
find a means of inducing the intractable Palmer
to resign. Then—for I don’t think anything
serious, that is, fatal to Tozer, will come of the
Labor-party’s threatened stonewall, or of the
Alleged formation of a ‘ country-party,’ or of the
public overture made by Labor-member Sim to
Bob Philp to lead a ‘ Northern-party ’—then I
say, when Nelson returns and finds the Upper
House presidential chair cushioned expressly for
him, he will resign his portfolio and advise Lam-
mgton to ‘send for Tozer.’ And, mind you, Tozer
is versona grata with Larnington.” But Palmer
will be mighty hard to make resign. Probably
even a majority resolution of the Council asking
him to resign wouldn’t shift him.
Thirteen—the devil’s number— more at-
torneys admitted last week in Sydney.
He the contention that polygamy, by in-
creasing vastly the proportion of female births,
would of itself remove the necessity for a comple-
-2l el \ tar y Polyandry—it is noteworthy that the
Shah of Persia, with 60 wives, has 23 daughters
and only four sons.
It was thought that the high-water-mark
of the calamitous compositor was reached lately
with remarks anent the bride’s “ travailing dress,”
<fcc. But the following, from a way-back organ, is
awarded the trophy up to date : “ The bride was
bewitching, and the bridegroom's rupture can be
better imagined than described.”
The New Woman has got fairly on the job
witn yet another masculine profession. That
„ man from th e country ” who was “dealt
~t he otke 1 r night, in Crown-street, Sydney,
couldnt possibly have got it hotter from the
knaye-of-trousers than he did from the five fair
creatures who stoushed ” him savagely in the
eye, battered him to the ground, kicked him mur-
derousiy about the head, choked him half to death,
° Ut ° f " 69 - The Women wh °
N.S Wales has made a start with the hare
aDnelrs b toK XP °n busm . es . s > oufc of which Victoria
leading Vic h be f n co l nm S money. One of the
S Q exporters has transferred his opera-
and mbSv?‘ W ‘ ° n theground tba t the local hares
article bb TT superior in quality to the Vic.
round BatwJ 8 G ?s° y £ g 50 men as tra ppers
•mptoyed irSJpptal" 66 ” 300 ‘" d 4 °° m 6" bs
Mrs. Grundy Again.
factl”° TS Nnt eX . Cl f’ m n MrS J Grund y- “letus have
rightly ie-norc f Grund y s > but most people
worshm of f H » sentiment, and aspire to a
these Lwi • S ’ -° r the real, ties of life. To
tnese the following item will be interesting M it
gmve, that most clouds do have f.Tver S
writes- “Th? e ’- st ° rekee P e ri Donald. Victoria,
Warner’s ‘ S.-ifo ’^n* 0 that 1 have taken
disease Ld th e T° Ure f ° r backache and kidney
use* Vri h tIa u nOW entirely cured by its
5
Granuma for Health,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Ho mall for the very best of Bread;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And—there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSONS WHISKY.
W'LLIAM FLEMING,
--MERCHANT-
-24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
niw . „ In St °ck, and to Arrive—
band saw mills,
portable „ SEMI.“b,1 SAW
wood-working maSSSS " B ° ILEBS '
IMPERI AT S r r r f l<jL THAY NAVVY barrows
LMI LRIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
£i=Jr MIN G|S RELIABLE BUGGTPS
station wagon- harness. „I, Z
Catalogue on application.
[FLUID SHEEP DIP ]
j POWDER SHEEP DIP
IFOOT-ROT “CURE”
KAinanr GRIFFITHS, Hunter Street, Sydney j GOLDSBBOTTOH, MOST <fe (30 T-td J
Geelonp; P. LEARMONTH & CO., Hamilton"A. HARRAP £ SON, nceston ! JAMES M‘EWAN Aon
Kunceton, S.A.; QUEENSLAND KEBCANTILE CO. Ltd., B t i.,»„e; BLACKBPRNBA m’ oj?gg” gj
lladdio”
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE, '*
Ub the following Agents
MSfiSusok W Y^di A 8 AUSTIN A CO.,
Perth, W.A. n Adelaide: JOflN GRICE A CO^


A majority of the St. Kilda (Melb.) ceme-
tery trustees have discarded their crematorium
project in response to a howl of protest from 500
property-owners, many of whom dwell a mile or
two distant from the contemplated furnace. Yet
it seems that the vigorous whip-round for signa-
tures agin’ the crematorium was treated with con-
tumely by hundreds of old St. Kilda residents
who, because they live near a cemetery and are
deeply versed in boneyard lore, would like to have
a handy means of getting burned to ashes when
they die. Personal vanity and utter foolishness
are the only opponents of a furnace at St. Kilda.
Foolishness, inasmuch as the novelty would soon
have tended to increase the value of property in
its neighborhood.
A cremation society has sprung up in
Adelaide, but the promoters are meeting with
opposition from property-owners in the vicinity of
Rosebery township, where they want to pitch their
little oven These people already have a ceme-
tery in their midst, and object to a double ghoul.
N.S.W. Government offered £5O for the
discovery of the body of Lesagh, one of the sup-
posed Mountain Mystery victims. Lesagh turned
up alive, but, in searching for him, parties found
the body of Burgess, a genuine victim. Last week
the Govt, compromised with £35 down. How can
hair-splitting paltriness cf this sort be defended?
The contract morally was: £5O on finding the
body of a murdered man.
Full-bodied Hibernian advt. from S.A.
Advertiser
mHE FRIENDS of the late Mr. PATRICK NOLAN
are respectfully informed that his funeral took
place YESTERDAY (Wednesday), and NOT TO-DAY,
as previously advertised.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post freec or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Stock Report. —Pitt, Son and Badgery,
Ltd., report heavy supplies of cattle and sheep for
the month. With the latter, much inconvenience
has been caused through want of sufficient class-
ing and yarding room. Our ample drafting yards
have enabled our experts to handle all consign-
ments carefully and punctually. We have sold
through the yards during the month 4092 cattle,
and 79894 sheep and lambs. Calf and pig sales at
the City yards have also been extensive.*
A Popular Verdict.
Frossard’s Cavour Cigars are unequalled any-
where. They are a delicious smoke; mild,
fragrant, aromatic and medically recommended as
being free from nicotine. They are absolutely
uninjurious, and retain all the fragrance of the
fine leaf employed.*
The Australian Cycle and Motor Co. Ltd.
has somewhere approaching a million ladies’
cycles, and will work more for the wholesale than
the retail business. At the same time, the retail
buyer will receive every care and attention. There
are Simpson and American Humber racers to
mount all the cash men ; pneumatic brakes, wood-
guards and rims, and other sundries by the cwt.
The plain chain is on hand for its lovers, and the
Simpson chain for those whose ambition has been
fired by that chain’s wonderful records.*
Usury is one of the few profitable and
popular walks of Melb. commercial life now-a-
days, and, judging by the frequent press revela-
tions on the subject, is apparently so conspicuous
as to constitute a new blotch on the already much-
besmirched fair fame of the Southern city. The
abolition of one branch of the evil is contemplated
by Howden and Co. (Melb.), who announce else-
where their willingness to act as agents in the
sale of life-policies, reversions, &c. So that he
who is determined to sell his birthright may have
some certainty of receiving a reasonable equiva-
lent for same.*
Quite a Sydney attraction is the exhibition
of Wm. Cameron and Bros.’ tobacco in the hand-
somely decorated window of Meredith Bros., Pitt
and Moore-streets, Sydney. The names, “ Royal
Delight” and “Two Seas,’’ are most artistically
inscribed upon the plate-glass, while the tobacco
exhibition itself is the finest ever seen in Sydney.
Gold Bars, Royal Delight, Two Seas in plugs,
tins, glass jars, &o. ; Coronet Navy Cut, cigarette
tobacco, and every grade of color from Dark
Raven to sun-cured g;old leaf, are here excellently
displayed. The exhibition will raise Wm. Cameron
and Bros.’popular tobaccos still higher in public
favor.*
Harrington and Co. Ltd., 66 King-street,
Sydney, embodies the science of photography up
to date. The Editorial Dept, compresses Aus-
tralian photographic life, and the world’s photo-
graphic publications into The Photographic!
Journal ; whilst the Trade Dept, stands a model
with its shop, factories, storerooms, showrooms
for the most modern cameras, plate-charging and
developing rooms, laboratories, expert assistance,
&c., &c. The exhibition of 500 selected back-
grounds—instead of the expected dozen —indexes
the firm’s stock resources. One secret chamber,
perfectly contrived, manufactures the Invicta
sensitised albuinenised paper —the class standard.
Other heads are studio stands, all photographic
appliances, complete repairing department, print-
ing frames, photographic cabinetwork. No vessel
leaves Sydney harbor for Queensland, Westralia,
Maoriland or the Islands without a consignment
from Harrington and Co.*
The disfavor with which Butler’s captors
were welcomed by the authorities has made it
almost impossible for Sydney reporters to extract
news from the police. When the loss of the
Taiyuan gold was reported, no member of the
local force could be induced to loosen his tongue
on the subject, and visits to the departmental
heads were only productive of arguments on the
debateable question of newspaper ethics. For
years the papers have been accustomed to obtain
information which should obviously have been
held secret, and the sudden shut-up of the police is
a direct admission that someone must have under-
gone a bad quarter-of-an-hour.
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, I orest
Lodge) says:—
“It is the most wonderful ointment I nave ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. X
can recommend it to all.”
Yo(i Seen
Paling’s Hem Show Room
On the Ihird Floor of their Music Warehouse?
crowds of people, who are astonished and delighted with the
x 1 ltion of Musical Instruments of Infinite Variety and Enormous Extent.
NUHPR6PS OF VIOLINS fronj SS. to £5OO.
Some Choice Specimens of Old Masters.
Copies of Stradivarius, Guarnerius, Otto, and other noted makers.
BANTOS S, ATTTn ZITHER S, HORNS, WHISTLES, OCARINAS, etc.,
FLUTES eS^' H MUSICAL BOXES, POLYPHONS
CLARFoNETS E pVm^ic^?o S> ARISTONS, ORGANETTES, etc.,
ArroSnS Brass Instruments—COßNETS, TROM-
ACCORDEONS, MOUTH ORGANS, BONES, EUPHONIUMS, DOUBLE
BASSES.
Tljgrg is a Special Case of BooSgy& Co.,
with a Fine Assortment of this Celebrated Maker’s Goods,
and another for
BeSsop & Co. of Singular IpStrOrpcpts.
The eye wanders with pleasure over the many handsome show-cases and
beautiful instruments, and there is amusement and instruction to be gained
by a visit to this extensive display.
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO CALL.
\N hether you buy or not, we shall be glad to see you. Or write for Price Lists
and Catalogues. . Wholesale and Retail.
TAKE THE LIFT TO THE THIRD FLOOR.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd,
338 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
ysar by Ysar,
Tyres
Ar€ prov/ipg tl?at
tfrgy arg QpSOrpaSsgd
for gxcgllgQCg of
MATERIAL & WORKMANSHIP
FIRST IN 1888.
FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. LTD.,
so 486 Kent Street,
Melbourne, Adelaide, * > SYDNEY.
New Zealand and Western Australia.
MAKYELLO u s
RESULTS
—Off—
€L€CTRKITy
AS A ; >
Curative Agent.
PUL VERM ACHER’S
WORLD -EAMED
Galvanic Belts.
The Only Genuine Ones made are recommended
by the most eminent Medical Men throughout the
world, and have received testimonials from—
(SIR CHAS. LOCOCK, Bart., Physician to HER
U MAJESTY
OIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Bart., Physician to HER
° MAJESTY.
CIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., Physician to HER
LJ MAJESTY
QIR E. H. SIEVEKING, M.D., Physician to H.R.H. the
0 PRINCE OF WALES.
TAR. J. OPPOLZER, Physician to H.I.M. the EMPEROR
-L* OF AUSTRIA.
TAR. ONIMUS, of the ACADEMY OF MEDICINE
of PARIS.
TAR. VALENTINE MOTT, of the ACADEMY OF MEDI-
CINE OF NEW YORK; and the following-Members
of the
COLLEGE of PHYSICIANS of LONDON :
TAR. C. HANDFIELD JONES, Physician, St. Mary’s
- L ' Hospital.
J)R. GOLDING BIRD, Physician, Guy’s Hospital.
TAR. JONATHAN PEREIRA, Physician, London Hos-
pital.
jQR. T. W. NUNN, Surgeon, Middlesex Hospital.
DR. R. M. LAWRENCE, Physician, Great Northern
Hospital.
TAR. J. RUSSELL REYNOLDS, Physician, University
Hospital.
R. QUAIN, Physician, Brompton Hospital.
JJR. H. A. ALLBUTT, Physician, Leeds Hospital.
TAR. JAMES WILSON, Physician, Worcester Infirmary
- L ' and from hundreds of other well-known Physi-
cians, &c.
Pulvermacher’s
Galvanic Belts
Have rendered Electricity perfectly SELF-APPLICABLE
in a mild continuous form, and EXTREMELY
EFFICACIOUS without shock or un-
pleasant sensation.
They SPEEDILY SOOTHE agonising pains, reanimate
torpid limbs, revive the sluggish functions of life, and
impart renewed energy and vitality to constitutions en-
feebled by whatever causes. They are exceedingly effec-
tive without the aid of medicine, restriction of diet, or
the least derangement of the patient’s habits and daily
occupations, in the following maladies :
RHEUMATISM
GOUT
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
NEURALGIA
HEAD & TOOTHACHE
LIVER COMPLAINTS
TIC DOLOREUX
INDIGESTION
DEAFNESS
SPASMS
FEMALE COMPLAINTS
CONSTIPATION
CHAMP
UKINARY DISORDERS
SLUGGISH CIRCULA-
TION
PARALYSIS
EPILEPSY
DEBILITY
FUNCTIONAL DISOR-
DERS, &c., &c.
The effects of the application of PULVERMACHER’S
CHAINS in any of the above disorders are immediately
perceptible— the relief of pain generally instantaneous.
HUNDREDS of Testimonials are received
yearly speaking of their marvellous efficacy,
and we print here a few only to show what people
think of them. We are glad to send full descrip-
tive pamphlet to anyone wishing it, or to advise
or give any information necessary.
Testimonials.
Rheumatism of Thirty Years’ Standing.
Quarry Caine, Wilts.
Dear Sir, —Some years ago my husband purchased one
of your Galvanic Belts for Chronic Rheumatism, which
quite cured him. The case was a most severe one of
thirty years’ standing, and my husband was almost a
cripple, and could not lift his hands to his head. Before
he got your Belt he could not rest day or night, but now
he is quite cured, and is never troubled with the Rheu-
matism in the least.
Yours very truly,
MRS. S. WATSON
Gout and Sciatica.
Sudbury, Suffolk.
Dear Sir, —With grateful heart I write to inform you
that I am now perfectly free from both Gout and Sciatica,
and I certainly never was better in my life. My neigh-
bors and friends are quite astonished to see me running
about, as before wearing your Belt I had for a long time
past been unable to walk without the aid of two sticks.
I consider your treatment a wonderful scientific invention,
and I will answer any inquiries.
Faithfully yours,
H. CAVE.
J. L. Pulvermacher, Esq.
Rheumatism.
8 Princes Street, Margate.
Dear Sir, —The benefit that I have derived from your
Galvanic Belt for Rheumatism is wonderful. My doctor
has examined the Belt and is much pleased with it, and
will be glad to recommend your treatment in obstinate
cases of Rheumatism.
Yours faithfully,
H. B. NEAME,
flj. A T.YT A IST TS AT • Nature’s Chief Restorer of
V -tt-lN ACJiVJ. . Impaired y ital Energy, an
interesting and instructive Booklet sent Post Free to an j
address. All sufferers should read it.
Pulvermacher’s Galvanic Agency:
OSBORN & JERPAN
(Late FROST & SHIPHAM),
Medical and Household Electricians,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Sole Agents.
SYDNEY.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER RKIH’CEH RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only address'.
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over ,£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Svdnev Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,950,311 ss.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M’Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 LSishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William BUlcock, Esq.; G. 0. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macg'reg-or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BROKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
( able Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarlse & Co
(A. ROTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Slocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
tree on application.
TbiS Conjpaijy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee, I
Plate Glass, Fire, &
iocident Insurance. |
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydnky, and 405 Collins*
st., Mblboornr. A. WEBSTER, Qeneral Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Seoretary, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phoenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed .£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
*T*HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Aot 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,690,329 110
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 59,670 18 2
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. _ 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H. Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: JohD
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J, G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ... £100,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
1,949,500 0 0
1,191,934 0 0
1,949,500 0 0
Total 5,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad SI reel.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH SIS,
SYDNEY.
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Eor
MELBOURNE
1 Peregrine, Sat., June 12, 12 noon.
I Hubbuck, Tuesday, June 15, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Peregrine, Sat.., June 12, 12 noon.
Hubbuck, Tuesday, June 15, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Hubbuok, Tuesday, June 15, 6 p.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, June 12, 2 p.
Barrabool, Tuesday, June 15, 5
S a
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Tyrian, Saturday, June 12, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 19, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO All PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Si SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wallowra (from Sydney) Tues-
day, June 15.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, June 26.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Wallowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, June 15.
S.S. Innamincka (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, June 26.
ESPERANCE BAY [•
Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Alinga, about Friday,
June 11.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
Gr. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO-
PI .TI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
17^ N GLAND VIA AMERKU
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. o”f
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane. ‘
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE ALBAN Y
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS boohed to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, .£25 to <£7o, including
table wines. B
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, SydneyT
E BLANC,
Principal Agent
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company wiL
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen. Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY —Burns, Philp <fc Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown.
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON'& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS at, CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
Mining Notices.
T. J. UILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
If A. Ki nf/sbo rough,
SHA REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchanye,
A flt la ide.
The Smelting* Co.
of Australia, Ltd.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late Genera!
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—Mutual Life Buildings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rpHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
_ Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be tested
for the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Business Announcements.
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wllliam-st. Only, Sydney.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triumpb..”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
lmport Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wheleulf from All th« |e«dln( WsrekmtM-


Inez .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yo " lo me (so you said), and saying so
ihe fullest faith seemed shining in your eves •
And on your lips, half-parted maiden wise ’
Dawned one rich smile ; and on your cheeks k glow
Of soft emotion witchingly did show.
Sweeter than all of these, your subtle sighs
a l loVe ' gladness - Thus the smiling
Rained radiance on one flattered fool below.
O admirable actress ! Was it, sweet
Practice made perfect this your deep deceit ’
Or did you simply revel in one lie,
Craving success, naught dreading but defeat
And deem such sport with hearts full-womanly
The while my soul lay naked at your feet ’
F. MORTON.
A delicious cooling drink. The juice of
the lime fruit, as prepared in Rose’s Lime Juice
Cordial, supplies a beverage particularly whole-
some and refreshing in water—effervescing in all
mineral waters and an excellent stimulant
blended with spirits. It possesses valuable medi-
cinal properties, cooling and purifying the blood
stimulating and assisting digestion. It is entirely
free of spirits. Recommended by the Lancet
Sold everywhere. Purchasers should be careful
to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others being
imitations.*
Wellington (M.L.) city councillors have
decreed that no lady is to stay more than half-an-
hour in the municipal swimming-baths. Hitherto
the sweet creatures who got in first stayed so
long doing their back-hair after they came out of
the water that the second and third batch never
got a fair show—by the time it arrived night was at
hand, and the water was cold, and it was so dark
that it could not see to fix up its hair at all. The
awkward question now is how to enforce the new
rule. The caretaker is a male person, so he can’t
rush in and capture the lady who is overdue with-
out outraging the respectability of .the establish-
ment. He can’t even stand on a chair and put
his head over the wall to remonstrate with her.
All he can do is to beseech the late female through
the keyhole to hurry up, and as he won't know
which one it is, and as a lady with her back-hair
in her mouth and a pair of curling-tongs in her
hand isn’t a responsible being, he will probably not
even evoke an answer. The only feasible idea
seems to be to fix each dressing-room with a
spring floor which will throw the occupant right
over the fence when her time is up, and throw her
bonnet and her boots after her.
A roasting midsummer day, and not a
breath of air in the hot sandpits where 125 of
“ Creer’s lambs ” (the Sydney “ unemployed ” en-
gaged on relief-work) are shovelling sand into tip-
trucks. Up on the bank the ganger cursed the
heat and looked longingly at the distant smoke-
draped city ; down in the pits the “ unemployed ”
blasphemed, and sweated, and fainted. Among
the sweating, steaming men the ganger suddenly
caught sight of one in a flannelette shirt and white
tie—evidently a fellow who had “ seen better
days.” The white-tie man was nearly exhausted;
his stroke was spasmodic, his cracking lips were
drawn back from his dust-grimed teeth ; he reeled
at every throw, and his shovel was never more
than half-full. The ganger came along just above
, n n i g ! ared d ° WI l at him, and the white-tie man
Tf® d U P | nd feared at the ganger. Said the man
‘ • pay, mate !is that a shovel or a porridge
R P?°. n ve , got there ? ” The man below stopped
™? rk , a " d V °° k,ng cr,tlca lly at his big shovel,
asaea : You are a ganger, aren’t you, sir?..
“Yis,” thundered the ganger. “Then, sir, if
you don’t know whether this is a shovel or a por-
ridge-spoon you are not fit for your billet; but
perhaps they fed you with it when you were young,
as it is just about large enough for your mouth.”
Then the ganger blew up.
(DncROBERTSOITS CfiEllllßG HUM-
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains A thletes, Cares Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Hr eat h .
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
D
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Ss Stores.
Works :
Pitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
WaSl)iQgtoi) H. SoGl & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars—that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
268 Pitt-street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
I
TH
X
% Miss'*
U? 8
BySpEciAL
RoyALWarrant
ToHERAUjESTyTHE Queen. ,
50 Gold X Prize Medals Awarded.
THE WHISKY OF HIS FOREFATHERS.
SIGNETPCiGAREfTES
“o jA6-ft« Iflf^NuATrtßM
B£W
»{ARC.£kW\ I
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS
Railway Official : " You are liable to a fine for smoking
here."
German Tourist : “ Zen vy f You say schmoke biosk t
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Watoh Repairs Guaranteed.
®\®
p
OoJ'
T.O
P'S
99
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand finished, full-capped jewelled English Lever, £3 10s. Extra quality,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, strongest, cheapest, and best time-keeper ever
made—3, 4,5, 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Open-face Keyless, 30s.
Double case, 40s, £2 10s. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d ; extra, 12s 6d ; superior
quality, 20s, guaranteed 12 months. Special Gold Keyless Walthams, patent
filled cases, £2 15s, £4 4s, £ss 6s, and £6 6s. Cases guaranteed 5, 15, and 20
years. We guarantee all our watches to give everv satisfaction. Trv us,
you will not regret it. *
n.
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s 6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold Bar, 15s. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
m
mmm*
'mm
U«SK
H)
7*
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
16c. Gold (as above), 365.
Gold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst, 21s ,
16c. Gold, as above, 355.
6 different Patterns, Gold
Links, 12s 6d. Chain connec-
tion, 15s. Large, 21s.
16c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and 6s.
O/W *
Gold Amethyst Heart Coronet, 20s.
16c. do. do. 80s.
5 pure Diamonds, double-
cut, 18c. Gold Hand-
made, £4 10s. Larger
Diamonds, £5, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s.
Send {or Size Card.
7TO cr
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s 6d
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
Similar, 150. Gold, 20s, 30s.
ffIEGECTtiITCT/,'
QUO
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 15c. Gold
Pearls and Rubies (latest), £2.
18c. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heavy, &%
5-XO-13
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 150., 30s.
18c. Gold, 2 Diamonds
3 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s. 5 pure Dia-
Solid Gold Chain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
16c. Solid Gold, £6 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
16s, 20s.
3 pure Sapphires,
4 Diamonds,
180. £3, £3 10s, £4,
£5, £6.
Beautiful Opals and
Diamonds, same
price. Send for
size card.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, £2 ss, £3 ;
extra, £3 ss;
15c., £3, £4, £5, £6 ;
with key padlock,
10s extra. All se-
cured with Safety
Chains, and in oases.
Rjf
Jill*
•ip '
efeiiiiaiis
. q
Solid Gold, 3-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s.
160. Gold, 22s <Jd ; Stone Set, 255.
Any Name.
c Solid Gold, 17s 6d. 15c., 25s and 30s. 180.
Solid Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
■l™ ||
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame
thyst, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Pure Diamond, 18c. Gold Band, £3.
16a Gold Twin Love Birds, 20s.
Set with Pure White Pearls, £2.
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Is. 6d., 2s 6d; steel -
lined, 3s 6d, 4s; case,
Is extra.
All
Articles
Post
Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed
i
m
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
265., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £6.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. All
guaranteed.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Bings and Keepers. 9a
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s,
365, 40s. Send for size card.
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold „ 32s 6d
Gold Fancy Bar Name Brooch, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
f> Strong Gold Brooch, 10a M- niiT nif * SAUNDERS and see the beautiful show of articles suitable for Presents and Gifts, the Most Elegant and Extensive Stock of
jtar r>TTR PRICE LIST, ILLUSTRATED," post free, and when In town bALL SILV ER WATCHES, Solid GOLD and SILVER CHAINS, CLOCKS in every style and price. A Brilliant
Beautiful GOLO JEWELLERY, Handsomely-dwsed SILVER PLATE Most d Umque t in™tyle e and n Design. l) Our articles are guaranteed to give you every satisfaction, and Purchasers SAVE from 5s to 7s 6d in the pound.
Exhibition of the Jeweller s Art, a Panorama of liveliness. * .< ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDEES,
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street,
(NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION!
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


SPORTING NOTIONS .
Sydney sports of the past--foot-racing, boat-pull-
tng, boxing—not to mention dog and cock fighting. And
now the turf looks like going the same way. Fine subject
for a sporting Gibbon—the Decline and Fall of Sydney
Sport.
• * * •
The present N.S.W. anti-betting crusade was
started some time ago, when a couple of obscure persons,
probably because they did not care to swell the club’s
gate-money, got fined for betting outside the fence. Then
the “place” definition became a regular farce.
* * * *
Bookmaker Alf. Josephs on the recent crusade
against Sydney betting “ Well, the bookmakers of Syd-
ney have brought it all upon themselves. They have
made the pace so warm by the pernicious shop betting
that the authorities were bound to try and stop betting
altogether. Why, in no city in the world would such a
state of things be permitted for a day. In all your princi-
pal thoroughfares shop betting is in full swing, and wagers
are taken for a sixpence or a shilling. This, in my opinion,
is depreciating bookmaking.
Bookmaker Westbrook thus voices an old truth:
—“ I was on the London Stock Exchange before I came to
Australia, and I have also laid the odds on every race-
course of note in England, and I can say without hesita-
tion that I have seen more men ruined in one day by
gambling in mining stocks than I have seen go under in
10 years of my turf experience.”
Bookmaker Humphrey Oxenham on the betting
situation :—“At present there is racing on, in and around
Sydney, about five days a week all the year round. In
former days there were only two or three days’ racing in
the year at Randwick, Tattersall’s Club meeting at Christ-
mas, and a couple of meetings at the Hawkesbury, which
were looked on as more of picnic meetings than anything
else. Then it was a holiday to go to races. Now it has
become a business. Then horseowners took their strings
all round the country, and the provincial towns were
greatly benefited by the healthy meetings which used to
take place periodically. If races were held in Sydney
only about once a fortnight, I think much of the evil
would be done away with.”
• • • •
The death of Mr. I. J. Josephson, better-
known as Mr. “Ikey” Josephson, removes another
landmark of old Sydney. Mr. Josephson was ever
fond of the briny, liis yachts, Pert and Emma, being
successful racers a lifetime ago, and, up to the time that
his illness was brought about by garrotters, some three
years since, he never missed a morning dip in the briny,
winter or summer. “ Ikey ” was a small man, but full of
pluck and “devil” as a soldier-ant, and, when 70 years
or more of age, his dapper little figure, with pipe in mouth
and hat hanging rakishly on his left ear, could be seen any
day at the Oxford Hotel, playing even then a good game
of billiards.
THE LATE “ IKEY” JOSEPHSON.
During the betting-debate in N.S.W. Assembly,
Messrs. Crick and Hassall held a brief for the Australian
Jockey Club. “The A.J.C. members did not make a
shilling out of racing, they raced for sport,” said Mr.
Crick. Maybe, but he forgot to remark that many mem-
bers of the A.J.C. had a queer way of showing it by in-
sisting, under threat of “scratch,” upon having their
pound of flesh when a Tattersall’s sweep was knocking
about. As regards the conduct of the sport, it. is
notorious that the only racing body about Sydney which
acts fearlessly and without favor as regards “stiff” run-
ning is the Rosehill Racing Club. Reversals of form that
would paralyse a five-days-and-two-nights-a-week pony-
follower occur at Randwick meetings unnoticed, so long
as the offender is influential or a big-entry man ; but woe-
betide the countryman who brings a horse to Sydney and
tries any funny business at Randwick. It is not so long
since Rosehill Club tackled an influential A.J.C. man and
warned him, his horse, and all concerned, off their course
for allegedly running “ stiff.” This little affair, no doubt,
escaped Mr. Crick’s memory but now that he is reminded
of it, he will perhaps move the adjournment of the
House to state that he knows of at least one A.J.C. man
who runs for “ splosh ” as well as sport.
* * * *
A recent shindy in N.S.W. Assembly arose
because the two horseowners attacked were originally
more sinned against than sinning, and one of them was
son-in-law of the M.L.A. who took up the cudgels.
Racing is supposed to improve the- breed of
horses—a plea that does not apply to the pony branch, for
its tendency is to reduce size. But the War Office authori-
ties think Australian horses inferior to those from Argen-
tina, where racing is comparatively unknown. By the
way, does racing tend to improve the breed of men ?
* * * *
With his presumedly most dangerous opponent,
Vesuvian, amiss, the Irish-bred colt Galtee More (Kendal
—Morganette) easily won the English Derby from his old
opponent Velasquez. The Oaks was won by Limasol
(Poulet —Queen of Cyprus), bred and owned by the
veteran Newmarket trainer Tom Jennings. As in the
Derby, Lord Rosebery had to put up with second place,
his flying filly, Chelandry, being unable to repeat her One
Thousand Guineas victory.
• * * *
The result of the Derby recalls the opening
lines of a ballad by Charles Kickham, Fenian poet and
novelist
“ My name is Patrick Sheehan and my years are thirty-
four,
Tipperary is my dwelling-place, not far from Galtee
More.”
The honor of winning the Derby, for which
wealthy parvenus like North and Hirsch, as well as
men like Bentinck, were willing to sacrifice tens of thou-
sands, wasthrustupon John Gubbins, ownerof GalteeMore,
rather than sought by him. Never much of a horsey man,
he was disposed, on inheriting the property of his brother,
Capt. Gubbins, a genuine sportsman, to auction off the
stud, but was dissuaded by friends and relatives. It is re-
corded of Capt. Gubbins, the founder of the stud which
produced this year’s Derby-winner, that he once went
into a cavalry charge armed with a black-thorn. As his
native place on the borders of Limerick and Tipperary
was the main convincing ground of the “ Two-year-olds
and “ Three-year-olds ” —lrish factions which waged a long
and bloody feud over a dispute about the age of a heifer
it is probable that he regarded the “ bit av a shtick” as a
formidable weapon, as well he might.
Galtee More, though Irish bred and Irish
owned, was trained at Beckhampton in Wilts, a once
famous coursing-ground, and the site of some interesting
Druidical remains.
* * * *
Adelaide Racing Club put .£41,934 through the
totalisator at its Birthday meeting, which means £3150
in commission. Never before was racing so healthy in
S.A.
* * * *
The Newminster horse, Beverley, who has often
dropped his backers in the hole, ran a real good race at
Bendigo, last week, under the influence of half a bottle
of whisky. The Newminsters incline to roguishness, un-
doubtedly. Newman has many a time disgraced himself
in public, and the great Newhaven —well, if he isn’t a
rogue, why has his “form” sometimes varied two or
three stone within a week?
* * * *
The V.R.C. Grand Nat. Hurdle Race will be a
very open affair if Don John and other novices take
kindly to the sticks and are brought out to battle on the
day.
* * • *
The two-year-old racing in Australia this season
leaves Aurum in the position of facile princeps, with Fleet
Admiral, Keera, The Hypnotist, Patriot, Amberite, Kilt,
and the sprinting wonder, Key, high up. Unless some
“ dark ” wonder is sprung on the racing world next season,
the abovementioned youngsters should cut up the leading
classic events among them. The Carbine colt, Amberite,
has been judiciously treated during his two-year-old
career, and promises to be a three-year-old of more than
ordinary merit.
* * * *
The two-year-old Kilt (Lochiel —Mantilla), who
is not far removed from the best of the season, has been
bought by the Westralian owner of Le Var, with the
hopes of winning W.A. Derby for the second year in
succession.
* * * *
The oft-scratched and mysterious Aurea was
not allowed to give her multitudinous backers a run in
Exeter Stakes at Randwick on Saturday. Perhaps when
the public are off her she will get home all right in Rose-
hill Cup next week.
• • * •
As there is a big sweep on Rosehill Cup, run
next Saturday, no less than §0 horses have been “ put
together ”by the handicapper. True Blue, Aurea, Pre-
caution, Moorefield, Milkmaid, Survivor and Rebel Queen
cannot complain of the imposts allotted them, and, per-
chance, one or more of the plaoed will be found included
in this septet.
• * * •
Under the auspices of the A. J.C. racing, with
its natural concomitant betting, went on just as merrily
at Randwick last Saturday as if the crusade against the
“bookies” was as dead as Peter the Hermit. In the
Hurdle Race the favorite, Aeolus, fell and broke his neck,
a serious loss to Mr. John Mayo, and the uncertain Cornet
decisively beat Favor. Two-year-olds again showed their
superiority to the other aged animals by running first
and second in the Exeter Stakes, The Tola being lucky in
winning from Toxteth, who was much interfered with.
Miss Nora (Nordenfeldt— Lady Nora) won the Ellesmere
Stakes for Mr. S. Hordern, but as the punting public are
“ not taking” Hordern’s colors at present, she started at
Bto 1. Vanitas was again backed, and finished down the
course, whilst the unlucky Kallatina had to put up with
second place. True Blue appeared all right and was
heavily supported, but could get no nearer than fourth.
Overjumping himself lost Gladstone the Steeplechase,
and the very useful Sovereign landed the shekels for his
party in most convincing style.
An apparently startling reversal of form, for
which, as the A. J.C. has taken no public notice of it, there
is, no doubt, a good explanation, was afforded by the
running of Sovereign at Randwick on the last two Satur-
days. At Tattersalls Club-meeting on May 29th, Sovereign
started in the Welter Handicap at 10 to 1, absolutely
friendless, and ran nowhere. Last Saturday, in the High
Weight handicap, Sovereign went like wild fire from 8 to 1
to 3 to 1, at the last moment, and duly landed the good
thing.
* * ♦ *
Five horses ran a dead-heat for first in Too-
woomba (Q.) Short’s Handicap. A handicapping record.
• * m *
The best game so far this season in Sydney
senior football was played on Saturday last between the
Randwicks and Wentworths. The game was devoid of
brutal roughing, and even when the umpire erred in
awarding Randwick a goal which it never earned, Went-
worth took its gruel good-humoredly. At half-time the
game stood, Randwick 7, Wentworth 3 points, but the
latter pulled up, and but for the umpire’s mistake the
game should have ended a draw. Pirates played Wallaroo
on the Agricultural Ground, the play being pretty equal
during first half, Pirates 3, Wallaroo nil, but the Pirates
took a lead in the second, eventually winning by 14 to 3.
University played Paddington a most stubborn game on
the former’s Oval. No score up to half-time ; and it was
not until just before finishing that Shortland got over
rather luckily, and scored 3 for the University.
* * * •
Saturday’s football match between Collingwood
and Fitzroy was reminiscent of the games of five years
ago, when all Melb. used to roll up with its lunch in its
hat to get a good seat. The surrounding bank was
crowded, and, as the game was one of the good old blood-
and-hair sort, the spectators barracked as in days of yore.
in the expectation of a free stoushing-niatch. The games
between the clubs of these adjoining Sdburb3 al „^. 3 t the
exciting-for the ’Royites and the Woorlsies are about the
only Melb. clubs which have managed
clientele of barrackers. Saturday’s match recalled toe
good old times of the early nineties, when the ;
thick with half-bricks and the umpires used to escape i
false beards. After some real live play, which should do a
heap to galvanise the moribund game, the Woodaes
by 5 goals 7 behinds (37 points) to the Royites 2 goals
9 behinds (21 points). + ,
The modified system of electorate football,
adopted in Adelaide this season, has partia J
public interest. So far, South Adelaide, Port Adelaide
and Norwood are level for top place.
* * *
The English Universities held their first recog-
nised boxing and fencing competitions tbl3 al ’ „ ons .
presence of an enthusiastic audience of - V ..
Competitions for feather, light, middle and heavy weights
were decided, and with such success that the show win
in future be as much a fixture as the eight-oar race.
A comparison of the Australian Hni versify
crews with this year’s Oxford and Cambridge lot, shows
that our men are older, shorter and lighter f • -
to a stone and a-half. Which looks pretty unpromising.
Glorious football! When the Essen<|on foot-
ballers met to play Fitzroy on a recent Saturday near y
half the former team were unable to j lay owing t 0
juries received in a match on the previous Satin
j ♦
Megson probably scored a record at Sydney
Cricket Ground in the League’s Two-mile Cycle Handle p
on Saturday, when he came down in a bunch wit >
Meadham, and MTnnes. Megson was up and away a = ain
like a shot, and, the other racers easing up until .Foe got
going, he won from Miller, damaged both in person an d
machine. Meadham, who has only just recovered from a
broken collarbone, had a big shaking-up.
* * * *
News that the Vic. rifle-team in England put up
a fine average score at their first practice is full of inter-
est. Practice, in shooting or billiards, is not a reliable
guide to achievements “on the pinch” when a gazing
crowd holds its breath and the silence can be felt by tne
performer ; but up to now “ nerve” has been re . oa ° ,led a
strong point with Australians abroad, a few cnoae “. cdl '
lapses notwithstanding. The Vic. team, anyway, finds no
difficulty as regards the light.
* » *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen is suffering from
swelled head, and has started to break up what promised
to be a vast association. Armidale wanted a carnival on
June 22, but the League refused permission, as it is hoia-
ing a meeting in Sydney on the same day. As well might
the A.J.C. refuse to sanction meetings throughout tne
country on, say Queen’s Birthday, as they hold a meeting
on that day. The Northern districts now talk secession
from the League and the formation of a body of their
own. „ *
* * * *
Rupanyup (Vic.) rifle club some time since
challenged ten men a-side, at 400, 500, and 600 yards, in
England, Canada and India. Six teams responded, and
the shooting duly came off. Rupanyup was beaten by a
Scotch and two Indian teams, and in turn beat three
Indian teams. Wind and weather conditions may have
been so dissimilar, however, that it is hard to gauge the
respective merits of the teams.
Elias Laycock, whose portrait, as he appeared
in ’BO, is here given, has lost his situation as ranger at the
N.S.W. National Park, and his old-time friends are giving
a variety entertainment at the Opera House, Sydney, on
his behalf. Laycock went to England in ’BO and won the
ELIAS LAYCOCK
rich Hop Bitters sculling contest, winning four successive
races before going down to the then invincible Hanlan
early in ’Bl. The blue-eyed Laycock, with his golden
Saxon beard, was a fine figure of a man in those days, and
a great favorite with the Thames watersiders, who
christened him “The Bushranger.’
* * * *
Probably finding that “retired champions ” do
not “draw” so well, Fitzsimmons is said to be reconsider-
ing his determination against another match. Anyhow,
Corbett will have to wait, as he kept Jackson and Fitz!
waiting, and may be put off with the excuse, “Fight
someone else, to prove you’re in my class.”
« * * *
A ’Frisco club offers £2600 for a match between
Choynski and Fitzsimmons. What an ass Fitz. must be
if he does not gather in trifles of this sort before his sun
sets !
* * » *
Bill Slavin and Wolff Bendoff, the two greatest
mugs who ever put a glove on in Australia, were recently
haggling over a match in London. Failing a match, Ben-
doff talked Peter Jackson. Great Scott!
* * * *
The Mrs. Fitzsimmons who distinguished her-
self at the recent fight by her advice to hubby as to the
best means of “stiffening” Corbett, is not the Sydney
girl who followed him to share his fortunes across the
Atlantic. Like many other great men when they rise in
the world, Fitz. got tired of the “old woman” who
washed and mended for him in his early days, and soon
wanted a more stylish consort. So he cast his eye on the
buxom and shapely Rose Julien, of the same variety troupe
Mrs. Fitz. No. 1 divorced him—he had previously failed
to divorce her, naming as co-respondent his present
brother-in-law and chief barracker, Martin Julien f
* * * «
England and America are each claiming Fitz-
simmons as its own since his defeat of Corbett. Australia
and Maoriland had as big a share in making the <>reat
fighter. History records that “ Kildare was in 1497 re-
moved from the Deputyship, which was in time vested in
Walter Fitzsimons, Archbishop of Dublin, a declared
enemy of the Geraldines.” Fitz’s Irish descent is un-
doubted. Even his birth would not make him English
for the Cornish, like the Welsh, are more Celtic than the
Scottish Highlanders. e
England likes to claim the dog on top Like
Mace (the gipsy), Fitzsimmons, the Cornish-born son of
an Irish policeman, is hailed as a champion specimen of
Anglo-Saxon manhood.
For the road-race from Launceston to Hobart
the two chief prizes were were 42 ratries
and 22 starters, but only five got through The weather
was perfect, but for a head wind part way, and the
distance (121 miles, 133 by train) was done '‘athfete
time 7h 19min. The winner was an aII -r° u n, d
Beauchamp, of Launceston, a Aft-rate footballer and
good oarsman, who has only lately cycled The second
man, Hallam, arrived 17min. later He had ‘
lOmin. from scratch, and lost much groundbj puncturin|.
Winner never left his machine from starting till ms acci
dent ai nfiles from home). Something like 5000 people
witnessed the finish.
* * *
The scratch men in a recent Tas. road-race were
curiously blocked. The course crossed the railway line at
one point, and as the rear men came up the radv^ ay a Kat ®?
were closed-the train was approaching. Thus about
were lost, and the blocked ones were out of the
hunt. , , . •
From all accounts, it would appear that if
N.S.W. Lands Minister Carruthers didn t shoot the first
quail of the season it wasn’t his fault.
Megson, on his Beeston-Humber, won the Two-
mile Handicap on Sydney Cricket Ground last Saturday.*
« * * *
Mr. Donald MTntosh, the phenomenal Vie.
shot, has won the challenge-cup and £165 at Wormwood
Scrubbs, Eng., with 28 successive kills.
* * * *
Dr. Youll, Melbourne’s ancient coroner, says
that if cyclists continue the road-racing game, his salary
must be increased. Cyclists have no more. business to
road-race on public highways than equestrians.
* * * *
O. A. A. Soli waebsch, 10 years ago, dropped
the M.B.C. badge he had won a year before. A day or
two back, a doctor-friend of his noticed it on the wall of a
working-man patient, bought it for 55., and re-presented
it to the much-astonished Schwaebsch I^^^^__^^^^__
Packets
Of
1
l
11 CARS
•r, .
fJ UALIT'
PUR,£
J v llWj l
nu/acrured by
Payerne
Is.
SoftCaQMaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per J4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE RROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Barkell’s Manly (N.S.W.) road-race win, and
J. Snell’s 2500 mile (Menzies to Melb.) road race, are the
latest deeds on Dunlop tyres.*
m
FOR - -
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS,
A COMPLETE DIET IN
ITSELF.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
Wholesale Agents for New South Wales :
ELLIOTT BEOS., LTD., SYDNEY.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bos is to, C.M.G,
"ffiosisto's ,
BmalyptmOil.
FOR
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosistos “Parrot Brand.”
sal
-y Wf S. r iiriir i j^'»h
Ml! jIl ULIII Li!n'! 11l 111 II
InMi
uu ft uvrrrri
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Enlace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin


Novelty
. . IrjtrodOciog Co.
A PERFECT PICTURE.— New Method, without
chemicals, lenses, baths, sunlight, or flash - powders
Carried in vest-pocket ready for instant use day or
A beautifully-finished Picture every minute. Complete
Apparatus, with impression slips, One Shilling (post-paid)
/
<arin>€ 8t Sn?itb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 5'6
to 757-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden & Company
or Mortgages
arranged by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
Melbourne.
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes ... 10/- and 12/6 Each
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6 6, 8 6, and 10 6
KROPP BRAND ...6/6 and 7/6
BENGALL BIJAND, best quality, 6/-, 6/-, 7/6, 10'6
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 5/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely unon
getting: an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M'GEE, Hairdresser, &c..
5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
R 0 '“' ,T TancentStki. Reedj
5* ALBERTS PATENT
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN,2oholes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. 6d. NATIVE WA-
RATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding covers,
price 2s.
J. ALBERT & SON,
Largest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments and
Spectacles. Illustrated Catalogue of Violins, Accordeons,
Cornets, Mandolines, Music, etc., posted free on applica-
tion. 118 RING STREET, SYDNEY.
CATALOGUE?
M?y POST FREE yi^
Watches-Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday**
WEDDirJc t CHristeHiHg Presents
nJNIWMAIJ-1753177-ELIZABETH S T *
OPPOSITE C:RQ.— -
MELBOURNE-
I Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
o
Q O,
o (©) o
Send P. 0.0, for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoij’s Noted AccordeoQS,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown ;
!L v^k er ' s t-> North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
>T j , W r . F. COX ON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 6 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
ful Song, and the Merry Dance can all be played on these
fflamiDgimtniineiiti. No knowledge of Music Hequirf.d.
a uselul and Pre ty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of tlia
" Sydney Bulletin.-’
Campbell’s “ Gem ” Melodeon price only 10/8
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22 6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, 'or the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privile e Price I.istfor Musical Season 1897, nowready.
150,000 oi these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL & Co., Musical Instrument Makers
116, Trongate, Glasgow Est, 50 Years. Agents Wanted.
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “High
Grade ” as a sign of Excellence —have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
Til** ABSOLUTELY the
UC UICViMC, CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GRKVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
w. w.
GREENERS
CELEBRATED
eons * rifces.
Greener’s Rook and Rabbit Rifles on all systems
—Martini, Top Lever, Side Lever Hammerless,
and Ejectors. Accurate, Simple and Reliable.
Prices from 4 guineas Twenty-one consecu-
tive shots put on half-crown size at 40yds.
with a Greener 320 Rook rifle, and nine on a 2in.
square at 100yds. Send for list.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crpbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n?brocatioi)-
ROYAL PROGRESS CYCLES.
Messrs. GAVIN GIBSON & CO. have pleasure in announcing that their
efforts in selling the above Wheels have been so successful that they have
been encouraged to make arrangements for their more direct supply to the
public, and have, therefore, with that in view, appointed as agents,
Tbc ENGLISH and AMERICAN AGENCY CO.,
who will OPEN A LARGE CYCLE DEPOT on Ist JUNE,
at 416 Seorge Street, Sydney.
This Company intends catering for the cycling public in all branches of the
trade, and will keep at their very central premises a large stock of High-class
Wheels by leading manufacturers in England and America.
Note the A ddress :
The ENGLISH & AMERICAN AGENCY CO., 416 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the Favorite English ROYAL PROGRESS BICYCLE.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle-
x-'
\
For LADIES and GENTS.
T7MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC S ADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc iQtcrcbaogeablc
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, STDNET
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tile ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Eepairs a Speciality.
“DOWRIDGET
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart.
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
CHILDREN REQUIRE EXERCISE
EVEN MORE THAN ADULTS.
Medical Men agree that Cycling is the best form of exercise for the Young,
their only stipulation being that the youthful rider shah have nothing to do with an inferior and unreliable Machine. The
ARI€L MIP6ET CYCLES
Are essentially high grade in every respect, and the only difference between them and high-class adult machines is that of
weight and size ; Quality of design, materials, workmanship and finish are exactly the same.
Hitherto machines either toy-like or heavy in construction have been thought “good enough” for Juveniles. The public
have now been awakened to the grand possibilities of Cycling as a healthful pastime for our boys and girls, and in the AH I KL
MIDGET AND JUVENILE CYCLES we claim to have fulfilled the want for high quality machines at a reasonable price.
-10-0
FITTED WITH
Dunlop or Warwick Tyres
-£lO-
™ AUSTRAL CYCLE ACENCY LTD
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES FOR
Dunlops
H limbers
(8.-W. & C.)
Triumphs
Raleighs
Coventry Cross
Stars
Ariels
Swift
Singers
Oriels,
&c., for
Australasia.
BRANCHES at
393 George Street - - Sydney.
229 lilizabeth St. - - Melbourne.
33 Rundle St. - - Adelaide.
Hay Street - - Perth.
Gill Street - - Charters Towers.
Adelaide Street - Brisbane.
Colombo & Lichfield Sts., Christchurch
George Street - - Dunedin.
Hobart and Launceston.


Special Advertisements.
That Tired Feeling
AND
GENERAL DEBILITY.
The cause is poor, thin blood,
resulting in deficient vitality. To
overcome this, the blood needs to be
enriched and vitalized, and for this
there is no medicine in the world
equal to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. The
cures it has worked, the men, wo-
men and children it has restored to
health, are countless in number. One
such experience is related by Mr.
Robert Goodfellow, Mitcham, South
Australia, as follows: “I have used
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
in my family for years, and would
not be without it. I used to suffer
with boils and skin eruptions,
attended with great lassitude and
general debility. In fact, I was so
ill that I could not attend to my bus-
iness. Being advised to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I did so, and I am happy
to say that the medicine restored me
to perfect health. I have since used
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for my children,
in various complaints, and it has
always proved effective. I can safely
recommend it to sufferers as
The Best Blood Purifier
Beware of imitations. The name —Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla is prominent on the wrapper
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
AYER’S PILLS, IN SMALL, GLASS PHIALS.
CY A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
»v natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists, /A
Vi Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
Streep
The Cele ortited
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARIITG QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” YELYETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS ”
Velveteen bears the name (shelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
Other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Parson Edgar, when before Vic. Royal
Commission on old-age pensions the other day,
gave some instances—out of scores known to him
—of persons who had been sent to gaol for no
crime but poverty. An old man was found by a
lady-missionary in. an empty room, foodless and
paralysed. He was taken to all the hospitals and
was refused admission by all. The police then
took charge of him, and he was committed to gaol.
A few weeks afterwards he died in the gaol hos-
pital. Several highly-respectable women had also
been sent to gaol, having been convicted of desti-
tution. Incidents of this kind are of almost every-
day occurrence in Melbourne.
“Railway-Man ” to The Bulletin :
In reply to M'Gowen, M.P., Premier Reid stated that
the train accident at Redfern on Ist Feb. “ took place
in consequence of the driver of a train leaving the plat-
form whilst the signal worked from the station-box was at
danger against him.” According to which on N.S. Wales
railways there is no check on the driver’s reading of the
starting-signals. If that individual goes suddenly color-
blind, as men sometimes do, or, as in the case in question,
simply makes a mistake, a whole train-load may go to
Sheol because there is no check on the driver’s liability to
human error. A driver has to pick his signal out of a
dozen or two others, all about one or two hundred yards
away, and take his chance of promotion or Hades on the
result. And yet we have anti-gambling laws. The officer
in charge of the platform, or whoever starts the.train,
and also the guard, should act as a check on the driver
and share the responsibility. In Maoriland they do.
. Also the starting-signal ought to have a duplicate indi-
cator in a safe place on the platform, where starting-
officer and guard can see it, without having to jostle and
walk half-a-mile down a crowded platform to see the
signal while attending to about a dozen other things.
As a set-off to a well-advertised case in
which an adopted daughter caused trouble betwec n
her fond “father” and his wife, a Melbourne
husband seeks to divorce his wife on account of
her alleged unmaternal affection for an adopted
son. The lady being childless and, therefore,
unfitted for nursery management, decided to
satisfy her yearnings by adopting a boy of 16, who
had come safely through the measles, whooping
cough and other infant troubles, and would be
quite capable of appreciating a mother’s love at its
proper value. He was a new-chum youth from
Dr. Barnardo’s notorious Home, and seemingly he
gave complete satisfaction to both parents during
the first few months of his soniiood. But,
one sad day, the husband, so he avers, found
Madam seated upon their new boy’s knee, after
which time the boy ceased to give satisfaction to
his male parent by adoption. “ Mother ” clung to
him, however, and when she left for England two
years ago her boy, it is averred, sailed to the same
country in another ship. The divorce petition,
which will come to court again in September, is
based upon allegations of adultery between mother
and “ child ” previous to their departure from Mel-
bourne. This story, as far as it has gone, tends to
prove that an adopted son, who happens to be
full-grown ere his mother takes him to her arms,
amounts to much the same thing as the common
or garden sort of lodger.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue. *
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
* Sauce. *
THB BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
*
ar
si
i.ime-Fnlit
juice, it is
round, forms
'a most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, anu w e
invite a trial. It
has been ) re-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Beet
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , writes
so far back as ibiy, in a treatise on Scurvy: —“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY — Dauic/son Bros., Jules Renard
& Co.. Elliott Bros.. Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
mil
REGISTERED
TRAD E MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
s/ 8 inch and 3/4 inch Blades,
Round and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
This Razor Is True to Name—RINGS like a Bell,
and Is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st,, Sydney
1207
372
124
1208
403
126
125
127
234
078
56
J7
*
&
4>
i£&A
—THE-
AustvaUcm
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest 8s Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
AUSTIIALIAX
NEEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-streeh,
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-streei, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
IHE
‘ Plum ’
pro
THE
‘ Plum’
f fche ’. r ? azorB, ? nsafc,sfa f- ory should ,lob fail t 0 s ive our celebrated Plmn
. Kazpr atnaL This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public
id is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price { l° strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
p o/ , V 1 i VOry handle, 15s - > P air Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
• •
SOUTH
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage.)^ -
Mod?^" 8 ° VeP 100l 00 A P a,,tmen ts, Furnished with all
V* y * Two minutes from the Park Ken ■
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter.
moderate tariff.
.Queen’s Gate Terrace, London.
S.W.
HOTEL
RELIEF
from
GOUGH
y£WE
m
m
m
///
m
aerop
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Cou&-h
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking w*,i *
Remedy npomntiv rm t-liis well-known
eay promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill
Prepared only by A. HA VIVIAN & Co.. London. ‘
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
9
Benger’s Food Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, <stc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
The aged.


Proprietor of
Has much pleasuri
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
tl)c ALFALINC HCRBAL R€M€DI€S (Registered.)
in P iese nting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have muoh pleasure to inform you that a
Bourse of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I oonsider you are deserving of
success, whioh I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Heir Rassmussbn.—Dear
Sir,-I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.— Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one oi
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussbn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. HUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:— “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and dootors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come aoross. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
casn was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
-Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, o/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
Baron Sir Ferd. Yon Mueller, K.C.M.G.,
M.D., Ph.D., F.R.S., &c., &c.
The Greatest Botanist of the Century.
Spoke in the highest terms of Herr Rassmussen and his Alfaline Herbal Remedies, and although
* octor ot Medicine himself, he, for years, patronised these Remedies, and acknowledged to
obtaining great relief from them.
Herr Rassmm,
THE CELEBRATED
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOR THE —
BLOOD, NERVES,
LIVER & KIDNEYS.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL.
Many Thousand Testimonials.
I mi
■
■ -
HP?*
m
A
'•"■sc
a
(Faosimile of the Baron’s Handwriting.)
Aa written on the back of his photo.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Hbrr Rassmussbn. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few cpurses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
chmpletely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hasbrman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Testimonials
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear oomplaining of rheumatio attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the laiver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
llerr Rassmussen. 9/8/97.
Dear Mr, —lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, ar.d which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parties Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform 30U that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’standing. I shall always be glad lo
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medioines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
O/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors —all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that 1 was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, — Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness arid Liver Complaint. I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result ttiat for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully,
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
lost Office. Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S. —You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES.
»AWARDED,
-TWO GOLD
Siss
gel
ofH
1
ALFA LINE PILL ST
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD b NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous*
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago, Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65,, 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
pah teable Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Al faline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s, and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills—An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Thie
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
>■ 2 ~ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK
HFRR RASSMUSS'-'N will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natura' Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING
HERR RAS-MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as.
advertised on this page. All HERR RAt-SMUSSEN’S
BEM ' DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be uiven FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Pmnehes.
H-Sioirir Rassmussens HeadL Office: 547 George-st, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
f Melbourne —150 Bourke Street.
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Adelaide —154 Bundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W. A.—Perth, corner Hay and William-streets.
Coolgardie—Next Coolgardie Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


Wlndproof Incandescent
6aS Arc Lan>pS
This Powerful
INCANDESCENT
LAMP,
fitted with our
PATENT
LIGHTING
TUBE,
SUPERSEDING PILOT
LIGHT,
consumes
4s. worth of Gas
per Month for 2
Burners, alight 5
hours per night.
Send for Catalogues.
For all kinds of
JUBILEE ILLU-
MINATIONS, ap-
ply Early.
iflU
Lighting
Tube.
BRANDT BROS.,
&c.
422 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE; and
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
tyiss E. Twcedie,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbe Up-to-date FrockiSt.
Hotels.
'“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyons’ Palace Hotel,
South. Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERS ALL'S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he' is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, oh account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves —and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
m
m
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
JT. QTTIUNT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Medical.
THE drum
•N POSITION
PeafQess
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relived
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String-.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobi'ectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CUBE HYDATIDS, SKIN EBUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
stamps- The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
l. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
f- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
tie healing virtuesof these grandmedicmes have not Jeen
ecognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
iilments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. p$T“ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
U tlw address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
ipuAus.
Publcations.
Geo. Rotoertaon. & 00.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale is Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English it Colonial Celebritie
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
" Friends no Longer.” so B N oußb 0 uR b /Jun ol "
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH 1 HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
6d. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. cadi, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Barry Jtichards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
j-3g r_ Prices —2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
|JIJOL THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY and SATURDAY
17th 18th and 19th JUNE,
3 Grand Benefit Performances 3
of Gilbert and Sullivan’s tuneful opera
“ THE GONDOLIERS”
By the Australian Amateur Opera Club, in aid of the
Austin and St. Vincent’s Hospitals,
Under Vice-Regal and other distinguished Patronage.
The cast includes the following proved Artists: Mesdames
Ray Jones, Hesford Angus, Ada Berkeley, Laura
Berkeley ; Messieurs C. Bonyage Kelly, Geo. Sutton,
Y. Lambcroft, W. D. Thomson, arid J. D. Coffey.
Full Operatic Chorus and Orchestra.
PRICES—Ss., 35., and Is. ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
GERALD DEEGAN, Hon. Secretary.
fpHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT ! TO- NIGHT!
BLAND HOLT’S
SIXTH SPECTACULAR PRODUCTION,
The Stirring Military Drama,
“A LIF€ OF PL€ASOR€.”
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THE PAULTON - STANLEY COMEDY SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
“A : Nl<s HT : OUT.”
SATURDAY, June 12, will be staged the New Farcical
Comedy, “ MY FRIEND FROM INDIA.”
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
n, „ __ SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees,’ Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Mouine.
Every Evening and Saturday Matinee,
“Tb€ Sigo of tb« CroSS.”
By WILSON BARRETT, Esq.
A Noble Drama. Splendidly Produced and Acted.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
237
CINEMATOGRAPHE,
gjALON
237 PITT STREET,
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
160
160
160
237
237
160 THOUSAND
160 THOUSAND
160 THOUSAND .
Astounded visitors to date, and the cry is Still th '
come.” TO-DAY, FROM NOON ONWARDS.
J. MACMAHON, Director.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Mr. ROBERT BROUGI .
LAST NINE NIGHTS OF THE
| BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY. |
THURSDAY and FRIDAY,
•‘T fa. o roughbre d.”
SATURDAY and MONDAY NEXT,
A WOMAN OF NO IMPORTANCE.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
SATURDAY, JURE 19.
The Management have much pleasure in announcing
the Reappearance of the Universal Favorite,
MA66IE MOORE,
In a NEW and ORIGINAL Comedy Drama, entitled
“ JOHANNA.”
Supported by a SPECIALLY-SELECTED Company.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
mHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
A . . COMMENCING . .
Friday, lltlx J une.
HARRY 7URNISS,
—THE—
FAMOUS CARICATURIST
Of the English Punch.
HUMORS OF PARLIAMENT.
AMERICA IN A HURRY.
SKITS AND SKETCHES.
Illustrated by
HUNDREDS OF COLORED PICTURES
By the Celebrated Humorist.
BP" For Prices, &c., see Daily Papers. sMYTHE.
fJIOWN HALL, SYDNEY
SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 12.
NisS Florsoce Scbnjidt’S
GBANU CONCERT.
Assisting: Artistes Engaged M. Henri Stael, Miss F.
Mather, Miss R. Coutts Duvalli, Mr. F. R. Wood-
house, and Herr Gerard Vollmar.
Seating Plan at Nicholson’s—Tickets, 3s, 2s, and Is, at
all Musrcsellers.
PERA HOUSE (King and York-sts.), SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING !
Farley’s €i)glisb Opera Co.
THE RECORD BROKEN.
High-Class Opera with the best available artists at
TWO SHILLINGS and ONE SHILLING.
SATURDAY, 12th June, and until further notice, Von
Suppts’s Military Opera, FATI N IT ZA.
Plan at Paling’s. Day tickets at Josephson’s York Hotel,
next Theatre. J. A. CRAIN.
IFheT GLADSTONE WRIGHT
CONCERT DIRECTION.
Undertakes the Organisation of Concerts, Dramatic
Recitals, At Homes, Garden Parties, and General
Entertainments.
Supplies Artists, Living Pictures, Lime-light, Stage
Fittings, Marquees.
Estimates on Application to
THE DIRECTION,
Ti Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
OUR POPULAR BANGLE RINGS
SINCE INTRODUCING THIS PRETTY NOVELTY WE HAVE SOLD THOUSANDS.
&
EXPANDING.
FIT ANY SIZE
FINGER.
Bs. 6d. & 10s.
EACH.
EXPANDING.
ANY INITIAL.
10s.
EACH.
POST FREE.
PLAIN BAND
Extra Strong.
12s. 6d.
EACH.
State Size Re-
quired.
Solid Gold, with Amethyst, Topaz, Garnet, Opal, Moonstone, Oval and Heart Shape Hanging Pendants. When
Ordering, kindly state Shape of Pendant Required.
AET JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address—
90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £,900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOIST.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
goutiot:.
A. INew Scientific rvemeay tor UHBONIC linrTT
So^Tfcl Tl ¥h BOU T’ t^ EU “*™“
SCIATICA This wonderful discovery has now been
muse 8 months; during this time 180 persons (mostly
! above hornVilft p.nmnlainfc Tf %
, , ~, m^ se » m o?tns; during this time 180 persons (mostly
cripples) m Victoria have been cured of the above horrible complaints. It gives immediate Relief
The only known cure. Prescribed by the Medical Faculty. (Reference is kindly permitted to Mr AW
J. Smith, an employe of the Vic. railway locomotive shops, who was cured of Rheumatic font bv
G-OUTINE after five years of suffering, and after the failure of leading Melb. physicians to effeet
In Bottles at 65., 7s. 6d., and 12s. 6d.—posted, 6d. extra. City Agent, BEDDOME &CO Bourke street Mil
and from the holder of Australasian rights, OSCAR LAWSON, 17 High-st., Prahran MELBOURNE’ M b '’
Specialists Fail and Doctors are
Baffled.
terrible condition of a botany
BAY GIRL.
WAS POSITIVELY WASTING AWAY.
GALLOPING CONSUMPTION FEARED
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS WERE
TRIED, WITH THE RESULTS
GIVEN BELOW.
Miss G. Harris, of Botany Bay, to a special
reporter who had been dispatched to interview
her, said :
“ Until within the last two or three years I was
always in the best of health, and I fear that what
occasioned my illness was a cold I contracted in
going from Parramatta to Ashfield. I commenced
quite suddenly, as it seemed to me, to suffer from
indigestion and constipation, which were my chief
ailments. I had a pallid appearance, and invari-
ably a tired weary feeling, and also suffered
horrible torments from racking headaches. I
went to several doctors in Parramatta, but none
of them did me any good. I also consulted a
specialist with a like result. I then tried a large
amount of homoeopathic medicine, but it appeared
to me to be a sheer waste of money. I then went
in for a much-vaunted and largely-advertised
liquid specific, which had not the slighted effect
upon me ; in fact, I threw the greater portion of
it away in disgust.
“ I was now positively wasting away, and feared
I was going off into a galloping consumption.
“One afternoon, towards the beginning of
January of this year (1897), on glancing through
the columns of the Evening News, an advertise-
ment headed ‘ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People ’ caught my eye, and I read through it with
interest, as I recognised in two or three accounts
of where cures had been effected the cases were
almost identical with my own. Anyhow, I deter-
mined to get some as a forlorn hope, with w. at
results I will tell you.”
“Did you experience any relief after the first
box, Miss Harris ? ”
“ I can hardly say I did, but something induced
me to go on with them, and I thought, at any rate,
I ought to give them a fair trial. After the second
box I felt decidedly better, so naturally I went on
with them. My appetite improved wonderfully.
My mother will tell you that prior to taking the
Pink Pills I did not eat enough to keep a baby
alive, and it distressed her beyond measure to see
my poor appetite. It pained me so much to swal-
low that I could only exist on slops, milk and
arrowroot being my chief nutriment.”
“You, of course, continued with the Pills all
the time, Miss Harris?”
“ Oh, certainly ; for I was feeling better day by
day, and I might say, without exaggeration in the
slightest, after each dose.”
“You certainly do not look like an invalid now,
Miss Harris.”
“I do not feel like one either. All this good
has been effected by that simple remedy, ‘Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills,’ which I think no household
should be without. I have already persuaded
many of my friends to purchase them ; it has been
an easy task, for they see how well I am looking,
and how different I am in health and spirits, and
I suppose they think that the proof of the pudding
lies in the eating. Of course I tell them all that
it is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and they alone,
that have made me feel as I do, and look as I am.”
At this stage Mrs. Harris interposed : “It is
certainly quite true, all that my daughter has
stated. She is ever so much better, and looks like
herself once more. I cannot say too much in
praise of the marvellous medicine that has restored
her to health and strength.”
The gratifying results following the use of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills in the case of Miss Harris
prove that they are unequalled as a blood-purifier
and nerve-tonic. In the case of young girls who
are pale or sallow, listless, troubled with a palpita-
tion or fluttering of the heart, weak and easily
tired, no time should be lost in taking a course of
Dr. Williams’Pink Pills, which will speedily enrich
the blood and bring a rosy glow of health to the
cheeks. They are a specific for peculiar
to females, such as suppressions, irregularities, and
all forms of weakness. These Pills are genuine
only with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People, and are sold by chemists and by
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Queen’s Place,
Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, or six for 14s. 9d. They
invigorate the system after overwork, worry and
indiscretions of living.*
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure, is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.’’
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S.W."
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, b/
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.


NEW
WINTER GOODS!
Ex Banffshire :
198 —Cases & Bales —198
ex Southern Mail Steamers :
111 —Cases & Bales—m
Now being marked off, making 1072
Bales and Cases to hand for this
Winter Season up to the present.
NEW GOODS FLOWING INTO ALL
DEPARTMENTS DAILY, and as quickly
FLOWING OUT AGAIN. The Public
know our values, and appreciate them.
Every Sale we make is an Advertisement,
and every Customer a Salesman.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
*
m
The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair is
Ayer’s ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor,
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
j)avid graham & Co.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
6«utl«n>«u’s “
WiQtcr SOitiQgS
JUST OPENED !
Importers op
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality .
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID MAHAI & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St-, Sydney.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
Wi Bo *sM
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
HANDSOME
Commemoration Box- of Butter Scotch
With It will be preseoted a History of the cor
-Sira, written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie Hatton.
Ready June Ist
u wee of confectioner. u oni* • limited
idJJ be U*ur*L. 4
St. John’s Works, W.C. LONDON
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Peice Wabung ; Is. 3d. posted.
‘ The doctor sees all the weakness of
mankind, the lawyer all the wickedness, the
theologian all the stupidity.”—Schopenhauer.
Q. Police - Commissioner Parry Okeden
tells some queer stories about Q. beche-de-
mer skippers. It seems these joyous ruffians
are m the habit of inducing, by presents,
Oarpentarian niggers to come aboard their
craft. Once aboard they are whipped off to beche-
fle-mer stations on the Barrier and elsewhere,
the men being compelled (if they ever wish
to get back) to collect trepang, while the gins are
located in some joyous outlying islet to afford
a slight solace to the pirate in his hours of
ease. The sequel often consists of a sudden attack
on the kidnappers and a wild heaving overboard,
or else in a few desperate aboriginals essaying a
wild journey homewards in a fragile dingy.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defeet cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection-
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
At Melb. Criminal Court, on May 17, a
little girl of seven years was a witness for the
prosecution. Crown Prosecutor Walsh, Q.C.,
straightway put to this mite the theological ques-
tion : “ What do you mean by taking an oath ? ”
The mite replied : “ Kissing the Bible.” Then up
spake Holroyd, J. : “What is the Bible, my
girl ? ” and the poor little mite began to cry.
Again up spake the Judge : “ Don’t they teach
you these things in Sunday-school ? And don’t
they teach you what the Bible is? ” And the mite
cried even more. As bishops and Jews and Brad-
laughs and lots of other folk have not yet answered
the above questions, the putting of them to a
7-year-old girl savors of problem plays and
insanity.
A Vic. case of that rare disease, acromegaly,
in which the face-bones thicken even to lion-head
proportions, the lower jaw enlarges hugely, the
hands become spade-shaped, the fingers sausage-
like, and the feet the size and shape of a comic
policeman’s, is reported in the last Intercolonial
Medical Journal. This queer disease induces
abnormal sleepiness, like the “ sleeping sickness ”
of West Africa, and the patient can go to sleep
anywhere, anyhow, any time. The slightest exer-
tion also makes the sufferer sweat horribly. This,
too, is the disease which produces giants by exces-
sively lengthening their long bones, and at the
same time so weakens them that when the giant
is dead and post-mortemed and his bones are on
view, a small child’s handling snaps them as easliy
as a lolly-stick and crushes them like damp bread.
Writes “Ponte ” :
Dear Bulletin, —By what authority does the Sulphide
Corporation (Ashcroft process) pour the refuse from its
smelting works into Lake Macquarie, or, to be exact, into
Cockle Creek, a mile from its entrance into the lake ? The
idea is being assiduously spread that the directors are far
too long-headed to have sunk so much money without
making provision for such an obvious necessity as the
disposal of refuse, and assuring themselves against pos-
sible interference. As far as I know, however, no Enab-
ling Bill has been passed. The destruction of Lake
Macquarie as a fish-producing centre would be little short
of a national calamity, for over 10,000 baskets of fish—
approximately 350 tons —are sent away annually, In
Europe, experience has proved that smelting-works exer-
cise a highly deleterious influence upon the adjacent
waters, whether running or tidal; and practical men
assert that, if the pollution of the lake with chemicals in
solution be persisted in, its waters will soon be utterly
void of animal life. So far, the|only move in the matter
is a request from the Fisheries Commissioner for samples
of the water for analysis.
“ Drunks ” of the U.S. army, run in after
the usual pay-day spree (says Modern Medicine)
are treated as cases of alcoholic poisoning,
stomach-pumped right away, and have their
works washed out with warm 2 per cent, soda
solution. Thereafter, the delinquent gets a big
bowl of well-peppered warm beef extract, and is
allowed an hour’s rest; then he goes straight on
duty as good and well as L. M. Isitt or any other
waterspout. Certainly a counterblast to the Aus-
tralian police system of treating an unknown
drunk or apoplectic, which chiefly consists of
banging him on the head with a pair of handcuffs
or a handy footpath, and leaving him foodless in a
cold cell from Saturday afternoon, say, to Monday
morning. Then, when he dies, the symptoms are
“ plain drunk, yer Washup.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
HE33R
IH&ITPENNY
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (id.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
EVERY VARIETY OF
ii'
sm
m
I
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
mining machinery
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
n11111.1'1.1.1
ll*linn ir.i’wjimi
i b ■ mmm
m
sums
iH.'U-
ll„r
in,
“SANITAS" 0
,w W
"SANITAS" . . "SANITAS
OUR TWO HECISTEREDTRAGE MARKS.
SANITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
. DOES NOT STAIN,
disinfectant, antiseptic.
AND . DEODOR ANT combined.
‘A peoples health is a nation's WEALTH
THE SAN I TAS COMPANY LIMITED
BETHNAL CREEN,LONDON, E
FLUID
il m
ALSO
POWDER,
SOAPS,
Sulphury migatlng:)
Candles,
AND
ALL KINDS OF
DISINFECTANTS.
“ The list of • Sanitas ' preparations is now so great
•as to comprise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant
• armamentarium The composition of most of these
• is based on ‘Sanitas,' a deservedly popular, pleasant,
• and moreover active compound."
Lancet, August 24th, 1895, p. s*l.
“How to Disinfect.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS , AND
THE SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
The (lIUIM STORE, Dtd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
HAIKDItESSEKS AND WMIMAKBItS
To tlie Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in alarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE ladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. fid,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
080 A, 083 George Street, Sydney.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send staipped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
SPLENDID Accommodation for Visitors at
lO “ Wyadra,” 115 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Mrs. LILLIS (late of Bundaberg).
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sta.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Company.
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing- demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing' we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mumford's Vivifying Herbal
Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills
Will positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1875.]
IQUOR
HABIT
L
EllcraSy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONI! POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.


NATIONAL CASH REGISTER TILLS.
All kinds of STORES use the
National Cash Register—
GROCERS, IRONMONGERS,
DRUGGISTS, BUTCHERS, STA-
TIONERS, BOOTS & SHOES,
CIGARS & TOBACCO, DRY
GOODS, RESTAURANTS, TEA
STORES, FLORISTS, and
HOTELS, etc. They save time,
work, worry, and money, and
systematize your business.
100,000 IN USE.
The N.C.R. stops the leaks by ex-
hibiting the amount of each
sale, preventing disputes in
accounts : Keeping a record of
Credit Sales, Moneys Paid Out,
Moneys received on account ;
showing the total amount of
Sales during the day, making
it impossible to open the Cash
Drawer without leaving a record.
Showing the amount of money
taken out of the Cash Drawer
and not entered.
We have all kinds of CASH REGISTERS—DetaiI-adding, Total-adding, Total-adding Check and
Detail-printing and Autographic, from £5 to =£6o.
We Sell on Easy Monthly Payments, or a Discount of 5 per cent, for Cash.
. . SPECIAL TEIiMS FOR A NUMBER . .
We GUARANTEE every Register we sell for TWO YEARS —but it will last a business lifetime.
“ They perform everything that is claimed for them.”—CIVIL SERVICE STORES.
“ It is a most excellent machine for our business.”—WlLLlAMS & GIBBONS.
“ They pay for themselves in a very short time.”—PATTINSON & CO.
“ No hotel should be without them.” —The AUSTRALIA.
“ Since August 29 we have used TWELVE of your National Cash Register machines. These have given us
every possible satisfaction. Nothing would induce us now to be without them. These machines were purchased to
replace the Lamson Cash Carriers. Your Registers reduce the possibility of fraud on the part of the salesmen, and
save the petty thefts of the cashier.” — F. LASSETTER & CO., Ltd.
FISHER & LIHSHAM, Sole Importers for Aftstralia.
HEAD OFFICES 1, 2 &. 3 VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY.
AGENCIES :
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, DUNEDIN,
AUCKLAND, SUVA, and HONOLULU.
ADAMS HOTCL, Pitt-St., Sydney.
Superior Accommodation.
Private Suites.
ELECTRIC LIGHT and
BELLS throughout
the House.
SOT AND COLD BATHS.
TERMS :
From Bs. per Pay.
U|.J. Pams,
Manager.
w
■V'-
aas?.,
MAIN ENTRANCE
WARNER’S PATENT EXTENSION FENDER. . .
(CLOSED, it is an ORDINARY FENDER ; EXTENDED, it becomes a NURSERY FENDER.
lt may be RAISED or LOWERED as required, remainining firmly looked in either position.
SM
*■§&
Price, from £ 1 upwards.
E
*
FENDER CLOSED.
BRANPT BROS., Ageljts,
FENDER EXTENDED.
422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
and at 236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL IRONMONGERS.
*
TiOOK OF NATURE
* * —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, In L) roe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1 6.
Amours op Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola's
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koc*, post free, Is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by' Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
New Realistic Novels:—Tiie Serpent Tempted Her •
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ;Is 3d each, post free. ’
Short Stories, by Guy de SI inpassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of the Court of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Famous Romances of Voltaire, illus., post free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
La Chasse au Chastre (in French), posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free, Is 3d. ’ F
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING;
Per Post, Is. 3d.
PON CASH
TRAPIN6 Co.’s
Popular Parcels !
WE have extended OUR POPULAR PAROEL SYSTEM » - «nb™»
the AUSTRALIAN COLONIES, TASMANIA, NEW /EALAIs D, and lIJL
The value of these parcels is UNPRECEDENTED, and we guarantee to REIUND THE
MONEY in every instance where satisfaction is not given.
1 OUT? ORTOTNAL DRESS PARCEL contains 3 Dresses and Linings, as follows:
81. 2 SSe lengihs rf New Fancy Tweed, Cashmere, ™ All-Wool Serge ■: 10yd, good
Print or pretty Delainette; Byds. Selicia, 2£yds. Body Lining, and 4yds. White Calico.
20s. the lot. - -
THE DON DRESS PARCEL contains 1 Good Dress, Linings and Trimmings as
• follows: 7yds. double width of new Boucle Cloth, stylish Tweed, or rich All-wool
Coating Serge, 4yds.* heavy beetled Twill . Selicia 40m. wide), 2yds reversible Body
Lining? 4yds new' Sequin, Gimp, or Jet Trimming,l pair Silk-covered Dress Preservers
1 doz? Covered Bone, 2 doz. pretty Buttons, 4yds. Velvet Skirt Binding, Silk Twist, and
Webbing. Unequalled value for 20s.
T>o OUR SPECIAL REMNANT PARCEL containing from 45 to 60yds. of Odd-
JL3t3* ments, in all classes of material, such as Dress Stuffs, I lannelette, Shirting,
Galatea, Calico, Print, Muslin, Holland, Embroidery, Lace, &c., &c. A most useful parcel
where there is a family. Send 20s. for one of these Remnant Parcels. Remember, we refund
the money if not approved of.
T) A OUR SPECIAL PARCEL FOR LADIES contains 6yds. double width of our
Famous All-Wool Coating Serge, unequalled for appearance and durability ; Iyd.
rich Silk-finished Velveteen, 2yds. fashionable Sequin or Jet Trimming, 4yds. fine Twill
Selicia, 2yds. Body Lining, 1 Ladies’ Chemise, 1 Night-dress, and 1 pair Ladies Knickers
manufactured from beautiful soft-finish Flannelette, and 1 Ancona Underskirt with circular
band. This wonderful parcel post free for 255. _
T> K OUR WONDERFUL HOUSEHOLD PARCEL is a marvel of cheapness, and
I)0« contains s£yds. White Twill Sheeting 2yds. wide ; 1 doz. yds. good Household
Calico Iyd. wide ; 6yds. soft Saxony-finish Flannelette, in pink, white, cream, or fancy stripes ;
2£yds. heavy cream Linen Table Damask, very wide ; 6yds. pure Linen Apron Dowlas, 38m.
wide; and J doz. good White Turkish Towels. Post free, 255.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING PARCEL has a complete outfit of really nice
ROi Garments:—2 Chemises, 2 Night-dresses, 2 pairs Knickers, all pure longcloth,
beautifully trimmed with Swiss Embroidery and Insertion (these garments will be sent m Soft
Saxony-finish Flannelette, if preferred), 2 All-wool Singlets, 1 pair Corsets (state size), 1 large
Holland Apron, 1 White Muslin Apron with frill, 2 pairs Cashmere or 4 pairs Stainless Black
Cotton Hose, all for 255. NOTE. —We will substitute one Red and Black Ancona Under-
skirt with Circular Band in place of the Aprons, if desired.
OUR GENTS’ SUIT PARCEL. For 20s. we will forward post free to any
Jti 4 • address in the Australasian colonies —one Gent’s All-Wool Colonial Tweed Suit;
well made and trimmed, any size from 3 to 7. Undoubtedly the best suit ever offered for
the money.
THE DON SUIT PARCEL contains one Gent’s heavy Scotch Tweed Suit; a
• magnificent line for real hard wear, and can be thoroughly recommended. 20s.
B 8
■|)A THE WORKING MAN’S PARCEL—2 pairs heavy Mole Trousers, 2 strong
_l_3 • Cotton or Flannellete Shirts, with or without collars, 4 pairs strong, well-finished
Sox, 1 Soft-Felt Hat, black or colored, 1 pair of good Braces or strong Leather Belt, 2 large
Cotton Handkerchiefs, white or colored. State size of hat, shirts, and trousers. 255. the lot.
Marvellous value.
131 A THE DON SPECIAL CLEARING PARCEL.—I Dress length of All-Wool
lJ_L\/• Serge or Fancy Tweed, 12yds. Soft Twill Flarnalette, ldoz. yds. Pure Un-
dressed Family Calico, Iyd. wide, 6yds. Cream Dressed Holland, now so much used for aprons
and pinafores, 6yds. Pretty Printed Cashmerette, in pink, blue, or marone. The lot post free
for 225. 6d.
81l
THE DON BLANKET PARCEL contains 1 pair splendid White Whitney
• Blankets with handsome border, extra weight, full size for Double Bed, 20s
post free. A special Bargain.
4T) OUR LADIES’ COSTUME PARCEL contains 1 All-Wool Serge Costume,
lined throughout, Blouse with Yoke Back and Full Bishop Sleeves, trimmed
either with Velveteen or rich Black and Gold Gimp, large Jet Buttons. This stylish costume
packed in a neat straw board box, and sent post free to any intercolonial address for 14s. 9d.
only. Measurements required : round bust under arms, waist, length of sleeves (inside seam),
length of skirt from waist to bottom hem.
r>~| A THE LITTLE STRANGER’S PARCEL contains a Complete Outfit of Baby
• Linen as follows : —3 Fine Longcloth Day Gowns, Trimmed Lace; 2 Long
Flannels, 2 Flannel Binders, 2 White Lawn Shirts, Trimmed Lace; 1 Swathe, 1 Embroidered
Head Square, 1 Beautiful Embroidered Muslin Robe, 1 Long Petticoat, Trimmed Embroidery,
and 1 Box Safety Pins. Post free to any Intercolonial Address for 225. 6d.
T3l THE “DON” VELVETEEN PARCEL contains 12yds. Beautiful Silk
I3XO • Finish Indestructible Pile Velveteen, in Black or any of the Leading Shades ;
6yds. Linenette Lining to match, 3yds. New Sequin Trimming, and 2 Dozen Fancy Buttons.
Velveteen will be one of the Leading Materials for the coming Season, both for Trimmings
and Complete Costumes. Send 255. for this Wonderful Bargain Parcel; the value will
surprise you.
Contains One Pair Gent’s Superior All-Wool Colonial Tweed Trousers —special
_U_L 4 cut and finish. Post free any Australian or New Zealand address for 7s. 9d.
X)1 O THE DON PARCEL FOR YOUTHS, contains 1 Youth’s All-Wool Tweed
J-3 J-X3* buit, any size from 11 to 2Jr, 1 Pair Elastic Braces, 1 Silk Handkerchief (white
or colored), and 2 Pairs of Sox. 20s.
T3"J Q CUR BLACK CASHMERE PARCEL, contains 7 yards Rich Blue or Je
-MA-A. Black Cashmere, permanent dye, superior finish; 1 yard Rich Black Silk fo
trimming ; 6 yards Silk finished Linenette for lining, and 2 dozen pretty Jet Buttons. 20s
Carriage Paid.
TK>A CHILDREN’S HANDSOME COATING SERGE FROCKS. Velvet Yoke
and Cuffs, Puff Sleeves, Yoke and Sleeves Lined. Size, 21in., 2s. lid. ; 24in.
3s. 6d. , 27m., 4s. 3d. , 30in., 55.; 33in., ss. 9d. ; 36in., 6s. 6d. Post Free. This pretty Dres
can be had in any of the following colors : Navy, myrtle, brown, and marone. (Measurement
taken from neck to bottom of skirt).
1 ®CYS STRONG KNICKER SUITS for school-wear, made of stout Everlast
ci ng T weed manufactured specially for us, lined throughout. Sizes 2to 7,6 s. 3d.
Bto 10, 7s. 6d. A marvellous suit for real hard wear. Carriage Paid.
BOYS’ EXTRA HEAVY NAVY SERGE SAILOR SUITS, handsomeb
trimmed with braid, lined knickers. Sizes 2to 7,6 s. 6d. •Btolo 8s 6d Car
nage Faid to any Victorian address. Undoubtedly the greatest value ever offered in this line
PP U TY CASHING FROCKS, manufactured frombeautif,
“‘tie Dress, xv.th full SSHTth
9d.t S, 8 £? n Pot' ?^ Sizes - 21in -’ ls * 9d * i 24i »*> 2s. ; 27in„ 2s. 3c
forward any of the above WONDERFUL PARCELS, securely packed, POS'
Postal iStePand pLta^r^T 1 T receipt ° f amount stated. Intercolonial Ban!
C Bethune d P ° Stage Stam P s m ust have exchange added. P.O. Orders payable t
Tbe Doi) Casl)Tradii)gCo.,
208 to 214 Johnston Street, Colling’wood,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.


Kangaroo versus Thistle .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dave Ambrose and I were mates on the Ash-
burton, but we had a big row and “divided
up. I started carrying. Dave took the whole
of my first load ; stuck a board outside his tent
“storekeeper, &o.”—the et cetera, of course, being
whisky, although there was a pub. on the field—
and struck out on a business line. His tent grew
with his trade, and just as he began to get things
going right there came a rival to him in the shape
(and not a bad shape, either) of a fine Australian
woman of thirty. And she was a widow, with a
little girl of three or four years old. Dave cursed
her.
Three days before Christmas, Australia fired the
first shot. It struck Dave’s eyes as he opened his
calico door a little after sunrise. There on a
placard at the door of the widow’s “store ” in
huge letters, he read :
“ Given away on Xmas to everybody, one tinned
plum-dun and a drink.
Dave took down a whisky advertisement, and
turning the back, printed “ All hands and the
cook; two drinks and a tin of fruit on Xmas.”
This he signed, and cutting from another adver-
tisement a thistle he pasted it above his name.
And, not to be outdone, the widow cut from an
old Bulletin the picture of a kangaroo and nailed
it to the mast, notwithstanding that the artist
had given the animal a round podgy face and an
eyeglass ! And she added to the duff a pipe—
Dave added tobacco. She added a penknife—
Dave gave a belt pouch. The diggers entered
into the spirit of the fight, and, could a little
orange have been introduced—Lord ! it would
have been glorious. Unfortunately, they were
both Presbyterians. One thing which annoyed
the widow greatly was that she could hardly keep
her little girl from Dave’s store ; for little Aggie
-yqr Agsin, as they called her—had taken a great
liking to her mother’s enemy.
Christmas Eve saw a crowd in front of the
widow’s door intent on a second placard (the
first was completely filled up) notifying that “ On
Xmas, and in addition to the things mentioned on
the other notice, anyone hard-up would receive a
week’s rations free!”
On this appearing Dave took down his notice
altogether, and there was a cheer for the kangaroo;
but in a quarter-of-an-hour a fresh notice appeared
on his door :—“ Everything free in my store on
Xmas and drinks on New Year’s Day.” “ Every-
thing free, Xmas and New Year,” replied the
widow. Then darkness fell on the field, and the
widow and Dave rested, and wiped their gore-
stained blades.
That night the widow prayed long and fer-
vently that Dave might wake no more ; while he
lay and smoked and thought what a pity it was
such a fine, big, plump, healthy woman— and a
pretty—should be at enmity with him. He was
fighting women and children ! Never mind; it
would be unnatural and inhuman to give in. And
poor, wee Agsin ! However, “Sufficient unto the
day,” muttered Dave, and put out his pipe and
slept.
When the rival stores opened on Christmas
morning there were few people about, despite the
enticmg placards. A buggy stood at the door of
tne pub.. Some half-dozen men had got it to visit)
a leader just discovered about ten miles out. The
norses had done nothing for five or six weeks, and
were a bit restless. But the men were in no
hurry It was Christmas, and there must be
another drink.”
As Dave Ambrose gazed abroad he saw little
Agsm toddle from the widow’s door, and, without
hesitation, shape her course for himself. When
about half-way over, however, the widow ap-
peared at the door and coo-eed for the youngster,
iv.-! undecided which way to go, sat down to
think it over—right in the dust of the track. The
widow sang out louder, and at the same time a
great roar from the pub. sent the horses into their
collars, and almost immediately they were in a
gallop, straight along the track. They were 30
yards from little Agsin when Dave was nearly 20.
u OU 7u d° it ? A dozen people held their
breath. He caught her, and with a rush the horses
passed.
Out of the dust and into his store went David,
a ' n one arm , an d the widow at his back,
through the store and into his own tent he ran,
a ud placed the little one on his bunk. Through
the store after him came the widow, and even the
tent couldn’t block her. Down on her knees
beside her girl she dropped, and smothered her
with kisses. Down on his knees dropped Dave,
and his right arm went round the widow’s waist
(his left was broken). He kissed Agsin, and he
kissed the widow. The widow—blinded, perhaps,
with tears—kissed away at random. And there,
sitting on the floor, they settled their bitter feud.
Christmas day was a free day at the stores. On
New Year’s Day the widow’s place was closed, and
three weeks later—although his arm was hardly
right—there were two bunks in David’s 12 x 14
tent; and one of them was Agsin’s.
D.B.G.
Boneyard badinage. A widow employed
as a grave-decorator at St. Kilda (Melb.) Ceme-
tery advertised lodging for Christian young men,
whereupon a monumental-mason and rival grave-
decorator asked the lone, lorn lady “whether she
intended to feed her young Christians on resurrec-
tion-pie.” This is one item in about three acres
of law proceedings.
Q. meat-inspectors may condemn beasts as
unfit to be slaughtered for human food, but
they have no power to destroy such diseased
beasts. Nobody knows which branch of which
department has such power. So condemned
beasts are simply turned back into a paddock, and
quietly cut up into “prime pasture beef” when
the inspector’s back is travelling away from the
slaughter-yards.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Fragrance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rain was beating against the slabs with the
deafening monotony of flood-time when the Crown
Lands ranger awoke in Sis Dempsey’s hut.
For the moment he could not locate himself.
The position he was lying in, the light in the door-
way, the slow ticking of the clock in the next
room, suggested an early turning-in at his own
home. Stretching himself wearily his legs lunged
off the makeshift couch into space.
Disillusioned, he got up in a vile temper with
Sis Dempsey. Not content with neglecting her
land and defying the legal conditions generally,
she must arrive just when he was comfortable for
the night, rousing him from a deep sleep and
forcing a long wet ride to Brogo upon him ! Her
offence seemed more heinous now than when he
had lighted on her tenantless hut some hours ago.
He was still fuming when the light came nearer,
glimmering through the chinks ; there was a swish
of wet skirts; and Sis Dempsey, holding a small tin
lamp in her hand, stood in the doorway.
The ranger and the girl looked at one another
and away again. There was neither screaming,
apologising, nor any attempt at greeting.
“By Jove, Miss Dempsey,” the ranger said,
looking pointedly round the cobwebby-dusty room.
“ I can’t strike your day at home. It beats me, I
cheerfully admit.”
He glanced carelessly again at her when she did
not reply; this time the misery of her condition
caught his eye.
. She was literally drenched. The water was fall-
mg in little pools at her feet. Her old habit clung
to her limbs, accentuating her sharp hip-bones and
sharper elbows. Her hat, “out of time and out
of space,” dripped steadily, and her fringe had
uncurled and was standing out like horns.
An exclamation escaped the ranger.
“You’re wringing wet!” he said. “Your
mother must be mad to send you here to-night.”
She put. the light on the table in an uncertain
way, and in a tremulous fashion put her hands to
her hair and before her face.
Standing silently there, with her face covered,
she suddenly burst into tears.
At that moment the ranger was far from looking
or feeling the hard nut he was considered. He
was conscience-stricken. The poor girl, unstrung
by a long ride in a heavy storm and by his in-
opportune appearance, met an effective sneer
stolidly, but broke down utterly at a rare faint
touch of kindliness !
He led her to a seat, made her drink some brandy
from his flask, and sat on the same box until her
sobs became quieter. At intervals he spoke sooth-
ingly and reassuringly. “You must cheer up,
Sis,” he said at last. “ I know it is confoundedly
hard for girls to live on their land with their
homes within riding distance. Yes, I heard you
were here the wet week. Listen ! This time I
won’t be hard on you. I’m off now to Brogo.
To-morrow afternoon I inspect this place. To-
night—we will agree to forget. I look to you to
manage things better in the future, though. I sup-
pose you’re pretty dull here,” he broke off, looking
round the bare, smoke-darkened room. He had
been reading of the intense desire of bush girls for
culture. For himself, he had seen no indication
of this yearning. Yet it might be that this awk-
ward, sensitive creature was consumed with lofty
aspirations and sublime dreams.
“ Have you any books ? ” he asked, abruptly.
“ No ; mother hates to see us readin’.”
“ Does she ? Well, you can read here. I have
some books at Brogo that I will bring you over.
Now, I’m off. My horse is in the shed. You saw
it there, I suppose ? ”
In the rain, stumbling his sleepy horse out of
the shed, with pouring blackness all round, the
ranger was inclined to call himself a fool, but he
changed his mind when he saw Sis on the veran-
dah, shading the flickering light from the wind,
and called out a cheery good-night instead.
When he was through the slip-rails Sis went in
and put the lamp down.
“ That devil of a Micky’s pawing done me a
good turn,” she said. “The smell of tobacco on
my hands made me cry.”
Q.
M. E. LLOYD.
Paradise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Adam to himself, “ I see
That Paradise is very good,
While Eve is free, and I am free,
To wander each where either would.”
But Eve reflected, “I can see
(Though Paradise is very good)
That Adam’s free—but, as for me,
I wouldn’t wander if I could ! ”
When Eden’s voice breathed low and sweet
(Ah ! Paradise was very good)
She gently led his foolish feet
Until without the gates they stood.
Oh, hideous world of fire and ice !
She called him hubby—said he would
Eind matrimony rather nice
(But Paradise was very good).
J. HAY.
The latest X-ray story has its point deli-
cately wrapped in cotton-wool by the Lancet,
which sets forth that while a six-foot fluorescent
screen was being experimented with in mixed
company, a lady happened to get into the line of
light, and, “as dress-materials are very transpar-
ent to the rays,” she was suddenly projected full-
length upon, the screen so apparently in the
“altogether” that “an embarrassment was
created almost beyond the power of words to
express.”
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ;5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
Tb€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
ASK FOR COLOAIAL-MADE WIRE AETTIA(*
A-iid see tliat you get it.
PROOF
*
G/VeY %
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND,
19S1GHT BUS. $ CB.
LIMITED.
§3
SS
sis? %
m
as
itM
H
(\DE
•*7
PROO
*'
°N
EY
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given tor
Large Orders.
Offices—
Bligb CljanjberS, Bligb-St., SydQcy.
"W" orks
Parramatta Rit/cr.
“ COURIER ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.


A Song of Fighters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve a toast I want to offer,
And we’ll drink it to the lees —
A toast to some who’ve stayed at home
And some who’ve crossed the seas,
To some who’ve fought and fallen,
And to some who’ve fought and won,
To some who still are fighting
And whose battle isn’t done :
“ To those who make, to those who take,
Or lift a livelihood,
To the men who face the music
When the music isn't good / ”
You will find them in the city,
With half-hid out-elbows air,
Still going, sternly smiling,
Though the good luck isn’t there,
With the ink upon their coat-seams,
And a blacking-polished hat,
But a fixed determination
That they’ll play off their own bat.
“ To the men who fight and fear not,
Be they in or out the Hood,
To the men who face the music
When the music isn't good / ”
You will find them on the out tracks
With a solemn gritty grin,
Pecksniff’s alms and tracts refusing,
Though the belly aches within.
You will find them on world fringes
With the unknown for a goal,
With a huge belief in courage
And a wee belief in soul.
Where there’s work that wants the doing,
There they’ve always fought and stood :
“ To the men ivho face the music
When the music isn’t good / ”
And when it comes to dying,
As they lived, so do they die,
With their backs to old Earth Mother
And their faces to the sky,
Unscared by fools or sages,
To the world’s clouts dourly dumb,
Dying game and dying biting,
All unscared by what may come.
“ To the battlers of the ages,
Who with back to wall have stood,
To the men who face the music
When the music isn't good 1 ”
STEELE GREY.
The Bulletin notes with interest that
there is one real Oriental potentate left. The
Sultan of Zanzibar’s bandmaster had reason to
complain of his musicians—expecting some slight
punishment to be awarded ; but the Sultan ordered
three of them to be blinded, one to have his tongue
split, and another his wrist broken. The conduct
of the rest is now unexceptionable.
The Seventh Commandment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A WOMAN was riding quickly across a rough, half-
cleared paddock. She was seated sideways on a
man’s saddle, and kept her balance with the ease
born of custom. Here and there the bracken was
knee-deep, and the ground was strewn with logs
and stumps. On two sides stretched heavy forest;
on the other two, the country swept away in
gentle undulations, heavily wooded, till it merged
with a low line of hills into the blue horizoif.
About the woman the few hundred acres of clear-
ing looked raw and unsightly—new fences, black-
ened trees and logs, stretches of land littered with
felled trees and scrub, drying for a burn. Every-
where the first desolation of clearing. Plights of
cockatoos passed shrieking from one dead tree to
another. Away near the creek bushy peppermint
saplings caught from the setting sun brilliant tints
of red and green on their new shoots.
The horse stopped abruptly at the slip-rails.
His rider pulled them down without dismounting,
and urged him into a brisk canter along the wind-
ing track, which lay in heavy shadow for a mile or
so, and then opened out into clearer country,
where tall, straight gums were wreathed for their
seventy or eighty feet of height with new bushy
sprouts, looking in the uncertain light like a
huge fantastic hop-garden. Here and there, in
sudden hollows, the air was almost cold, and
strong with the scent of hazel and dogwood.
* » * *
Suddenly there was the sound of rapid hoofs ap-
proaching. The woman pulled up, and her hand
went quickly to her hair to arrange a straggling
lock, thence to her neck to straighten her tie, and
so with quick feminine touches to belt and skirt.
Her heart was throbbing fast, her eyes were
bright, but her thin lips and square chin were set
firmly.
Round theturn of the road appeared a man, who
drew up hastily as he saw her, and so close that
their hands met instantly.
“ I got your letter yesterday,” she said.
He smiled, and gazed into her face. “ It is two
months since I saw you, but you are coming away
with me now.”
She drew her hand away from him. “ No, I am
not coming.”
“ Not coming ? Mary ! ”
“I would have written to you,” she went on,
“ but I had not your address. But I am not going
with you.”
“ Not going ! You mean not this moment, but
in a day or two ”
“I don’t mean that; I mean that I am never
going away with you.”
“ Never ! Good God ! what have I worked and
waited for; what have I thought of night and
day, but you, always you. Of your coming to me,
of our going away to forget all the past, and begin
life again.”
“Ah!” she drew her breath sharply, “ don t.
I must not think of that; it is all over now.”
He looked at her in silence, and she met his
eyes, and saw a stern look which she knew.
“ Everything is changed now—l cannot go
away. Alick was struck by a falling tree a day
or two after you left, and he’ll never be able to
walk again. The doctor says he will grow even
more helpless as the years go by. ” Her tone was
even and dull.
“ And you—you are to stay and nurse him and
work for him ;is that what you mean? „
She nodded. “ What else could Ido ?
“ Couldn’t he be got into a hospital or
“And leave his wife free to elope with another
man,” she interrupted, with a jarring laugh.
• * » *
He laid his hand on her sleeve. “He has beaten
and kicked you ; drunk or sober he ill-used you.
What duty do you owe him ? You love me, an
I could make you happy. Come, dear .
She looked away from him into the wide,
darkening landscape. “No, I will not com
there is only me to look after him. lam y g
and strong, and whatever you may say, it is y
dl “'lt is not,” he cried, passionately ; “ you love
me, and gave me your promise. Did he ever sho
you any consideration ? Were you better treate
than his wretched dog?” , .
“ Hush ! ” she interrupted, sharply. Isn tit
hard enough without all that? You love me,
don’t make it harder. lam not going to see you
again. You must go away. I know what I have
to do, and I will do it. I have thought of you
she went on, slowly; “but you are a man, and
things will right themselves to you.
“ Possibly,” he returned, roughly.
A crescent moon shone in the amethyst sky, a
big star below showed faintly in a golden setting ;
the whole earth had grown dim, and there was a
subdued, comfortable twitter from innumerable
little birds in the scrub, and far away the distant,
deep bellow of a lonely bull.
He leant towards her and took her hand. i-
can’t let you do it, Mary. You are mine, and 1
will not let you go back to that brute.”
Her fingers tightened on his. “I am going to do
it. It is hard, but there is nothing else to be
done. Who but I can look after him, feed him,
nurse him ? ”
* * * *
He realised, entirely against his will, that she
was in earnest, that no pleading could turn her.
It was brought home to him in the slow, steady
tones of her voice, in her whole quiet manner, in
her steadfast eyes. As her fingers lay in his, he
felt a wild impulse to lift her from the saddle and
carry her away, making her his, and freeing her
from her hateful bondage.
“ How will you live ? ” There was a faint hope
that she would let him assist her—that he might
come and work for her.
She sighed: “ That is the easiest part. lam as
strong as a horse. Our land is good, and nearly
all cleared. Out-door work I have always liked,
and one thinks less in the open air. In the night
time one is too tired to care what happens—a
broken heart doesn’t matter. A fair allowance of
sleep is what one longs for most.”
He looked at her half wondering. He would
tempt her no further, and yet there was the re-
membrance of their last meeting, when she had
clung to him sobbing. Passion burnt in his veins,
and desire struggled with purer love.
“ Go, then !” he said, thickly. “ I understand
you; but I love you, and, my God! it is only
because I love you that I let you go.” Then he
kissed her cheek. “I love you, and you are the
best woman on God’s earth. May He help you !
I can’t; I’d only hurt you.”
She bent and kissed the hand that was tight on
her wrist. He drew it away hastily and roughly.
“Don’t! Go quickly. I understand you, but I
love you.”
Her breath came in a thick sob; then she turned
hastily, and soon the sound of her horse’s hoofs
was lost on the dusty track.
S.G.G.
Sunday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s one day in the week! The rest don’t
count:
Mere padding for the space from day to day.
One day I live. Betwixt the days I dream
Of things she said—and meant, but did not say;
Of sweetest truths by trembling kisses told ;
Of clinging arms, soft eyes half-shy, half bold ;
Of all that happened on the last bright day—
Our walk beside the river—o’er the hills ;
Our good-byes at the nightfall—then the ride
Across the plain—to Loneliness that kills.
Ah, sweet —there soon will be no need to say
Good Night!
Then will each dear dead week count seven days'
delight.
Vic.
L.M D.
H. “An Anglican clergyman informs me
that the Church Army is positively billed for Aus-
tralia, after the Lambeth Conference this year.
It will shake up the Salvationists a bit, though a
palpable imitation —merely the thing washed,
shaved, and put into clean linen. It is, compara-
tively, an Argus to an Age.”
Parkes used to tell a story about the insane
time when the N.S.W. Soudan Contingent was
arming in hot haste and laying in a stock of hair-
restorer, jam, tracts, grog, and other necessaries
for the field of gore. One morning, when the war-
fever was at its height, a lot of influential Sydney
citizens were ascending the stairs to the Colonial
Secretary’s office to see him about the construc-
tion of a certain railway, when suddenly a great
din was heard above, and the Minister came rush-
ing down in wild excitement. Waving the visitors
aside, he fairly shrieked: “ It’s no use coming
here. I can’t possibly see you now. I can’t see
anybody or do anything until we have rescued the
dear old mother country from this awful danger !’
The Port Douglas (Q.) P.M. endeavored to
coerce a Kanaka lady, over 60 years of age, to go
back to her lawful husband, whom she had de-
serted for a young buck of about 20. The P.M.
made out an “ Order,” and then put the official
stamp in every clear space available on the paper,
it being a legend that Kanakas gauge the value of
an official document by the number of stamps that
it bears. But the device didn’t work this time.
Lucy was too enamoured of her 20 - year - old
to care a pin for all the Governments and stamps
on the planet. . . Previous to this, Lucy had
asked the P.M. for a divorce, on the ground that
she wanted “ nuther feller—young feller.” Being
refused, she “ eloped.” Then the old man, Soondi,
waited on the P.M. and said he was willing to let
20-year-old have Lucy, provided he (Soondi) was
paid .£4O by the dusky Paris.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by-
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.*
The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
l§^
m
%
Him
v?
REPUBUQUE
FRANCAISEi
PEARS
& F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
OmU
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.


NERVOUS DEBILITY
Resulting from Impoverished Blood,
Cured by the Use of
Ayers Sarsaparilla.
' i ifp
Wmmm
»%-:
i^vV
Bead the following remarkable testimony of Mrs. M. A. Hellenr, oi
Sussex St., North Adelaide, So. Australia, whose portrait is given above:
“Some years ago, I suffered very severely from soreness and general
weakness of the system, being so badly affected that I feared even to go
from one room to another, on account of the strange objects that appeared
to flit before me. My doctor, after treating me for some time, without
any benefit, at last recommended me to try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I took
Ms advice, and am pleased to say that the effect was really wonderful.
Vigour was restored to my system, my nerves were strengthened, my spirits
brightened, and I was enabled to return to my usual occupations. I might
say that several of my friends and relatives have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
with like beneficial results. I believe it to be the best health - restorer
that has ever been offered to the suffering masses.’’
AYERS
THE ONLY
Sarsaparilla
With Highest Awards at the World’s Great Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS, for Biliousness and Indigestion
The
Mighty Heftier.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
T A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
Burnr^* 3 a £ vised l) y a friend to try your Lung Tonio. To my most agreeable
e J* the third dose 1 was able to officiate with perfect ease. I
tnirii. Z .. add y° ur valuable medicine to my household remedies, and cer-
tainly shall never be without it.”
(Bev.) F. C. S. KRCENIG, Yicar of St. Barnabas, Hull.
ft
"As a public speaker and singer, I always iflnd it invaluablefftwotoaring'
tne voice, it acts like magic on my children for throat and ohesbonifplaint?,
ana I nave known it save life, when given up by three physicians^”
JOHN BAILEY, Pastor, P.M. Churoh, Ramsgate.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRtDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. fld.
and lls„ by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
.sOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO.. 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
%
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing hack the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to tha
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beccham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLAHB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls 11,d, and 2s 9d each.
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND —
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods,
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
—AND—
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROL A, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANS A,
ALPINA MAMLA, Ac., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment,
a®’ Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
eheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS.
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
CECOND-HAND amd NEW FURNITURE
w (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
cr £1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st (*pp. Margaret st), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
/--THE-''
Ballet (airl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-,
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAMB’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.”
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—oiw
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SY33KTBY.
THE
Street.
BLOCK,” ,
MBXjBOXmWB
Collins
Wortl)iQgtoi) PCirppiQg Ei)gify€ Coropaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SiMfipSOll “RTOtIISrS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Sydney, N. S. W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.. LTD.
Pioneers of f
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE- the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-j
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the *
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ; j
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
/
The. Company scllr only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, G-ame, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) — 92 King 1 Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON. Manager.
ARKE & LACY COMPANY, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MIKTIKTG MACHIKTERY, 9TEAM EKTGrIKTES & BOILERS.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and Settlers.
Coarse Crushing Rolls.
Blast Furnaces.
Triumph Concentrators.
CrusKiing Machinery.
Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers. Sample Grinders.
Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls. Krom Rolls.
Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers. HENDY’S CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
Amalgamating Machinery.
Clean-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators.
Heater.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Roasting and Chloridizing Furnaces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Concentrating Machinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Frue Vanners.
Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Machinery.
• Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
Hoisting Machinery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Rnmping Machinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pumps
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and Roc It Drill Rlanta.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &c., &c.
Blower’s
Root’s Patent, and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans.
for Ventilating Purposes.
Water VVheels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS
Bullock Diamond Drills. Husou’sJVire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for all purposes
Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Boilers. Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supplier
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
Sturtevant and Huyett & Smith’s Fans
Caldwell's Sectional Boilers. Simmons’ Steam Boilers.
Tlxe - -
Hinn ITAn Tile - - ALL £IN(S€R S£WIN<S MACHINCS.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR ruTiu qtitpu
»LL &IN6ER SEWINg MfICHIN€S. Ullfllll U I II Ul
Batho’s
' n 9 Powder.
Scale or Advertising’
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.’’
Single Column ... ... u. ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions) M .
Half Yearly ~ (26 insertions)
One Year ~ (52 insertions)
Paragraph Advertisements ...
An extra discount of 5 per oent. allowed
for cash in
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
advance.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used.
W lL r^
As Safe as it is Certain.
INFLDINZA t I^ I> f S v f - CO « GHS , ° r COLDS < reeent ” clonic),
tii, 4 r, l ss °t-^ olce ’ bore Lungs, Asthma Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and fll similar c^mplainte
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice. ' h ’
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
