

McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
R. G. WATKINS «S£ GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
<y
Aj
w
V
cS>
c<
7
&
'/
■ FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT. .
% 5
<RAc{aJocK>
O ? OU
<vY £
R. A. HERYEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
®i t ston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured bv Thomas Broamskn't & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, quarts 10s, pints ss.
GLENLIYET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart 5s 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE EOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS* HOTEL,
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
GEORGE and MARKET STS.,
s-smiKriES'sr.
Before visiting the Of/ write to the Manager for
Card of Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BPIISBA-KTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
TZE3ZZEE3 - -
<srosVsoorNotsl,
Grosvenov Square,
SY3DKTBY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
■RED BIRD
Built of Nickel Steel. They never require repairs.
Manufactured
bt
THE
GOOLD
Bicycle Co.
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots-
f MELBOURNE.
•A ADELAIDE.
[WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
lOd., lldl., la.
Large Stocks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
J. C. Lu&owici & Son, Ltd.,
TANNERS,
162 Clarence Street (Only), SYDNEY.
Macquarie.
First-Class Acsom nodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating', Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, e-.piciallv suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from-Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
jpg" Poverty lPoixitera!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
* GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence <£l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day. .
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST!
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol 18.—.N0. 911. j
(Saturday, July 31, L6G7.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.


George robertson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from Thh Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALBS OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from Thb
Bulletin), by Price WariHig; price, 25.: post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderio Quina ; price, 2s. 6d.;
posted, 2s. lOd.
IFrite to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
A. C. STEPHENS, LITERAM AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fens on application.
THE FOURTH COMMAHDMENT
Is now to be strictly enforced. No more Sunday trading, no more sales of any kind—bar
tram tickets,, one can purchase them as usual. The law can prevent smokers from buying
but it cannot prevent them from puffing
CAMEO CIGARETTES.
So don’t be caught napping. Make. your purchases on Saturday night, or you will put in a
miserable Sunday without your favorite CAf^EOS.
THE BED PAGE.
Richard Le Gallienne, the clever, conceited,
long-haired English minor-poet who cycles in
silk stockings and satin knickerbockers, with
lace ruffles at his wrists, and cultivates his
most intimate emotions for their spot-cash value,
has sold to an enterprising American magazine-
personanew version of Omar
or part thereof. Who invites comparison with
Edward Fitzgerald is a bold man, not to say a
rash one; but a modern minor-poet dares any-
thing—-and Hamer and Shakespeare are probably
trembling on their pinnacles. Le Gallienne’s idea
is not altogether new. Fitzgerald’s quatrains
have attracted many imitators, and a New York
writer, Edward Bryant, only the other day
printed some which might easily be mistaken for
Omar’s. Such as—
What if there be no Heaven of the Blest—
If death be nothing hut an endless rest?
Yet life is sweet in living, and the grapes
Of life into a golden oup are pressed.
And tho’ we may not see the Vintner’s hand
We fain must drink. And if the feast were planned.
Or if chance filled the oup, what matters it?
Must we go thirsting till we understand ?
For He who sets the wine-cup to our lip
Pities, perchance, our evil fate, that sip ;
And when the wine is bitter, in His grace
He sweetens it with pleasant fellowship.
But we, who may not toss the cup aside
Until at least its flavor we have tried,
If it be sweet or hitter, who shall say?
If't were best drink or spill it, who decide ?
The wine of life is drawn. Why curse the oup?
At worst’t is emptied at a single sup.
And since it may be never filled again
The taste is soon forgotten. Drink it up 1
And if the Drawer hath more wine fo-r three,
It shall not be a poorer quality.
Why, man,*t is he who bids thee to the feast l
And dost thou doubt his hospitality ?
* * * *
Hitherto imitators have frankly acknowledged
themselves imitators, with a proper humility
in presence of the great original. But Le
Gallienne hints no apologies to Fitzgerald;
and his editor hints that there is no need in re-
spect of work which will assure to its author ‘ a
leading place among living English poets.’ Com-
parison, rivalry, is invited instead of being
shunned ! And comparison is curiously difficult.
To a modern mind, the magic of Fitzgerald’s
quatrains is such that they are infiltrated and
absorbed by the mindstuff—join wi.th it in a
chemical, not a mechanical union. Critics lose a
first essential of criticism—the capacity of mental
aloofness, of making a clear distinction between
cause and effeot, action and re-action. Omar is
all-pervading as Brahma —
If the red slayer think he slays,
Or if the slain think he is slain,
They know not well the subtle ways
I keep, and pass, and turn agate . , .
They reokon ill who leave me out;
When me they fly, I am the wings ;
I am the doubter and the doubt,
And I the hymn the Brahmin sings . . ,
To successfully fight against prepossessions, in
fact, is to become a snake which swallows itself
entirely and remains the same snake. So most
people run away at the first encounter. The
revised version 'of the Bible is practically a dead
letter—because pious people prefer familiar error
to strange truth. There is no place like home, no
pio like mother used to make—because strange
places and new pies cannot win a verdict in a
prejudged case. As was explained a little while
ago, the brain-molecules which hoard impressions
arrange themselves in definite series, and after a
time- it is as physically difficult or impossible to
alter the series to suit a new impression as it is to
make water run uphill.
* * * *
And a prepossession breeds its own justification,
or its further justification. The moment any
object is_ differentiated by praise or blame from
other objects, that moment ordinary minds, by
dint of focussing attention, begin to see much
more to praise or blame (.than in reality exists.
Many of the women who adored, Mrs. Brown-
Potter were themselves far more deserving of
adoration ; but the public mind had not been
limelighted to their beauties. Much of Shake-
speare is rubbish which a modern writer
would be hooted for producing ; but Shake-
speare has been canonised by critical cen-
turies, and the average reader swallows
bad and good with equal rapture. To this day
students of English style are led by Macaulay’s
erroneous dictum to give their days and nights to
the imitation of Addison, regardless of the fact
that Addison’s style is habitually artificial and
monotonous, and that dozens of better models
are writing in the daily papers. And so
on to infinity. Of the boasted beauties of
classic masters in every branch of art, perhaps
half are real the remainder are factitious
and imaginary, but they pass for real because of
their classical environment. Thousands of the
beauties extolled in Homer and Virgil would by
the same commentators be counted commonplace
in Jones or Robinson. Thousands of the beauties
passed over in Smith are in Dante called divine,
because a reader of Dante is on the watch for the
divine, and a reader of Smith is not. Fame is a
rolling snowball, says the adage. So the pub-
lic, having been taught to admire Kipling,
reasons from the part to the whole with
illogical certainty, and professes to find even
Kipling’s nonsense glorious ; or having often
heard it repeated that ‘ Robbery Under Arms ’ is
one of the best Australian stories, buys ‘The
Sealskin Cloak ’ or ‘My Run Home ’ and con-
scientiously reads them under the impression that
it is enjoying itself. And, if it starts with a
sufficiently strong prepossession, probably it is
enjoying itself.
« • * *
But the moral of all this is that admirers of Le
Gallienne’s ‘ Omar ’ may say with justice that
those who prefer Fitzgerald’s are probably biased ;
or that, even if unbiased, the contemplation of
years has led them to prize in Fitzgerald beauties
of a class which they cannot see at all in Le
Gallicnne, because their spirits are nob attentive.
Nevertheless, the judgment is here ventured that,
so far as his performance is published, Le Gal-
lienne ranks only as an inferior imitator. One
might even call him a parodist; since he knows
nothing of Persian, and, though he has several
translations to sift from, and some three hundred
quatrains to choose from besides Fitzgerald’s, his
best stanzas are those in which he comes closest
to his model. After all, can one conquer a
strongly-fortified classic with mere knack of
pictorial phrasing ? Le Gallienne brings little
else to the assault. And the essence of Fitz-
gerald’s Omar is not the phrasing, but the philo-
sophy, which Le Gallienne lacks manhood
to appreciate and develop. For he is essen-
tially a feminine writer—a tinkler, prattler, em-
broiderer—and Hafiz’ lute would suit him better
than Omar’s sturdy pipe. There is a touch of
rugged maleness in Omar which looks at home
in armour, and ill at ease in silk attire.
‘Only two things matter in a man,’ says the
bride’s aunt in Gustave Droz’s ‘ Papa, Mamma,
and Baby ’ —‘ the look and the leg. George has the
look : I am sure he has the leg. You will tell
me, won’t you ? ’ Omar, one feels ssire, had the
look and the leg; and, judging from his letters,
Fitzgerald also. But one searches vainly for
either in the works and portraits of Le Gallienne.
• * • •
A few verses for comparison, choosing Le Gal-
lienne’s best. Here he is—
Spring, with the cuckoo sob deep in his throat,
O’er all the land his thrilling whispers float;
Old earth believes his ancient lies once more,
And runs to meet him in a golden ooat.
And many a lovely girl that long hath lain
Beneath the grass, out in the sun and rain,
Lifts up a daisied head to hear him sing,
Hearkens a little, smiles, and sleeps again.
Yea, love, this very ground you lightly tread,
Who knows I is pillow to some fair one’H head.
Ah ! tread upon it lightly, lest you wake
The sacred slumber of the happy dead.
And here Fitzgerald—
I sometimes think that never blows so red
The Rose as where some buried Csesar bled ;
That every Hyacinth the Garden wears
Dropt in her lap from some once lovely Head.
And this reviving Herb whose tender Green
Fledges the River-Lip on which we lean—
Ah, lean upon it lightly 1 for who knows
From what once lovely Lip it springs unseen.
Eliminate bias, as far as possible; forget that
Fitzgerald came first, and knew the Persian, and
translated for himself, and that Le Gallienne
comes second, and does not know Persian, and
borrows his translations; and say, is not Fitzgerald
incomparably stronger ? Concede Le Galdienne’s
feminine prettiness—for his verses are pretty ; but
is not his thought thinner, his line padded, and his
phrase sweetened tocloying? And, for all his para-
phrasing, has he reached Fitzgerald’s verbal charm
—the magic apposition and opposition—the deli-
cate wrapping of the message, fold on fold of mean-
ing ? No, he has not—this Richard the usurper.
* • • •
Or again, Le Gallienne—
The stream of life runs, ah 1 so swiftly by,
A gleaming race 'twixt bank and bank—we fly ;
Faces alight and little trailing songs ; -
Then plunge into the gulf, and so good-bye.
Of all my seeking this is all my gain—
No agony of any mortal beam
ShaH wrest the secret of the life of man ;
The Search has taught me that the Search is vain.
Yet sometimes on a sudden all seems clear—
Hush 1 hush ! my soul, the Secnet draweth near;
Make silence ready for the speech divine— ’
If Heaven should speak, and there be none to heari
Yea 1 sometimes on the instant all seems plain,
The simple sun could tell us, or the rain ;
The World, caught dreaming with a look of heaven
Seems on a sudden tip-toe to explain.
These again are pretty verses—particularly the
hrst and last—and worth treasuring ; but thev
do not carry the weight of Fitzgerald's nearest
analogues. And, despite his talent, Le Galli-
enne s workmanship is often weak and flawed.
Faces alight and little trailing songs ;
Then plunge into the gulf, and so good-bye—
is good ; but the preceding line—
A gleaming race 'twixt bank and bank—we fly—
is an awkward rhyme-eker. And the verse which
follows on the last quoted—
Like to a maid who exquisitely turns
A promising face to him who, waiting, burns
In hell to hear her answer—so the World
Tricks all, and hints what no man ever learns.
drops into very stale minor-poetrv. Fancy Fitz-
gerald passing a discordant line like
A promising face to him who, waiting, burns—
or the cheap exaggeration of “burns in hell”!
And so on, and so on. Conclusion : Icarus was
a promising young fellow, but his friends should
never have let him fly so near the sun.
* * * »
Intbe July ‘Cosmopolitan’ Prof. Peck has an
excellent article on ‘Modern Education.’ He
speaks of the ‘elegant sterility’ of English uni-
versities a century ago ; and says that as handed
down in America, until the German-led revival,
English scholarship wholly lost its elegance and
intensified its sterility. Unluckily we have had
in Australia no German-led revival, and there
could be no better examples of inelegant
sterility than Australian universities to-day.
It is with our universities, in fact, as with
our education departments : ignorance and
bigotry are rampant, and red tape easily
throttles any attempt at reform. Every year
bright minds are brought to the stagnant
educational pools which we miscall founts of
learning, and are remorselessly quenched by mulish
conservatism and official sloth. Occasionally, when
a mind brighter than usual disappears, a univer-
sity bemoans it as the Sydney University be-
moaned the late John Kinloch. “ Jack ” Kinloch
was a graduate of Sydney University, a scholar of
fair general attainments, and the best mathemati-
cian that the University has turned out. His talent
for mathematics, indeed, was quite exceptional,
and would have won him credit anywhere. When
Kinloch completed his course and received his
M.A. degree he was a candidate for University
employment as leoturer or assistant professor.
Here was a chance for the University to show
itself worthy of the affectionate title of alma mater,
and to give its brilliant son opportunity to further
distinguish himself and Australia. The Sydney
University, which habitually imports its professors
from Britain, and rarely encourages Australian
learning by promoting it to offices of profit and
trust, nobly refused the chance. Kinloch-became
a tutor ; for a time did well, and then did badly.
He tried general teaching ; but his speculations
failed—the very quality of mind which made him
such a promising scholar opposing his success in
business. He asked the University for a teacher-
ship or lectureship —to which his talents well
entitled him ; but the University was overstocked
with highly-paid foreigners, and could not make
room for one of its own sons, however deserving.
At the doors of member after member of the Uni-
versity Senate Kinloch knocked. Erom one he
got rebuffs; from another advice; from none
assistance. Yet Kinloch’s character was tho-
roughly good: he did not drink; he had no
vices. At last the University gave him the
trumpery office of esquire bedell. And the
the other. day Jaok Kinloch died, a broken-
hearted failure, and the Sydney University by
the mouth of its Chancellor grieved loudly for
the loss of one of its most brilliant sons ; while
Bernhard Wise extolled the inestimable value of
the University as a place for making acquaint-
anceships which are of lasting profit to a gradu-
ate (like Kinloch) through all his days. And that
is the disgraceful story of Sydney University and
John Kinloch, Master of Arts, mathematician,
and esquire bedell.
* * * *
Writes ‘ Paperknife ’—
Almost every dabbler in writing keeps, or has kept, a
kind of commonplace book, or collection of material,
and it seems to me that all are dissatisfied in that line
except myself. My idea is that it is best to do without
any memoranda at all, and next best with as little as
possible. Nothing is easier than to drift into the position
of George Eliot’sCasaubon, in ‘ Middlemarch,’ accumulating
materials for a great work, never begun. We have always
to remember we are not antediluvians. A Shakespeare,
with the Midas touch: even a Dickens or a Kipling: finds
all his time employed in making ‘copy.’ Yet a few
great workers have been slow, for our encouragement.
The celebrated mountains of Chas. Reade’s memoranda
were a dead weight on him. Much that Sala wrote proved
that he overdid the same line, uncongenial to his genius.
You get too much soaffolding, too little building.
My system has grown up in twenty years. Simply jot-
ting down one significant word, nevermore, keeping all in
alphabetical order, re-writing a bit every day continu-
ously. For ten years past Ido not think the mass has
increased at all, except immeasureably in value. On re-
vision, the mems. not on the nail are struck out. I never
forget what the word stands for. My useful mental pos-
not vervT * bU9 I,ia<;xed in 4 <3 P*?es, as it happens, and
discern 3 ? n . S .° nes - M - v mind is completely educated to
f nonl h 18 W ° rth P utti "K snap it goes in
un. vernal To f caw >' ' vi ' h me ‘ Th « references are
' 80 far as concerns my limited world of bust-
Bat Tv eV T T? h besides > laying strictly to my book.
keens '1 " ,vataable for suggestion also, and
keeps always alive from A to Z.
Random samples which, however, do not touch upon
excemTl Nebody knows things of the man
except the man, as some apostle writes.
thl A rT?"\. R ca,ls t 0 me tlle "hole essential history of
the Ca h° lc revival in England, with a knowledge of
where to ay my finger on details. I keep no library
hatever, having access to one of 300,000 vols. Cardinal
Acton wa9 the prime mover in the revival.
, ‘ tl ert '’ Stands for “ The National Will, concealed in
in W n S TI~ yet ever alert -” The mo9t significant line
n » alt Whitman's best poem, “Song of the Redwood
Tree, which though lengthy, flashes all up in my mind
on seeing the keyword, and lias been of value to me in
journalism.
Ambrose.' Fetches to mind a ridiculous French
opera by Ambrcise Thomas, entitled *A Midsummer
lghts Dream,’making Shukespeare in love with Queen
Elizabeth ; and I have made effective use of it.
Annenkofl.’ The main details are stored up in my
mind about his construction of the Transcaspian and
Siberia Railway, and I I now where to go for more.
‘ Arethusa.’ Unsurpassed, perhaps unequalled, pic-
tonally-w rit ten description of a ship, by Fenimore Cooper.
Armlet. Just a snacf of description, to oome in
somewhere, which oeourred to me the other night, at
Melb. Town Hall, seeing Miss Hatherley playing the
harp, with hare arm and armlet.
‘ Aspatria.’ Details about the moat successful English
Agricultural College.
Here is the slightest lifting of the curtain from about
140 entries under the letter A, behind which I have all
the other 25 of the Alphabet. Of course, it must be
always understood that the resources of the Library are
behind again, and the Second Index, between mine and
the Library, is the Encyclopaedia Britannia.
* * * *
Ishmael:• ‘But did you not notice that Wratislaw
adopts reading suggested for the envoy to Villon's
Ballad of the Gibbet”? His line, “Have naught to say
to them that with us vie ” translates “Ne soyez dono
de nostre confrairie.” “Them that with us vie’’— i.e.,
those who live (vivre—vie) with us—are of our company.
The meaning is strained, certainly; but that is the
meaning,*
The pick of the books recently sold from Sydney Pubtio
Library have been snapped up privately; the remainder
w’ere re-sold at auction last week, and realised, in the
absence of competition, very low prices. Barrington's
‘ History ’ brought 245., Wentworth’s ‘ Description,' 205,.
Labillardi&re’s * Voyage,' 205.; and so on. If these values
bear any near relation to those received by the Library,
Mie folly of the trustees must be evident even to them-
selves ; since they probably paid several times as much
for suoh books in the first instance, and the copies are
worth to New South Wales several times as much for
preservation to posterity.
* * * *
On a balance struck between .Echo and Other-
wise, Otherwise is just sufficiently in credit to pass
‘F.W.H.’ his
STRONG AS DEATH.
O Death, when thou shalt come to me
From out thy dark, where she is new.
Come not with graveyard smell on thee
Or withered roses on thy brow.
Come not, O Death, with hollow tone.
And soundless step, and clammy hand—
See, I am now no less alone
Than in thy desolate, doubtful land ;
But with that sweet and subtle scent
That ever clung about her (such
As with all things she brushed was blent) ;
And with her quick and tender touch.
With the dim gold that lit her hair.
Crown thyself, Death ; let fall thy tread
So light that I may dream her there
And turn upon my dying bed.
And through my chilling veins shall flame
My love, as though beneath her breath ;
And in her voice but call my name,
And I will follow thee, O Death.
H. C. Bunner.
BALLADE OF OLD SONGS.
Where is each dim and vanished air—
Brave tunes of youth and of yesterday >
Catches that once seemed wondrous fair,
Yet ,like the years have fleeted away :
Where now does Annie Laurie stray,
Or Annie Rooney see*; her Jb,
Ellen Adair, and Auld Robin Gray ?
And where are the songs of long ago?
Where are that jovial, dashing pair,
The Bold Gendarmes of Brabant gay?
And where sweet Alice, the maiden rare
Whom ‘ Trilby ’ wanned from her lifeless clay?
Do Babies on the Block still play?
For Champagne Charlie vintage fl >w ?
But where are the Gallants of Eng and, say ?
And where are the songs of long ago ?
The Heart Bowed Down with grief and care
With Sally of Paradise Alley may
Part Strangers Yet, Upon the Stair,
While Coster Joe does his little lay.
At Fimiegan’s Wake the Vicar of Bray
May hear the Hen Convention crow
At Judas turning to save his pay
And where are the songs of long ago ?
ENVOI.
People, ask not of them I pray ;
Fdr song or singer, maid or beau,
So few survive old Time's affray—
And where are the songs of long ago?


Medical,
Dr. FREEMAN.
1 llWi i i
h?
yotlQg
if you are troubled with
exhaustible complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living- away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactorv. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Comer Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
88. LEONARD,
Feb, 10/-. 127 Redfern Street,
Appropriate Medicine ~ i, l l yi,- jyi? xr
by Return Post. - RED± itRiN.
L ADIEIS!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that TVy.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than £1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
""of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
MEDIOUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
X)S R I CORD’s
cE, °f F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a oentury with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of He, or four quantities in one for UGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope .
Agents for Australasia —Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO URNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
“ABori? PbySkiaO.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient'guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or “similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly’ too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands y our trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles. - ,
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully’.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but- where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will he made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.— The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Vaper.
mALES~OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary eases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHITDIIRANTK
I9H
[»
ftfoe4ife fferlto.
FULL 'DIRECTIONS'
ENCLOSEpf>
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sag rad a Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC Effective.
An U PURIFIER BLOOD SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
Tl)e <slory of tyai) !
STRENGTH AND VITALITY.
Dr. GEO. WALSH,
The MOST SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST in Australia,
may be consulted at his PRIVATE DISPENSARY on all
CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN &
BLOOD DISEASES.
YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED MEN, who by
their own acts of imprudence or folly suffer from lack of
energy, impaired vitality, loss of memory, pains in the
limbs and bowels, sunken eyes, tottering gait, who are
weak, debilitated and unable to perform life’s duties pro-
perly ; imbibe natural nerve force and power by my
Urethral Treatment and without exposing their miseries
to an .unsympathising physician, who does not study and
consequently does not understand these cases.
OLD MEN who now find the penalties following their
transgressions, indiscretions or over brain-work, may con-
sult with assurance of speedy relief and a permanent cure.
Blood and Skin Diseases, Kidney, Bladder and Liver
complaints, Heart and Lung troubles treated successfully.
MARRIED MEN and those about to marry, who
dread their weakness or incapacity, or whose blood is
loaded with impurities transmittable to their offspring,
should consult DR. WALSH without delay.
Varicocele easily and quickly cured without operation.
Write for particulars.
“ The Bright Side,’’ a valuable Illustrated Medical
Work on Brain and Nerve Exhaustion and its Cure by the
only pleasant, safe, and certain method exclusively my
own, sent sealed eight stamps.
Before confiding your case, consult Dr. WALSH,
L.R.C.P & S., et L.M., legally qualified Physician
and Surgeon, registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Australia, and New Zealand, and one who has
made diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs a life-long
study, hence to him the sufferer can look with full and
positive assurance of restoration to health and vigorous
manhood ; call or write for absolute proofs of success.
Consultation by letter or in person free and invited.
Send to-day for the “Bright Side,” it will interest you.
Sent sealed for eight stamps. When immediate treatment
is desired, send complete history of ease and JEI.
DR. GEO. WALSH,
83 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
rriHE LAST OF SIX (collected stories by Ernest
i Favenc), Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consult ing Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
looting Men and Those ivho
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
N(j]S?E NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Eos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical,
PERFECT IWHIHOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientifto
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel .improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible. . .
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide* containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waitihg Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially ,
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only; otherunse secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
A
/SffV
Mr. J. H. WEHR, PARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes“ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted t«
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New_ Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear,' and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ four remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so muck
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what»
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Oen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
mv advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ha FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or toy Letter.
76iuwaa
r


TATTERS ALL’S
r- MONSTER PRIZE LIST, -w
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Holbart.
Spring H. 14th August.
50,000 SUBSCRIBCRS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me -Shares in the above.
Name__— -
Address
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, shares in the above.
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Subscritoei's at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ■_ - shares in the above.
Name.
Address
MELBOURNE C
November 2
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
R ame __
Address ' .
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the above.
Name
Tattersall’s
Great Distribution
-OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Jnnee,
116,000 Shares at £1 Each. List Closes 25th September. 116,000 Scares at £1 Each
Ist Prize —Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd
3rd
4th
stli
6th
Empire Hotel, Temora
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc.
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,065
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead,
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF —
City aod SCabCirbao
Freehold - Properties.
100*000 Shares of ss* Each*
Ist Prize. Terrace Houses* Glenraore
Hoad, and large Dwelling-House, Value
Woollahra... ... ... ... £8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full particulars tread our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve- a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ring, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “ youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
Jnthony Hordern s^ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ORLY).
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
S in curing affections of the Throat
'? and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
■> Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
? ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World's Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linen »
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
tasseu. aAJUUuwsoMr&o
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST.. SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping S-pplies a Speciality,
pCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED,
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. 1
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Comfort-
Book of
I. NAST,
m
“ I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia 'or New Zealand. (
Price, Ills. (ill.
SoiiE Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Altken, 890-682 George-st-, Sydney
WaSbiQgtoi) H. SoOl & Co.
Do not be satisfied with “Good Enough.”
The Best is the only “ Good Enough ” you should have, and
always the Cheapest in the long run.
A FEW EXAMPLES:
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER is a pure and sound article, at 6d. per tin.
DENTAROMA, at Is. 6d., whitens the teeth, purifies the breath. A most Fragrant
Dentifrice.
DR. THOMPSON’S COLTSFOOT COUGH LINCTUS, or GLYCERINE and
LINSEED, each Is. per bottle. Splendid articles for Coughs, Colds, &c.
YAALA, or PEPALGEN, 2s. per bottle. If you have no indigestion, you will not
need it; if you have, use it. The most effective cure to be obtained.
SPARTAN TONIC, 2s. Od. and 4s. The tonic that reigns supreme, and its
qualities are recorded in many an Australian household.
Do Not Forget the Old Shop--Next door but one to the City Bank.
WASHINGTON & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street, Sydney,
also at 208 PITT STREET; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free irom blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessncss, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes:”! find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Bianc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS bv HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BARD INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTIR T AS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ?
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from =£3 3s. each.
g MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Tittle Collins Street,
MKIiJBOXTRME.
Every Variety of
■OTJES-A. I
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
£3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Plum
p/0
THE
‘ Plum’
ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Jf Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
T _, . ( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
i nee |gj n „] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kindss of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Parts. Delicious to all kinds ot kruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Uneaualled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the articl„ e ’
mend it to housekeepers geuerally as a useful agent in the preparation of a Rood Glvelta tnal -
Proprietors: QOODALL iIACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENti. cvnNFV
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- each.
Bards of the Backblochs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOST LOUISE.
Quarranyarran is a peaceful
Township sleeping in the west;
Its inhabitants an easeful
Folk whose aim in life is—Rest.
Pride of heart, which sets a task for
Ardent souls, they do not know ;
Rest alone is all they ask for
In this vale of tears below.
They are neither worn nor weary,
They have merely work eschewed ;
Living comatosely-cheery
Lives of sunny lassitude.
Foolishly, in ant-like fashion,
Other folk may rush around,
Twist their threads of life in passion,
Seeking—what is never found.
That is—howsoever barren
Some might think the life led there—
Not their style in Quarranyarran,
Not their manner debonair.
Bruit of war, and news of battle,
If they hear —in their profound
Interests in sheep and cattle
Quietly the news is drowned.
Very quiet and pacific
Is the pub wherein the wise
Ancients meet, and soporific
Stories tell, and lazy lies.
Yarns of how at Ginginarum
Station, in the days of old,
Squatter Morgan kept a harem,
Black but comely to behold.
And the tale of Mrs. Grainger,
Who—it was a famous freak—
Dressed, and kept Jim Flood, bushranger,
As her “ cousin ” for a week.
Jim was young, with face unhairy,
And a girlish sort of look,
So that when she called him “ Mary ”
Everyone his sex mistook.
Then, to heights of fiction soaring,
Would the tale rise, and describe
How “Miss Mary ” had adoring
Suitors after her—a tribe ;
And how Sub-Inspector Carey,
On the hunt tor Jimmy Flood,
Told his mission to “Miss Mary,”
Vowing he would have Jim's blood.
Also, how some late carousers,
Dropping in at Grainger’s, saw
Sweet “ Miss Mary ’’—clad in trousers !
Feet on table, pipe in jaw !
Yarns of all sorts—mostly barren—
Yet, a jewel amongst these
Once I heard at Quarranyarran—
’Twas the tale of Lost Louise.
Long ago, ere engines fuming
Took the place of coaches bravo,
Lou lived there, in beauty blooming,
Like a rose upon a grave.
Suitors came with love-professions
From all corners of the land,
Swore they’d give their whole possessions
Just to kiss (and keep) her hand.
Squatters, doctors, bankers, lawyers,
They were down upon their knees,
All the country-side top-sawyers
At the feet of fair Louise.
All in vain : her heart, though tender,
Unto them was hard as stone,
Yet was ready to surrender
To some Picturesque Unknown
To some Fairy Prince ideal
Plumed and crested riding by.
“lam tired of rough and real
Back-blocks lovers ! ” was her cry.
“ They offend my sense aesthetic,
Evermore in vain I pine
For a soul superb, poetic,
Fearless—fit to mate with mine.”
Came a circus celebrated
Unto Quarranyarran town,
And a great furore created—
Worked up largely by the Clown.
Yet the merest rank outsider
Knew the Combination’s star
Was the famous bare-back rider,
Don Alonzo de Bivar.
Swarthy, supple, with dark-streaming
Hair, the proud Equestrian King,
In a suit of spangles gleaming,
Like a whirlwind scoured the Ring.
Three nights passed, and—then a wonder—
Lovers, riding as you please,
Yelling, cursing “ H- 1 and thunder !
Where the blazes is Louise ? ”
She was gone—like mists of morning
When the sun springs up to view—
She was gone, sans word of warning,
And a large portmanteau, too.
Thus the yarn—and it was well borne
Out by facts, for, if you please,
Whom should I meet last in Melbourne
But Alonzo and Louise !
Yes, Alonzo—first-class fellow
I discovered him to be —
And Louise—as ripe and mellow
As a pear dropped from a tree.
Both informed me what the game was—
Don Alonzo was a myth,
Lou said that her actual name was
Mrs. W. Bilger Smith.
I have been of late no courier
Of the.night, yet—Lord knows why—
We had supper—oysters, porter,
Bilger Smith, Louise, and I.
And she told me, “ If you dare to
(While I saw the oysters wince)
You can tell them if you care to
I have found my Fairy Prince.”
CREEVE ROE.


Australia* MOUial Prni/i T“r d r ■
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established I 'w ICJ t ■’C* Jg “
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
Directors .-—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Hlead Office : 8 7 PITT STREET. SYDNE Y.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
imLUSTVtor ALL WEALS AMD ATTEMDAMCE x
■AOfTRALIA
J{ f dy/>K Mpore-.
QRYANT & MAY’S WAX V€STAS
and.
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
£2O Prize Medals for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
A USTRALIAN BBAOT)Y
(Joshua Bros. 66 Boomerang 99 Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
t£T Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. TSS&
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUHG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
IROJLID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
. i
m
AVU
■33
>* 'C
S
m
m
- : ,i\
v/
L
If!
• J vNrT<’i
SgKKSi
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Coeoniae Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Lopdop apd Tailoripg Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS
Suits—4ss. to 90s. Trousers— from 12s. 6d. to 25s
at
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M. BATJMARSHE Manager
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring, wheels 4ft. 4in.
hifrh, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6<l.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
N. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to flic large increase of my Saddlery ftnrl Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-navment
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY. The whole of
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH EltOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
r T'ITE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Tjpetli Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Jiridf/eworJc.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 King-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
j—godalla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
j—godalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
|—eodalla. Ha,ms
In and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION, —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
220 SUSSEX STREET, SYRNEY.
-THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate dose to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible v ar j e ty of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10'- per’ night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30 -co £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Ktiildings, 416 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
S H A R E m Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders,' £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of London.
I Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, ,T. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ a. IEirbTDIRIXDG-lE] &C CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 ToijS njore In)ported Leaf
tljao all the other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of DiXSOU’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yaijkw Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS.
CbaiQpioi).
The Choicest Bright Cat and Plug.
CooqGqror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€i)t€i)i)ial.
Choice.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars-
(Imported). The Club Favorite Moiionolp
Rothschilds Bonanza— 4 Havana and Ameri-
can Cigars retailed at 4 in a packet for fid.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 911.
SATURDAY, JULY 31, 1897.
Price, (sd.
A number of clergymen, ladies, and laymen
had meantime assembled in the Executive cham-
ber. This was the most formidable deputation
of the three. Mr. BrUnker knew most of them.
He was cheerd when he entered the room. In /
response he shook several of the gentlemen by, '
the hand.
The
speakers dwelt on the importance of Sunday as a
day of rest, and attributed the greatness of Eng-
land to It.
Mr. Brunker expressed his entire sympathy
with the deputation. If the working classes
were deprived of their day of rest, it was hard
to predict what the result would be. He hoped
that this country would yet become as great as
the dear old land. And it could do so onlf by a
Close observance of the Sunday. He hope# that
the rising generation would always be taught to
observe not only the laws of their counttfaF but
tho laws of God. Vt
VICE-REGAL,
Tt had been arranged that the Governor would
return from his yachting trip to hake Macquarie
Ito-day. His Excellency, however, accompanied
hv his ADC came back yesterday, having ta-
ken the train at Fassifern station, near Toronto.
(£> %o_l
k d® r
X y
by rail /s
v /
~[fta.h clCol'S foohe
Ol- f<? s 5
7<r /tricep mo.-
~h.an- f
4
v% t
. /u l ,s'
rW V
/ 0 v
Oh
Iff
4 tyusf Whats-
drives " '
The New South Wales Premier emDarkeo
yesterday at Liverpool for N9W York.
A newspaper interviewer asked Mr. Held
for a parting message for the English people.
'Mr. Reid replied, ‘'Nearer and dearer.” Ah
Australian bystander asking for a'message
(for Australia, the Premier replied* "Nearest
and dearest."
i rr ri_ e
Itje bill Cortes '*){'*/
all Hi ‘s - Y^’i
c/e.ar.
* TtllS BUStNfiS NOW BFIMCj
u/OUMD UP-
further. PaaTicuu
ENQUIRE OF. AtK Wa(JT
Wti
||f lA' |
M
[ aTtrW iwt) Jp
l |p§
VT 1 \
\Qj[®J|U4A*V'K*'N
Xt i (wf- W,n “
tj- oko^ot*>'~~'
\f il f-t J|
ia~ <w F • V
Interviewed by representatives of the Li-
verpool newspapers, Mr. Reid gave an aS;
surance that the presence of colonial repre-
sentatives in the Imperial Parliament would
renew the troubles of the old era of colonial
administration. Australians, Mr. Reid add-
ed. were nice fellows when free, but were
mighty troublesome if lassoed.
810 15, ©BiUMKgg £a flj>
EXPERIMENTAL IFGlUators
Tariff TTNtCFRs etc .JS^ixy
Executed
y£lr 's a 7
/ Au.sh'^ LCL ‘; a, ? a
7-Vrf,
. y" 7
—, i, •■ i> - ,' g •*' MoThint ' ,ke
fec-fam fa?s»A Jj/m • 7 1
file a b o/g. for fX»2 l A
Dochr" Itad will
PREMIER REID AND ANOTHER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bui.: .: i in
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Ter Annum ... ... ... ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 t> o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
■week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tir i columns in
length, or, say, SOW words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. ill
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London >
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Goteh, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — lt. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Jlaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to. The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
T/ilT^ulleZzoi.
SATURDAY, JULY 31, 1897.
“The Abundance which God Provides.”
Mr. G. H. Reid, in opening- the bridge at Sunlight, de-
clared that he had staked his political fortunes in in-
ducing New South Wales to emulate the policy which had
made England great. It would be suicidal for England,
asserts Mr. Reid, to imitate nations who were so mad as
to try and exclude the abundance which God provides.—
Cablegram.
Premier Reid, as a fragment of the God-
fearing Ministry, is developing an appro-
priate tendency to work off sentiments with
a streak of mild snuffle about the Deity in
them. The Deity, in New South Wales is,
and long has been, the particular property of
the Calico-J immy party A few years ago,
when the sectarian drum was wallopped more
furiously than it is to-day, and when the
Kiama spectre still survived, the party
organs were wont to publish articles setting
forth that Christ was a Freetrader, and that
Jehovah was especially wroth at Protective
duties, and that the Almighty, on His ever-
lasting throne somewhere beyond the
Magellan Clouds, took a personal interest in
the ephemeral ants that brawled down York-
street way over small matters relating to
Shoddy. This phase of the fiscal question
has partially died away of late years, but in
a general sense it is still understood that
God belongs especially to the great Foreign-
trade party, and that Brunker and He look
after things jointly. A tendency to tag
on the name of the Creator to little
party phrases is ingrained in the in-
telligence of the Reid following ; it in-
herited the Creator from Parkes, whose
political stock-in-trade He used to be. The
beautiful remark quoted above is a whiff of
the old party atmosphere as it was in the
good old days before Brunker and Garrard
brought their little minds to bear on the
religious aspect of politics, and created a
general idea that Providence is something
about the size of a hat-box, and that its chief
mission is to go round looking for people
who sell bananas on Sunday.
Yet Premier Reid, as a pious phrase
maker, is not a success. Freetrade he detines
. the free admission (if “the abundance
which God provides.” Protection is a mad-
tess which consists in an impious attempt to
shut out the abundance which God provides.
And the Reid practice doesn’t square with
the Reid theory worth a cent God made
abundance of wheat and sugar and tea and
corn and other things, therefore Reid lets
some of them in free and others he does not.
He also made abundance of Chinamen, and
Reid levies a hideous protective tax of £‘loo
on each divinely-created Chow to keep him
out. He made abundance of niggers, and
Reid gammons that his mission to England
is to get the Imperial sanction for their
exclusion He made abundance of microbes,
and under the auspices of the Reid Ministry
a rigid system of quarantine is enforced
whenever it seems that there is any chance of
this equally Divine product getting access to
New South Wales. The politician whose
fiscal creed is based on the theory that what
God created it is impiety for mere man to
shut out, and who yet tries to rigidly exclude
the nigger, and the Chinaman, and the germ,
and who restricts the free admission of the
dog, and tries to shut out the rabbit and
many other animals, is a poor, weak creature,
without the courage of his convictions. His
theory may seem pious enough, but his prac-
tice is sinful and wholly lamentable.
* * * *
Further, even the Reid Government can
hardly allege that the Lord made calico, and
shoddy, and blankets which profess to be
wool but are not, yet its policy is to admit
these freely ; while tobacco, even if it ap-
pears in its raw state, just as it came from
the hand of the Creator, is not allowed free
access, but is heavily taxed. Again, it is an
acknowledged fact that imports have to be
paid for by exports, therefore the free admis-
sion of other people’s goods, eve* from the
most pious motives, involves a free exporta-
tion of our own in exchange, and “the
abundauce which God provides ” has to be
shovelled out of the country in immense
quantities as a natural consequence of
the other arrangement. Between refus-
ing to let the Divine blessings into the
country and sending the same bless-
ings out of the country, the difference,
from a religious point of view, is hardly ap>-
preciable. The principal boast of the Reid
Government is that last year £20,000,000
worth of the products which a beneficent
Providence bestowed on New South Wales
were packed up tightly in bales by a par-
ticularly blasphemous section of the com-
munity, and laboriously humped on board
ship, and sent away in exchange for filthy
lucre, and rum, and bananas that are sold on
Sunday by Sabbath-breaking shopkeepers,
and tickets in Tattersall’s sweep, and other
gratifications of the flesh. And the things
which were not packed up in bales were
mostly dug out of the ground, and heaped
into the coffin-ship which mysteriously com-
busts on the road to Callao and is no more
heard of. If this callous chucking - out of
the abundance which God provides squares
with Premier Reid’s pious philosophy, then
it must be a very accommodating philosophy
indeed.
* * * *
The Bulletin respectfully suggests that
the Deity be altogether left out of the fiscal
question as an unknown quantity, and that
the matter be relegated to the community to
settle the best way it can, according to the
common-sense with which it has not been too
abundantly provided. The bald assertion
that if God were on earth He would be a
Freetrader, or any other brand of purely local
politician, settles nothing, and the spectacle
of any small, casual individual making politics
for his God is a very poor species of drivel.
Almost any political faith can be supported
with equal facility by some variety of pious
snuffle or other. To levy a protective tax
on the abundance which God created looks
impious enough when the statement is
delivered with a serious countenance, and
uttered impressively through the nose by a
man in a black coat and a tall, murky hat.
To’ shut out the Chinaman and the other
Asiatics whom He created is equally horrible;
if the Bill which Georue Reid is asking the
British Government to endorse becomes law,
then George Reid’s Asiatic Redeemer,
should He come back to this earth as the
same Syrian apostle He was aforetime, would
be refused admission to New South Wales as
an alien To tax the land which Jehovah
created is equally impious , likewise to tax
the man whom He created. And when the
man whom He created—the bulgy little man
with an eyeglass and a snigger and a deficit—
becomes so proudly cocksure about what his
Deity intended should be done with the
abundance aforesaid, there are certain draw-
backs even about that. In any case, the
difference between a nation shutting out the
said abundance because it can’t afford to pay
for it, and an individual doing likewise, is
imperceptible. When G. Reid bought and
ate sixpenn’orth of confectionery out of a
shop his conduct in not buying all the con-
fectionery on the premises doesn’t seem
any more justifiable than the action of the
community which doesn’t buy a million tons
of wheat from some other community. There
is an equally good or equally bad reason in
either case.
* * * *
This paper objects to self : styled God-
fearing Ministries for a number of reasons.
One is that it objects to the theory that such
slow, dull, ordinary persons as Garrard,
Gould, Brunker and Co. are the chosen in-
struments of any Deity. Another is that it
has a certain wholly unorthodox religion of
its own, and the locally-manufactured Deity
who is constructed as a reason why M'MiLLAN
should get his calico in free of duty is too
small for its liking. Still another is that
there is nothing on this earth, good, in-
different, bad, or utterly horrible, that can’t
be supported and endorsed and justified by
some plausible snuffle or other, and iO
amount of orthodox piety can make Free-
trade any better or worse or any more ir
less logical than it was before. The case
which is supported by many Scriptural quo-
tations, as Freetrade is in New South Wales,
isn’t necessarily a bad case on that account,
but it is a case that is in very suspicious
company. It associates with the case for
the burning of heretics, and the one for
the damnation of unbaptised infants, and
the one for war and pious fraud and the sale
of rum to the heathen and other things of the
kind, and none of these can be classed as
elevating society.
The Bogan Bridge at Monkey.
During the year ended 30th June, the N.S.W.
Government got through .£1,548,105 of borrowed
money. This was nominally expended on
“permanent and reproductive works,” that
being the only kind of works which are sup-
posed to be paid for out of loans. Works
which yield no revenue, and which are so tem-
porary that only the present generation will
get the benefit of them, it is considered a fair
thing that the present generation should pay
for ; to hand down the bill but not the assets
to posterity is manifestly mere swindling and
confidence trick. In New South Wales, how-
ever, the terms “ permanent and reproductive ”
are very elastic, and they are growing a trifle
more elastic every year. At the present rate
of progress, the time ought to come shortly
when pensions, and sick-pay, and the wages of
the hangman, and the civil servant’s salary, and
the Jubilee illuminations, and the official screw
of the Premier will all be called permanent and
reproductive works, and be handed down as a
permanent and unreproductive liability to that
patient, comprehensive ass, posterity.
♦ * *
The following are some of the items which
the Reid Government included among the
“permanent and reproductive” undertakings
for the past year, and paid out of loan funds
accordingly :
Improving entrance Nambucca River ... ... £2,716
Warlike Stores ... ... ... ... 336
Improving the navigation of Darling and Mur-
rumbidgee Rivers ... ... ... ... 642
Wood-paving portion of Sydney tramway-lines ... 2,549
Road to Wombeyan Oaves ... ... ... 114
Military magazines ... ... ... ... 2,709
Submarine mines ... ... ... ... 46
Fortifications ... ... ... ... ... 1,233
Snagging streams flowing into Richmond River 1,332
Naval stations . ... ... ... ... 5,720
Dredging, &c., Manning River... ... ... 10,803
Defence works, armaments, etc. ... ... 1,054
Clearing scrub... ... ... ... ... 36,678
Dredging, etc., Richmond River ... ... 19,529
Do. Nambucca do. ... ... 497
Do. lieilinger do. ... ... 578
Do. Tweed do. ... ... 1,506
Do. Cook’s do. ... ... 37,436
Straightening Styx and Throsby Creeks ... 6,633
New lighter ... ... ... ... ... 564
Altering old dredges ... ... ... ... 2,201
Repairing old bridge, Windsor ... ... ... 1,630
Do. do. Guudagai ... ... 6,148
Wood-blocking Western Road, Glebe ... ... 2,370
Compensation for cancellation of lease ... ... 13
Thinning-out forests ... ... ... ... 11,001
Dredging, etc., Macleay River ... ... ... 10,829
Landing silt from dredges ... ... ... 6,953
Repairing and extending wharf ... ... 4,700
New roof for Museum . ... ... ... 642
Repairing Government House ... ... ... 1,000
Wood-blocking in King-street, Newtown ... 3
Alterations to old dredges ... ... ... 13,180
Towards Governor Phillip’s Statue ... ... 260
* * * *
These are a few samples taken at random
from a very long list. None of them are repro-
ductive ; there is not among them all one penny
of direct revenue to be obtained. None of
them are permanent ; as a matter of fact, no
public works ever constructed were really per-
manent, but those to which the term can fairly
be applied are such as the railways, which pay
for their renewal and repair out of earnings, so
that when once constructed they are self-sup-
porting. But the wood-blocks will have to be
replaced in a dozen years or less; and the
streams that are snagged will need to be
snagged over and over again ; and the rivers
that are dredged will want to keep on being
dredged permanently, else they will silt up
again , and the forests that were thinned will
want to be thinned again and again ; and the
guns will presently wear out, and the powder
explode, and the old bridge that is repaired
will want to be repaired some more, and the
ancient Museum will require another roof
by-and-bye. None of these pay anything
at all towards their own maintenance. And
even if the “ scrub - clearing, £36,378,”
does increase the value of the lands by
that amount, the added value, when they
are sold, will go into revenue. Barring Go-
vernor Phillip’s statue, which can hardly
come round again, almost every item is as much
a recurring item of unreproductive expenditure
as the civil servant’s monthly salary or the office
gas-bill.
* * • *
These, as already mentioned, are only a few
Casual items. The great bulk of the balance
consists of roads, bridges, gaols, lockups, court-
houses, asylums, wharves, alterations to
wharves, &c., &c., which are also wholly unre-
productive and many of them only permanent
in a very limited sense. The Government will
need to go on building bridges at the present
rate for another century before the requirements
of the province are met, and long before the end
of that time, in addition to paying the interest
on the original cost, it will need to start build-
ing them all over again, because the earlieron.es
will be worn out, and before they are all re-
placed another rebuilding will be due, and so
on ad infinitum. Therefore, the bridge item is
also as much a recurrent item as the civil ser-
vant’s salary, and most of the others are in a
very similar position. Out of the £1,548,105
loan moneys expended on alleged “ permanent
and reproductive works,” only about £735,000
can, by the most liberal interpretation, be called
reproductive. The rest are plain, unvarnished
swindle, devised that the Government may
placate the community by keeping down taxa-
tion, and yet profess to make ends meet when
they don’t.
* * * *
The amount of the public works expenditure
which is defrayed out of revenue gets smaller
every year as the habit of charging to pos-
terity the forest-thinning and scrub-cutting and
sand-shifting, and the cost of the Bogan bridge
at Monkey, and the repairs and other sundries,
glow’s stronger. In 1891 £1,486,000 of the
New South Wales Works expenditure was
paid out of revenue ; in 1896 only £978,000 ;
in 1897 only £845,000. The whole story of
tiie economy which is alleged to have been in-
troduced into the finances of late years is repre-
sented by the difference. The plea on which
the borrowing policy mostly rests is that this
is still a young country, and is too poor and
too thinly peopled to stand the cost of construct-
ing works out of revetiue. The said plea
would be a much better argument for a policy
of absolute self-dependence. New South Wales
is still young, therefore it hasn’t had time to
dissipate its public estate, and from this source
alone it derives, without any exertion, a
magnificent revenue of £2,000,000 a year—more
than enough to build all its public w'orks without
borrowing or inflicting any burden on the
people whatever. If it was old and had already
fooled away this splendid asset there might be
some excuse for cadging after foreign capital ;
as matters are there is none. Being young and
out of the track of the world’s bloodshed and
political riot, it has got through so far with a
very small military and naval expenditure. It
has never been dragged into war and seen fifty
millions disappear in a few months’ battle-
smoke. It has never had to rebuild its bom-
barded cities, or to compensate inhabitants who
were ruined by invasion, or to pay twenty
millions or so as an indemnity to buy off a suc-
cessful invader. All these things will probably
come in course of time they come to
every nation in course of time. But
up to the present the Australians, if
they only knew it, have been living in
a halcyon period, and have been enjoying
about the greatest, richest era of prosperity
that any nation was ever blessed with. And
if they can’t liquidate the miserable little daily
bill for roads and bridges and river dredging,
and must needs go hat in hand to the foreign
money-lender, as things are now, for the where-
withal to patch the roof of the old museum and
to repair a wharf and straighten some obscure
creek, their future prospects are an interesting
subject for speculation. The amazing luck
which Australia has enjoyed so far will hardly
last for ever. No country’s luck lasts for ever.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Casefor the Little Cornstalk Party.
Attorney-General Jack Want, the lone,
loud-mouthed survivor of the old “ cabbage-
tree mob,” announced himself definitely last
week as the leader of the anti-Federal party in
N.S. W. Council. Apparently the provincial
element is largely in the majority in the House
of Sleep, which is one solid evidence, at all
events, that Federation means progress and
liberalism and everything else that a demo-
cratic community should strive after. Attorney-
General Want stated the case for the Little
Cornstalk party at great length, but either it
was a very poor case or else it had a very poor
advocate. Apart from a few figures of speech,
it was all contained in these 10 assertions : (1)
The greatest intellects in N.S.W. (no names
given) had always been against Federation ;
(2) Governor Dennison, an obscure, forgotten
person who was out here 40 years ago, was said
to be against it. (Statement not backed up
by any evidence whatever) ; (3) No one had
dared to call a public meeting in Sydney in
favor of Federation. (There have been a dozen
or more, but King Jack was probably away
fishing at the time) ; (4) The “ object of Federa-
tion was separation from England ” ; (5) The
question had only once, since 1858, been sub-
mitted to the people of N.S.W., and that,
according to Want, was when poor old
Walter Bradley, who was an anti-Federalist
among other things, got in by a narrow
majority for East Sydney. (Attorney-General
Want thus actually denies that there was ever
a Federal Convention election, at which Barton
got 98,000 votes and the Little Cornstalk party
was licked out of sight and couldn’t get within
gunshot of securing one seat. The whole
Federal problem, in Jack Want’s idea, turned
on that one election, years and years ago, when
Bradley got in) ; (0) Federation would cost
N.S. W. .£400,000 or £500,000 a year, and “ in-
stead of taxation being only £1 per head it
would be £2.” (£500,000 per annum is only
7s. Bd. per head of N.S. W. population,
not £1 ; and the present taxation isn’t £1
per head, but very near £2 ; and Want ad-
vances nothing but his own bald, splashy
assertion to show that Federation will cost
N.S.W. £400,000 or £500,000 per annum,
or anything at all per annum. Also, the awful
ignorance of arithmetic revealed in his state-
ment is good evidence that he knows nothing
at all about the matter) ; (7) Railway Commis-
sioner Mathieson, of Victoria, “said that the
condition should be made absolute that the
whole of our railways should be handed over ”
(what Mathieson really did say was that the
railways should either be solely under Federal
or solely under provincial control) ; (8) That
the late Commissioner Eddy said N.S. W. should
on no account part with its railways. (This
also rests on no evidence, and Want’s bare
assertion is the first that has been heard of it);
(9) That the people would lose the blessed privi-
lege of being dragged 16,000 miles to have
their law-suits finally decided in England,
and instead there would be a degrading, soul-
blasting Court of Appeal to give them justice
on the spot. Also (10) that Botany Bay, with
its gaol and convict and hangman traditions,
has always been the “ freest of the free,” but
now the constitoosh’n is in danger and the
liberties of the people are imperilled. Attor-
ney-General Want is supposed to be one of the
brightest intellects in the arid wastes of the
N.S. W. Council, and if the case for the Little
Cornstalk party looks so utterly abject when b-
delivers it, what would it have looked like suy


osing the giant intellect of, say, Hoskins had
jjeen on the job ?
The Raising of Lazarus.
Victorian Judge Hood some time back re-
i to allow portion of the money (£ol2) to
1 hich a 16-year-old boy named Edward Percy
T azakus will be entitled at majority to be
rvnlied to the lad’s education for the medical
Session, and, on appeal, Madden, C.J., in
decision not to “ raise Lazarus at any price,
said (Argus report)
'ThP learned Judge below had shown sound sense in say-
• J hat, at the best the ±2OO would be expended in giving
t e foung man a chance of passing examinations, which
ofler all he might not pass, in order that he might get
mto a profession where he might, perhaps, never do a
in dav’s work, even if he got there. Better to keep the
ilfnnev intact, allowing him to turn to some other equally
worthy method of earning a livelihood,
cinrclv one of the most foolish decisions ever
aniiouneed in * con,.. Where is .he •'; sound
sense” or common justice in the gratuitous
and high-handed assumption that an obviously
industrious youth, clever enough to have accom-
nlished two years ago, the very unusual feat of
passing the difficult Melb. University matncu-
culation examination at the infantile age of
fourteen years, wouldn’t have as good a chance
of distinguishing himself in his chosen profes-
sion as Judge Madden had of getting somewhat
unaccountably ta the top of his ? It would
also be interesting to know what Judge
Madden would consider “ some other
eoually worthy method of earning a live-
lihood ” Would the Court, for instance,
feel justified in devoting the youth’s capital
to the 60-per-cent, purposes of a loan-office, or
would say, a course of careful instruction in
pugilism appeal more directly to Mr. Madden’s
personal notion of the fitness of things ? Also,
wouldn’t objections raised apply equally to a
proposal to start Lazarus in life with a kit of
carpenter’s tools ; in fact, being an Israelite,
would not the chances of his “ never doing a
good day’s work ” be even a lot shadier in the case
of mere manual labor ? And, finally, since the
Hebrew brain is the true Hebrew' capital, it
shouldn’t be in the power of any court, stand-
ing in loco parentis—as this one, unworthy
quibbles apart, certainly did in this ease—
deliberately to rob a clever boy of his chance
of using said capital to what his friends w ho
know him better than the judges—consider the
best advantage. And who will venture to
figure up the value, at compound interest, of a
clever Jew’s brain for the five years which yet
divide young Lazarus from his legal majority ?
-♦
The Cyanide Patent.
h j ” replies to Mr. Arthur Griffith’s letter
in last issue :
Dear Bulletin,— Mr. Griffith’s letter is misleading—
unintentionally so, no doubt. He says “the cyanide people
calmlv claimed what they did not invent, what has been
known for 30 years, viz., the mode of extraction of gold
from powdered ore by any solution containing cyanogen.
Now, that is exactly what was not known. It has been
known for years that cyanide of potassium is a solvent of
gold, but it was not known that it could be applied to re-
lease gold “ from powdered ore.” And it was M'Arthur
and Forrest who discovered, after long and ex-
haustive experiments, that a dilute solution of cyanogen
will not only free the gold from the ore, but will leave the
base metals in the residue. Even such eminent scientists
as Prof. Dewar, Prof. Crookes, and Sir Henry Roscoe
have admitted that they were ignorant of this fact till the
discovery in question. And it is this discovery to which
the representatives of M‘ Arthur and Forrest seek to con-
fine their N.S.W. patent. Mr. Griffith is also astray in
saying that the English Court of Appeal ruled this claim
to be bad. This reluctant adverse ruling was confined to
the original claim for the use of solutions of cyanide of alt
strength, which was a “ bad ” claim by reason of its being
too comprehensive and impracticable, but the ruling had
no reference whatever to the claim for a dilute solu-
tion. Throughout their very exhaustive judgment
their Lordships state, in the clearest language, that
they consider the discoverers of the dilute solution as
justly entitled to the merit and profit arising out of their
process. A technical slip was made in including in their
specifications the “bad” claim already referred to, and
the purpose of the proposed amendment is to rectify this
slip, and thus assure to the representatives of the dis-
coverers the benefit of their discovery. It is the gold-
miners who “ calmly claim what they did not invent,
and for two Ministers of the Crown to take sides with
them is not a very creditable piece of business. The
Registrar of Patents will need to be a man of grit to
withstand the weight of this extraordinary combination,
and the public will watch with interest the future pro-
ceedings in this matter. It is not fair to any official to
subject him to such influence. — J.
Gone Under.
The Federation Enabling Bill came to grief in
Queensland Assembly for the second time under
rather confused circumstances. The House was
divided into four parties. There was, first,
the Tozer crowd, which favored Federation
(but wasn’t very anxious about it) provided
Queensland sent 10 reliable Tory nominees to
the Convention, but which would rather give
it up for ever than have the province repre-
sented by popularly-elected delegates. Next,
the GIaSSEY crowd favored Federation (but
wasn’t very anxious about it) provided Queens-
land was represented by 10 elected delegates,
but preferred, on the whole, to let it slide
rather than leave the matter to Tozer’s
nominees. The third party was the one which
opposed Federation under any and all circum-
stances ; and the fourth was the very small
handful which believed in Federation straight
out, and regarded the end as more important
than the means. Tozer introduced the Enabl-
ing Bill with the proviso that Parliament
should appoint the 10 representatives. The
Glassey party moved an amendment with a
view to providing for the election of representa-
tives by the people, and the anti-Federationists
rallied round Glassey in order to create a dead-
lock ; therefore the amendment was carried by a
large majority. Then the badly-defeated and
disgusted Tozer party moved that the bill be
dropped altogether, and the anti-Federationists
rallied round it by way of variety, and that
proposition was carried by a still larger
majority. The Federatiouists form the larger
part of Queensland Assembly, but being sub-
divided into irreconcileable Tory Federationists
and irreconcileable Democratic ditto, the Pro-
vincialists, by voting with each party turn
about, naturally produced chaos. If either
brand of Federationists had been in dead
earnest some better results might possibly have
been arrived at, but both Tozer and Glassey
are very half-hearted apostles. Anyhow, it is
a great deal better that Queensland should
stand out than that it should send ten old,
crusted Conservatives to the next Convention.
The amount of good Tuzer’s nominees can do
to the Federal constitution by not helping to
make it is incalculable.
>
“God” in the Federal Constitution.
The admitted purpose of some who lead in the
movement to have God recognised in the Com-
monwealth Constitution Bill is to follow on
with further petitions to have the proceedings
of the Federal Parliament, when such a stage
of fruition has been reached, opened each sit-
ting with prayer. The latter is, indeed, a
natural corollary of the first. If there be no
God in the “Constitution” a Parliamentary
chaplain will be a solecism ; if God be made the
basis, the non-admission of the chaplain when
actual governing work is to be done will make
the original recognition construable as the
most pharisaic of lip-services. It is conse-
quently allowable to argue against the admis-
sion of God into the Constitution by showing
the indecency of admitting a chaplain —the
legitimate corollary—into the proceedings of
the Federal Parliament. That Parliament will
be, practically, an enlarged photograph of the
composite provincial Parliaments. Religion
and irreligion, as expressed in words, will exist
there in larger body. Theism and atheism will
co-exist, each with wider influence. If the
theist is to have his chaplain, why not the
atheist—the constitutional counterpart? The
chaplain, as an officer of Parliament, will neces-
sarily demand payment for his services. To
impose the chaplain of Faith on Lhe consciences
and.pockets of the holders of Unfaith would be
to introduce into a country now' free from all
religious tests an incubus identical in character
with that of the Established State Church
which for generations turned the blood of Ire-
land into gall, or that of the millions-grabbing
Episcopacy which, by tithe-bludgeons and other
legitimatised burglars’ jemmies, at present robs
the Nonconformists and non-religionists of Eng-
land. Forty years ago N.S. W. was less liberal,
religiously considered —or, properly, less just—
than it is now. The dominant creed and the
dominant civil power were often found arm-in-
arm. But when, at that period, Dr. Lang
introduced a Bill to have Parliamentary pro-
ceedings opened by a chaplain’s prayer,
it was rejected by 19 votes to 11 ; and
when, later on, “Slippery” Charles Cowper
moved in the same direction, his resolution was
rejected by 14 to 8. The world of Australia
has rolled sunward leagues since then. Atheist
and Theist stand on the same platform ; Jew
and Christian are equal in the eyes of the law.
Is Australia now to be “ petitioned” backward
to a time antedating the birth of three-
fourths of the population? But, if the
active, operating chaplain be an impos-
sibility in Parliamentary proceedings, the
chaplain’s ostensible and self-described raison
d’etre is equally impossible as a basis of these
proceedings. If the logical corollary be matter
out of place, the postulate is matter or spirit
similarly astray.
An Australian Peerage.
At the Premiers’ Conference, held at Hobart
last Feb., it was resolved, by four votes to
three :
That the proposal of the Secretary of State for con-
ferring the permanent title of Honorable after ten years’
service in the Legislative Council be not accepted, and
that the Secretary of State be respectfully requested to
allow the previously existing rule to continue in its uni-
form application to all British colonies.
But Chamberlain “gets there just the same.”
That magnificent person informs an Australian
Governor, who has just put in a word on behalf
of the “ Honorables ” udio desire to retain the
prefix in his province, that Her Gracious has
already approved of the proposal in the case of
Cape Colony. Furthermore, Natal, Newfound-
land, Queensland and Maoriland, have
asked for the privilege, and as it is
“apparent that had all the Responsible Go-
vernments of the Empire been represented on
that occasion (Hobart Conference), there would
have been a small majority in favor of the pro-
posal, I have felt that I should not be justified
in advising Her Majesty, in deference to the
resolution of the majority of the representa-
tives of the Australian Governments, to aban-
don the proposal in the case of any colonies
whose Governments may be still in favor of its
adoption.” Therefore the London Gazette
notifies :
Downing-street, April 10, 1597.
The Queen has been graciously pleased to signify Her
approval that members of the Legislative Councils in cer-
tain colonies possessing Responsible Government may,
on retirement or resignation after a continuous service in
such Councils of notdess than ten years, be eligible to be
recommended by the Governors of such colonies for Her
Majesty’s permission to retain the title of “ Honorable.”
But
the arrangement is merely permissive ; and it will there-
fore rest with the Government of any particular Colony
to recommend or not any qualified person for the privi-
lege as it may think fit.
The arrangement is “ merely permissive,’ says
Chamberlain. Exactly 1 And, therefore, it
looks like a covert stab at Australian republi-
canism which should be promptly resented. It
really amounts to giving Ministers power to
confer a title on any member of the House of
Landlords who has not died or been deposed
during 10 years ; and, as the majority of Aus-
tralian Ministers are title bearers, or expect to
be such, the chances are that the necessary
recommendation to the Governor will never
be withheld. The principle, once ad-
mitted in any province, practically applies
to all Australia. The question is: Does
Australia approve? That the imported foxes
who have already lost their tails in the
Imperial trap may approve, goes without saying.
But, though these provinces carelessly allow
the stump-tailed crowd to show their agility as
Premiers and things like that, it is quite a
different matter when they want to import a
cargo of foreign fooleries for which Australians
have no manner of use whatever,
4.
£5.
Verbatim report from the Northern Courier
(Fernmount, N.S.W.) of July 13: —
On Sunday morning last information was given to Con-
stable Allman, at Fernmount, that an old man was lying-
near the ferry approach on the north side of the river, ap-
parently dead. Constable Allman at onee went over, and
found the information to be only too true. The old man
was evidently a swagman, and though he was not dead, he
exhibited signs of most brutal ill-usage. His face and
head were battered fearfully, while his clothing was
saturated with blood. Traces of blood were plentiful
down to the ferry, and even the ferry deck was smeared,
as though it had just been used for pig slaughter. On
enquiries made to the ferryman, who had first given the
alarm, it was elicited that the old fellow, whose name is
Jambs Flett, came on to the ferry about midnight on
Saturday, in the company of Robert Campbell,
jun., who has been living with his father and sister
on the north bank. According to the ferryman
(a foreigner), the two were no sooner on the ferry than
Campbell began the assault. From the account given,
he threw the inoffensive old fellow down on the ferry
deck, and began booting him about. the head and body.
Young Ussher, a mere lad, who was on the ferry at the
time, interfered, and received a blow in the face from
Campbell for his trouble. When the other side of the
river was reached, Campbell caught his helpless victim by
the legs and drew him, head downwards, off the ferry, up
the approach, and left him, to all appearances, dead. It
was after midnight, and the ferryman and young Ussiier
both excuse themselves for not giving ail alarm by saying
“ everybody was in bed.” When found in the morning
Flett presented a ghastly sight. He was promptly taken
to the police-station, and Mr. W. B. Hicks called in. Ilis
wounds were attended to, and later in the day Constables
Jordan and Allman arrested Campbell at bis fathers
place. No provocation appears to have been given for
the brutal usage the harmless old man received ; indeed a
man of his weight and years and temper could scarce!y do
anything to justify hai - sh treatment. It appears Camp-
bell had been remonstrated with for knocking the old
man about early in the evening, and at one time came
near summary treatment at the hands of one of the
Barrieton quarrymen for his actions. Campbell probably
resented this, and wreaked his vengeance on the poor old
man. lie appeared before the Bellingen Bench yesterday,
in custody, and was charged with assault, occasioning
actual bodily harm, and was fined £5, or, in default, three
months in Keinpsey gaol. The fine was paid.
The class of people who howl for the lash as a
means of suppressing brutal larrikinism do so
on the plea that the existing laws are in-
adequate to effect its suppression. The Bul-
letin’s theory is that no one knows whether
the existing faws are adequate or not,
because a callous, stupid and hog-like magis-
tracy never enforces them, and a hog-like
Government never inquires why they are not
enforced, nor sacks the worst specimens of the
present magistracy, nor amends the law so as
to limit their discretion in letting off inhuman
ruffians like Campbell with a ,£5 penalty. A
third cause is that there is no decent public
opinion in N.S. Wales to make the Govern-
ment or the magistracy do its duty ; nor even
enough to shift the brute abovementioned out
of the district as a person whom no white
inhabitant would associate with. There is
plenty of law in N.S. W. to get Campbell or
any savage like him five years in gaol, and he
was only fined £5 11 ! If the possibility of the
lash was added to the law as it stands he would
have been fined £5 just the same, unless the
intelligence of the local Bench was materially
improved. It is not the law, hut the adminis-
tration of it, which wants reforming. The law
is strong enough. The administration of it, in
cases of brutal violence, is miserably weak ; in
cases of injury to property of the value of
threepence or more it is amazingly strong.
Only the other day Judge Gibson sent up a man
for "three years for stealing ninepenn’orth of
baking-powder.
A petition against “ The proposal of the
churches to secure the formal recognition of
God in the Constitution of the Australian
Commonwealth ” is being pushed around Mel-
bourne, not by Jos. Symes or the Anarchist
Club, or any disreputable Unbelieving body,
but by—The Australian Tract Society 1 The
Nonconformist Conscience is, in this matter,
astoundingly common-sensical, and its argu-
ments are briefly set forth on a tractlet:
The recognition of God is an act of faith.
A statement of that recognition is a declaration of faith.
To incorporate in the Constitution of a civil govern-
ment a recognition of God, or a declaration of faith, is to
insert a religious clause.
And so on. A religious clause necessarily
tends towards interference with Man’s secular
right to believe, or disbelieve, anything he
chooses, therefore let us keep God’s name
out of the blessed Constitution, says the
Tract Society. It is quite interesting to find
citizens of ordinarily modern snufflebustious
aspect walking apologetically into city offices
for the purpose of explaining that State
recognitipn of Cod is inconsistent with
original Christianity. Fat merchants, trad-
ing as pillars of their particular churches,
glare at the petition-monger with scorn.
The Fat Man’s shepherd advocates the drag-
ging of God’s name into every kind of document
relating to civil government, and although his
flock have heard the holy gabbler quote “ Ren-
der unto (Lesar,” &c., a hundred times, the
meaning of that historical text has never dawned
upon them. In fact, they feel pretty sure that
Christ wanted to introduce sectarianism into
State school-teaching, and was in favor of repre-
senting V.R. as a queen “ by the grace of God,”
in which case, of course, He would have voted
for establishing the Australian Constitution on
a religious basis. And now, to he told by a
missionary-looking visitor that any mention of
God in an Act of Parliament is irreconcileable
with Christian principles—well, they consider
it blasphemy, and regard the strange person,
with his tracts in one hand and a petition in the
other, as nothing better than “a socialist!”
“A dangerous socialist 1 ”
The gilded Barr-Smith, of S.A., has agreed to
pay all expenses for the construction of meteoro-
logist Wragge’s observatory on Mt. Kosciusko
on condition that the structure be called Barr-
Smith Observatory. The oiler should be firmly
declined, and, if already accepted by Wragge
or others, should be officially repudiated by
Govt. Apart from the fact that, if such a
station be necessary for Australian meteorologi-
cal science, it is the duty of Govt, to erect the
building as well as allot the land, the public
should be protected from the monstrum horren-
dum of a Kosciusko with a Smith on top.
Astronomers in concert wisely interdicted the
application of every-day names to the heavenly
bodies, and Wragge should rather have waited
a while for Government acceptance of his hobby
than have departed from the spirit of such a
tradition.
♦
The following item, from Sydney Telegraph,
is reproduced in all its naked and unadorned
loveliness: —
It is well-known that there exist in Sydney and suburbs
a number of bogus “registry” offices, and latterly so
many complaints have been made to the police authori-
ties hy persons who have been victimised by them that it
has been deemed necessary to make strict investigations
into the methods employed by the proprietors and pro-
prietresses of these offices. The result has proved that
bogus offices exist in the metropolis to an alarming
extent, and almost every day a number of men and
women are swindled out of their scanty earnings. Yester-
day Detectives Roche and M'Lean arrested a man at
North Sydney on charges of obtaining money under false
pretences, and he will appear at the Water Police Court
on Thursday.
The bogus registry-office swindle has been going
on with impunity for years. It has been ex-
posed over and over again. There are at least
20 or 30 individuals who have been running,
this particularly disgraceful fraud every day,
and their premises could be identified at long
range by the moral stench which they exhale.
The demand has been made t nes without
number that some GoD-fearing Government
should take a hand in the business by requiring
the registry-office person to take out a license
which would be cancelled in case of misconduct,
by fixing the scale of fees, and by making it a
heavily punishable offence to run an unlicensed
registry, but no Government has interfered.
Next it appears that “ latterly many complaints
have been made to the police authorities by
persons who have been victimised,” and appar-
ently the said authorities took no special
notice, for nothing in particular ensued. But,
finally, after years of waiting, the force rose up
and arrested one man. And the Telegraph
heads its statement, in large letters, “Deter-
mined action of the Police.” The humor of it!
What The Bulletin desires to ask is : If it
takes such solid determination on the part of
the police force to arrest one individual, how
much fewtr individuals could they have arrested
supposing they had been a shade less deter-
mined ? Also, how soon will this great, whole-
sale swindle be put down at the present rate of
progress —the arrest of one alleged offender in
ten years or so ?
Murderer Butler’s pathetic, parsonically-
conveyed allusions to Sunday-school and drink
are accepted by the orthodox community gener-
ally as satisfactory evidence that the Mountain
monster died penitent, and is now, according to
the theological Cocker, among the happy
mortals. The jump-to-glory travesty is reminis-
cent of the dying speech of murderer Doolan
in the condemned cell in Glasgow. Doolan,
addressing the officer of the prison, said :
I often think of the many narrow escapes I have made
in Ireland and England when I have seen a fellow-work-
man sent into eternity by an accident, which might have
happened to me as well as to him. Had I died then I
would have been called into eternity without a moment’s
preparation, and my immortal soul would have been lost.
But I have reason to thank God that He has given me a
long day to prepare for the change that awaits me, and I
hope I have improved mv time and will go straight to His
blessed arms.
In effect Mr. Doolan reasoned that had he died
by an accident while at work he would have
gone to hell, but that God was good to him, and
by allowing him to brutally murder the fore-
man of his gang secured for him some weeks in
gaol, where he was able to properly prepare
himself for death. The Butler theory is the
same. Had that worthy fallen overboard 15
years ago he would have been damned—because
he did not slip gracefully through a parson’s
hands. Now, although a murderer, he is in
heaven. The parson let him in.
4.
Pang Goon, a Chinese laundryman, was sum-
moned to the Hawthorn (Melb.) police-court,
the other day, to show cause why he shouldn’t
go to prison for non-payment of a .£5 fine, said
fine having been incurred by his open defiance
of the Factories Act. Pang, it seems, toils in
his insanitary shop 18 hours a day, or there-
abouts, which helps to make life harder than it
need be for workers in general. The Factory
Act was intended to protect Pang against him-
self in the interests of civilisation. Since it is
not good for a man, not even a Chinaman,
in his individual character, or as a member
of the laboring community, to work 18 hours
a day, one would naturally expect the ser-
vants of the Lord to pin the Factories
Act to the Ten Commandments and de-
nounce Pang Goon as something little
better than a Sabbatli-breaker. That’s where
one would naturally make a mistake. When
the case of the defaulting laundryman came up
for hearing, “ one of the guardians of St.
Columb’s (fashionable Anglican) church in-
formed the Bench that if an adjournment were
granted the fine would be paid by some mem-
bers of the church, the defendant being one of
its Chinese converts.” This is a lesson in
Clistianity which requires to be carefully
studied in all its bearings upon the advance*
ment of mankind, and the diffusion of sweet-
ness and light among law-abiding citizens.
Woman has lost another of her privileges in
Maoriland. In that province a male person
has been iirrested and is out on heavy bail upon
a charge of administering noxious drugs with
intent to procure abortion, which, so far, is
only part of the ordinary course of things.
But the startling novelty is that the lady is
also out on bail, chai’ged with being an accom-
plice and with taking the drugs aforesaid. This
looks like quite a new departure. Hitherto,
when a woman has gone to an abortionist and
incited him or her to do an unlawful act, and-
has paid for it being done, the law has never
held her responsible. She might inform on the
abortionist, and give evidence against him, and
get him a long term in gaol, without her in-
criminating statements entailing any conse-
quences whatever upon herself. Not very long
ago a Maoriland chemist was convicted solely
on the evidence of a woman upon whom he
operated, and when the defence raised the plea
that she was not a competent witness, being an
accomplice in the act, the Court decided,
without the slightest hesitation, that she
was not. How she could be anything
else than an accomplice was not at
all clear to the lay intelligence, but
the Court adhered to its decision. Apparently,
the law is now going to try a new reading of
the case, and the new reading has logic on its
side. Whatever people may think of the re-
lative guilt of the woman who is driven to
desperate measures by the dread of disgrace
and exposure, and the man or woman who
makes money out of her fears, there is no doubt
that they are accomplices, The new reading
may make the path of the abortionist a i rifle
easier by furnishing his clients with an addi-
tional reason why they should not give him
away, but that is a different matter.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES,
Financial Position December 31, 1896
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1896
SURPLUS
Increase in Surplus during 1896
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896
£45,161,239
3,284,283
8,995,246
552,744
190,646,265
540,108
.„y*h"LSfe OdSta thfw^Sr ,ES ° n < ’™ y 01 val “‘ i ° n LARGER thau that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims)-
I A A/r r ,UT P.. irr . . '•
jjupw io loouw j. unuie# ana .ray uiaims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN Esq ML A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, MLC •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ’
XTX.JJ.V.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
•S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager fer N.S.W.
EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OE THE
NEW LIFE ASSUBANCE TABLE
OF THE
Liverpool & London t globe,
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Kates.
Head Office for Australasia : 62 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
<Hth Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 ... ... ... jgQ 708 495
Total Claims Paid ... ... ... 32,796 549
Total Claims Paid in Australasia ... 2*259*404
Income for Year 1895 ... ... ... 2,339 622
Prospectus can be obtained on application at
office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
‘ talking machine,” costing only .£l2, will soon be
* u S every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
IFer jfeett l
THAT EXPRESSES
IDEAL PORTRAITS
JUST PERFECT
PERFECT POSING
PERFECT LIGHTING
PERFECT FINISH
PERFECT PRINTING
PERFECT PRICE
Six Enamelled fabinet Portraits
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge-/
ment in Permanent liromide or (
Opal. Any style or pose. NoextrasJ
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS ,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
£fJ UjßBrY ' 8 “ The Gay Parisienne.”
« nv °. L T I Rickards’ Variety Co.
Criterion.. Professor Bristol’s Edu-
cated Horses and Mules.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
“The Sign of the Cross.”
H 8 Rickards’ Variety Co.
The “Friend from India,” staged on
oaturday night at Her Majesty’s, has so many
advantages as compared with the “Night Out,”
that it should certainly have been put on at the
beginning instead of at the sudden tail end of the
brief season. The motive of the previous comedy
was as old as the days when the elderly cave-man
hrst gave way to temptation and induced the
young cave-woman to come out on the primitive
razzle-dazzle in her husband’s absence, and have
bear s meat with him behind a tree in a ferny vale
aD j idok at the stars, while she sat on her hair
and he maundered into her large ear. The present
one is built on a rather novel idea, and the idea is
well worked out. Paulton’s little barber, who is
driven by force of circumstances to pass as a
Mahatma with a counterpane around him, and his
mouth full of abracadabra, is a really interesting
character. Also, he is a wild satire on Theosophy
and on creeds in general. When he remarks in a
deep monotone that time is nought, and space is a
phantasm, and the thing which is now is merely
the shadow of what used to be, and that eggs are
bd. a dozen, and the reason why a blue rhinoceros
can t walk on the ceiling is the same which causes
butter to have hairs on it in Galilee, it sounds
quite as convincing as most other things in the
way of dogma ! Then, when he strikes a tre-
®™ons attitude and asks why there are cold
shudders in Brahmapootra, and what evidence
there is that Pharaoh was ever drunk and had a
black eye beside the Mediterranean, or words to
that effect, the statement seems absolutely conclu-
v®-. -Almost anything in the way of loose whoop,
if it is delivered in a deep, slow monotone by a
man who holds his hand up in the air, is good evi-
dence in support of almost any kind of creed.
After hearing Paulton on the subject, this journal
feels nearer being a convert to Theosophy than it
ever was before or is ever likely to be again.
r * * * *
That old favorite, Lauri, as the small,
fat millionaire who hires the Mahatma to have
mysteries and convulsions in his drawing-room
before a fashionable audience, is another tower of
strength, and these two take up so much room that
there is comparatively little space for anybody
else. Miss Alma Stanley is much better than she
was in the last production, inasmuch as she only
wears one utterly insane hat, whereas last time
she wore an unspeakable hat all the time. Paulton
rises consideraHy in The Bulletin's estimation
in the Friend from India.” Among the minor
people, Miss Minna Phillips, Pred. Cambourne,
and Albert Whelan (who puts a lot of rich
humor into a very casual policeman) leave
the largest footprints on this paper’s soul,
taken all round, however, the co. does its work
well and the “Friend from India” gives it
abundant scope. It contains no plot in particular ;
young Chignell simply wakes up in the marble
halls of old Chignell after a fearful drunk, and
can t remember how he got home, or why he
brought with him the complete stranger who is
sleeping in his room. All he can recall distinctly
through a haze of wine and song and broken win-
dows and smashed hats, is that the old man has
given him notice that his next drunk will lead to
final ejectment, therefore he wildly introduces the
stranger as an eminent Mahatma to avoid intro-
ducing him as the benevolent fellow-drunk who
carried him home. Thereafter the comedy runs
riot on no special system, and only ends when it
is too much exhausted to go on any longer.
* * * *
The “Gay Parisienne,” with Alice Leaner,
Juliet Wray, John Coleman, Lauri, Ernest Shand,
and a multitude of other people in it, is to follow
on Saturday.
** * *
“ The Pauper,” which has taken the place
©f “ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins ” at Sydney Royal
deserves honorable mention as about the worst-
named drama on record. The name suggests a
toothless old person, named Crump, living on
gruel in the workhouse, and Maggie Moore, as it
proves, never was in a workhouse at all. She is
merely a young lady of limited means, who lives
on the penny she gets occasionally to stop singing
and go away. Circumstances throw her into an
unaccountable family, consisting of a rich flour
merchant, his male cousin, who has just married
the flour merchant’s sister in order to get her
money, and his she-cousin, who is a lady with
long hair and a horrible past, and with murder in
her soul. This lady is followed by her husband
whom she supposes to be dead ; he is effectually
disguised as a red-headed Jew, and he lends
money to her to make recognition absolutely im-
possible, and the name on his card is Azariah.
Azariah “ blows ” much good red gold in discount-
mg his faithless wife’s unsecured promissory-note
and lurks considerably behind hedges. The bene-
volent flour-merchant falls in love with the sing-
ing girl, and the lady with the past poisons a
harmless professor in mistake for her; and the
male cousin fails to get his wife’s money after all
and leaves her, but afterwards repents. In be-
tween times a Count looks in and makes weepful
remarks about his lost daughter who was stolen
from It-al-ie. Naturally, the singing-girl marries
the flour-merchant and proves to be the Count’s
daughter, and at the psychological moment
Azariah falls on the lady with the dreadful past,
and she is arrested in hysterics. The play ends
with a general impression that the lady is ulti.
mately hanged in a beautiful empire costume of
pale-blue silk with merveilleux trimmings, and
with a diamond aigrette in her hair and a spray of
roses in her oorsage.
* * * *
None of these people—not even the lady
who is arrested in hysterics—look particularly
real; the play is a dream-like thing laid in the
land of nowhere in particular, and it is quite im-
possible to take Azariah seriously. The obvious
purpose of it is to enable Maggie Moore to sing as
often as possible, and she fulfils her mission admir-
ably- Also, she wears clothes which are a vision
of Paradise, and in her black costume in the last
act she looks young and beautiful to a surprising
degree. The Bulletin would like to break the
news gently to Miss Moore that when she attires
herself in black she ceases to look tall cross-
wise (which she sometimes does under other
circumstances), and appears almost as young
as she did in the early days of “Struck
Oil. But this is a delicate matter which is best
explained to a lady by anonymous post-card.
Harry Roberts’ clever acting lifts the rich flour-
man on to an undeserved eminence, and Max
Maxwell, Johnson Weir, E. B. Russell, and Miss
h itzmauriee Gill do good service and help to keep
a rather slipshod drama from falling over its own
feet. Miss Gill is the lady with the dreadful re-
cord, and the business-like manner in which she
supplies the corpse on very short notice calls for a
word of approval. The writer knows where the
raw material for a really excellent corpse is walk-
ing about at present, and he views Miss Gill’s per-
formance with a personal interest.
** * *
Bristol’s educated horses and mules, under
the management of our hitherto awful friend,
Professor Kennedy, commence a season at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday. In the present case, this
paper is pleased to state, the Professor doesn’t
mesmerise anybody and then make him drink
kerosene, or put him in a rigid state across two
c ; lal js and prance on his stomach, so he is
alluded to above as our hitherto awful acquaint-
ance by way of giving him the benefit of the
doubt. Possibly, his desire not to outrage the
feelings of the comic mule may keep the Professor
from falling into his old practices this time. The
said comic mule came upstairs and paid this office
Vmt on Tuesday, offering to temporarily take
the place of any scribe who wanted a holiday ; he
is the most cultivated and gentlemanly mule the
staff has yet met.
** # *
A benefit is being engineered for Miss
Elsie Adair, the clever little lady whose recent
show came to an untimely end at Sydney Cri-
terion. Miss Maggie Moore lends the Theatre
Royal for the occasion, and this effort to help a
nice-looking fellow-creature on her path is fixed
for August 4.
** * *
The profoundly monotonous statement
that Sydney Tivoli is well-filled every night and
the co is good enough to justify all expectations,
is hereby repeated for the several hundred and
forty-somethingth time.
** * *
. Sydney Town Hall is to burst into a par-
ticularly brilliant spell of melody on Saturday
night by way of a benefit to Pechotsch, junior,
who is departing for Europe, with a view to carry-
ing on his musical studies. Pechotsch, junior,
whose name isn’t nearly so difficult to pronounce
as it looks, comes of a musical family, and has
already an excellent reputation of his own, there-
fore the best musical talent in Sydney has rallied
round to give him the good send-off which he
deserves.
** * *
The Farley opera season fell to pieces on
Friday night and dispersed in various directions
and that none-too-prosperous show is now ad-
journed indefinitely. The co. thinned out con-
siderably in its last few nights, and the only
reason why the audience didn’t do likewise was
that it was already in a lamentable state of
attenuation. Considering all things, The Bulle-
tin reckons that a benefit for the members of the
deceased company would be a judicious piece of
benevolence.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal, on Saturday night
a vast audience tried earnestly to find astounding
features in the “Flying Jordans and their Famous
Organisation,” but the desire for a new tftrill from
the new ’Murkan visitors was not gratified. In-
asmuch as the fleeting Royal show challenges com-
parison with the entertainment run by Rickards
at somewhat lower prices, all the year round the
present writer feels unusually grateful to Rickards,
and it is only fair to express this gratitude in a
public manner. What would his adopted country
say nowadays if ’Arry were to produce Miss Lily
Jrost, as a Queen of Song, for the purpose of sing-
mg something which Florence Esdaile, a while
ago, warbled much more sweetly and fluently in
the ordinary Opera House first-part ? Also, what
would an Opera House “ god ” say to a Miss Post
under these painful circumstances ?
* * * *
The few people who appear on the Royal
stage are satisfactory, in some cases, until they
take an encore, and even the encore seems desir-
able in the case of John J. Burke, who is a bright
comedian, with a large, handsome lady attached.
I here are other nice-looking girls attached to other
comedians, but these simply serve as excuses for
the men to stand round and disgorge aged jests
whereas the massive vision aforesaid is required
to assist J ohn Burke in a boxing-match. The rest
of the stage items, including horizontal - bar
exercises, a comic bicyclist, and two gro-
tesque Oil fans, range from fair to nasty.
Ihe two principal items happen in mid-air. Miss
Virginia Aragon, the wire-walker, and the five
Jordan trapezists are excellent performers. But
the incidental rope-fixing and net-spreading is
tiresome, and for two sections of a theatre audi-
ence Miss Virginia and the Jordans are awkwardly
situated. Those in the stalls have to gaze up-
wards, whilst the back row of the dress-circle also
gets a stiff neck in reaching for a view. Taking
one consideration with another, the show at the
Koyal doesn’t appear likely to be patronised be-
yond its deserts.
** * *
Meantime, the Opera House is going
strong. The Selbinis have revealed further cause
* or their popularity, on bicycles and otherwise,
and their rapid mode of procedure grows faster
than ever. Tom Wootwell, the leg-shaker from
oydney, was received with thanks on Saturday,
when Milford Haven dropped his respectable
voice into the gap left by Phil Newbury, and a
number of well-beloved turns came to pass as
before.
** * *
“ The Sign of the Cross ” continues to
display Belief in a pale blue limelight at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, whilst a rosy and rapturous
light streams down upon Pagan vice. Marcus and
Mercia, handicapped by severe colds at the outset,
have quite recovered from their respective bron-
chitises, and all is well with the Firm’s imposing
spectacle. It promises to run for several more
weeks to the satisfaction of hundreds of sincere
church-goers, whose new respect for the theatre
will probably justify a taste for comic-opera later
on 'j • here fore, The Bulletin derives comfort
and joy from “The Sign of the Cross.” If the
nnancial success of this piping-hot love-story
should lead to an increased expenditure on
frivolous shows hereafter, and if the recent con-
vcrts don’t backslide into their former gloom, “ The
Sign will have done a good deal for humanity,
anyway. W. and M._ must deal carefully with
their„ converts. The piece that follows “The
Sign must be as giddy a thing as one can find
in irreligious dramatic works, otherwise these re-
cruits from the ranks of the godly will certainly
backslide, and devote their evenings to gentle
Christian dissipation as of yore. They have seen
a raging Marcus chase his heart’s delight under
exceptionally-improper circumstances, also they
have heard the girl afterwards confess that she
loved the rakish Roman all the time; furthermore,
they have listened to the furious expression of
.berenis s long-pent-up feelings, and so the next
time they cross the threshold of a playhouse they
will expect cayenne pepper with their oysters.
** * *
Charley s Aunt ” has come to stay at the
Bijou for an indefinite period. Apart from the
reduction in the tariff, Frank Thornton’s fourth
revival of good old Donna Lucia has a strong
point in its favor. Last time he came to Mel-
bourne, he played “ Miss Brown ” through a
seven-weeks’ season, and the “ Aunt” shines bril-
liantly by comparison with the other bogus female
who was perhaps intended to prepare the way for
her prototype’s re-appearance. “Miss Brown”
having served a managerial turn, may consider
herself dead, or nearly so ; but her relative from
iuJ! mt f is immortal. Which reminds one
that Charley s Aunt ” has spread a knowledge of
Brazil nuts among the Australian race, and the
race, here and there, has paid for its wisdom with
awful pains inside.
** * *
Mark Hambourg, and brother Jakoff,
assisted by John Lemmone and a lady vocalist
(who is subject to alteration), opened their concert-
season at Melbourne Town Hall on Thursday last,
the first concert drew a multitude, and a Ham-
bourg Boom is now progressing at the rate of three
explosions per week. Jakoff, in his 17th year is
a remarkable violinist, but the multitude’s adora-
tion is for the youth rather than for the early
sometimes unripe, fruits of his genius. Jakoff
is wondrous, considering his age. Mark Ham-
bourg, at 18, may be reckoned wonderful
a l*)t)ng pianists of all ages. Two years ago he was
chiefly a slogger, and though Beethoven and other
composers couldn’t bowl the boy out with their
curliest deliveries, his batting showed room for
improvement. Mark has returned to Australia a
great player. He drives the music to the off, or
pulls it round to leg, or gets a single through the
slips as feelingly as he sends it flying over the
boundary. There is pleasure in hearing Mark
rattle up a score on the Erard piano, fitted with
somebody s patent resonator. W hen a strikerof his
phenomenal ability has learned to infuse soul into
his smites, the world rightly regards him as a
noble object-lesson for the girl who worries the
piano next door, and we pray that the spinster in
question may profit by Mark’s example, or" lapse
into a despairing silence. John Lemmone puts
himself quite m the background at these concerts,
as though he were an artist of no importance.
Nevertheless he is the flautist of old, and his per-
formance delights everybody.
* fK * *
The Melbourne audience at the first of the
Hambourg concerts was mixed in the proportions
of about women to 1 man. Of. all musical dis-
plays, women are most fetched by piano playing
They worship Paderewski and dote on little Mark
Hambourg. Not the sounds extracted from the
box of harmony but the method of extraction it is
that appeals to their hysterical souls. They have
no ears for the sounds ; all their attention is con-
centrated upon the sounder, and when he isn’t
hitting out furiously at the instrument, their
interest grows cold. Average women, it is evi-
dent, don t half appreciate a beautifully modulated
rendering of a gentle composition, such as Chopin’s
Berceuse. Tms delightful music has charms
for men who are not themselves players.
All the women at a concert are addicted to the
piano, and their delight is in astonishment at the
technical skill of the performer’s hands. The per-
former must be of the male sex, too. A woman
key-puncher cannot excite them to madness. One
hears them confessing at their little musical even-
ings—“ Ido so love to see (not hear) a man at the
piano.”
At Poverty Point.
Theorbo : “Heard Max Hambourg for the first time,
on the premifere of this Melb. season, and had a remark-
ably good place, quite close to him, on the front seat down
from the organ. Neither he nor Jakoff seem to have the
faintest enthusiasm or sentiment. They are as cool as
cucumbers, directly they have done playing-, though both
very high-strung at their work, especially Max. Trilby
was present to my thought watching him. Before each
selection, he passes his hand over his brow, as if to recol-
lect, for he plays without music. You would think his
inside was all piano-wire. His trembling is like that of
the steam man I once saw, walking round and round.
The inspired marionette is suggested, everything is mere
faultless technique, and he almost staggered off when his
night’s work was done, after a finale by Rubinstein, the
most terrific flogging fight with a piano imaginable.
His actions may be classified. First and favorite,
a smiting of the piano, as thrashing with a
u-i Sometimes one hand scrabbles and scribbles,
while the other is poised in air, and down it swoops to
join in the torrent of sound. Then he clutches at the
keys as if they were harp-strings. Most lovely, in
Chopin’s Berceuse, was the fluttering of his hands, as a
pair of doves gently flapping. It made me think of a
passage in Dante’s Pare.diso, where two loving souls are
represented as circling round each other, murmur-
mg, cooing their affection. At times his fingers went
so fast that you could no more distinguish them than
bicycle spokes doing a scorcher. Again, they re-
minded me of the flickering spirit hands, showed by the
tneks of the mediums. Jakoff is a great violinist,
with the majesty of genius almost as distinct as
Max s. None of the constraint visible in all the
eminent ones I have seen, beginning with Camilla
Urso. There is neither modesty nor assurance. He is
simply regal. The bow, indeed, seems to guide the
hand, and work of itself, flying about at all angles. All
soloists but he appear to labor, as I have indicated. The
audience, with me, enjoyed him a little more than Max,
who enforces such awful respect. With Melbourne’s best
quality stalled immediately before me, I fancied Max
could not help thinking them drab-looking, as compared
with a block of his patrons out of London or Paris.
There was not the air of luxuriant wealth. Not the fresh'
bloom, gloss duvet on the costumes. Nor the sheen of
diamonds and jewellery at large. An evidence that Melb.
is not quite financially convalescent.”
Melbourne’s musical culchaw was fully represented, one
may suppose, at Marshall Hall’s orchestral concert, in the
Town Hall, t’other Saturday. A patient, cold-footed
audience filled the uncomfortable building, and listened
admiringly to an excellent performance of three principal
pieces a Wagnerian idyll, a Beethoven symphonj 7 , and a
concerto for violincello and orchestra. The concerto,
with Hattenbaeh as soloist, was evidently the most popu-
lar item on the programme. It gave the greatest pleasure
to the greatest number, judging from the applause when
Marshall Hall (who is the most modest and unassuming of
conductors, anyway) brought Hattenbaeh back to the
platform to take his “recall.” Therefore, the cant of
musical criticism was very severe upon this particular
success. The Argus said, “ The one novelty, Volkmann’s
concerto, is a composition which might, without any
serious loss—so far as the value of the music is concerned
have been omitted from the programme. It practically
consists of only a first movement, and scarcely merits ad-
mission at a classical concert.” The Age said : “ Herr
Louis Hattenbaeh brought forward a concerto by Volk-
mann for violincello and orchestra. Beyond a very
melodious second subject, and a cadenza of almost appal-
ling difficulty, there is not much about the work that
appears either striking or particularly interesting.” The
moral of these newspaper notices appears striking enough.
Musical criticism is intended to warn the public against
appreciating any instrumental music that is too melodious
and easy to comprehend.
Mel , b - : „." The . Sandow-like photos exhibited of the
muscley Miss Plying Jordan would not have been tolerated
in the last generation any more than her performance.
However the drama may stagnate, nobody can deny that
the lady gymnasts have afforded valuable physiological
instruction to the masses, and conduced to much cleaner
habits of nnnd.”
i F? n °i' a ® oh ] avi > well-known in Sydney as a ’cellist, has
left Australia for good to join her husband, recently con-
ductor of North Shore Orchestral Society, in Italy, where
he now leads the orchestra of an important theatre. The
Signora will appear as his principal ’cellist. She has had
practical sympathy shown her before leaving : and at the
Centenary Hall, where she was a great favorite, special
prayers were offered for “ safe preservation from sea peril
of our beloved sister.”
Why do the Early Christians in “ Sign of the Cross ’
prowl around Rome with clothes-props in their hands'
and what do they do for a living ?
~ Bat’d ” : “ In reply to ‘Timi,’ let me say tha
the south Sea opera of ‘Pomare’ is still unperformed
awaiting the magic touch of the entrepreneur. The com-
poser, Mr. Neville Barnett, who died in Sydney some two
t ? ar , s a £°> had the only copy of the musical score, and
what has become of it is unknown to the present deponent
who realised, when he found that the opera had no chance
Si™ 0 , tlon unl essheand the composer planked down
±.lOO each, that opera-writing does not pay unless you
possess the glory and the nothing of a name.’ I have
stopped half-way in the writing of the libretto of a M.L.
opera, as I find the fun of writing does not compensate
*? r t the -sore disappointment when it is completed. I hear
that brother Adams has started a Maoriland opera—but
then, (hat brilliant bard is quite young. Lawyer Baume,’
ot Auckland, is also, if I mistake not, writing a libretto
tor a local opera to be composed by Herr Karl Schmitt.”
(Continued on page 17 ).


CYANIDE
OP POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN &
SYDNEY—63 PITT ST.
CO.,
MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Prico “ " £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
it taTTItT* GUARANTEED
O Jfc JnLJN JL JJ JCa 98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prioes.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
178 William-st., Melbourne ;14 Currie-st., Adblaidb.
SIR JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & 00.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & 00. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville
Australasian
Representatives
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office 2s Chemical Laboratory,
Trlbphonbl
2444. J
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
The Simpson guckboard.
Easier than a Buggy, Stronger than
a Dray, No Vibration as in an ordi-
nary Buckboard, High Driving Seat,
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easily. It’s a Buggy, it’s a
Waggon—it’s both.
Simpson’s Patent Jump-seat Sul-
kies, “ Town and Country,”
lander,” “ King o’ the Road ” (pole
and shafts).
SIDNE Y SIMPSON,
Newtown, Sydney.
Perth— Robt. Wolfe. Gkraldton— A. Meadoworoft.
X A
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, ”
PERTH, W.A.
THE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double Bedrooms,
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &®.
Tariff - From 4s. to Bs. per Day.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney has
had a very successful half-year, though the regular 8 per
Uont dividend is paid with a microscopic margin.
The ’six months’ profits are £40,119 against £40,067 last
half and £40,303 the one previous. Of this £40,000 goes
in nav an 8 per cent, dividend, leaving a margin of only
m fn East half the margin was £67, and at June,’96,
there was a surplus of £337. For a weak institution this
would be sailing pretty close to the wind, but the Com-
mercial of Sydney, with £1,000,000 paid-up capital,
£1 010 000 reserve-fund, and £3,082,000 of cash and
Government securities, has no urgent necessity to accumu-
late further reserves just now. Deposits (£9,490,000) show
a steady improvement, and the Commercial follows the
wise course of piling up a large holding of Government
securities, the amount now held (£712,000) being £300,000
more than that of six months back. Altogether it is a
balance-sheet which fully justifies the public confidence
in the institution as about the most solid thing of its kind
in Australasia. * * *
Vic. State Land Bank has now advanced about
£3OO 000 to farmers on freehold security. This means a
saving of about £7500 a year in interest to the borrowers
—a decent-sized load already lifted off the hard-driven
agriculturist. * * *
The City Bank of Sydney states its profit for
the first half of ’97 at £BO4B, as compared with £BO7O and
£BlO7 for two previous half-years. This just enables it to
pay its little 4 per cent, dividend (£8000) and leaves £4B
over. The deadly accuracy with which the City Bank
just earns enough to cover its dividend with a nominal
balance over is shown underneath:—
Profits Dividend Surplus
December, 1893 ... £10,736 £10,418 £3lB
Deficit
June, 1894 11,468 11,613 145
Surplus
December, 1894 ... 10,004 10,000 4
June, 1895 10,030 10.000 30
December, 1895 ... 10,020 10,000 20
June, 1896 8,108 8,000 108
December, 1896 ... 8,071 8,000 71
June, 1897 8,048 8,000 48
This means that the City Bank has accumulated only
£454 in four years—it has written £139,132 off its reserves
in the same period to cover losses—and the accuracy with
which it just earns its 5 per cent, or 4 per cent, dividend,
as the case may be, is really marvellous. During these
four years the item “ Bank premises and furniture ” has
increased by £BO6O. It rose steadily till December, 1895,
and since then it has remained absolutely stationary ;
apparently the City Bank doesn’t believe in writing-off
anything for depreciation of the tables and chairs. With
such small margins as the above, it couldn’t write-off
much without breaking into the dividend.
The balance-sheet contains the least amount of
information possible. Assets appear under three head-
ings only : “Coin, bullion, and cash balances,” “Premises
and furniture,” and “ Bills discounted and all other Debts
due to the Bank.” The management doesn’t even
particularise such things as notes of other banks,
Government or other debentures, balances due by
other banks, &c. The only real news to be dug
out of this very reticent sheet is that deposits and
advances have both increased slightly, and that the cash
(£269,021) is equal to nearly 24 per cent, on the liabilities
to the public. If the Vic. banking law, which requires it
to be stated whether property is put in at cost, or, if not,
how much is written off or written up, and which
demands an explanation of many other particulars, were
in force in N.S.W., it should evoke quite a lot of informa-
tion. The Citv Bank’s shares (£8 paid up) are still selling
at about £3 165., and until they get to par, of which there
seems not the remotest hope at present, there is little
prospect of selling that £1,000,000 worth of new shares
which it W'as decided to issue in 1893. Apparently the
idea of making the City Bank a massive, live institution
will have to be hung up for a good many years. Its
deposits are not much more than half what they were in
its best year (1886), and the gaudy 12J per cent, dividends
it paid in its good times have left it with not very much
in the way of reserves to fall back upon.
* * * *
New South Wales railways and trains yielded
£149,920 more net revenue for the year ended June, ’97,
than for the one previous. The previous year’s railway
deficit was £321,690, so this year the shortage should be
down to about £172,000.
* » * »
The Commercial Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
has finished its second half-year under the new recon-
struction with remarkably good results. The profits are
£52,529 as compared with £41,636 last half-year. A year
ago the Commercial got a reduction of interest from 41 to
3 per cent, (having then just made a loss of £24,000
for the six months ended June, ’96, the need for some
such relief was sufficiently evident). According to the
figures of the present balance sheet, however, things have
since so far improved that the Commercial could now pay
the w'hole 4£ per cent, if necessary, and still have a
small b ilauee of profit. The stipulated 2 per cent,
dividend to preference shareholders absorbs £21,170 and
£33,000 is added to the special reserve account to cover
possible further losses in realising the assets of the old
bank. This makes £53,000 accumulated for this purpose
in the past year. How much will be wanted is, of course,
an unknown quantity dependent entirely on the property
market and other things. In the meantime the business
seems to be improving ; the profits show a very solid in-
crease ; and the writing-off of £1,200,000 lost capital, and
the deduction of the same amount from the inflated
values on the other side of the balance-sheet, should make
things reasonably sound. At present the Commercial is
earning about 3J per cent, on its capital, which is pro-
bably about as much as any Melbourne bank can expect
just now.
The dead or comatose assets of the old Commer-
cial are now kept in a separate “ Trust ” as special
security for £3,600,000 odd of the old deposits, and one
quaint proposal in the last reconstruction scheme is the
formation of a “ separate company ” to take these over.
This idea had much better he dropped ; it is the same one
which the B.N.Z. tried to such very little purpose with
its famous Estates Co. The thing may he called a new
co., but it must consist of the same old shareholders and
management and assets and liabilities as it does now
when it is merely a department of the bank, and the bank
will he responsible for any shortage just the same, and
the only difference will be a new name and some useless
expense for stamp-duty and stationery. During the last
half -year the Assets Trust has extinguished £lOO,OOO of its
liabilities, so steady progress is being effected towards
wiping off the mess that was made in ’93. The bank’s
own reconstructed deposits (redeemable at fixed dates)
are now worth 18s. 6d. in the £, and those of the Assets
Trust (redeemable only as cash becomes available through
the realisation of properties) are worth 15s. 9d., which
figures show that; public faith in the Commercial is dis-
tinctly reviving. The bank now holds £48,000 of the
Assets Trust deposits (£12,000 more than it did six months
ago), and, presuming it bought them at market-value,
that should account for £2400 of the profit, anyhow.
* • * *
Goldsbrough, Mort, and Co. (Ld.) is another
big reconstructed institution which is in trouble with its
“B ” debentures. It owes £1,491,400 at 4 per cent, to
“ A ” debenture-holders and £1,234,350 at 3 per cent, to
the “ B ” crowd, and it contrived to pay the former in
full for the year just ended, while the latter got 15s. per
cent., or only a quarter of the amount agreed upon. The
co. has had two re-arrangements, and has got a large re-
duction of interest, but should things get a little worse—
if they possibly can get worse —the urgent need for a
third re-arrangement seems possible. G.M. and Co.,
like many other institutions, is loaded down with too
much “A ” and “B ” debenture. It runs its huge busi-
ness with £923,000 capital and £2,800,000 borrowed
money, and the arrangement is a tfop h^avy.
* » * *
N.S.W. Mont de Piete reckons its half-year's
profit at £4225, as compared with £4284 and £4699 for
two previous half-years, so it appears that the financial
blight has even struck, to a limited extent, the thriving
joint-stock “ uncle ”in Castlereagh-street, Sydney. The
usual 10 per cent, dividend takes £3672, and the balance
goes to various reserves which now amount altogether to
£19,564. With this reasonably solid accumulation on
hand the co. is in a position to consider applications for
the hypothecation of the flat-iron in a liberal spirit.
* * * *
The Civil Service Building Society (Sydney)
puts a good face on a report that is none too cheerful.
The profits for the year are £359, whereas last year they
were £453, and £435 the one previous. A dividend of 2)4
percent, for the year (the society calls it a dividend of 5
per cent, for the half-year, but apparently it follows the
quaint practice of declaring a half-year’s dividend once a
year) absorbs £379, so the 120 deficiency is made up out of
the balance on hand. Another £3OO is added to reserve
fund, also out of the balance on hand. Said reserve is
now just £BOO. It takes more than half the microscopic
income to pay workingexpenses(income, £1213 ; expenses
and taxes, £686). Also, the society owes £1933 of deposits
from the public, which cost it £ll6 in interest, and then
it deposits £2OOO in the City Bank, for which it gets only
£lOl interest, which is a truly brilliant arrangement.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
(N.S.W.) still pursues its career of giddy finance. For the
half-year ended June, 1896, it earned £2285, and spent
£3OOO in paying a 6 per cent, dividend. For the half
ended Dec., ’96, it earned £3106 and paid £3OOO in divi-
dends. For the present half it earned £2876 and pays
£3OOO dividend. The balance to credit of profit and loss
has diminished in 1)4 years from £766 to £33 ; and, as the
N. and H.R. S.S. Co., despite its £lOO,OOO capital, has a re-
serve of only £5OO, the situation is interesting. If things
don’t improve, the next attempt at paying a 6 per cent,
dividend should break something.
• * * *
The South Melbourne Building Society — the in-
stitution run by pious Matthias Larkin, still, The Bulletin
believes, detained in a large stone building—winds up at
last. The depositors have got 6s. in the £by instalments,
and the sale of the remaining assets supplies enough to pay
another 9d., making 6s. 9d. in all. Pious Mat. Larkin got
away with the other 13s. 3d. and the capital.
* • * *
Deposits of the Premier Permanent Building
Society (Melb.) are now worth about eleven pence in the
£. The first dividend is still in the dim future, after years
of liquidation. When one thinks of all the smart Hebrew's
who bought up these deposits wholesale, just after the
suspension, at 14s. in the £, it seems that there is occa-
sionally a mighty hard frost even in Judea.
* * * *
Interesting to cattle-men. In Brisbane, lately,
a single hide from Esk sold at BJd. a lb. Total w'eight,
1001 b. ; total value, £3 7s. Bd. And this in a country
where many a hundred cattle are sold at 30s. a head.
* * * *
The rains in the Northern agricultural districts
of South Australia have come too late to do much good to
the wheat-crops, but the yield of hay of generally poor
quality will probably he very heavy owing to the rapid
growth of “self-sown” stuff—wild-oats, &c.—and chaff
promises to be as cheap next season as this year it has
been dear.
* * * *
A knock-down blow to some of the weaker
trustee companies will probably have been dealt by the
recent decision of Vic. Full Court, confirming the opinion
of the Judge below, to the effect that a trustee co. is no
more entitled than any other trustee to place the
money of its clients on fixed deposit in banks. There was
a proviso in the Act relating to trustee co’s which
appeared to suggest that they had such power, but the
court very properly held that if such an extraordinary
power was intended to be given, it would have been in
express words. The decision of the Full Court is in
opposition to an opinion given to the trustee co’s by the
English Q.C. Cozens-Hardy, but is in accord with opinions
given by Cussen and Woinarski, of Vic. bar. The banks
in this particular case were the City and the English,
Scottish and Australian.
* * * *
Judge Murray, sitting as a Royal Commission
to inquire into the prevalence of accidents at Broken Hill,
has been confronted with evidence diametrically opposite
on most points, managers standing solidly on one side
and men pretty solidly on the other. All, how'ever, are
more or less in agreement as to the incompetency or care-
lessness of workmen causing most of the accidents ; and,
in that connection, general manager Stewart, of the B.H.
Proprietary, gave evidence to the effect that in the 12
months to June 30 there had been discharged from that
mine alone 84 men for offences (such as lighting fires
underground) that might have led to accidents, and 461
for incompetency ; scores of others, after working a shift or
two, saw that they could not do the work,and left of their
own accord. Managers and men agree that a proper system
of apprenticing ought to be introduced —and this is likely
to be the most permanent benefit to follow the Commis-
sion. The apprentice system would have been adopted
long ago but for the hostility of the Miners’ Association to
any but full-pay men going into the mines ; the body is
more reasonable now, though, and will only grumble over
the conditions of engagement.
* * * *
B.H. Proprietary will shortly carry on the whole
of its smelting at Port Pirie.
Block 10 conoentrating-mill additions are now
almost complete.
* * • •
General manager Phillips announced, at the
starting of new winding-machinery for the Junction
North, that the directors propose the early erection of
large ore-dressing works, the pressing need of which has
been here remarked.
* * * *
The North Central 8.H., tired of sinking, is
now driving towards the B.H. Proprietary boundary at
700 ft. deep, and has thus far met with no encouragement.
* * * ♦
Practically every time the N.S.W. mining regu-
lations come into a court of law they are snorted at scorn-
fully and thrown out. The last pitiful exhibition made
of them was at Tarrawingee, the flux quarries outside
Broken Hill, where, two workmen having been killed
through using an iron bar in a partly-charged quarry-
hole, the manager and ganger were prosecuted. Held
that the regulation was ultra vires, section 64 of the
Mining Act not conferring power to regulate the use of
explosives.
* * * *
The price of copper has a big bearing on mining
for that metal in N.S.W. If it is going to sta.vforsome years
in the neighborhood of £5O a ton, thousands of men will be
employed in copper-mining, and ere long the production
of copper from N.S.W. will exceed that hitherto sent from
the whole of Australia—about 11,000 tons a year. Says
the Mechanical World :—“ For the past two or three
years the supply of copper from America has kept up the
stocks and kept down the prices, but the revival of
general trade in America has led to an increased con-
sumption of copper, with the result that there is nothing
left for this country. Although we are not likely to see
a repetition of the iniquitous copper-ring of several years
ago, there is bound to be a rise in the price. The present
price is practically £5l a ton, and it need surprise no one
to see it up to £7O. Beyond this price aluminium
may be able to compete.” Against this prediction the
latest development in the art of casting copper without
alloys is quoted. The Electrical Review says the new
metal is known as M.B. copper, possesses an additional
tensile strength of 33)4 per cent., and as the new copper
is said to carry the same amount of electrical current
with one-third the weight of metal, it will cause a distinct
change in the quantity used in electrical manufacture.
It is understood that Edison is much interested in the
new development.
* * ♦ *
A new Sydney mining tipster prints this : —“ I
look upon the Great Gobar as an A 1 concern, having such
a great body of solid oreasfew mines possess. It hasalso the
enormous advantage of carrying in its copper a great per-
centage of gold, so that no matter what the price of the
metal, copper, may be, it will always pay to work the mine
owing to its gold contents.” The Great Cobar is indeed
a splendid mine- -but the fact remains that given a fall in
copper like that which happened in silver a few years
hack, the Cobar, yea, even the Great Cobar mine, would
shut up like an oyster.
* * * *
The yarn told of a man who got a free pass from
the Labor Bureau to go prospecting in the Parkes
(N.S.W.) district, and, cleaning out old workings, came
across a rich deposit of gold, for which he was offered
£14,000 cash and 6000 shares, sounds like the Witney
Green deal—only the cash in question wasn’t £14,000.
* » » «
Another sensational gold-find from the summit
of Kimo’s Hill, near Gundagai, N.S.W. —only some 40ft.
away from where the last was found, and like the other
in serpentine. “ Amazing richness ”is the description ;it
must be if 601 b. of stone contains £2OOO worth of gold.
Also, said to be another 15cwt. of rich specimens. ‘ ‘ The
owners are asking a big price for the property.” So they
did last time. The owners can have the writer’s congratu-
lations for the find, and sympathy on the fact that pocket-
mines don’t catch on at present; that they are nearly
always offered for sale as soon as found is no recommen-
dation.
* • • *
At White Cliffs, notwithstanding five or six
years’ experience, opal mining, or rather fossicking, is
still little better than a lottery. One Bonnor bought a
semi-deserted claim a month or two back for £l5. To the
beginning of July he had picked out gem which had
realised £lll3.
* * * *
A.C. : The Bulletin takes little interest in
market-mining, but prefers to see mining regarded as a
solid industry, like sheep-raising or dairying. There are
not a few Eastern mines the shares in which, if treated as
investments, yield from 15 to 25 per cent, on market
prices year after year ; and are likely to do so long after
they have repaid their original capital—which some of
them have returned over and over again.
* * * *
A. 8 .: The co., we think, is in 120,000 shares.
No doubt the ore was picked—considering that they hope
to sell the mine soon. Have not seen the show.
* * * *
Late Towers crushings : Queen Cross, 6070 z.
from 334 tons. Mine now has 10-head going continuously.
Brilliant and St. George : 1181)4oz. from 864 tons.
Kelly’s block had a rough clean-up on 16th inst. : 2960 z.
from 290 tons. Victoria and Queen : 208)4®z- from 140
tons.
* * * *
The Brilliant, Charters Towers, pays its 86th
div. (6d.) on Aug. 2.
f • * *
The Towers div. -paying mines shut down for
the Jubilee. Miners enjoyed enforced idleness and the
grovel of their bosses —and had their wages docked during
the holidays. Deep and dreadful murinuringswere heard
on subsequent pay-day, and “ Gorsave” was unanimously
altered in a brimstone-and-sulphur manner to suit the
occasion.
* * » *
A Brisbane sharebroker, giving evidence before
the Mining Commission, opinioned that it was absolutely
criminal for a mining sec. to traffic as a broker in the
shares of his co. Of course ; and yet it has for years been
openly practised in the North, and is likely to continue
until the law sits down hard on those who thusly rake in
ths shekels.
* • * *
Ross, Ross & 00. financiers, 352 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, notify that money at very low interest is now
available on C.P. or Freehold Land. Owners writing to
this firm can always rely on prompt and straightforward
business.*
* * * *
Some Charters Towers items. Brilliant Block
shares show a rise of 13s. in four months. Late quota-
tion, contributing : buyer, 265. Latest reported crush-
ing : 801 oz. from 941 tons; estimated profit, £l3OO. Over-
draft rapidly diminishing ; another dividend era approach-
ing. Papuan Brilliant and Victoria roughly cleaned-up
122010 z. from 300 tons; 24th 6d. div. resulted.—-Kelly’s
Block cut a formation carrying 6in. of poor stone at 1000
feet. Crushing from Victory reef reported to look promis-
ing. Band of Hope ore haulage for fortnight ended
July 10 : 210 ton», making 1 340 tons then in paddock.——
Phosbe clean-up : 11550 z. from 414 tons.— —Another
Towers mine expected soon to enter dividend-payinyr list.
Brilliant Extended, on 14th, finished crushing 1349 tons
for IOOOoz. smelted gold. Overdraft now paid off and 00.
in credit; ore haulage, 3000 trucks for fortnight. North
Queen (old No. 6 Queen) prospecting shaft down 1340 ft. in
hard granite.
Charters Towers share-market improving of
late. Favorite local investment stocks : Brilliant and
St. George, Brilliant Blocks, Brilliant Centrals, lvelly’s
Blocks, and Pyrites co.’s shares. The hopes of Towers
speckers and investors are now turned towards the Queen
district, where important developments are daily ex-
pected.
* * * *
The attempt to “boom” Wadnaminga, in the
N.E. of S.A., has fizzled suddenly. At the beginning of
July only one claim was being worked, and by the middle
of the month that, too, was deserted.
* * * *
The Bulletin said a year ago, on the authority
of a famous mining-ma.i who, being no boomster, was
well detested when in Westralia, that the next big gold-
boom would be in British Columbia. The boom, it is
cabled, has come. “ Phenomenally rich ” —“ richest spot
on earth ” —and other real boom talk ; the Canadian com-
missioner in Sydney is besieged by people who want to
know how to get there ; Canadians are clamoring to con-
fine the working of the new camp to British subjects,
and the chances are that within the next few weeks
hundreds of men will be getting away from Australia,
more particularly Westralia, where the fortunes made in
mining by cable are keenly remembered and envied. The
Bulletin, though not the boomsters’ paper, at last even
finds itself in accord with W.A. papers in trying to stop
men and money from going out there. Says one : “It is
saddening to hear that close on three millions of English
capital has during the last ten months been sunk
in the gold - mines of British Columbia. It is
very saddening to Westralians, inasmuch as we
are convinced that this large sum of money
would have come to us, had we kept faith with the
British speculator. ‘Wild Cats’ have been the cause of
robbing us of the three millions which have gone. It is
sad to contemplate, and we wish a law existed which
would put behind the bars of justice those who, have
caused the ‘ slump’ we are at present experiencing.’’ The
writer mingles his tears with these, and thinks so too.
He never thought or said otherwise, and made heaps of
enemies by it. Latest sent to The Bulletin—“ lam now
on my way hack to the Alaska and British Columbia
country, wiaere I expect to remain all the summer. This
great gold-mining country is going to show up very well.
Take my word for it the good mines are more numerous
and visible than the}' were in Westralia w'hen we travelled
over it, though that is not saying much. It is a terrible
country to prospect; the winters are so severe. For six
and eight months in the year it is difficult to work at all,
unless you have prepared for the snow, and most of the
country is covered with a heavy moss.”
♦ * * »
W.A. Govt, has just passed some additional
regulations, to come into force Aug. 1, the effect of which
will he to do away almost entirely with any necessity to
comply with labor-conditions. By these new regulations
no application for forfeiture of a lease can be entertained
until applicant has first deposited £25 as security for costs
and expenses; and the warden has the power, on refusing
to recommend forfeiture, to award expenses and £5O
damages against complainant. This would not he so bad
if the wardens were always just and competent men ; but,
as matters stand, a man with a good case hasalmost an equal
chance with a man with a bad one. Only at present he can-
not be heavily cast in expenses if the warden chooses to
decide against evidence, or to draw his decision out of a
hat, as he often seems to do. Few' persons will, in future,
take the threatened risk ; and the result will be that
leaseholders will generally do as they please about keep-
ing on men. The Bulletin abhors “ jumping,” i.e., it
derides the corrupt and unbusinesslike idea that a valu-
able mine, w'hen forfeited, should become the property of
the pimps, sneaks and perjurers by whom the forfeiture
is so often brought about, instead of reverting to the State
and being publicly auctioned for the benefit of the con-
solidated revenue. But there is a happy medium—and
the W.A. Govt, hasn’t found that medium.
* * * *
The prospectus of the Coolgardießrewery, Ltd.,
was getting scorn from the London weeklies recently.
The scheme is for a capital of £lOO,OOO to acquire and ex-
tend a beer-factory which showed a profit of £4BBl for the
first 10 months of its business, the value of this small and
early—not to say unstable—monopoly being set dow'n at
£70,000.
• * * *
A party of miners, who could not get work in
the mines, took up an abandoned lease in the Mt.
Margaret district containing a peculiar formation not
unlike soapstone, and heavily charged with mundic. A
small crushing gave a return of over 2oz. per ton, a
similar amount showing in the tailings. The future suc-
cess of the Coolgardie goldfields will depend on the
number of payable mines having formations other than
quartz.
* * * *
Up to less than a year ago, in Westralia, neither
the prominent mining-men nor the newspapers outside
the Norseman dared to say anything for the building of
the Esperance-Coolgardie railway—a very offensive sub-
ject to the Forrest Govt, and the Six Families of Perth.
Nearly all in a boom want to be loyal to the Govt., and
say pleasant things to everybody, and to lie generally
about everything. That line is now clamored for all
round, and, as the writer declared three years ago, the
Forrest crowd will be forced to build it—“ to shoot or
give up the gun. ” Modest Maryanski—and he is no small
beer now—says : “ We must have the railway to Esperance
Bay. It is absolutely necessary that we should have cheap
timber and fuel for the mines here. If you get good
mining-laws, cheap timber and lumber for the mines, and
cheap freights to and from the seaboard, this colony will
beat the whole world as a gold-producing eountry.” It is
the fate of the Govt, to build that line, in spite of itself.
* » * *
“The new find at Mt. Remarkable, near
Yerilla, gives a 2oz. prospect. About 50,000 tons are in
sight, and the country haß'heen pegged for miles.” More
than remarkable, if the news did not come from Cool-
gardie, where there are more newspaper-liars to the
square mile than anywhere else. But truth comes with
depression, and who knows that this may not be true 1 A
boom-time is a lying-time everywhere.
* * •
A little news about Bayley’s: “ The work of
prospecting from the main shaft has been resumed. The
shaft is 466 ft. deep.” And around that shaft the writer
regrets to say there are tens of thousands of tons of
quartz as white as a boar’s tusk and almost as barren in
gold. Occasional pockets may be found in it, perhaps
costing more to find than they are worth, but the great
bulk is too poor for anything, a fact known to every miner
working in the mine three years ago, but concealed from
public belief chiefly by the aid of that degraded institu-
tion—the Sup-Press.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing 1
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOEOUG-HLY SHBUBTKI.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suitable for
BUSINESS RIDING - PICNICING
OFFICE - BUSH - SPORT
PROMENADE TRAVELLING and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN'S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE LEX RIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
David Jones & Company,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
B. L. COBTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO -6d. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations,
ZEE. CXJSEKriER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
BRiXDT.
The PUREST BRANDY known, being distilled SOLELY from picked brandy
grapes, and each bottle analysed by the French Government Chief Expert. All
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES.
Price No Higher than Other Leading Brands.
OCIETY
“The Australasian troops have been here
just long enough to realise that the ‘ crimson
thread of kinship ’ only exists between ordinary
British military officialdom and ‘ Britain’s sons
across the sea,’ just so long as it is not used as a
ferny-rope to guide the ‘Greater Britons’ home,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“ Chamberlain may do his hospitable damnedest
to ‘gather up the strings of the Empire’ and
make the Australians feel at home, but
the padded, pompous B.M. officer’s priggish
treatment of the visiting troops would burst
up the best scheme of a ‘ united empire.’ The
N.S.W. Mounted Rifles are lodged on the plains
of Hounslow, in an uninviting white-washed barn
where they were nearly corpsed by the sharp, un-
seasonable weather. Like Buffalo Bills, Red
Indians, or dancing Hottentots, they were com-
pelled—by some agreement with the War Office—
to ‘ show ’ at. the Islington Tournament twice a
day in the side-splitting farce of ‘ capturing a
bushranger ’ —veritably working their passage. [lt
is now stated that they were paid .£5OO for the
show.] If the Premiers wero ‘guests’ of the
military, doubtless Reid would be asked to do
some ‘ tumbling,’ Turner to play the bones, whilst
Seddon boxed the Zoo goat, and Kingston stump-
speeched on ‘ Querulous Matrons and Cocky Doc-
tors ’ —and ‘ quaite good enough for the blawsted
kerloneyul kon vicks.’ ‘Faw-em faw-ers. Raight
turn. Marrreh !’ ”
“ A.ll the colonial troops at Chelsea Barracks
were in a state of mild mutiny within a week of
landing at their contemptuous treatment. The
V. and S. A. M. R., and W. A. troops per Orotava
were marched on foot for six miles from St. Pan-
eras Station to Chelsea on their arrival behind a
straggling band of the Scots Greys. The absurdity
of marching mounted men, after six weeks’ ship-
board, through the rough-cobbled or asphalted
•streets was exemplified in the result, as many
IN DROUGHT-TIME.
Trying to raise a fallen beast—by twisting its tail and shaking a hat in front to make the
animal attempt a charge.
were footsore tor days afterwards. The crowning
insult arose over the inspection-day, when the
tickets issued to the individual members of the
troop for their friends’ use bore a stamped injunc-
tion on the back : ‘ Admission by hack gate only.’
The front gate was reserved for the ladies of the
‘ Hinglish hossifers, bless yer ’eart, ’ and the
colonials’ pals could go to blazes or come in through
the dirty slums. The Daily Mail, backed by the
other papers, made such a storm over this that
Salisbury interested himself, and things are very
different since.”
• • • *
“Jimmie Pannikin ” to The Bulletin :
A new thing in addresses. The passengers of the R.M.S.
Ballaarat presented Lieut. Chick Cox (officer command-
ing) with an address complimenting him upon the good
behavior of the N.S.W. Lancers on their voyage to Eng-
land. I wish to make a few remarks. I have been re-
markless for a long time. Why shouldn’t the N.S.W.
Lancers (who are not professional soldiers, mind you) be-
have just as well as, say, the second-class passengers ? All
the Lancers are respectable young fellows. Some of them
have very good social and professional positions. I can
quite understand how the Lancers’ gorge rose at the in-
sulting patronage of the passengers. If I had been one of
the Lancers, I’d have retaliated in kind by presenting the
captain with an address congratulating him upon the
really admirable behavior of the second-class passengers,
and also upon the exceedingly creditable conduct of the
first-class passengers. A sensible crowd would have taken
the good conduct of such young men as the Lancers as a
matter of course ; but the Ballaarat crowd professed to
deem the Lancers’ normal behavior a matter for surprise,
and, therefore, worthy of special recognition. Of course,
the address was weli-meant. The insults of ignorance
are often very well-meant, but d annoying all the
same. — Yours-agin-all-addresses, Jimmie Pannikin.
* * • *
Pointed out by Rev. P. G. Smith at Goul-
burn Anglican Synod, that Australian parsons
have no business with any style but “ minister ” ;
whereupon the degraded Smith was promptly sat
upon by all the self-dubbed “ rectahs ” and
“ vicahs,’ who would scorn to share with common
dissenting persons a degrading appellation which
actually means “ servant! ” The Anglican parson
who wrote, “ Without black velvet breeches—
what is Man! ” probably intended no joke after all!
* * « *
Sydney’s old -friend, Dr. Jefferis, of the
strident voice and monkey shave, was the chief
figure in the memorial services at Adelaide for the
dead explorers, Wells and Jones, and the further
advt. of the modest Calvert. One point in his
reverence’s address had relation to the alleged fact
that Wells, asked if he would like to take a flask
of brandy on his flying trip with Jones, replied
that he preferred to take a prayer-book. “We
can thank the Lord,” said Pastor Jefferis, “ that
this young man preferred the book of Common
Prayer to a flask of brandy. ” But why not take
both ?
• * • *
A somewhat “elevated” Irishman ex-
plained the letters, “ V.R.1.,” on Jubilee night as
‘ ‘ Yietoria Ruined Ireland. ” (Cheers.)
• • * •
They had been five solid weeks at sea, and
were nearing the Australian coast when the com-
mittee got up some sports for the children.
Amongst the other amusements was ducking in a
tub of water for apples, but the tub in use was too
deep for the youngsters, so the captain turned to
one of a number of young ecclesiastics who were on
board and said, “ This tub is too big, you’d better
have a smaller one fetched from the bathroom.”
“ Ah, sure, sir,” cried his reverence, innocently,
“ and where’s the bathroom ? ” In such cases
celibacy is surely a virtue.
* » « *
During 10 days of the present month there
were 13 births in Tam worth (N.S.W.), and seven
of those were illegitimate. Two of the mothers
were under 19 years of age, the rest anywhere.
Here’s a mission chance for the Sunday-Olosing-
Chow-Teaching Brigade.
A NEW METHOD.
ARTLESS LITTLE INNOCENT ( to leader of German hand, present-
ing him with a copper) : “ Please, Mr. Musician, don't
play any more. We can't afford it—mother says this is
all the money she’s got."—(And they didn’t.)
A Yic. anti-vaccinationist “got” 40s. or
three days a few weeks back, and in default of the
£2 a warrant of commitment was issued. It was
then pointed out that the man lived at the top of
an almost inaccessible perch in the midst of
almost impenetrable scrub in furthest Croajinga-
long, and that, assuming the trooper succeeded in
finding him at home, it would occupy more than
the three days to convey him to the nearest lock-
up —so that he would have served his sentence
before completing his journey. The warrant was
withdrawn.
*** * *
Queensland Govt, has inaugurated an
agricultural college for the benefit of bucolic in-
dustries. Jenkins, of Queen-st., has placed his
son in this institution for a few years, and men-
tions the fact to his crony, Blenkins. “But,”
says Blenkins, “ I didn’t think you intended him
to be a farmer ! ” “ Nor do I; but, you see, he
isn’t strong, and I thought a year or two at farm
work would do him good. Then I shall take him
into the office ”!! ! Pumpkins-ctm-sanatorium !
* * * *
X.Z. : “You remark on a Sydney doc-
tor’s objection to seeing the statute-book stained
with a law to force people into a hospital, and
mention consumptives particularly. The objec-
tion is most reasonable as hospitals are now built.
Would he himself, if consumptive, go gladly into
a huge barrack, whose only occupants were within,
say, a year to a week of death from phthisis?
Would he, if a typhoid patient knowing himself
to be on the cliff-edge of death, gladly go into a
typhoid ward in Westralia and aid in adding to
and swallowing up the foulness of the air ? The
cottage system—best of all, a tent system in a dry
air like Hay or Deniliquin—is what is called for.
To place a hundred tuberculous patients in one big
barrack is plain murder.”
* * * *
The Argus was too much shocked to record,
as the Age did, the fact of Johanna M'Mahon’s
successful upsetting of the Holy Bible in the mud at
the Brunswick procession. The “ Grane ” generally
regards this particular performance as the test of
the moral victory of the occasion, and it would not
be surprising to hear of Mrs. Johanna M‘Mahon
being canonised at the proper time.
Melb. : “Going into town
by railway to-day, I was nearly
stopped. Every compartment
had just one woman in it. At
last I plunged for the only good-
looking damsel as the safest.
* * *
Sydney men say it isn’t
what they see when women
mount the tops of ’buses that
will force them to wear smoked
glasses, but what they ought to
see and, very often, don’t.
* * *
Melb. : “Loafers get drunk
by volunteering to clean out
brewers’ drains, and eating the
alcohol-saturated grains. Then
they live all day on a halfpenny
bowl of soup, at Herbert Booth’s
Metropole, and Heaven is at-
tained, short cut.”
* * *
The bogus tea-merchant
dodge has of late been going
strong in some N.S.W. country
districts. It is a poor, clumsy
device, but a swindle needs to be
very poor and clumsy before it
can be called an absolute failure.
A seedy man, who looks as if he
had seen better days, offers lib.
packets of tea at 25., with a prize
m each packet. The buyer, by
special request, empties out the
tea to make sure the prize is
there. It is. Prize consists of a
huge ring, apparently gold, but
presumably brass, that would be
a loose fit on the lady’s big toe.
As she obviously can’t wear it,
the agent offers to get it exchanged
for a smaller one, 18-carat, with an •
opal in it, and takes it away for
the purpose. Almost every house-
wife in one big district has now
got 3d. worth of tea-dust for 25.,
and is waiting for the return of
the agent driving a van loaded
with jewellery and silver tea-sets
for distribution. But the seedy
man in the dusty soft hat never
comes back.
A Roman holiday, indeed I S.M. Herald
wire:—
GULGONG, Saturday.
A wallaby drive took place to-day at Mr. R. Rouge’s
Biraganbil estate. Eighty ladies and gentlemen
attended. 307 kangaroos and wallabies were killed. Mr.
Thomas West, of Guntawang, was the highest scorer with
A pure-bred English fox was killed. A boy named
Phillips was shot in the ankle with a full charge of shot,
and Mr. Stanley Rouse’s horse was shot in the side. Mrs.
Rouse provided a splendid luncheon
* * * *
Filthy Perth: Slab from “remarkable
revelations ” in a recent municipal report:—
Residence, St. George’s-terrace. A fowl-house, 23ft. x
9ft. 6in., in the yard of these premises has been recently
converted into a dwelling-place for a man, his wife, and
three children, and for which a rental of 7s. 6d. per week
is charged, the only structural alterations being the sub-
stitution of galvanised iron for wire-netting. The sleep-
ing-place, lift, x 9ft. x 7ft., containing 693 cubic feet.,
has no windows, and the arrangement requires speedv
eondemnation.
birdie, come, and roost with me !
THE THEATRICAL MARKET.
Thespian : “ Well , have you jot a play to suit
you yet?”
Manager : “ No — l’ve just looked at a lot, hut one
set weren't immoral enough, and the others
weren't sufficiently religious / ”
TRUE LOVE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
True Love, like the blue rolling ocean,
Hath seasons of fitful unrest; .
But unchanged is the depth of devotion
Which lies ’neath its storm-ruffled crest.
It may ebb as the tide when receding,
And seem as though gone evermore,
But returning, with fervor exceeding,
Flows again like the tide to its shore.
W.A.
J.M.
SUSPENSE.
I have written my darling a letter,
A letter of passionate stress ;
Would my powers were stronger and better
To tell all I strive to express ;
For the weight of the fate that is lying
On the chance of her “ No ” or her “ Yes ”
Will deal me disaster undying,
Or a life one eternal caress.
Her answer is lying before me
Untouched ! for swift-coursing chills press
On my limbs, like the ice on the stormy
Sea tracts, holding all in duress,
Till I move—ah !so slowly—to take it,
Faint and fearful, not daring to guess.
And the seal —it costs hours just to break it
But the answer, the answer is——“ Yes ! ”
YARRSS.


rHARRTN &T 0 N *X*' l?i (
*'
6.6 KING S? SYDNty
VP/
A gg
' VI ? _
'* P Ar£-' ’
<3s P.NU ' \/ /V —^
r//S r/BAf / Buy fBOM+s
Complete and TTp-to-Date Stock of all Requisites,
SXPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms FREE.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
TpTcSfSE’S CELEBRATED
" LOTION.
(i >■<■<<tfxt Discovert/
oj' Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Siylit, Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. »t. \. It 0»H, Chemist, 531 Georsi'e-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Hot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Pat terns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MQUNTCASTLE 2s SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
Why didn’t Attorney-General Isaacs give
an opinion on the meaning of the much-discussed
Party Processions Act ? Also, why did Peacoqk
scoot to Creswick at such a critical moment in his
department’s history ? Had .the fear of the Orange
vote in Richardson’s old constituency anything to
do with the latter, or the fear of a block R. C. vote
against the Turner Ministry, in a month or two,
with the former ?
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free: or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
WAHOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
A FARMER AT BLAYNEY CURED.
Blayney, N.S.W., 26th June, 1897.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
Dear Sir,—l suffered terribly from Indigestion and
Chronic Constipation. I had no appetite, and iM
forced myself to eat the consequences were fearful.
I lost weight rapidly until reduced to 8 stone. Doc-
tors could do nothing for me, and patent-medicines
failed to relieve. I tried Loasby’s “ Wahoo,” and the
effect was magical. It acted on the bowels imme-
diately, and then my other troubles gradually dis-
appeared. Since taking the first dose of “Wahoo”
my weight has increased to 10 stone. I can’t speak
too highly of Loasby’s “ Waiioo.”— Yours truly,
GEO. SEYMOUR.
WAHOO!
Price 26, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s “Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
“One noticeable matter at Kalgoorlie,”
writes a Bulletin correspondent, “is the super-
abundance of johnnies, all exactly alike. They
turn up the bottoms of their trousahs, call water
‘ watah,’ laugh inordinately amongst themselves
about nothing in particular, have the same reced-
ing foreheads and retreating chins, and the one
typical look of helpless inanity. At t e recent
record-reign corroboree they displayed an aggres-
sive loyalty to the Crown, insisted ostentatiously
on taking off their hats when ‘ Gorsave ’ was
being howled, and felt called upon to loudly pro-
claim that they nevaw, nevaw should be slaves.
On th - other hand they are plucky and orderly,
and generally work for their living. Some do
fencing or rough-carpentering, or carry round the
‘ papaws ’ for sale. Nearly every English
mining-co. lias its inevitable attendant jackaroo
johnnie, who is cook, clerk, or washerman—per-
haps all three combined. One amusing phase is
that those who have been a year or so on the fields
are palpably ashamed of their johnnydom, for
they turn down the bottoms of their trousahs, go
without collahs, and effect other shallow attempts
at disguise. They don’t seem to have acquired
the knack of accumulating money, and it’s not
easy to forecast what will become of them when
they grow old, ‘ stranded on a foreign soil.’
Perhaps by that time Government will have seen
its way to provide an asylum for ‘ poor and dis-
tressed johnnies-’ ”
* * * *
From the S.A. Church News (Adelaide) :
Quiet Day for Women. —At the request of several
ladies, Canon Green proposes to conduct a quiet day for
women in St. Peter's, Glenelg, on August 25th. The ser-
vices will begin on the evening of the 24th. Full particu-
lars will be given later on. Names of those who may
wish to attend may be sent to the Sisters of the Church
or to Mrs. Green, the Rectory, Glenelg, who will answer
any enquiries. The probabie cost to each visitor will be
about 7s. 6d.
How moderate ! And yet the parsons wonder
why this wicked world laughs at them !
A NICE PLAYTHING.
Female: “What time does the train leave?”
Clerk : “Seven-thirty. That’s the sixth time I’ve
told you, madam. ”
Female: “ I know ; but my little boy says he likes
to hear you tal K!”
As the editor of one of the Adelaide Satur-
day evening papers wrote what was considered by
the authorities a too-sensational account of the
last previous execution, the sheriff declined to
allow him to witness the hanging of Beard, the
Streaky Bay murderer, this month.
» * * »
At a Melbourne inquest on a child, its 18-
year-old unmarried mother deposed that she had
only seen its father twice —when she had visited
him to have teeth drawn. Despatch is a desidera-
tum in the dentist business !
WHAT THEY WERE DOING .
“We are playing at getting married. Willie’s the bridegroom, and Elsie’s the bride, and
Tm the parson.”
Their Aunt: “But what is poor baby doing over there? ”
“01 she’s waiting to be bom !”
“A husband is a prisoner on a throne.”
French.
It will be interesting to note the machinery
provisions, the qualifications of the officers and
general administrative paraphernalia, provided
by the Kansas (U.S.) legislature for the en-
forcement of its proposed new statute, “Thou
shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife.” One bad
thought that this had dropped out of the Ten
Commandments as being obsolete, but there s
consolation. A penal statute is strictly construed,
and, accordingly, the prohibition against coveting
will be limited to the case of one’s next-door
neighbor. Hence it is advisable to live next-door
to a bachelor in Kansas.
Here is a knotty point for Kansas lawyers under
the Ten Commandments statute ! Isn’t the
coveted wife in every case a voluntary or, occasion-
ally, an involuntary, accomplice in the coveting
process? Doesn’t she want to be coveted, if no
more? And doesn't her husband, in most cases,
want the same, but no more ? The point is :
shouldn’t their evidence be excluded as being the
evidence of accomplices ? The canonists of Kan-
sas, no doubt, have anticipated the difficulty.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s tear of
sympathy is herewith dropped
over the outraged feelings of
the gentleman who wants the
new N.S.W. penny postage-
stamp withdrawn forthwith,
because, horribile diet'd! the
“ badge ” of the colony is dis-
played upon a shield, “as if
it wereacoat-of-arins.” Even
if this remarkable person
hadn’t been wildly astray in
his own blazonry, an “ a ss’s
head, vert ” should figure
largely in the “ coat ’ of any-
body who thinks such foole-
ries worth a ponderous pro-
test in print.
* * *
When the Old-age Pen-
sion Commission was at Bal-
larat Benevolent Asylum late-
ly, Commissioner Outtrim told
Superintendent Gale it was
hard the married couples
should be parted at night.
Gale : “ Oh, they run about
the grounds together, and see
each other plentv of times. ”
• * *
“The prisoner will be
bound over in his own remini-
scences and one surety of £3O.
—Maoriland J.P.
Australians probably export the best beef
in creation, and undoubtedly eat some of the
worst. Said a Northern pastoralist and butcher,
boastfuliv : “We don’t slaughter a single waster
for sale. "No—we feed the pigs with them. O yes,
we sell the pork ! ” He looked upon the pig as a
sort of patent purifier for the conversion of dis-
eased beef into healthy bacon.
* * * *
The Himperial Hinstitute “authorities”
have at last done something to deserve Australia’s
gratitude. They gave a Diamond Jubilee dinner,
whereat “ colonial journalists were refused the
customary facilities afforded at public functions
for reporting the proceedings.” The authorities,
perhaps, wanted to save us from the customary
dose of cable drivel.
Minister Gould’s new N.S.W. Licensing
Bill provides that a married woman who has
obtained a protection-order, or judicial separation
or divorce, may hold a publican’s license or obtain
a. new one. But only a few months ago Gould,
Cook, Garrard, and the revered Brunker were
unanimously agreed that barmaids should be ex-
cluded from hotel service. What is the difference
between a divorced etcetera woman obtaining a
license and a barmaid retailing? And, indeed,
are not many barmaids now serving divorced
women etcetera ?
* * * *
Melbourne news item :
In prosecuting a woman named Annie Hunter, at the
local court yesterday, for being the occupier of a disor-
derlv house, Plain-clothes Constable Booth drew the
attention of the bench to the fact that it was only by
clearing out the occupiers of the accommodation-houses
that the evil could be eradicated. Mr. Hurst J.P., chair-
man of the bench, sympathised with the police m their
endeavors to keep the streets clear, and announced that
accused would be imprisoned for 12 weeks as an example
to others. .
Pity Plain-clothes Constable Booth didn t further
add that the only way to abolish disorderly
houses was to publish the name of the respectable,
pious man who let his premises for such purposes,
an after-dinner confidence.
Tom : “It was just this way—l was lonely ; in fact, I married for
sympathy."
DICK: “ Well, old man, let me assure you that you have mine.”
and give him 12 weeks as an example to other
moral gentlemen of affluence.
* * * *
The stronger a girl's constitution the more
she needs to be spoon-fed occasionally.
<: » * *
Dear Bulletin, —In re “Five Years of
Socialism,” the introduction of linotypes in Maori
land is displacing the female compositor. The
male comp, gets the preference.—J.S.D.
* * * *
Sydney D.T. advt.
TV/TATRlMONY.—Gentlewoman, widow, no dowry,
IVI no encumbrance, amiable, companionable, intel-
ligent, stylish, unquestionable reputation, capable
housekeeper, hereby suggests genuine correspondence
with middle-aged or elderly gentleman, town or
country. Success, 249 Parramatta-rd., Leichhardt.
All the virtues and all the graces !
WHEN, WHERE, HOW, WHY, &c.
Hug her neatly, in the dancing, shimmering moonshine,
Swear for her you’d die . . . and other lies ;
pop it sweetly when the glancing, simmering spoonshine—
Escaping from a sigh—glows in her eyes.
V,hen she says “Yes!” haste ! ! wed her while she’s
willing ;
Rush on ! there’s stacks of nuptial joy ahead,
The gentle heart you’ve won likes cooing, billing.
She’ll make . . . the shops all bill you once you’re wed.
Alone.
DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She flashes on the inner sight,
In other guise by memory given,
Unto her former self as bright
As heaven is to one’s dreams of heaven.
Death came. She knew no cold embrace.
She felt no dart; she drank no cup,
’Twas but God’s shadow on her face,
As low He stooped to lift her up.
Dunedin, M.L.
Constance Clyde.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
S.E.: The Orange society was so noted for its
disloyalty at the beginning of Queen Victoria’s reign that
it had to be suppressed, the immediate cause of such sup-
pression being its attempt to get a “foreign” potentate,
the Duke of Cumberland and King’ cf Hanover, on the
English throne Bak : Why not give us some definite
information about the woman’s release instead of wrap-
ping up a hot libel in the guise of a story ? H.H. :If
you die in Westralia per dynamite, typhoid, hanging, or
nigger-spear the jury finds a verdict of “ natural causes.”
Anything else is reported as “death under peculiar cir-
cumstances.” W. : “Game” is a queer quality in a
man. The writer has seen a Sydney pugilist who took his
25 lashes with the cat, for garrotting, without a whimper,
and cursed the warder who asked him if he would take
the customary “ nip ” when taken down, “ cut it ” before
an opponent armed with a pair of boxing gloves ... Nil :
Looked at it several times, hut let it go after all on the
assumption that doctors are capable of any enormity in
the way of billing Govt Hood B. :It was the printer.
A “1” was substituted for a “5.” Buzz (G.) : You
haven’t hit it this time ...Racer: Thanks, but already
noticed John Lan. (M.L.): Will print your good, homely
verses -Miss Nobody :“A ‘lady’ sprung from ignorant
nothing into ignorant something.” Good phrase
Frances Frewern : Send full address to Manager of Hul-
IjKTIN S.C.S. : Received Ernest C. : What play, and
who is the man? We don’t print enigmas .... .J. A. B. :
Any sort will do W.J.M.: Drawing unavailable 1 lie
Straggler : Thanks Robin S. : That Maori-carvings
business untouchable. Details too lurid Tah: lie
find “Brown” uninteresting D.A.W. : The church,
claiming to be engaged in holy work, naturally glori ss
the rich man who feeds it with £40,000. He gets his
brazen tablet pour encourager les autres, and because he
flattered—in good faith, perhaps—the church’s vanity,
and bought its gratitude. Gratitude is a virtue, even if
it be only a lively sense of favors to come from the widow
of deceased. Piety springs from a sense of favors to
come Starlight: “Curse” too obviously built-up. You
spread the net in sight of the birds J.S.N. : Will print.
E.S. : To admit all “the press” would be a tough con-
tract. You could drum up in Sydney the accredited
representatives of about 600 or 700 papers —local, Austra-
lasian and foreign P.B. : You have no right to shoot a
man simply because you see him taking away “ three
pounds’ worth of your property at night.” You have
only a right to shoot when your own life (or that of your
family) is in danger. If you really think you should
shoot on account merely of “ £3 worth of property,” you
are simplv a murderer M.D. :If you buy goods for 10s„
and sell them for £l, you, of course, make 100 per cent. .
B. : Good story Careena : Regret unavailable
J.C.U. : Milk and water—and the milk’s tuberculous
C. : The Syrian pedlar retorts—and in verse!
Yar. : “ Con victoria ” is an old Bulletin coinage
A.A.G. : That's all right. .Deb D. : Too primitive a
story. ...J.H.M.: Good for illustration The Vend 6an :
To hand J.S.L. : Thanks. A.C.: A majority of the
Presbyterian Assembly sensibly supports the Gothenburg
system, and what the kirk doesn’t know about whisky
isn’t worth knowing A.B. (Vic.) : Worthless. K.V.:
Not only decline it, but decline to live in the same coun-
try with it. Wherefore, etc James : “ And evermore,
when the dry north wind moans, Will we remember Alfred
Wells and Jones.” Yes, that’s the worst of dying in the
limelight, especially if you rhyme with bones, or groans, or
melancholy monotones 6 x 8 : Verse unusable
A.Q.A. : Not quite up M. (Melb.) : Declined Con-
verted One : Unprintable Maid: Thanks for “Dreamy
Thoughts on Staying in Bed.” Please add “ Reflections
on Doing my Hair” and “Some Lines on Buttoning my
Best Boots.” F.A.P. : Received Ben Jonson : In-
glorious Ben ! A.E.K.: Sestina stiff Bog Swagman :
Gone where the dead MS. goes L.M.D.: Verse dull
Jack Shay : Worthless R. : Who wrote those German
lines? J.V.B. : Not up L.R.M. : Yarn reads stagey
and unreal. ...Tawhaio: No value Age: About as
much poetry as a female angel eating scrap-iron
Audley : Not up to Bulletin standard M. : But don’t
friends invariably predict brilliant careers for nice-looking
girls? The Swimmer : Thanks XXXXX : Nothing
extra about your jokes Col: But then, you see, The
Bulletin artist doesn’t always depict the backblocks
J.P. as a wild Irishman from Tipperary. He generally
depicts him as a dirty, hairy n-an, and—well, you jump
to rash conclusions J.D. : Ancient history Broome :
24 Kobar: That particular wheeze has been done 20
times with variations .... Miner : Mechanical part of your
verse all right; what it wants is Soul. We are a hog for
Soul Moa : Note that Premier Reid was born at John-
stone. The present scribe knows that town well, and it is
a darned poor place to be born at Topsy : Can't make
a story out of the fact that Old Dad, when he wak young,
was mashed on a variety artist, who went away and
didn’t come back. Also, “ Smiff kins and Biff kins ”is even
worse than Old Dad The Josser : Mournful tale of how
Cain came back in his old age dead broke. Considering.
Trotter B. . Ghost-yarns appeal to only a primitive
intelligence Quiz. :No go A.E. : Waste ot-Time
not yours, of course. Ray S. : Not enough general
interest. Eurotah : Possibly W.P. : Not quite
enough force. And why “ foul knowledge ”in the his-
toric way of a man with a maid? Janus : Black care sits
behind the horseman ; and behind many a silk-hatted,
fat-jmvled, big-paunched strutter of the Block walks the
spectre of a gaunt suburban wife lamentably screening
cinders, while at her skirts three dirty habit • deliriously
squawk S.G. : “H.P.” may do Wincnester : Not
skill enough. J.F.S. : “Dietary” verse not up...
F.S.Y. : The illicit baby is a commonplace G.D. : An
old story H.C.J. : Useless Ranebo : One more in
competent—gone to his death.


CALLAGHAN BOOTS.
It’s the Wear
that tests the merits of the Boots you
buy. If the material and workman-
ship are not of the best, you will find
it out only too soon. One pair of
CftllcliglicLn Boots, however, will
outlast two pairs of the ordinary kind,
and at the same time retain their good
shape to the last moment.
Ladies’ Glace Lace or Button Boots,
14/6 to 25/-, add 9d. for Postage.
Gentlemen's Calf Lace Boots,
17/6 to 28/6, add 1/- for Postage.
Ask any Wearer of
Callaghan Boots.
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney
Bidding farewell to dear old England
Premier Reid said he had staked his political for-
tunes on inducing N.S. Wales to emulate the
policy which had made England great, It now
transpires that Napoleon’s defeat at Waterloo was
du ®> popularly and erroneously assumed
—to Wellington and Blucher, but to a valiant
bagman called Cobden. Pulsford, not Nelson
deserves the glory of Trafalgar. ’
Majah J. 0. Neild, the other day, put 147
questions on the N.S.W. Assembly notice-paper
about civil service matters. Under the Super-
annuation swindle a public servant had to con-
tribute to the Fund whether he would or not. If
he reached the age of 60 and was still in the
service, he was entitled to a pension. If he left or
was sacked even a day before the statutory age he
* OS ii “is pension and had merely a claim, not too
well-defined to a gratuity. And it is alleged—
this is what Neild is asking 147 questions about
that a number of civil servants who were just on
the verge of 60 were summarily sacked by the new
Board, thus missing their pensions by a few
months or weeks or even days, after many years
of enforced contribution to the fund. And in four
cases—concerning which Neild asks 46 questions—
it is even alleg-ed that the gratuity was refused also.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-knownopticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPEOTFn
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.’ -
A WOMA N'S LETTER.
~ „ Sydney, July 27, 1897.
Mt Dkab Myee—
Speaking generally, things in Sydney are no
cheaper than they are in Melbourne. There are
vast quantities of eheap-and-nasty importations
here, and I constantly encounter enthusiastic
visitors from the South rushing off to buy “such
beautiful shoes and gloves,’ at cataclysmal prices;
a fortnight later their ardor is damped, for by
that time the earthly career of the inexpensive
purchases is closed for ever. There is less of the
phenomenally cheap production in Melb., and less
consequent shabbiness, but Sydney seems to enjoy
being made the dumping-ground for a world’s
shoddy.
The highly-decorated stewards at the com-
mercial travellers’ ball, on Triday evening, found
that, contrary to usual custom, there were not
‘ la “, enough girls to go round. Disconsolate males,
puffing cigars, stood about in groups in the corri-
dors all the evening, entirely abandoning all hope
of capturing one of the few women present and
leading her forth to gyrate in the almost
empty ball-room. Only when supper-time ap-
proached did these gloomy bands of partnerless
men show any enthusiasm or interest in the pro-
ceedings. The wet evening or the high price of
the admission cards had the effect of making a
crowd of doubtless-fascinating maidens stay away
with zeal from this brilliantly-arranged dance.
Those who did turn up wore their prettiest frocks
and were rewarded by having hosts of partners
and a pleasant evening altogether. The debutante
of the evening, a dainty-looking girl in white
brocade, carried the only bouquet in the room.
Several girls, obedient to fashion’s latest dictates,
wore sleeves : one or two made up for the abun-
dance of material they had lavished on their arms
by economising in the matter of shoulder-and-busb
drapings. A flame-colored satin gown made a
vivid streak of color and showed up well against
the palm]- branch decorations; but probably the
most noted and most admired gown of the lot was
a black satin finished with copper sequins and
worn by a foreign-looking brunette with alabaster
neck and arms.
During a gilt-edged wedding ceremony, last
week, pickpockets were busy among the crowd of
well-dressed guests waiting at the door for the
bridal procession to depart. Two accounts of
vanished purses were reported to the police next
day. The man who willingly walks into a church
to see a wedding for the amusement of the thing
is such a rare bird that a male pickpocket would
be at once detected; the bridal purse-abstractor
must be a woman. It has not been needful yet to
chain down the cheques and other portable articles
of vertu among the wedding-presents displayed at
swell marriage festivals, because a detective is
supposed to lurk eagle-eyed among the throng.
But if the new industry continues to thrive, the
plain-clothes man will have to be introduced into
the ceremony itself, perhaps concealed behind the
assisting curate’s surplice, or disguised in the
floral buttonhole and long frock-coat of the best
man.
At the Engineering and Electrical Exhibition
at Prince Alfred Park, visitors who want to see
the wheels go round are most pleased with the
exhibits in active eruption, such as the inter-
mittently-gleaming eyes of the fountain lions, and
the cookery practitioner who turns out batches
of edible cakes and realistic puff pastry under the
spectators’ eyes. An attractive show is the stall
of the clever glass-engraver, some of whose work
is preserved in the National Gallery—upon his
glassware at the Exhibition Mr. Webb has cut
several hundreds of different designs. A contri-
vance that draws an absorbed-looking crowd of
men on all occasions is a patent beer-pull, which I
can’t presume to understand, but which always
keeps the beer fresh, and is intended to supersede
the bar “ beer-pump.” Afternoon and evening
concerts happen at the Exhibition; also the
strains of De Groen’s band mingle with the
puffing of gas-engines and the whirr of the
machinery.
The beer-pump is a mystery to every girl who
isn t a barmaid. A party of girls from the city
were staying at a quiet country hotel for their
holidays, and used to pass the bar on the way to
their rooms. It had the fascination of mystery,
and one damsel determined to be an amateur bar-
maid the first chance she had. Seeing a solitary
man enter one day she glided quietly behind the
counter and asked if he wanted anything to drink.
The customer looked surprised at the naive query,
and mentioned beer. So the amateur made wild
pulls at the handles on the counter (without turn-
ing the taps), but was baffled at the start, and
made no headway until the customer, observing
confidentially, “You don’t seem to know how to
work them pulls, Miss,” walked round and helped
himself, while giving instruction in the art of beer-
serving to the flushed and embarrassed Hebe. All
the rest of the day that bar did a roaring trade,
for the customer spread such reports of the style
of “ the new girl at Blank’s ’’ that the whole town-
ship strolled in to see her, and had to worship dis-
contentedly at an empty shrine.
. There is a fine field for the gratuitous advertiser
in the “Return Thanks” notices. The doctor
and the undertaker-embalmer have monopolised
5 it hitherto. Now the florist is taking a look-in.
From Sydney D.T. :
RETURN THANKS.
Mrs. and family sincerely thank their many
friends for kind cards, letters, telegrams, floral
tributes, &c. (Floral tributes supplied by Miss ,
and Son.)
But why leave out in the cold the chemist, the
nurse, the parson, the driver of the funeral casket,
and the grave-digger ? Were they not too “in at
the death ” ?
Vice-regal unpunctuality in Brisbane is be-
coming well-known as a failing of the present
dynasty. A recent instance of it was at a dinner-
party at Govt. House, where a famished group had
to wait an hour beyond the named feeding-time
for the arrival of the host and hostess. The hostess
didn’t turn up at all, and after a long delay H.E.
appeared in the drawing-room and announced that
her ladyship would not dine that evening, and the
party filed hungrily in without her.
After years of silence, remorse has caused a
N.S.W. railway refreshment-room-keeper to con-
fess to a bluff which he once worked-off on Gov.
Jersey while His ex-Ex. was travelling “ordinary.”
Lord J. demanded luncheon—something simple,
* ‘a slice of cold sirloin, butter, and a head of
celery.” A minute afterwards the caterer rushed
the aide aside and whispered in tones of agony
“no celery.” No matter, horseradish would do.
Unluckily, horseradish also failed to be on hand,
and the prestige of that station refreshment-room
was at stake. But ingenuity conquered, and,
before the train moved out, His Ex. owned to
having enjoyed “ the impromptu little meal, par-
ticularly the sauce.” The resourceful lessee had
got over the horseradish difficulty by hastily
whittling a wooden butter-pat with a piece of
broken glass, and mixing with the mass of soft,
curly, white wood the yolk of an egg, olive oil,
mustard, and a suspicion of vinegar.
Mark Hainbourg’s arrival will be hailed with
rapturous thrills by many Sydney women, who
gushed over the boyful musician on his last visit,
and gave a water-party (between 20 and 30
women attended), at which the pianist was the
only man present. Mark, at 16, was catholic
in tastes; he invited, or rather permitted, adora-
tion from a worshipping bevy of all ages. And
yet he was eclectic, and always chose the same
favored maiden to accompany him in his cab to all
his concerts, calling for heron the way, “as her
presence stimulated him.” In other cities, it was
a different cab and a different girl—but the same
Mark.
The Charity Carnival, which will begin in the
Town Hall on the 13th Sept, and remain open for
a fortnight, will contain all kinds of devices for
raising the wind for various benevolent objects.
Several firms have sent and promised expensive
gifts, to be drawn as prizes, and the doll-show will
include dolls (to be dressed competitively) of every
country and rank in life. The most original
new-woman” doll will get a prize; also wax
models of characters from well-known plays.
Elavia and Marcus ought to make gorgeous dolls.
At a Mel b. doll-show, held during the “Trilby”
run, Zou Zou was the most reduplicated charac-
ter ; the little Zouave’s picturesque red and blue
looked very showy in miniature. The boy-doll is
a much more interesting object to dress than the
beauteous, characterless blonde beloved of babies.
At the children’s fancy-dress ball, the other
night, in Sydney Town Hall, several women in
the gallery quietly slipped off their cloaks (they
were in evening dress), and, going downstairs,
mingled with the dancers. The fee for the body
of the hall was 55., for the gallery 2s. ; they thus
got a night’s dancing at a saving of 3s. As the
ball was given for a charity, this about takes the
cake for meanness.
The Suva (Fiji) people are great on balls and
dances, no matter what the season of the year.
At one fancy-dress affair a prominent town coun-
cillor was going to make a big impression, and
kept his make-up a great secret —only his wife
knew of it. He was going as “ Ally Sloper,” and
had modelled himself a beautiful artificial nose
out of plaster. On the eventful night, after he
had donned the well-known seedy “ duds,” and
was reaching out for his nose, he found, to his
great sorrow, that the wretched cockroaches had
eaten this ornament “ almost to the bone.” Cock-
roaches are very fond of plaster.
. Fiji cockroaches will devour anything. There
is not a house in the group with wall-papered
rooms, because these beetles eat the paste and the
pattern off the paper. You cannot hang a picture
unless it has a glass front and a hardwood or metal
frame They even attack a sleeper’s toenails
should they accidentally stick out beyond the
boundary of the mosquito-net.
The tea-room was shown up in a recent Sydney
matrimonial-case as a possible hatching-ground of
mischief. It is a cheap and easy meeting-place,
and must fill a long-felt want in the social scheme
of things ;in proof, witness its popularity. The
secret of its success as a rendezvous is that the ap-
pointment to meet at a tea-room can be made by
a girl; she feels that her request does not involve
expenditure beyond sixpence on the man’s part,
and he is more likely to come, and at the same
time it is just as compromising, and Mrs. Grundy’s
frown is cheap at a tanner. Many gilded youths
are caught by the buttered bait of buns and tea.
Etiquette-guides now recognise the tea-room as a
social factor, and give hints and aids to unwilling
men to extricate themselves gracefully from awk-
ward appointments into which they may be
dragged, and bid them beware of the note-writing
damsel. The more secluded resorts, not known
generally, are the favorite nooks.
Madame Henry’s “Cercle Fran9aise ;
met on Wednesday evening last in her smart new
room in Tattersall’s Chambers. The hostess had
provided a capital programme, every item of
which was so genuinely French that one solitary
German-named piano-piece looked quite alien and
exiled on it. Mrs. Alfred Brown, a four months’
pupil of madame’s, made the hit of the evening in
a brilliant recitation and a beautifully-cut pink
brocade gown. Two girls, with uncertain gesture
but charming natural accent, went through a
small comedy which occupied a very pleasant ten
minutes. A solid slab of information about the
history of French literature was given by the
hostess herself, and the evening was pleasantly
rounded-off with songs and some dainty refresh-
ments. At the next meeting of the “ Cercle,”
which takes place on Ist Sept., the Consul-General
of France will be the guest of honor on the
occasion.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ A London correspondent tells me that Premier
Turner stepped out of the Dover train, on his
arrival, ‘in a thin, creased sac suit, a mouldy
“bowler,” and a genial boyish smile. What
recked he of the three Royal carriages and tall,
champing steeds, controlled and attended by the
scarlet claw - hammered, flour - haired flunkeys,
all wooden dignity and brassy braid? His
attire and demeanor hinted a saunter along
the Esplanade, with his hands intertwined behind
his back. He was brown and rosy with health,
and the newly-shaven chin disclosed the flowing
curve of a duplicate his dearest enemy would not
have previously suspected. Looking jaunty and
jolly, and several years younger, he pleaded a
sundowner’s sundown tiredness. Contrariwise,
Lady and Miss Premier were millinerised and
costumi&red to meet the House of Peers and
Peeresses, and, with some dignity, accepted their
greetings from the official and political representa-
tives. There was no big drum, no rainbow testi-
monial, no guard of honor, and George I. didn’t
know or care whether there was or not. He
wanted bed, and lots of it.’
“Tenor Napoleon Boffard was the lion of the
afternoon (19th) when the smartest-looking
‘ Madame ’ in the club was hostess at the Austral
Salon. Before the plump visitor began to sing,
women who had not sampled his voice at previous
concerts pronounced him ‘ absurdly fat and
Frenchy ; ’ but as soon as he opened his mouth it
was evident that, fat or not, he ‘had away with
him.’ Even in French, which might as well have
been Greek to most of his hearers, he made an
impression, and when he went on to warble
‘ Island of Dreams ’ with its longings and sighings
in the vernacular, every she present felt thrills
down her spine and wanted to run and nestle her
head on the singer’s G. H. Reidish waistcoat.
Meantime the sprinkling of husbands on the pre-
mises looked on rather blankly while their wives
winked tears off their eyelashes and gazed yearn-
ingly at the vocalist as if anxious to accompany
him to the ‘lsland of Dreams,’ or any other
lovers’ paradise he chose to mention. Picturesque
Mabel Mattingley, in a wine-colored frock and
creamy lace fichu, trilled cheerfully of ‘ The Work-
a-day World,’ and helped to dispel the glamor of
the sleek wizard’s sorcery.
“ The accident-curse apparently still hovers over
Australian vice-regalities. Surgeon Fitzgerald,
by this time quite an expert in gubernatorial
anatomy, is at present engaged in extensive re-
pairs on the lacerated ribs, irritated lungs, bruises
and general shock of Lady Brassey, who emerged
badly from a collision between her landau and a
run-away butcher’s cart.
“A certain musical genius, for all his cleverness,
showed up at a recent Chamber concert as an un-
licked cub. He talked all the time, and whenever
an instrumentalist deviated by a hairbreadth from
time or tune, exclaimed ostentatiously ‘ flat! ’ or
‘ dragged!’ just as if he were a pianoforte evangel
sent forth to unveil the dark places of Australian
musical heathendom. But musical prodigies are
seldom harmonious except at the finger-tips.
“ One of our own Australian specimens is a case
in point. At an early age he was taken in hand
and presented with a first-class foreign education
by music-loving enthusiasts. Lately, when he re-
visited these shores and toured round the country
districts with a concert co., a reverend sympa-
thiser, hoping to shield the youngster from the
snares of a Bohemian life, &c., bespoke for him
gratuitous board and lodging at most parsonages
cn route. To this day his hostesses, careworn
Marthas one and all, wax eloquent as they dilate
upon the sullen boorishness and lack of common
gratitude displayed by the fledgling artist, for
whose benefit they had turned out their nurseries
and laid in small luxuries usually foreign to their
larders.
Mayoress Strong is fixing the civic ball for the
middle of next month, the early date being picked
on in the interests of her medical son, Dr. Harry
Strong, and the warrior, sweet William (of the
Vic. Rifle team), who arrive from ’Ome about that
time. Mrs. Strong’s tall, good-looking quartette
of boys have been a help to the mater in doing
her rounds, and a pleasant relief to the Nicest,
who generally find mayoral family connections a
severe trial.
“ At Prahran mayoral shivoo, last Friday, there
appeared in the debutantes’ set Miss Bluebell
Staples, Miss Violet Meudell, and Miss Lily Arm-
strong. In due course Melbourne may expect a
ballroom crop of Dandelions and Daisies, the
result of having a Field Flowers Goe in the
episcopal gaiters.
“ Lady Holled-Smith, perhaps out of a thirst
for novelty, dispensed with dance programmes at
her recent big dance, and the less desirable male
creatures suffered severely from the restriction to
verbal agreements. One callow youth, engaging
an utterly unprincipled angel for a waltz, pleaded
hard ‘ Can’t you put it in writing ? ’ but she was
not willing to sign a contract. When the turn
came he found her turning round with another
fellow.
“ Miss Eva Woolcott, one of the five pretty
daughters of Mr. J. S. Woolcott, of Balaclava
was married on Wednesday last at All Saints’, St.
Kilda, to Mr. W. Grant, whose family is well-
known in Victoria. The bridegroom’s father was
the late E. C. Grant, of Stawell, one of the
developers of quartz-crushing on the old Pleasant
Creek goldfield, and his uncle the late J. Mac-
pherson Grant, of Land Act fame. Mr. Grant
has station property in Riverina and Queensland,
and intends to settle with his bride at Bowenville
Darling Downs.
“ Gentlemen - ushers for wedding functions
threaten to come into vogue. At the pairing
of Mr. William Grant, aforesaid, four tall
good - looking Johnnies were a feature of
the show, acting as ushers, and doing the
work of pew - openers. The bride’s family
(some of them) tripped ’Ome recently, and
came back enlightened on all such matters of cere-
mony. But, last year, male guests were ‘ em-
ployed ’ for the first time at the fashionable nuptials
of Miss Ella Staughton with Mr. Seton Williams,
Toorak. A gentleman-usher must have the
qualifications of a first-class coachman, and be
warranted not to lose his temper when on duty.
“ The ‘ Washington Post ’—which certainly goes
one better than the Barn-dance—has quite caught
on in Melb. Lady Holled-Sinith had it ‘ starred ’
at her shivoo last week ; and all who hop are sup-
posed to know it, therefore dilatory ones are tak-
mg a private lesson in the ‘ Post ’ (one being suf-
ficient) at half-a-crown a head.
“ The story of Lady Brassey’s private and con-
fidential gathering of 250 ‘friends’ was not to
have appeared in print, and the one penwoman
who took part in the select ‘dissipation’ was
sworn on the Bible, or her best bonnet, or some
other sacred article, to keep the details unspotted
from the Press. However, the wife of a fashion-
able medicine-man gave the dance away to a sas-
siety organ, hence the present gnashing of teeth —
false sets, as a rule —among the ranks of the un-
invited.
“ Melbourne Bicycle Club ball has been
definitely fixed for Aug. 15th at the Masonic Hall,
‘in order to avoid clashing of dates with other
bodies.’ The Bulletin gladly notifies the fact
that the M.B.C. doesn’t wish to clash with
other bodies.
“ The craze among the Nicest for beauty-actors
is still raging. Almost the only excitement now
thrilling the souls of the matrons and maids of
Y arratown is struggling with each other to obtain
a favorite leading mummer’s presence at rival ‘ at
homes’ and tea-fights. Invitations to country-
houses also pour in on this idol of the moment,
who seems rather surprised himself at his sudden
burst into favor. On Saturday night a country
train was delayed 10 minutes in starting so that
the actor might be able to catch it after the show
was over!
j wors hip is booming the idol business,
and some deserving, but hitherto slighted, stage
youths are seriously thinking of taking it up as a
profesh. A good-looking juvenile who was doing
small parts with a leading co. was lately promoted
to principal roles vro. tem., and consequently used
to turn up at rehearsals every day with a cool
looming ’ to his old chums, and gloom apart with
folded arms as if the weight of his genius was too
heavy to admit of any frivoling. But the other
youthful pros., so far from being impressed,
chaffed him so unmercifully for ‘ putting on dog’
that Adonis had to take off his dignity with his
stage clothes and relapse into the give-and-take of
every-day.
I ashionable clothes-builders in all the Austra-
lian cities have most reason of all tradesfolks to
be dispirited over the jubilee exodus. Drapery
firms in all places have shown shrunken trade
this winter in satins, silks, and other high-priced
varieties, the usual buyers of such having all taken
their purses to Bond and Regent streets to ex-
change the contents for the latest London styles.
So prices are low in Melb. just now, and the sale-
bargains are really genuine.
A. dreary wedding in St. Hilda’s most toney
church, last week, showed all the guests arrayed
in fresh-looking winter garb. Usually at this
season a swell wedding gives hints of the coming
spring in bonnets prematurely revealed to good
customers as a special favor. But this year, with
a season s stocks on the drapers’ hands, women
have to be still content to outvie each other
in well-established modes. The Jubilee is the
depression of ’97. Yet there were no bigger
flare-ups in the week of gas and grovel than those
displayed by the big drapers—either magnanimity
or a bold ad. on their part.
“Mrs. Harrison Lee, the Melbourne temper-
ance advocate, who has just returned from an
English trip, tells an audience that since she has
been away her husband has gained 91b. in weight.
-There is rather a startling lack of relevance in this
account of the gentleman’s drift to leeward. It
would be interesting if Mrs. H.L. would report
again on her husband’s weight from time to time.
It is evidently an interesting case.
“Gov. Buxton has been trotting about Mel-
bourne a good deal during the past week, and his
rusty-gate-hinge voice has been heard at many
functions. It would be a good thing for Brassey
to keep Bux. for a week or two and show him
about if as to say: ‘You grumble at me, but
how would you like this awful object for a Gover-
nor ? Look at his Nonconformist whiskers, listen
to his grating voice, observe the icy glitter of his
eye, and then thank heaven and the Colonial
Office that you were saved from such a horror.’
Yours affectionately,
CLRO.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £l/. IfS.
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
575 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
81 Queen Street. BRISBANE.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lage
RAD
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALB
Just Arrived by Steamer
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
■ - - LIKE CHAMFAGm
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Chamberlain was in Australia 40 years ago.
No Australian received a hereditary title
during the Jubilee. Bull stayed sober enough
to watch that.
“ Way-ed and found wanton,” said a bar-
rister, after Way, C. J., had decided a S. A. divorce-
suit v. the lady.
Jean Ingelow, the poet and authoress,
whose death, at the age of 67, is reported by cable,
has a sister, Mrs. W. Kilgour, resident in Sydney.
Ex-Judge Windeyer, who ambitioned a
P C.-ship, has got permission to be “ Honorable
within the colony.” The toothless lion has to be
content with mice in his old age.
N.S.W. Agents General to date : Edward
Hamilton, W. C. Mayne, Charles Cowper,
William Forster, Alex. Stuart, Dan’l Cooper, and
Saul Samuel—who retires in October.
Alex. Sutherland, M.A., of Melb., has
supplied a definition of poetry : “ Any eollection
of words capable of rousing strong and noble
emotions.” Now wanted —a definition of strong
and noble emotions.
It is claimed for Apostle Barney, the
Yankee saviour of women drunks, that she is of
the Barney family that gave a Governor to the
Northern Territory of S.A.—the only Governor of
Northern Australia on record—in 1846.
Butler’s last message should provide a
chestnutty epitaph :
O, children, recollect my fate,
And fly from Drink’s degrading clutch.
Drink brought me too my present state—
I simply took a drop too much.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott monopolises six
rooms— a reception-room, smoking-room, library,
bedroom, bathroom, and laundry—in the other-
wise overcrowded Parliament House. These,
j>l2oo a-year, and a regiment of attendants, con-
sole him for his legislative labors.
Dear Bulletin, — A few absurd name-
combinations from one man’s experience. Sober
Knight (he was neither) Australian Jubilee
Jones ; Kosciusko Stubbs ; Napoleon Bonaparte
M'Cafferty: Julian Apostate Sanderson. The
last, of course, never went through the parson’s
mouth. —M.
A certain Australian “Mayor doesn’t
know why he wasn’t knighted.”— News item.
Queen Victoria speaks :
“ What ? knight a mayoral ‘ pilgrim of the night,’
Who plodded on with simple foot and steady,
Till hard-earned wealth had bought his heart’s delight ?
No ! No ! Our knight-soil smells enough already.”
In the Jubilee procession, Queen Victoria
“ was dressed, as always, in black, slightly relieved
with white beneath the lace of the bodice. She
carried a cream-colored parasol, the gift of the
Right Hon. Charles Pelham Villiers, ‘ Father of
the House of Commons,’the only gift the Queen
ever accepted from a private subject.” Alas for
G. Republican Dibbs’ walking-stick !
It is being widely printed that an English
parson asserts that a handsome curate is pretty
certain to have his stipend supplemented by
money-gifts from admiring ladies of his congrega-
tion. He has himself, in this way, received what
he shamelessly calls “ doles ” of from =£lo to
£lOO. The canon that a man must not accept
money from a woman doesn’t, of course, apply to
the third sex.
.What a satire on the whole institution of
title is the knighthood of surgeon T. N. Fitz-
gerald ! Reckoned by his profession one of the
surgeons of the century, Fitz’s Queen has
just dignified that she considers him the
equal of Benjy Benjy, Matthew
Davies and Softgoods Sargood !
By the way, the great little
surgeon was always most punc-
tilious as to how he was ad-
dressed, and whenever anybody
happened to call him “ Dr.”
Fitzgerald he would say
stiffly : “ Mister Fitzgerald, if
you please.”
Baronet Clarke was exa
ted by the Melb. “ right
thinking ” gang as a noble
and devoted Imperialist for
his alleged patriotic work in
maintaining the Ruperts-
wood Battery single-handed.
But it now transpires that
all along the State bore
about half the cost of that
tinkling array of valorous jonnmwS. Not-
withstanding, the Bart, scooped all the glory
of the concern, and enhanced the importance
of his people by rushing the beautiful battery
and the guns and all the pomp and panoply
around at the tail of his family to hooroo and
lend dignity to a small Clarke christening or
any other little ceremony at the baronial hall.
J. A, Read, who died the other day at
Manly, was remarkable for more things than being
the real inventor of the “ Mackinnon ” reservoir-
pen. He had literary leanings, had been a contri-
butor to London Punch, and was, when chief
clerk of N.S.W. Supreme Court, so noted for
absence of mind that, in order to test the asser-
tion that he would sign any document laid before
him, a bogus warrant for his own execution was
submitted to him. And—“ good, easy, loveable
old fellow he signed it!
C. J. Hodges, Vic. Chinese interpreter,
writes of O’Hara Burke, the ill-fated leader of the
Burke and Wills expedition :
Pen, ink and paper made up an abomination unto him.
I soon discovered this, and humored his foible. The
papers prepared at the end of the month for him to sign
I put in a pile before him in my private room. As he
signed I turned each over. Invariably, some vouchers
and cheques were returned endorsed, “signature illegi-
ble.”
Yet Burke was, according to Hodges, a most
enthusiastic disciplinarian.
GAOL-DRILL.
WARDER CASEY: “ Now sh and, the lot o’ yez, in a loine, wid yeer feet in the forrum of a shquare.
At the worrd WAN, trow yeer roight arrum out to full lingth, as if yez were hitting a
man a clout behind his ear — which, no doubt, most of yez have done whin we wasn’t
luk-king—at the same toime houlding yeer hand flat raid the thoomb at roight angles
to the body. At the worrd TWO, bind yeer elbow, at the same toime catching yeer wind-
poipe wid the thoomb and forefinger. At the worrd THREE, cut away yeer hand to yeer
roight ear, and drop it to yeer soide. This motion, loike all other motions in gaol-dhrill,
has a moral, and it alludes to the pinnelty which awaits yez, if yez don’t mind yeer ways.”
Police - Inspector Latimer to barrister
O’Connor in the middle of a serious case: “ I’ll
not allow you to jeer at the honesty of constables
in general. There are very few constables in
gaol, but plenty of lawyers.” Barrister O’Connor :
“ Impudent officer ! ”
The modest and able B. E. Minns, the
Inverell (N.S. W.) water-color and black-and-white
artist, whose heads of aborigines are among the
most valuable possessions of the Australian sec-
tion of N.S. W. National Gallery, is prospering in
England. When last mail left he had just finished
illustrating a serial by F. C. Phillips, of “ As in
the Looking-glass ” fame, and was starting to
illustrate a series of short stories for Pearson’s
Magazine.
OCULAR PROOF.
PURCHASER : “You guaranteed this cow as a first-
rate milker When I bought her, but you
never told me she had only one eye. ”
AUCTIONEER: “Well, what of that? Were you
going to milk her through the eye ? ”
One can hardly congratulate Canon Stone-
Wigg (a most worthy churchman) on his elevation
to the Bishopric of New Guinea—for acceptance
of that dignity implies residence in the country.
“And,” said a gaunt Papuan missionary to the
writer, “you can’t get acclimatised. The very
natives suffer from fever in the wet seasons, so
there isn’t much hope for a white man.”
John MTntyre, the outcast leader of Vic.
Opposition, lets it be known that he was “ much
disappointed on finding he was not to have any
official recognition in the Jubilee procession.”
Poor man ! The new-made Australian knight
who goes to England to swell round under his
trumpery title is about as sensible as the man
who visits Brummagem to sport his pinchbeck
jewellery.
According to Sydney D. T. ’s special corres-
pondent, Premier Reid, on arriving in England,
“ said he looked forward to enjoying himself im-
mensely in the old country, but was haunted by
the fear that he would be caught taking a nap at
some of the many functions. The Imperial In-
stitute dinner he seemed to fear more especially,
and he expressed a hope that he would be placed
between gentlemen to whom he could confide his
weakness, and ask their kindly aid in stalling off
‘nature’s soft nurse.’” Yet, after all, he did
snatch “ forty winks ” at that dinner.
Yag. : “ Hancock, Yic. M.L.A., is one of
that most unfortunate species—brainy men who
refuse to be taken seriously. Sitting as a member
of the Old-Age Pensions Committee, he will hold
the table silent in admiration of a brilliant list of
suggestions, or a cut of cross-examination good
enough to shine out anywhere; and then—in
stumbles a bald and unconvincing jest, a horse-
laugh, and a patronising smile and reply from the
‘superior ’ witness. Clever as Hancock is, no big
Earty will permanently take him as leader—per-
aps with prudence, for there is too often little
stability in this kind of man. Nevertheless, when
one hears so much of ‘ a saving sense of humor,’ it
is melancholy to reflect on a man being damned
for an excess of it. I have known Hancock begin
a political speech by a long, circus-like disquisi-
tion upon the local beer. Of course, it gained him
the goodwill of his audience; but, after that, what a
plague did any one of them care what he said about
the shipping scandals ? They waited only for more
jokes about beer. On the other side, I have seen
an old-school, ARGUS-fed parson com out of the
Leg. Assembly debates swearing by Hancock’s
talent and temperance. ‘ The breezy Labor-
member ’ is capable of making big impressions ;
but who shall follow a buffoon ? The Argus got
a nasty one home when it wrote: ‘ The people
respect and admire Trenwith, but they love their
’Ancock.’ He is something like the Fool in
Shakespeare’s ‘ Lear ’—brain under bells. And
the bells jangle.”
Governor Buxton’s best speech, since his
arrival in S.A., was made the other day at an am-
bulance society demonstration —
There ah occasions when the presshah is such that one
is compelled—ah—to talk abaht something of which one
is conscious one—ah—knows nothing at all. (Beatific
smiles from the Guvnah, and hearty cheers from the
audience). I—ah—confess that if I were to adheah to a
rule of that kind it would—ah—cut off—ah—quaht nine—
ah—tenths of those oppahtunities which I—ah—occasion-
ally give for criticism more or less friendly. (Thunderous
applause).
Senna: “Just demised in England, Dr.
Outts, a Melb. identity of 40 years. A fussy little
man, he was yet not a whit conceited profession-
ally. He and Dr. Knaggs were the pious doctors,
which succession was taken up by Drs. Figg and
Flett. It is remunerative, but the quartette was
of worthy men. Cutts was a desperate Wesleyan.
Not of conspicuous ability, he held his own fairly
against such as Gillbee, Motherwell, Barker, and
was just the class that a big Tracy liked to have as
junior counsel.”
Apropos of queer names. At a Purna-
xnoota (Barrier) public meeting in the early day*
a resolution was proposed by a Mr. Baggs, and
seconded by a gentleman named Snooks. Tbo
secretary of the progress committee, thinking tbs
names bogus, hesitated before entering the resolft;
tion in the minutes. The men’s boss was appealed
to—“ Are those the men’s proper names T ’
“Yes,"’ replied the boss, who stuttered, “<m4
very pup-pup-proud they are of them, too.”
Did the late Parkes, when leader of
N.S.W. Opposition, once, shaking his fist aero®
the Assembly table, call the late Jennings, th«ti
Premier, “ a Fenian?” The shaking fi?
the fist occurred, but as to the language Parkei
emphatically denied it; Jennings heard son***
thing, but would not be positive; Abigail, wht)
was close to Parkes, absolutely denied that tbs>
words were used, or any words of like import i
and Ninian Melville, who died the other day, and
who was close to Jennings on the occasion, en>
phatically asserted that the words were used.
Queenslanders will appreciate this notice
of Kinnaird Rose (formerly editor of Brisbane
Courier) clipped from a recent Argonaut :
The best work of the Graeco-Turkish campaign has beer
done by W. Kinnaird Bose, one of the leading correspoa
dents of Reuter’s and the Associated Press. He is »
Scotchman of about 50 years —a tall, sinewy, robust man
of fine physique. Born and educated in Glasgow, he wsi
the special correspondent of the Scotsman during th*
Busso-Turkish war of 1877-78, and distinguished himwlf
by his energy and gallantry. He was with the Russtas
army at Plevna, witnessed the capture of the Gravity
redoubt, was constantly under fire, and was wounded
several times. He also carried off a decoration from th»
Czar for his humane conduct in caring for the wounded
After the war he revisited the Balkan as a special oem>
missioner employed in investigating the condition t> f
the Christian subjects of the Sultan Upon his »
turn Mr. Gladstone expressed high appreciation of h 5»
services, but strongly advised him to abandon journalise
and to study law. He rashly followed this counsel and
became a barrister, and, after an arduous struggle, b*
came convinced that he had no special talent for the law
He went out to Queensland and was editor of the Brisbane
Courier. Recently he returned to Scotland, and, having
suffered from heavy financial losses, was wavering between
a return to the bar and a resumption of work in English
journalism. The outbreak of hostilities in the East re-
kindled his ardor as a war-corresjionden'. and he eageri;
accepted a commission to fpltew’the Greek army. R*
was a witness of the extraordinary stampede of the panic
stricken forces, and made his way from Larissa to Vole
Telegraphic communication with London was denied him.
and he took a small boat and headed down the coast. A
storm came up and he lay off the shore, suffering from ex
posure to cold and being in no little peril. Dayligh*
came, and he landed and rode post haste to Athens,
where he telegraphed to the Associated Press and
Reuter’s the first account of the Greek stampede. It wa»
the best bit of descriptive writing which has been printed
for many a day, full of movement and picturesque detail,
and fairly dramatic in interest. Nothing which has
appeared in the war columns of the press has been so
■eh admired. Mr. Rose subsequently returned to ths
ON FLEM TNG TON. —John Hancock,
Trades Hall's Fat Man.
front, and sent to London an exceedingly graphicaccom
of the closing scenes of demoralisation in the Grert
camp. His description of the inexplicable stampede K
however, the great stroke of the war-correspondejrif*
cam paign. Mr. Rose is the author of a life of General
skobeloff, whom he has described as the modern Bayard;
and he will undoubtedly write a book on the war b>
Thessaly.


TflE CHURCH AND TM* 2,?AGE.
Now, ttir,
I think if all players only realised the iu- 1
finance for. good they held with many of
their listeners, and the powfer of causing
them to ponder over what kind of life they
were living, those acting would be more
pareful to sustain the noble characters they
portray, not only when before an audience
out on the great stage of life. I know we
churchgoers are credited with being narrow
mindeq, hut I do not think the blame lief
wholly with us.- In your issue of to-day, .a
Correspondent signed “J.8.H.” suggests!
the church and stage .should again bei
freconcilea, as'in the olden days. Now, Sir,
supposing the church were ready to fulfil'
..“their part of the agreement, would the stage
he willing to come forth and meet them half
' A
Hi ENCHWpoa
with ihe-?
fc\ter»y '
AT \<f k
» f • .
W
.
e s-y
(£"<u m
7Ae.
-W 1 °‘+ic/c/^
kH , p «i o i\i ■ ,
. *
s**s> 't£n*\^r-
- - ' The
rcetuey crowd who'pafTonii«;tb< UgL it? race-
oourtjes. have lately been practlimg their
ey_u work <wi ft ecale qf incased daring.
\Xhen a jinhpfng is win# run they con*
gregate al the obstacles, and when any. of
the hordes fal} they rush to them, and
enotala the jockey be rendered insensible
:Steai everything they can by their ha#»dfv on,
,*ke horwk should pe fatally
fS, r ck h , irn Ple«».*» they did ift*
fated, .bamkin at /
/ 'V/'h '
V otA A/ -f
c l W*
¥J / -&••
Aa %
V J,*«*
A/OIXr Oirvalcfi'Acp/o /o VC A
ihe /z* Puli/ tAe /fX/yafch.
into one. . The /zz-oeess/ons
AeA/zocf ffi/s
Cha.t-je fo/- acAtAnessio/i
cmef Aa'i'i cf ots'e.f- fz'-oceecf%
Tc 7 ‘A e '
OLct #fe ienS/vn
"Fan <y "2
y l/ e
yy
Ccfr P
T i / cfi y cl
tif f a * ■„j»' e a \ J-
four
„ t arx 7! iMj'W
’ ‘ tf* T,ff < i' t S ‘""
Scud.
■ The first of Mr. M.'lwan’s specific objec-
tions is to the ,snddeii ’abolition of all the
intercolonial diitieS, .many of which keep
; the farmers on the land. ffe is ( , u i te
■satisfied that this would, result in an all-
round fall in the values of land and stock
to an extent that would be nothing less
than alarming. "
MN&>thLif
im the.
-THE WERRIBEE JETTY,
A*• J3OARD OF' “WoßKfe gCAN]?At.
The Bay is very shallow at the spot where 1
the jetty is erected. In order to get into a
-.accept depth it was necesshry to carry, the
piles and staging out a distance of 1700 feet,
or about a pule!'”
i* . . , . That addition will bring
the total post of 'the mere structure up to
Something over £4oop. '' ' '
In its present state, how.-'
ever,' the jetty is useless. It is only 18 feet
broad. ttnd if a load was carted on to it the
horse 'would have to swjm bach with the
empty dray, becauie itfif'iinp&Ssible'to turn
round,'
‘ Cim Let
that about 15.40
MELBOURNIANA.


AUSTRALIAN MANNERS AND CUSTOMS IN ENGLAND.
“It is stated that the New South Wales mounted forces received £5OO for their exhibitions in London of bushranging and horsestealing.”— Cable.
This should have been followed by an exhibition of “ Bank Reconstruction ” by Australian Bank directors —the 'proceeds, of course, to be divided among the latter.


Granuma for Health,
Foclah saveth Wealth,
Horn ah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
SoftCai>\/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 /- per J4*dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous arid Unshrinkable. Speoially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
><
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Why Don’t Men Marry ?
Statistics show an increased percentage of
, female over male births in Australia, which, ac-
companied by the increase of single men of
marriageable age, represents a serious question.
The same perplexed question is answered in France
by claims of immorality. Here we must look for
some other cause, for the morality among the
, young men in Australia has never been creator
than at the present time. Nor can it be attri-
buted to “ hard times,” for the census show that the
marriages among men of moderate means have
not diminished, but it is among young men of
leisure and wealth that this important question
is treated with nonchalance and indifference. A
careful observer claims that a woman is, unwit-
tingly, the cause and to blame for this. An
eligible young man receives a note of regret from
the society belle, saying “Kindly relieve me from
my evening’s engagement for the concert. I am
prostrated by a nervous headache.” Or, if she
accepts, she admits the programme entertaining
complains of “ extreme fatigue.” She must
not be exposed to a draught, “which is sure to
bring on an attack of neuralgia,” or at dinner she
demurely refuses this or that article of nourish-
ment, modestly saying, “ I feel it necessary to
be abstemious if I would enjoy good health.”
The acute young man naturally concludes that “-a
weakly bud will make a frail and withered rose,”
and does not care to assume the responsibility of
such a burden for life. There are two wrongs
which ought to be righted in such cases. It is
wrong to nourish imaginary ailments ; and it is
also wrong to ignore marked tendencies to periodi-
cal headaches, melancholy, nervousness, flatu-
lency, or distress, after eating, when it can be
promptly checked by using Warner’s “ Safe ”
Cure. This medicine has become a household
word among the ladies of Great Britain and Aus-
tralia, who have found that a short, safe, timely,
and comparatively inexpensive treatment ensures
health in the fullest acceptation of the term.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents. r
WALTER BRADLEY f CO.,
Furniture i& Fine Art Auct.ioi +ers,
Auction Room;, 324 Georg? Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sal*.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
R.E.l.D.—Republican Except In Designa-
tion.
A Privy Councillorship will soon, like the
Order of the Garter, have “ no damned suspicion
of merit about it. ”
A trite saying in the mouth of a leading
statesman may become electric. Thus with Bar-
ton’s remark that Australia is the first power to
launch off with a whole continent.
Queensland politician in confidence to
friend : “ You see, we elect filunderbore as
leader because he has no influence and we can
depose him whenever we choose. If we elected a
man of more front-head and backbone we should
have him there as a fixture, and our little
iealousies couldn’t stand it 1 ”
A MEASURE OF PRECAUTION.
“ Why do they always sing duets? ”
“It divides the risk.”
Q. Acting-Premier Tozer has sensibly
declared himself in favor of abolishing the attach-
ment of wages on the ground that it is better to
protect wages than to encourage credit.
Dear Bulletin, —You aio
right when you say that the busi-
ness of an Australian Volunteer
is to defend Australia. It is all
that we (I speak as a volunteer
officer) are sworn to do ; and, per-
sonally, I am careful to impress
upon all recruits that their duty
and oath bind them to defend
their native land only in case of
attack. This is an honorable
kind of fighting, which cannot,
as a rule, be said of aggressive
warfare. Australia’s policy should
be one of peace. T say this, though
I fully believe in volunteering,
combined with the encouragement
of gymnastics and manly exercises.
—Yours, &c., Miles.
J. V. Chataway, one of the
Ministerialist members for Mackay
(Q.), suggests that the Government
should compete with money-lenders
by advancing cash to farmers on
easy terms of interest and repayment. A State
Bank looks like becoming a plank in the Q. Tory
platform— to dish the Labor-party !
Some Melb. Freetraders fear that the
temporary power of Federal Parliament to.“im-
pose ” custom duties will prevent the reduction of
same, while it authorises increase during the
period.
Viator : “ Seeing 40 mounted troopers
going to the anticipated Melb. scene of riot last
Sunday, I reflected that this was the only country
in the world where they would be without swords.
Something for Democracy.”
“Orangemen are men of peace,” says
Simon Fraser. Says Violet Fane (“The Silent
Player ” )
Whilst men, misnamed of peace, arise and fan
The smouldering fires betwixt opposing creeds,
Thinking to do God service.
According to ’Orris Tozer, the Japs were
first induced to emigrate to Queensland in numbers
by the fact that a Thursday Island Jap in ’!)3 won
a big Tattersall’s sweep prize. By the way, the
Chinese are beginning to agitate against the Jap
invasion.
“Rumored that Gov. contemplates intro-
ducing a Bill to enable Arthur Palmer, President
of the Q. Leg. Council, to retire on a pension,
probably of <£soo per annum.” Palmer retires and
is succeeded by Nelson. Then Tozer jumps up
Premier.
Is it a fact that the democratic South
Australian Govt, invited two sets of tenders
(European and Asiatic) for the construction of a
Northern railway ? Ex-democrat. Annear alleged
this little fact and chuckled hugely thereon in Q.
Parliament lately.
S.A. Democrats already begin to pay for
their supineness at the recent Leg. Council elec-
tions. The Early Closing of Shops Bill, thanks
to the increase in the National Ass forces in the
Council, was the first democratic measure to go to
the wall this session.
The advocates of the “Recognition of
God ” in the Federal Constitution may as well
take their little fad out of the road. The chances
of having any constitution in which to recognise
God or anything else, are not so bright just now
as to be worth talking about.
Premier Turner in London :
“ I should think that at this time of day there can lie
no doubt whatever that the British colonies are and ever
will be loj’al to the good old motherland.
No, no, that is not Premier Turner. It is “The
Right Hon. Sir, P.C., D.C.L.”
According to Rockhampton Record,
M‘Donald, M.L.A., has obtained possession of a
secret circular disclosing the payment by the
Pastoralists’ Association of £2OO to a witness in
one of the Labor prosecutions ! Looks shady for
the Govt, and the Pastoralists’ Association.
The rumor grows stronger that if the
Turner Government comes back alive from next
Vic. election—which it is practically certain to do
■—Trenwith will join it as Postmaster-General, and
that some quiet, harmless job with a salary at-
tached will be found for Duffy to keep him quiet.
From Kiama, the Home of the Ghost: —
No. 12, Loyal Orange Lodge, celebrated the Battle of
the Boyne by a banquet There was a large attendance,
five lodges being represented. Bro. Francis Abigail, the
lodge delegate, delivered an address, in the course of
which he announced that he intended offering his ser-
vices to the public at the next general election.
The Kingston Govt, is now a year older
than any other Ministry that ever held office in
S.A. Of the original half-dozen members who
were sworn in on June 15, ’93, only Kingston,
Holder and Cockburn now remain. Playford is
Agent-General, Gillen is dead, and Gordon suc-
cumbed to the Hospital dispute.
Some measures that Q. wants badly and
at once : A workmen’s-lien bill; a bill to prevent
workmen’s wages from being garnisheed (to say
nothing of Friendly Societies’ “ sick pay,” already
here noticed); a bill to bring shearing-sheds under
the Factories’ Act. (By the way, when is the Q.
Factories’ Act going to be really administered ?)
A boom item. In 1896, Westralia imported
goods and specie to the value of £6,400,000, and
exported to the value of £1,600,000 (or just one-
quarter the amount) to pay for them. She owes
most of the balance. And, as it is impossible to
owe a balance like that every year, The Bulletin
still says that the W.A. boom is only a boom, and
the burst must follow.
N.S.W. Minister Carruthers states that he
is personally in favor of not placing the post
offices under Federal control. Carruthers is an
ardent Federationist who wants to create a
Federal Government and give it no control over
anything. Even with the post-offices thrown in,
the number of important matters which the Com-
monwealth Government will have control of, as
things are now arranged, can almost be counted
on the forefinger of one hand.
The omission of the words, “subsequent
provisions of this Act,” which appear in the
Canadian Act, from the Federal section dealing
with date of coming into operation of the Austra-
lian Act, are said, and appear to make, a mull of
the preceding section referring to the proclamation
of the Queen’s assent. The two sections will pro-
bably, as at present, be construed thuslv : “ This
Act may come into operation on any day not more
than six months later than the Greek Kalends.”
TRAVELLING FOR HIS HEALTH, — (By Hop's Understudy.)
According to press cable, Premier Braddon,
of Tasmania, got this notable sentiment off his
chest recently in England: “The time has come
when the colonies must either separate or remain
as they are.” In other words, the hour has arrived
when we must suddenly keep on as we have been
doing all along. Consequently, we continue sitting
still with deafening speed.
Yet another attempt is being made to
establish a Vic. Labor paper. This time it is to
have the official approval of the Trades’ Hall.
The committee contains Bishop and Finley, two
Trades’ Hall ex-presidents; Prendergast, M.P. ;
and Casimir, pedagogue, socialist and orator. The
platform of the paper is gravely set out at length
in 74 items. The Tocsin is to issue weekly at a
penny a time.
ORANGE AND GREEN.
Rev. Father O’TOOLEM: “Pu
that stick away, Patrick. God
gave you hands ”
Patrick : “ But, sure, Father,
would yez have me dirty me
hands wid the hikes of them?”
Canadian Premier Laurier is bringing in a
novel Alcohol-Prohibition Bill, providing' for the
settlement of the question by vote. The questions
are:—
(1) Do you approve of prohibition as an abstract theory?
(2) Do you approve also of the imposition of direct
taxation to the amount of 10,000,000 dollars a year to
make up the deficiency in revenue which would be caused
by prohibition ?
Naturally, the nocent waterspouts are opposing
the bill vociferously. Laurier has some hundred-
weights of horse-sense and a lot of humor con-
cealed about his person.
The advocates of free admission to the
N.S.W. legal profession are singularly unfortunate
in their choice of parliamentary backers. Prima-
facie, nocent waterspouts Dan O’Connor and J. C.
Neild would damn any cause,, though it must be
admitted that the latter has much useful legisla-
tion at his credit. Why doesn’t the “ higher
power ” Labor-party take up the matter ? Mean-
while, as the present legal practitioners have a
close monopoly, they should be made to pay for it,
like publicans, auctioneers, and pawnbrokers. In
the United Kingdom solicitors pay to the Trea-
sury .£6O on admission and £5 ss. annual license
fee. Why not in Australia ?
“N.” to The Bulletin :
I question whether the Age would have the generosity
of the Argus when it published, in a cable re the rifle-
shooting shivoo, that three cheers were given for Mr.
Syme. For my part, with the retention of these gentle-
manly amenities, I would like to see a healthy antagonism
between the two papers, one square for Labor, the other
for Capital. No matter which. They are equally capi-
talistic. Nor does the Age being Protectionist at all alter
the fact. Both only coquet with Labor, and both about
equally. Fleming and Co., the raddiest Rads., now
barrack for the Argus, and loath the Age, which will not
give them a line, whereas the Argus ostentatiously drags
them out-even from obscurity. As for Hancock’s morn-
ing paper, it never was anything but bunkum, and now
he has patched up with “King David”—his own con-
temptuous expression—again.
Religious announcements in the Sydney-
suburban and N.S.W. country press : “The Hon.
Joseph Cook, Postmaster-General, will preach at
Toongabbie Primitive Methodist Church, morn-
ing and evening, Sunday next.” “The Hon.
Jacob Garrard, Minister for Public Instruction,
will address the Salvation Army.” The Hon.
Brunker trots round with a gospel trumpet, the
Hon Gould shakes a church chancellorship, and
the Hon. Carruthers gets run in as brother of the
Rev. Carruthers. That’s one reason why they’re
called a “ God-fearing ” Ministry. Another
reason, say their enemies, is that if they don’t fear
God more than preceding Ministers have done,
they ought to.
A Southern daily in its cabled report of
the Vic. shooters winning the Kolapore Cup at
Bisley :
Victoria, 751; New Zealand, 748; Motherland 732*
Canada and Cape, 731 ; Guernsey, 725: Natali 725 • Jersev’
710: Queensland, 688; India, 670. ’
“Motherland, oh, motherland!” Why not
“ Unci eland ? ” At best, England isn't Aus-
tralia’s mother, but only her mother-in-law.
“ H. ” : “It angers me to get such miserable
driblets of news from the United States, by cable
all filtered through jealous Bnlldom, and ‘ faked 5
to keep us in tutelage to Royalty. Twenty years
ago the U.S. ship Tuscarora plumbed the ocean
floor from Maoriland to ’Frisco, and found that
Nature had provided just such another nice cable-
bed as that between Maoriland and Australia. And
all the intrigues of the English will never stop
that lovely wire from being laid, and speaking
with most miraculous organ.”
Newton discovered gravitation. Brunker,
bless him ! has discovered flexibility. Says the
sage of Maitland : “All laws have to be carried
out with a certain degree of flexibility.” Now
one knows why the penalty for theft is eased to
the respectable kleptomaniac and administered
neat to the low prig. Also, why moleskin gets
flogged for evil behaviour and broadcloth for the
same offence is let down light. Flexibility pro-
vides due explanation for all such apparent eccen-
tricities—and to think of Bmotian Brunker having
discovered it 1
Vic. Exported
Products Bill is so
cold-blooded an out-
rage on “private
enterprise ” and other
fetishes that, though
it has been long before
Parliament, the local
Tory isn’t quite sure
that it is real even
now. “Do you
mean,” said Murray
Smith, in a choked
voice, “ that you
would prevent a man
shipping anything he
liked?” “Cer-
tainly,” sa i d
Taverner ; “ the man
who ships bad butter
or bad meat gives the
country’s products a
bad name and brings
down the price of
his neighbor’s good
produce. It is cer-
tainly proposed that®
man shall not ship
what he likes.”
Though it cannot see it, the Labor-party
would be the largest gainer by Federation, for no
other party has the same uniformity of aims and
methods throughout the different provinces.


M
(CLEVELAND]
ml
Records. Records. Records.
m
CLEVELAND
THE CLEVELAND
AGAIN PROVES ITS SUPREMACY.
MB. J. P. HAYES and his CLEVELAND ROADSTER, fitted with the renowned and reliable CLEVELAND
TYRES, succeeded in lowering the TEN MILES ROAD RECORD to 27min. also the TWENTY
MILES RECORD to 57min. over an out and home course. The THREE-MILES HANDICAP held at
Parramatta on the same date was won by MR. WAYNE mounted on A CLEVELAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
janw i lin t\irs
HONEST 'VALU E S
YJLtfiin/WTO.
(CLEVELANDS
mi
Tbs Sydocy Cyds Co., Ltd.,
RIDING SCHOOL AND SHOWROOMS—
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone 388.
CYCLES FOR HIRE. REPAIRS AND SUNDRIES.
4^3
CLEVELAND
A*:
■i ■* ;
If a
-'1
■t '•
■;r --
.a-: *
\ . ! ■
/v' ,
ii
■t
m ■■ \
ih':‘
V ** ••;•. v
' I W V
rtfs*
»\ ■
4? f
v a> ! -
■*" r ■■■ !.i};
/ - la
fcf * ■ ;<, • ••' h ■ -i^_
!V ' " -;A' ■>■•' A
' At A ..:
-A
\\
f/': Ife ' A^lr^ I*' 1 *'" 4
A. - >A' . rr-: ;y-~;;ir ■-. ■ ■•..
F • ./ aK ...•«*JO --r-rn —r —T)>'i ■'la tom 'i i»» ->V., fIW am®'
? life.
B'S*
St. CboULh.
A /AA ■*
W. H. PALING & CO., LTP
. . SYPNEY aQd BRISBANE . .
Dun mp Tyres
Can be easily repaired with the
mi
mi
Obtainable at all respectable Cycle
Agents.
ONE
V
SHILLING.
free, 11 stamps. A
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO., LTD.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Why doesn’t George Rignold promptly revive Joseph
of Canaan ” with a slim fellow in the name-part, and him-
self cast for the wicked priest? Properly produced,
“Joseph” would be a big thing—would draw. Now is
the boomtime for religious costume-dramas. The appetite
of the occasional playgoer who wants to enjoy a “ great
moral lesson” has been whetted. He has seen the
amorous Marcus chasing Mercia when the lights go out,
and is just in the cue for shuddering at Mrs. Potiphar’s
attack upon holy Joe.
Pinero’s clever comedy, “ The Hobby Horse,” was to be
revived in London on May 16, after a ten years’ retire-
ment. “ The Hobby Horse ” was not sufficiently strong
in plot and dramatio orthodoxy for the public of 1887,
but in the light of modern dialogue plays it is now re-
garded as quite up to date.
“ It’s not the coat, but the bloke wot’s stuck insoide
Latest coster song.
“ I lost £5OOO with a company,” says Martin Simonsen,
who came out to assist at his son’s recent benefit in
Sydney. “ It was half English, half Italian. The mixture
disagreed. There was Almo, Lilian Tree (now intending
to enter a convent), Lablache, Dimetresco, Walshe, St.
Cliir, Pimazzoni, &c. The two countries fought one
night in the last act of ‘Carmen,’ at the Opera House.
The English bulldogs won, I believe. I had gone home
before the sorimmage.”
Ethel Haydon, it seems, went to London under the
guarantee of an engagement from Irving, with whom her
family was acquainted. This was an open sesame for
her anywhere.
The Melb. Jubilee Fever Hospital has been the excuse
for a good many benefit performances which didn’t result
in a pen’orth of benefit for the fund. The waste of
“charity," in connection with amateur theatrical per-
formances, fetes, &c., is quite painful to witness.
Max O’Rell, even as did Christie Murray, has taken to
the stage, acting in his own play, “On the Continong,”
in the English provinces.
If it be true that George Musgrove couldn’t arrange
terms for an Australian tour of the Haverley Minstrels,
the Firm may congratulate itself on a lucky escape, Thu
Bulletin fancies. This country is distinctly Hinglish in
its moderate appetite for minstrel business, and the sight
of half-a-dozen blackened performers executing a com-
plicated step-dance with awful precision wouldn’t rouse
very much enthusiasm. Haverley’s Minstrels tried to take
London by storm in 1880, and proved a phenomenal
“ frost.” The town was billed as it had never been billed
before, also the vast Her Majesty’s Theatre was “papered”
on a scale never previously attempted, but the paying
public remained calm and unmoved.
According to a recent interviewer’s account, Melba
seems to have developed quite as much “ frill ” as she can
carry. “In her magnificent bed Marie Antoinette had
slept; upon the very same sofa had she reclined.” Which
raises the question—from whom did Melba acquire that
bed? Hey!
The dreaded rack in “The Sign of the Cross’ is an
old-time “Charley’s” rattle.
S.S. : “Melb. Alexandra, alias the Queen’s and Her
Majesty’s, has a most wonderful drop-soene. The Exhibi-
tion Building, elevated and condensed, occupies the
back-ground. On some stone steps in the front a browny
black-gin is squatted, nursing a pieaninny like a fat ex-
hibit from the waxworks, whilst a nondescript nigger on
the left is anxiously inquiring the road to the nearest
pub. But the gem of the whole thing is a female wallaby
with a pouch-vent like a post-hole, out of which is thrust
the head of an adult kangaroo. What becomes of the
rest of the kangaroo is not explained. But the picture
serves a noble purpose, since audiences sit stupidly through
the intervals fascinated by the phenomenon and forget
to go out for drinks.”
At the close of a recent University Extension lecture on
“Macbeth,” at a Melb. suburban Mechanics’lnstitute, a
well-known barrister who has claims to some critical
knowledge of Shakespeare, summed up the business of
the evening thusly : “Macbeth murdered sleep, the lec-
turer murdered Macbeth.”
Dear Bulletin, —As one of vhose “ young Australians”
whose want of enthusiasm regarding that hard, dry,
British person, Harry Paulton, has proved a red rag to
the “Melbourne” Bull, may I speak a piece? We say
Paulton is like Toole, and that displays guile and hatred
for England! Well, the fact remains, Paulton is a second,
small, revised edition of Johnny Toole, and the resem-
blance when the former appears in “My Friend from
India ”is glaring. Johnny the antique would have played
this part much as Paulton plays it, even if the latter does
not jerk his head and make mugs—played it in a fat,
slow, gouty way, with a certain tired appreciation of the
humor of the thing, despite the obvious fact that the
persecuted barber should be a spry young man. As for
Goodwin in “ Mizzoura ” being praised for playing the
sheriff, leaning up against things and drawling scant
sentences, it is enough to say that Goodwin was repre-
senting a man who spoke in a slow, drawling way, and
who habitually leaned up against things, and who was
one of a type that drawls, leans, and chews meditatively,
and yet “ Melbourne ” would have that kind of character
played at a hand-gallop. Re the last lines of “ Mel-
bourne’s” letter, I have observed that the Britisher,
fatuously appreciative of all things English, squares his
prejudices with an intense hatred for aught that comes
from America.—S.S.
The extraprdinary points of the Selbinis’ performance,
says the Rickards’ management, have not been nearly as
well appreciated in Melbourne as in Sydney.
Ed. B., —One of your correspondents says: “ As original
as Ohirgwin’s dance with the churchwarden pipes.” This
was a bar-room trick ages before Chirgwin was born.
Another says :—“ Pattie Brown is as slim as ever.” Now
I saw Pattie in a “ Night Out ” last Oct. in London. She
is now almost the image of Miss Watt-Tanner.—X.
One Melb. suburban juvenile minstrel co. is beating up
recruits for an all-Australian tour, followed on by India.
Cabled demise: Meilhac, author of “ The Grand
Duchess” libretto, and chief author, with Halbvy, of
“Frou-Frou.” “The Grand Duchess,” impudent Hor-
tense Schneider, was a mighty Parisian furore just before
the war, satirising the petty German states so much
beloved by the English queen. In “Frou-Frou” the
magnetic Descl6e reached her acme.
Clutsam, Marshall Hall’s prot6g6 and discovery, acted
as pianist at Premier Turner’s swell banquet in London,
lie appears to be justifying the first auguries of his
musical ability.
Melb. Age is wincing at the persistent
references to its policy of hush with regard to
movements it doesn’t patronise. It had a long
and lame paragraph in the other day explaining
why it refused to insert an advt. announcing a
meeting of unemployed for the purpose of peti-
tioning Gov. Brassey. Its reasons were almost as
undemocratic and time-serving as anything of the
sort that has yet appeared in the Age.
Bewailing in London Times of 7th June
his firm’s non-success in tendering for the Atlantic-
Canadian service of 21 knots in all weathers,
James Huddart, of Messrs. Huddart, Parker and
Co., plaintively observes that “ Sir M'Kenzie
Bowell, on my suggestion and at my urgent re-
quest through the late Sir John Thompson, visited
Australia in one of our steamers for the express
purpose of working up the Imperial sentiment .”
And that’s how the milk gets into the cocoanut—
with the “ loyal ” Australian press to boom the
transfer.
Dear Bulletin, —You speak of W. N.
Willis plotting to dethrone Lyne and reinstate
Dibbs. Rats ! Even a conspirator must be pos-
sible. Willis is not. This scheme to bluff Reid
into making Dibbs Agent-General won’t hold
water, anyhow. Who imagines that Reid wants
to get rid of Damn Chicago? An army with two
leaders personally hostile to each other is easier to
lick than the same force with only one—and well
does Reid know it. Abbott may have the billet if
he likes, but never the man with “ the sprawling
intellect. ’’—Corny.
Fitz Gibbon, of Melbourne’s Board of
Works, was made quite happy by his Jubilee
“honor,” and he now signs himself officially—
“E. G. Fitz Gibbon, Esq., J.P., Commander of
Michael and George.” If a deputation of citizens
were to present him with a brass helmet, he
would wear it with enthusiasm. As a humorless
Irishman, this rare old bird is incapable of feeling
ridiculous. He takes even his own poems seri-
ously. “There is no fun in me,” said Fitz. at a
recent Vic. artists’ smoke-night gathering. He
said it neither proudly nor regretfully, but just as
a solid statement of himperial fact for the infor-
mation of any among Her Majesty’s liege subjects
who might have supposed that he was apt to joke
on his birthday, or other historical occasions.
There is no fun in Fitz Gibbon.
Early in the Federal debate N.S.W.
Assembly affirmed, by an overwhelming majority,
that it believed in two Houses. Two nights later,
by an even bigger majority, it practically gave the
Government of the day power to dissolve the
Senate at its pleasure, thus stripping the second
Chamber of every vestige of power and dignity,
and to all intents and purposes declaring its abso-
lute belief in one House only. Three days later it
again decided that the Senate was to . have a life
of six years. And yet some members wonder why
the present Parliament is, in the eyes of its
creators, an utterly discredited body ! As a
result, Federation is still in the air so far .as
N.S.W. politics are concerned. The broader in-
telligence of the Convention will probably bring it
down to earth again, and then the people will
probably grab at it, if only to smother their im-
becile provincial representatives for ever.
N.S.W. Acting-Premier Brunker’s refusal
to assist in extending hospitality to the French
troops per Tanais is a very ugly circumstance and
will need a great deal of explanation. As the
daily papers have reported, the Tanais, a French
mail-steamer, broke down on her way from Noumea
and was towed into Sydney about a fortnight
behind time. On board her were some 65 French
soldiers who should have left Sydney to return
home on 14th July, but are now detained till the
next steamer leaves on 11th Aug. The Tanais is
going into dock for repairs; and it will be very in-
convenient to keep the men aboard her, and even
more inconvenient to billet them round town in
detachments. French soldiers are decent fellows,
but they are not saints ; and, especially when
they are in a foreign city, it is desirable that
they be kept under reasonable discipline. Yet it
is obviously impossible for two or three officers to
maintain discipline over a dozen scattered knots of
men. So the French Consul-General, M. Biard
d’Aunet, applied to Acting-Premier Brunker to
know if the Government could aid him in his
difficulty by finding quarters at Paddington
barracks or elsewhere to keep the men together
till their boat leaves ; and (though the local mili-
tary authorities were ready and even eager to afford
the Frenchmen every hospitality) Acting-Premier
Brunker replied that the Government could not.
Of course, payment would have been forthcoming
for any expense entailed. But, in any case,
the Consul’s request was so small, and the courtesy
involved was so important, that one would think
Govt, would have hurried to place all its re-
sources at his disposal. Acting-Premier Brunker’s
action looks like a stupid and unnecessary slight
to a friendly nation ; whether he can explain it in
any other way remains to be seen. The French
Consul-General has thanked Mr. Brunker for his
courteous reply to the Consul-General’s letter, and
regretted that there should have been a refusal of
hospitality—especially as not long ago the French
authorities and people gave to the ship-wrecked
crew of H.M.S. Sultan a welcome befitting the
flag of their country.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
iiktiii:k kkiuicd hates.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTL.EREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every .£1 to £lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in- |
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000
Paid-up . .. £‘*,950,211 ss.
Directors :
Hon. Janies Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meures, Esq., C.M.G., J.l*. ; lion N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
Genera), Manager: Henry G.vlesTurner, J.P.
Inbi’ECTors: Wm. Turner, John M’Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cuteheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsjjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadueedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government ..' .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
IVTEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
I>l D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General MEETING of the Shareholders in
the above Company will be held on FRIDAY,
30th instant, upon the Company’s premises, at
11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
Business :
fo receive the directors’ report and balance-
sheet ; to elect two directors in the room of
Henry B. Cotton, Esq., and Dr. Edward
Chisholm, whose term of office expires by
effluxion of time (both these gentlemen are
eligible fo: re-election, and offer themselves
accordingly); to elect two auditors in the place
of Messrs. J. B. C. Miles and J. H. Davies,
whose term of office expires by effluxion of
time (they again offer themselves for re-
election).
A.nd to transact any other business that may be
brought before the meeting in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated 15th July, 1897.
\TEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
.TM D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 30th instant in-
clusive.
By order,
LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
Dated 15th July, 1897.
<arin>€ & Srpitb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pit.t Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 5/0
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
CuetHß&gE,
HRS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TA’i, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“ BEETHAM’S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, UKIMWADE & 00., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,700,426 15 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 49,573 4 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. _ 760,000 0 0
2,805,781
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: JohnGrioe, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esu.;Anure« burns, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: 11. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office— Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP „ _ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY „ _ 225,000
RESERVE FUND ... _ 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE —
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in ail Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
X
RegiOald A. F. MCirray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, f 4"
MeibourrwOre Testing fe Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden & Company
“<th“k, St ' Proprietary Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Australian Novelty Introducing Co.,
13 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Importers Latest American Novelties-
Sole Agents Monarch Card, Pistol and 3 Arrow Slot
Machines, Jewellery. 14-carat Solid Gold-filled WAL-
THAM WATCHES, £3 155., guaranteed 15 years.
Only Depot for the CINEMATOGRAPH BOOKS :
Widow’s Kiss, Dancing Girl, Butler Execution, and Aus-
tralian Buck-Jumper. Wholesale and Retail.
Tbi& Conjpaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital. . .£'500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
i able Address— Hiemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
ClarKe & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies .
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of nil Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free ou application.
„ ___ Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Eor
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, July 31, 2 p.m.
Buniayonjr, Tues., August 3, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE i
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE \
Buninyong Tues., August 3, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Buiiinyonp, Tues., August 3, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
Peregrine, Saturday, Julv 31, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., August 3, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Peregrine, Saturday, July 81, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, August 7, 2 p.m.
(-largo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST LTIIMtENT FAKES TO ALL I‘OKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH St SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, August 7.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney) Tues-
day, August 10.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONOARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innamincka (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, Aug’. 7.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, August 10.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Rob Roy (from Adelaide) about
August 3
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Amur, Tuesday, Aug-ust
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing.their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also a’ceompariv them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen's Coiner, Pitt Street, Sydney
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
♦Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £B5 to £7O
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £B5. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. Ua Sa Na OoY. LaTD.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay 1
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Oooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare I London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS a CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON (London)
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Oavid graham J go.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
<*«otkn)si7’S S ™ BI "
WiQter SCiitifygS
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality .
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING-.
DAVID BEAHAM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
PATENT,
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with*
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
io bong, and the Merry Dance, can all be played on these
charming Instruments. No knowledge of Music Required
A Useful and Pre ty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Headers of the
“ Sydney Bulletin. '
Campbell’s “ Gem ” Melodeon price only 10/6
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22/6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, for the amount
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Cney?
All lovers nf music should at once send for our New Tn„«
trated Privile e Price List for Musical SeasonL?: no*7readv
150,000 Ol these valuable Lists senr nut yearly
CAMPBELL & CO., Musical Instrument Makem
116, Trougate. GLASGOW. Est. 50 Years. Agents Wanted.


©
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
Invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. 6d. NATIVE WA<
RAT AH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding covers,
pnCe2S J. ALBERT & SON,
Largest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments and
Spectacles. Illustrated Catalogue of Violins, Accordeons,
Cornets, Mandolines, Music, etc., posted free on applica-
tion 118 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
O
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoi)’sNot€dAccordeooS,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COX ON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 6 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
H
H
H
H
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash,&o. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &0., cash, terms. Queen-st,, W’h’ra.
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
"OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
L all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (J tone), from 6d.
L tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 10C0
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
El
HOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
H
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
H
H
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver ; terms. Queen-st,, Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Tbe Leadiog Pipe.
(g bd)
Wholesale Dep6t:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Tattoo oil
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Blacfc, Red & Rl^ e *
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
‘TATTOO Oil/’ (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STOIIER & SONS, London, are
>n each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
ire imperfect imitations. >
Wholesale Agents : ,
E RICH * CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney ;
GEO P HARRIS, SCARFE * CO.. Adelaide.
It presentative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders lane, Melb.
Pubications.
Gteo. Robertson & Co ->
301 & 363 George Street, Sydney. .
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
SMe Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
J J holographs of English A Colonial Celebritie
Tbe Trustees, ExecCitorS, ai)d RgeijW Cori)pai)Y Linjitgd.
fa 'AKLISIIKD 1878.
Directors: F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman; ROBT. MimRAY Manager;
JOHN GRICE, Esq. ; C. M. OFFICER, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. PRAII,
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager . ~., nmn p.id-up £60,000 Reserve Fund and Un-
Capital: Subscribed, £150,000. Further Reserve Liability, £lso,<m Pa ,( i u p .
F divided Profits, £46,270 14s. lid.
The amount, remaining at credit
recommend should
REPORT.
The Directors are glad to report that the business still c ?"^nu e s satisfactory.
of Profit and Loss Account and available for distribution is £62: 0 14s. 11 ,
b, «PP~P~*g» SwSi lor hall-year ended SOth June, 1897, at the rate ol 6 p.o. per annun, «•» « °
~ Balance to be carried forward ... •••
By order of the Board Jab. Borrowman, Manager.
£6270 14 11
412 Collins-st. Melbourne, 15th July, 1897.
THE trustees executors, and agency company limited.
£> r . Profit'and Loss Account, Half-Year ended SOth Lane. 18.1,
£ 8. V.
1897—June 30.~
To Salaries, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
including Agencies °, u “ “ ”
„ Stationery, Postage, and Office Expenses 597 1 8
~ Printing and Advertising 304 0 6
~ Furniture and Fittings 29 5 0
„ Law Costs so 6 0
4,582 17 8
~ Allowance for Widow of late Managing
Director 250 0 0
~ Difference in Amount Paid and Received
on Lease 37 Queen-street... ... ... 327 211
~ Difference in Amount Paid in connec-
tion with Mortgage on Premises and
Received on Investment of £85,000 ... 288 8 2
~ Balance carried down 6,270 14 11
£11,718 18 8
1896—December 81.
By Balance
Less Dividend at the iate of 5 per
cent, per annum
1897—June 30.
By Interest on Mortgages, Stock, etc.
Commissions and Miscellaneous Re-
ceipts, after providing for contin-
gencies
lompany’s Premises—
Rents ...
Less Rates, Lift, and
Repairs
£313 18 6
236 14 8
£ S. V.
6,014 9 7
1,500 0 0
4,514 9 7
634 11 6
6,492 13 4
77
4 3
11,718 18 8
1897 —June 80. By Balanoe £6,270 14 11
Statement of The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company Limited
For the 30th hat of June, 1897.
t Tamvh Ron itowMAN Manager of The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company Limited, do solemnly and
sincerely declare -That the liability of the members is limited ; That the Capital of Company is £500,000, divided
into >OO 000 Shares of Two Pounds fen Shillings each (with a further reserve liability of Two Pounds Ten Shillings each)
of whfch £1 ner share on 60,000 shares, amounting in all to £60,000, is actually paid up in money : That the number of
shares iWfe Sixty Thousand the whole of which are contributing; That calls to the amount of One Pound per
share have been made, amounting to £60,000, under which the sum of £60,000 has been actually and bona fide re-
ceived in money ; That the Assets and Liabilities of the Company on the 30th June, 1897, were as follows
Balance-Sheet, 80th Tune, 1897.
£ 8. D.
£ B. D.
Dr.
Capital—
Subscribed ...
Less Uncalled
... 160,000 0 0
... 90,000 0 0
60,000 Shares paid up to £1 ••• 60,000 0 0
Reserve Fund, used in the Company s
business 40,000 0 0
Money owing on Open Account ... ...
Debt due on Mortgage of Freehold Pro-
perty , , •••
(Against which there is a speoial in-
vestment of £36,000).
Profit and Loss Account
100,000 0 0
188 9 4
26,000 0 0
6,270 14 11
£131,459 4 3
£ 8. D.
£ 8. 1).
Or.
Investments —
Inscribed Stock
Money lent on Mortgage..
Money lent against Inter-
ests of Beneficiaries
Investments set aside to
meet Mortgage on Free-
hold Property
Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank-
Preference Shares,
£14,000
Deposits ... 18,000
Bank of Victoria —
Deposits ... 1,000
Shire of Swan Hlil —
Debentures... 2,000
At face value
Freehold Property at Cost...
Less Written off
Furniture and Fittings at
Cost
Less Written off
10,000 0 0
7,036 16 i
9,727 12 6
35,000 0 0
61,764 7 9
69,348 210
4,348 2 10
66,000 J 0
954 4 10
454 410
: 500 0 0
Debts due the Company other than those
above mentioned ... ... 572 11 2
Cash to Credit in Bank of Australasia 3,622 6 4
£131,469 4 3
Trust, Kxeeutor, and Af/ency Business.
0 intingknt and Other Liabilities otherwise than in
HESPECT OK ANY OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED ITEMS.
£ S. D.
Amount at credit of Estates Trusts and
Clients, represented by Investments <
and Cash at Bankers, as per contra... 6,056,847 14 5
£6,056,847 14 5
Contingent Assets.
Advances on Mortgage of Real Estate ...
Debentures and Stock
Landed Property
Other Securities
(Exclusive of property mortgaged as se-
curity, and held by Company as
Trustee for Debenture Holders)
Cash at Bankers at credit of Trust Cur-
rent Accounts
£ s. D.
2,284,189 12 2
289,239 0 0
2,138,384 8 4
1,264,871 0 0
80,163 13 11
£6,056 v 847 14 5
That the following were the names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who were Directors of the Company
,y Hate of the statement • Frederic Race Godfrey, Esq., St. Kilda, Gentleman , Robert Murray Smith, Esq.,
CMG *m!l. A.!, John Grice, Esq., Malvern, Gentleman ; C. M. Officer, Esq., Brighton, Gentle-
man • Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C., East Melbourne, Gentleman. . , .. .
That I am the Manager of the Company, and that the foregoing statement is, to the best of mv belief and know-
ledge true in every particular. And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true,
am f by virtue of the provisions of an Act of Parliament of 1 ictoria rendering persons making a false declaration pun-
ishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.— Jas. Borrowman. Declared before me at Melbourne, this Fifteenth day of
J hereby certify that we have examined and compared the books, accounts, vouchers, and securities of the
Company for the half-year ended 30th June, 1897, and that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the
Balance-sheet and Accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, and present
a correct vtow of the stnte of the Company's affairs on that date. We further certify that we have not observed nor
have we become acquainted during th ■ audit with any breach of the Companies Acts committed by the Company or
any director, manager, employ*, auditor, or shareholder thereof, and that all our requisitions as auditors, including
those with regard to the private Balance-sheet, have been complied with. We also certify that we have made a con-
tinuous audit of the receipts and disbursements in connection with the affairs of the clients of th e Company for the
s x months ended 30th June, 1897; we have further ascertained that there were on 31st December, 1896, securities
(othfr than real estate) in the hands of the Company, belonging to its clients, corresponding with those shown by the
books at that date, and have commenced and are proceeding with a similar examination of these secutities as on 30th
June, 1897. ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.1.A.V., ( Allflw . rß
Melbourne, 15th July, 1897. . WILLM. PATERSON F F.I.A. * 7
Certificates by Directors. —I hereby certify that in my opinion the balance-sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.-On behalf of the Board, F. R. Godfrey, Chairman of Directors.
T/M.i.. i in,*7 Cmlth r\f nr/-\rxvolr f.wn r*f t.hp ’Dirpot.nrs nf Th
We, 1
Trustees,
correct.
inrrKITB; DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depftt. 484 George-Street, Sydney, for photos and
W particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Unrieht Grands and Semi Grands-iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with-buying them froni dealers,
'l'ho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost hrms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and aro rivetted. Tho sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate, and thus the Piano ..«°!! w
Wrist pins are extra
long and plated. All
tnkas wires copper
oovered. The clavia
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu
rath workmanship.
Wires aro two sizes
thicker than are. ordi
narily used, hence
security against break
ing, and a fuller tone
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
be nad m walnut or
ebony, with or without
trold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastu’s and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The 'touch ia S'*
responsive. The tShe possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; arich, round, singing 'IP; I '!'
n the middle compass ? and a clear, bell like sweetness m the treble. Singers find the timbre
mstaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. P , , '
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousan s •
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of worldwide “e
colonies, churches,, schools, convents, and public institutions. B&A Lk & vxeoiK®
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South W ale 3. ■
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains oven 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens,' Imperial Institute, and in the :
midst of the Fashionable Quarter.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W,
Doing a Day’s Washing.
Of all the duties that fall to the lot of the house-
wife whose means do not permit of her indulging
in the luxury of a paid “ help,” perhaps the most
cordially detested is “washing.” But there are
some people who make light of even this laborious
task, as will be seen by the perusal of a reporter a
interview with Mrs. Mary Brown, of 71 Simmons-
street, Enmore
“ I have called, Mrs. Brown,’ said our reporter,
“to ascertain the truth of the rumor that has
reached us of your having recently suffered from a
severe attack of rheumatism.’
“It is quite true, but I am now happy to relate
that I feel as well as I ever did. I have been
suffering on and off from rheumatism for the last
five years, and the slightest change in the weather
used to give me most awful twinges. It chiefly
affected my arms, and I can assure you, sir, that
it took me all my time to do my hair. As to lilt-
ing this tub, that was a matter of sheer nu possi-
bility. If it had not been for some of my friends
I could never have gotten through my household
duties. This complaint appeared to affect my
entire system, and as to the money I have spent
in doctors’ advice and so-called remedies, why it
makes me positively disgusted to think of. 1
began to think that if my sufferings continued life
was not worth living. I rememb 1 r one day, as I
was sitting by the fire and endeavoring to employ
my mind by reading the ‘ Evening News that an
advertisement caught my eye headed Ur. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People cures Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, &c.’ Now, having wasted so
much money already, I was at first loth to try any
more advertised medicines, but I thought in for a
penny in for a pound, so I invested in three boxes
of this specific. , , wi
“ I hope you were careful to ask for Ur. wil-
liams’ Pink Pills ? ” _ T v a
“ I took particular notice to do that, for I had
read of so many worthless imitations that I was
careful to ask for, and obtain, the genuine article.
“We think it highly probable, Mrs. Brown,
that before long some of the compounders of these
worthless imitations will be spending time in
seclusion, with the accompanying eccentricities of
diet, official garb, and escort.” .
“And indeed it would only serve them right.
Brown (my husband) laughed at me when I told
him I was going in for a course of Dr. Williams
Pink Pills, and said, ‘ Oh, you are going to chuck
away some more money, are you ? ’
“ I said ‘ Yes, I am,’ and right glad am I that I
ran the risk of ‘ chucking away some money, for I
am happy to tell you that they have done me all
the good in the world. Talk about the new
woman, why I feel now a brand new woman, and
my husband only this morning said to me ‘Well,
you certainly look the “ pink ’ of perfection now.
I suppose it is your Pink Pills that have done it.
And so it is. Not only have I lost my rheumatic
pains, but my appetite has returned, and I can
now enjoy my food. In fact, my appetite is so
good that Brown says I will eat him out of house
and home.”
“How many boxes have you taken, Mm.
Brown?” . , _ ,
“ I have had seven boxes m all, and 1 have so
much belief in them that I intend always to keep
a box by me, and I shall recommend them to all
my friends. You are quite at liberty to publish
this statement, as I believe in giving credit to
whom credit is due.”
The reporter then withdrew, and reflected as he
walked slowly away that here at least was another
case in which the many virtues of this marvellous
preparation had been exhaustivelyand conclusively
illustrated.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are not like other
medicines, and their effects are permanent.
Nothing else is so prompt in pulling up the system
when, from some temporary depression or other-
wise, tone is needed. They have cured more than
fifty-five hundred cases of diseases arising from
impoverished blood, such as anaemia, pale and sal-
low complexion, muscular weakness, depression of
spirits, loss of appetite, palpitation of the heart,
shortness of breath, pains in the back, nervous
headache, loss of memory, early decay, all forms
of female weakness, hysteria, paralysis, locomotor
ataxy, rheumatism and sciatica, scrofula, rickets,
hip-joint diseases, chronic erysipelas, consumption
of the bowels and lungs.
The genuine pills are sold only in wooden boxes,
about two inches in length, in a white wrapper
with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, printed in red. They are never sold
in bulk, or from glass jars, and any dealer who
offers substitutes in this form should be avoided.
In case of doubt it is better to send direct to the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Queen’s Cham-
bers, Queen’s Place, Sydney, enclosing the price,
2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for 14s. 9d.
“These pills are not a purgative, and they con-
tain nothing that could injure the most delicate.*
E- Twccdic,
17 HANOVER STREET
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tb* Up-to-date FrockiSt.
DRINK -
mw
ptSULL £/Jj
SPECIAL
»
■ E ?Th
Whisky


Packets
1
LIBARB
PL/R£
rl/LD
(aaured by < sr \
Biyerne
Is.
FEAAZ JOSEF .
PILSEKTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
There are now 14 millions of Singer sew-
ing machines in use throughout the world. This
immense demand is solid evidence of the world-
wide popularity obtained by these machines, as-
sisted by the easy terms of payment on which
they are sold. Since the Singer Manufacturing
Company inaugurated its system of hire with
option of purchase, it has been taken advantage of
by the public to an extraordinary extent. This
system has been the means of enabling an immense
number of all classes to become possessed of these
most reliable sewing-machines, and it always offers
peculiar advantages to parties in want of machines
for domestic use by affording a thorough trial
before purchase. From the numerous inquiries
received by the company, it would appear that
there are yet many who are anxious to procure a
Singer’s machine under this system, but who lack
information as to its details. The co. invites
every one in want of a sewing-machine to write to
the head office, 99 Clarence-street, Sydney (or the
co. ’s agents located in every large town in Aus-
tralia). Price-lists and full particulars will be
supplied. *
Now that Ranjitsinjhi is coming for cer-
tain, the question is: how will he shape on the
strange, fast, Australian wickets ? The cricket
axiom is that a true cricketer is a cricketer any-
where, and there seems to be nothing in Australian
conditions to detract from the established bril-
liance of the first batsman in England. The quick-
ness of his eye will not be affected by the glare of
the Austral sun, for Ranjitsinjhi was bom and
bred under the equatorial glare of India. True,
the Indian Prince learnt all his cricket on English
wickets, and developed his cunning of eye and
hand there. But his eye is so exceptionally cun-
ning, and his arms and wrists so perfectly
supple, that there appears to be no reason
why he shouldn’t glance Jones off his nose
in Australia as he did when scoring his
famous 153 in England. Moreover, being a
mere youth and an enthusiastic cricketer as well,
he should speedily adapt himself to new sur-
roundings. Iredale, Gregory, Trott, Donnan,
and the rest say that “on Australian wickets we
will never get Ranji out.” Doubtless, if anything
does go wrong, Ranjitsinghi will have the discre-
tion to smoke Cameron’s “ Our Chief ’’tobacco, by
which means he will secure a record of triumphs
in his Australian tour. *
FiOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One .is “ THE CBESt'KIUT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and'the other is
** *■ * * Kina-strcet < oiTee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, snd near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
NOW READY.
•J. J. MILLER’S . . .
ANNUAL SPORTING PAMPHLET
Contains Entries, Weights, Performances of all Horses
engaged in Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, and nrinciml
w.f.a. races of the season. Winners of past prine na
Australian races ; complete tables of bests on record in
all branches of sport, including Cycling. Price nwir
SHILLING-posted, Id. extra. Printed by J J Miller
Wholesale Agents : Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne Svdnev'
Brisbane, Perth. ’
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & WOTOR CO., Limited,
45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers •
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Rosebery Park (Sydney) racecourse added to its
list of slain and maimed, last week : Thomas Rooke was
killed outright, and Ernest Crockett seriously injured.
Those who have never seen a field of horses turn into the
straight on a soup-plate course, each jockey fighting for
position, can have no conception of the terrible risk run
by the poor devils—many of them, like Rooke, married
men with families—who ride on pony-courses for bread.
It certainly seems invidious to howl over a jockey killed
on a pony-course, and receive in silence the death or
maiming of horse and man on aFlemington or Randwick ;
in Melbourne they have been killing their steeplechase
horses and maiming their jockeys with clocklike regu-
larity for weeks past. The surroundings of the average
soup-plate course are such that it would be a distinct
gain to humanity to improve it off the face of the earth,
but it takes a fine perception to distinguish between a
dangerous and unfashionable small course and a large,
safe and fashionable course made dangerous with
obstacles.
* * * *
Yet another jockey butchered to make a holiday
for pony thieves and mugs. By the way, why don’t the
pony-course people hold a benefit meeting or two in aid
of the hospitals on which they cast so many maimed and
bleeding burthens ?
* « * »
Melbourne is capable of providing some
pretty low-down forms of thievery. On the local race-
courses it is no longer safe for a jockey to get a spill and
knock in his skull, because he is no sooner down than the
good Samaritans rush in and rob him of everything
detachable right down to his socks. One jockey, stunned
in a fall at a suburban course, was robbed, amongst other
things, of a glass-eye. Glennon fell at Caulfield the other
day, and, when he recovered his senses, found that that
was about all he could expect to recover, the Samaritans
having left nothing else belonging to him worth men-
tioning. The V.R.C. has promised to take steps, but
meanwhile no jockey with horse-sense wears his false
teeth in a steeplechase on a Melb. course.
• « » *
S.A. Tattersall’s meeting on July 17, like all
off-day meetings, brought big dividends: £lO5 Is., £l9
175., £6 195., £l5 75., £2 Bs., and £3l2s. for the six races
gave the tote another big ad.
The div. of <£los Is. was on Maid of the Mist, a
rank outsider, the total invested on the mare being £7
10s. Which recalls the sensational div. paid on D.O.D. in
S.A. Goodwood Handicap years ago. A fanner named
O’Dea went to Adelaide for the Cup meeting, knowing
little about racing. The similarity in initials to his own,
and the fact that the jockey’s colors were green, decided
him, and he put a sov. on D.0.D., a rank outsider, who
was not seriously considered. But “they run in all
shapes.” D.O.D. won. The farmer’s sovereign was the
only money invested on the horse, and he scooped over
* * * *
On last Steeple day, at Flemington, a poorly-
dressed, old-looking young man was trying to sell six-
penny tips. His now beery face brought back memories
of the days, a fevv years ago, when he owned some of the
best cattle, rode in his carriage, lived in a mansion, swam
in gold-top, and was as tender a pigeon as was ever
plucked by Ikey Mo.
* * * «
Merman, now in England, has been given some
trials and does not seem to have acquitted himself very
creditably. Not much notice can be taken of this, how-
ever. Merman never was a great success as a track-
horse, being one of the “ white-when-he’s-wanted” variety
When acclimatised he should account for something good.
* » » »
Ronda, with which “Black Bill” Forrester
attempted his second coup in Melb. Cup, has never yet
won a race, and has so often been donkevlicked in small
handicaps around Sydney that many now believe him
incapable of winning the smallest event at the minimum
weight. Yet, but for Glenloth he would have won a Cup.
Horses are kittle cattle. Newman’s win reminds one that
he has proved a disappointing and deceiving horse for
even so acute a judge as Kelso.
» * * *
Jockey Jim Hayes seems a source of constant
worry to the V.R.C. The facts of the latest : the V.R.C.
committee recently decided that all disqualified jockeys
should, at the expiration of their term, be required to
apply for a license before riding again. Hayes was offered
the mount at Caulfield on Legs for the Welter, and, his
six months’ “ dis.” having just expired, he asked the
Caulfield stewards for leave to ride. He got it, rode, and
won ; in good style, too. Now the V.R.C. committee is
annoyed at what it considers a snub on the part of the
V.A.T.C. However, as its recommendation had never
been passed by the general body of members, it doesn’t
seem to have a leg to stand on.
♦ * * *
Canterbury Park Cup, N.S.W., run to-day
(Sat.) will doubtless bring out a big field. Kelso,
Blue Vest, Silvertone and Admonition are a likely
quartette to furnish the winner. Beauvoir should win
Parkes Stakes, whilst Bathilda, with a run, reads the
winner of Two-year-old Handicap. The July Handicap
may fall to The Meddler or Lady Trenville, and Temple-
stowe or Juvenile should be good enough to account for
the Welter.
* * « *
Acceptances for Caulfield G.N. Hurdles (four
miles) promise a big field, and Hive, His Grace and First
King appear to possess good winning chances, whilst
Vigil, Britomarte and Peveril are sure to figure promi-
nently in the G.N. Steeple (four miles). Tagus is first
favorite for the Hurdles, but will likely run much more
forward in the Steeplechase if he only stands up.
* * * 9
Jumpers’ flat races, at present greatly in vogue
in Victoria, are to be introduced into N.S. W. This class of
event is akin to the hunters’ flat races at ’Ome, where
they are made the medium of some of the most out-
rageous ramps.
* « * *
While racehorses, taken all in all, are deteriorat-
ing, that more useful animal, the trotter, is improving.
Robert Bonner says that, when he bought his first trot-
ting horse in 1856, only 19 horses, living and dead, had
trotted a mile in 2:30. Now there are more than 13,000
in the list.
* * • *
Gray’s starting-machine is to be given a trial at
the Newmarket (Eng.) second October meeting.
* • * •
The huge sum of £30,000 was given away in
stakes at the recent Ascot meeting (Eng.).
The V.R.C. has had a successful season, as after
clearing: off £3555 overdraft, it is left with a credit
o* £4os3 —mainly due to the splendid weather it has
had. A reserve-fund is to be started to provide against
wet seasons.
* * * *
The eycle-on-ferry-steamers problem will attract
much attention in the near future. As matters stand, on
the Manly ferry for instance, scores of cycles are often run
aboard a boat and stacked loose in the alley-ways, &c. If
“anything” happened to cause a panic on board, the
loose cycles would be a terrible element of danger.
• * * •
The Lady, a very high-toned English fashion-
paper, describing a “society” cycle-meet One girl
rode a very smart-looking tandem, painted white, and
behind her sat a negro groom, dressed in neat dark green
livery, with a cockaded hat, doing his share of pedalling.
This is a good idea for ladies who have discarded their
horses for ‘ironmongery,’ yet wish to find employment
for their men-servants, and a man in attendance to take
charge of one’s machine and undertake trifling repairs is
certainly an advantage, to say nothing of his value, when
lonely roads are traversed at dusk.” Just think of it—a
buck nigger riding behind a lady on a lonely road in the
dusk ! How they would smile in Yankee-land !
* * * *
Recent road-racing accidents have had their
warning effect, and Vic. League of Wheelmen has now
prohibited machines of a lighter weight than 231 b. being
used in road-races, and has also debarred racing-tyres.
The latter alteration is quite as important as the other, for
a small-diameter tyre, when pumped up hard, is almost
absolutely unyielding to inequalities of the road, conse-
quently an undue strain is put on the machine. Such
tyres, though safe enough on a smooth track, are simply
suicidal on a rough road.
* * * *
Vic. League of Wheelmen proposes to institute
the French Brassard, or Badge system, during the coming
season. This is a scheme whereby the champion at three
distances—one, five, and ten miles—becomes the possessor
of a badge, which entitles him to a sum of £5 per week
during the racing season. He must, however, defend his
title, if called on to do so, the challenger putting up £lO
as bona-fides. This should prove a good spec, for the
League, as the matches will be run under its control, and
will provide a great draw for little expense.
* * * »
“Jock” Green, the Newcastle (Eng.) rider,
owes his victory in the 25-mile Vic. road championship to
the fine pacing which Kellow has been giving him in
training. One of the top-notchers of England, Green was
bound to distinguish himself here as soon as he became
acclimatised, and his recent successes, both on the track
and the road, prove that he is not far off his best form
now. On Saturday he negotiated the Campbellfield out
and back course in lh. 13min., more than 3min. less than
A. A. Middleton’s time last year. Middleton rode splen-
didjy this time, but an accident to his brother broke up
their pacing arrangements somewhat. Nevertheless, he
was able to battle with Green until 100yds. from home,
when the thick-set Britisher forged ahead, and an un-
known man named Rogers dashed out and finished in
front of the plucky Dunolly miner. Johnstone, the No. 1
of last season, who used to act as rear-guard to every
field in long sc. races, rode splendidly for one half the
distance, when a fall put him out of it. On Saturday’s
form, it certainly looks as though Green would win both
the 50 and 100 miles championships of the Vic. League,
while the E. Melb. Club, which scored most points for
position, will secure the chief premiership with its com-
bination of the two Middletons, Geo. Carpenter, and Kiel.
» * » *
Jack Hellings’ win of the world’s 100yds.
swimming championship, from scratch, at Manchester,
England, with its 117 entries —■ he has since won the
Belgian championship was a performance in itself
justifying the little ’un’s trip. The first time the present
writer saw Hellings was at Holdsworth s boat-shed, Wool-
loomooloo Bay, one Sunday morning, when the youngster,
scarcely able to walk, toddled out to the end of the jetty
and flopped into the water just as a voung seal might do,
and dog-paddled in to the bit of sandy beach. And it
may safely be said that young Hellings made the water
as much his element as earth during the succeeding best
part of a couple of decades. He comes of a briny family,
his father, “ Dick” Hellings, being the crack yacht-sailer
of his day, vvhen the Xarifa and Mistral were fighting out
their historic battles. If the writer’s memory serves
him, old Dick was skipper of the Xarifa when she went
to Melbourne to meet the Hobson Bay cracks, Mr
“Billy” Smythe, late of the Sydney Customs, making one
of the crew.
* * * *
Hellings’ win shows the calibre of Sydney
amateurs as compared with the othersiders. It is acknow-
ledged that Sid. Cavill and “ Mud” Bishop are very little
behind the little chain, ion, whilst there is probably not
more than 3sec. differei ce in the following nine swim-
mers C. Proudfoot, A. Folm ■*, J. Canning, F. Lane,
J. Taylor, Coulsen, C. Wii.n, J. Davidson and Perov
Cavill.
* * - » *
The recent doings of his sons reminds us that it
is now almost 20 years since old-man Cavill swam across
the English Channel—a feat for which he did not obtain
due credit, because the late Captain Matt Webb’s faction,
then omnipotent in the press, raised the objection that,
while taking some light refreshment, Ca\ ill had clung to
a rope. Cavill would have beaten Webb in any kind of
match —long or short.
* * * *
“ Peter Jackson is by no means the wreck that
American and other papers would make him out to be,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ There is
a calm air of dignity about the battered face with two
purple scars across the depressed nose-bridge and ‘ betune
the eyes,’ and the old warrior looks fit enough to make
the best of the ring and paper-fighters more inclined to
eat thistles than taste his stiff, straight left. Apropos of
the Fitz.-Corbett attack of indigestion, provoked by
Fitz.’s right-timed, right-placed poke, he said : ‘ln the
18th round of my fight with the Pompadour I hit him
hard over the pit, and he never came near me again. My
ankle was useless, from a buggy accident two weeks
beforehand, and I could not go after him, and that is why
our fight lasted 61 rounds and ended as it did. From his
biggest backer in that match I heard long afterwards that
Corbett, urged by his seconds to mix it a bit, refused,
saying : “ That fellow has hit me a terrible blow.’’ Then
I knew his weakness, and also knew that he would never
meet me again. Fitzsimmons says straight out I’m too
good for him.’ ”
* * * *
John L. Sullivan’s challenge to Eitzsinimons
may end in something, though most people think other-
wise. The Bulletin notes John L.’s condescending
remark that Rose Julien (Mrs. Fitz. the second) was once
a member of his co—a “nice girl,” with wfiom he was
thinking of “ splicing up.” The inference is that John L.
did not then think her quite good enough, and as Mrs.
Fitz. is an active partner in her hubby’s pug biz., there
should be trouble ahead. “ Hell hath no fury,” &c.
Slavin appears to have become a pugilistic wreck
—ruined by bar-room hero-worship. According to latest
accounts, he has fallen a victim to one Armstrong, an
American nig. Ten years ago, when the brave and stal-
wart Maitlander came down from Queensland to Sydney
Foley ventured the remark that he was making too free
with the conqueror of all champions.
“Kid” M'Coy and Dan Creedon have been
matched in the States. M‘Coy is a youngster putting on
weight daily, and will have to work to keep within the
middleweight limit, but, if as good as reported, should
linrt, ree '??l l - ? u |° f hand. There is bad blood between
l ooy and Mick Dooley just now, so Mick is not likely to
tavor the youngster when he states that M‘Coy, “The
„ *?’ clever as Griffo at his best. M'Ooy talks about
a shy at the championship next year.
* * * *
seems to be a large edition of Jim
curge, the Iron Man. He is not clever, but the clever
r itzsimmons, Corbet and Maher could not muster force
enough to knock him out. At Foley’s White Horse Hall,
SVr ed ° n ® ur^e °^ en enough, but had to quit,
* * * *
From a footballer’s point of view, last Satur-
day's match on Sydney Cricket Ground, between the
Kanawicks and Pirates, was the best game of the season,
although played in the mud and slush. Rain suited the
Ri rates, the lighter team, and they nearly got over no less
than five times, but Randwicks’ defence was simply un-
breakable, and the match ended in a draw.
* * » *
• wea ther next Saturday will have a big say
in the result of the Maoriland-N.S.W. football-match, on
Sydney Cricket Ground. Maorilanders, being more used
■weather, arc better hands with a greasy ball, but,
"tii. 3, ne khe play and attendance should both be
of the record description. N.S. Walts, with the con-
fidence born of its last victory, should play a good game
* * * *
It needs but a few matches like that between
Collingwood and Fitzroy, last Saturday, to renovate foot-
ball to the position it held in Melb. six years ago, and to
transform the half-million inhabitants of the smellful
citj r into a dozen bands of bloodthirsty and bigoted par-
tisans once more. The game was the “ willingest ” seen
this season ; not a man on the ground seemed to know
what fear was, and the whole 40 rolled in with such vigor
that layings-out were plentiful and squarings-up the
accompaniment of every rally. At half-time, “ Darkey ’’
Ranks, the’Roy captain, was carried off, and Proudfoot, the
giant policeman who defends .the “Woodsey** goal was
chucking about the maroon men like mere drunks. The
10,000 spectators screeched in excitement and leaned over
the fence till they had pains in their stomachs. The
battle ended in the Collingwoods winning bv St points to
21, goals bc'ng even.
* * * *
Lightning bowler Ernest Jones says he will give
up “big” cricket if Ranjhi. comes with Stoddart. Most
of the Adelaide contingent of the last Australian team
seem to agree that the “ Black Prince ” will never get out
on the Adelaide billiard-table wickets.
* » » *
The Indian Prince is the most magnanimous
cricketer Tin? Bulletin ever heard of. It is said that he
gives a sovereign to the professional who bowls him in a
big match.
* * * *
In addition to being an army man himself, Capt.
Wynyard, one of Stoddart’s probables, comes of a military
family, not unknown here. Wynyard Square, Sydney,
the site of the old barracks, was named after one of his
forbears. In 1847, General E. B. Wynyard, com-
manded the troops of N.S.W., V.D.L., and M.L.; and,
later, in 1854-55, Lieut.-Col. H. K. Wynyard, was Gov.
of Maonland.
* * * *
Hayward, who played so well in last year’s test
matches, and who, it is cabled, comes with Stoddart, is of
delicate physique, and possibly unequal to the wear and
tear which a travelling- team must expect. Both as
bowler and batsman he is at the top of the tree, and his
fielding is phenomenal.
* * * ♦
friend Abel will not come out with
Stoddart s team. He does not care to leave his family,
and the Australian wickets affected his eyesight during
Ins tour with Lord Sheffield’s team. His place will be
taken by Quaiffe, a stubborn bat, good change bowler and
excellent field
* * « *
People who have not been in Melbourne for a
' vhile will be astonished at the present size of the
M.C.C. grand-stand. Two lofty wings have been added,
and the whole is much the largest cricket-ground in the
world It wipes out Lord’s, through the demands of
football, and more particularly cycling.
* * * *
Ned Triokett, ex-champion sculler, is, it is
plain, thoroughly Saved, judging from his autobiography
now being published in the War Cry. Describing his
race with Rush, he says, inter alia :—" At the first'part
of the course my opponent’s trainer, who was in a boat
pulled by seven men, was shouting to him all the time,
saying, That’s it, Michael! Good boy, Michael! You’ve
got him, Michael ! It’s all over with him, Michael! He’s
done, Michael ! You have him beat, Michael ! ’ and such-
like cheering expressions. But I knew better, and when
I shot past my opponent it took all the Michael out of
his trainer. It seems strange to look on it all now How
easy it is to get a crowd roaring with excitement over a
race, nearly wild to stake their money on the favorite
They think, poor souls, that such a life is far better than
one of joyful service to Christ. But we cannot blame
them so much, for we have been as bad. Lord, open their
eyes ! Be his experiences as a publican, the saved Ned
remarks “As soon as it became known that I wanted a
hotel I was besieged on all hands by unscrupulous agents
one of whom persuaded me to take an hotel and deposit
£BO on it. This I did, and repented of my action next
day, and thereby lost my £BO. At last I satisfied myself
and took premises which let me in for four or five hun-
“r®, pounds to fit up, but it was a good business stroke,
and Trickett s Hotel became the leading hotel of the
town, and for a time I did well. There is very little peace
however, for the worldling, and I soon found that to win
the championship was one thing, and to keep it another.”
“ At this time, if I had been well up in my
business I might have made my fortune selling drink ;
but I could not stand the confinement, and the tempta-
Don to drink was very great, so many wanting me to
drink with them. The fact was that Trickett failed as a
publican because the successful publican is born not
made. The typical successful publican is fat and broad
red and muscular; Ned Trickett was long, thin, sinewy
and painfully pale. When the boys who worshipped him
and who had travelled 1500 miles to see him and had
paid him the idolatrous compliment of naming’after him
their kangaroo dogs and the little blackboy whom thev
had captured on the Hellfire river, entered his bar and
asked him to have a drink, and held out their brown
hands in greeting, poor Ned looked black and sour at
them, and slowly, and with much evident reluctance ex-
tended to them a large, clammy hand, which felt like a
dead fish or a cold shoulder of mutton. And then the
boys didn’t come to see publican Ned Trickett any more
Ned was born for the Harmy, and he has got there
* * * *
The übiquitous bike has at last found its level
A couple of Prahran (Melb.) men have started a bike
merry-go-round, and are temporarily coining money
borne 30 bikes with wooden—in place of rubber—tyres are
fixed to frames, and run in grooves on a wooden staging
No driving-engine is needed, as the 3d. a time riders do
their own driving for about a mile at a ten-mile gait
when the proprietor puts on a brake. Girls seem to be
the best customers.
* * * *
The Red Bird wheel, ridden by G. A. Camnbell
got the N.S.W. Northern District’s records for a-quarter
a-half, and one mile, the last-named with 1.59, paced :
also Red Birds scooped the Wheel Race and three other
prizes at Singleton. Bilmartin, on his Red Bird downed
the champions of Noumea for £lOO aside
■ jHf X ! Sootherland, the eminent humorist,
M?K ely A an ?Tr l,nced t 0 °PP° se Prendergast at
2ml th P S Watt u is alread y in th e field on the
b> T?fPP e r Prendergast ought to be safe
enough His following have struck on a fair
reS °"w. pUnotuate the A.N.A. orator’s
remarks—“ Watt rot! ”
w^, ulon f T tlle mourners at the funeral of
ish! t? d Jone r,’ the explorers, in Adelaide, on
bth July, was Dr. J. H. Browne, who acted as
surgeon to Capt Sturt’s expedition to Cooper’s
K,’Uf\ St l ange to say, both Sturt and
JJouaJl btuart, who were comrades in this party,
died in England on 16th June, ’69. Stuart’s fame
as an explorer was won, however, after Sturt’s re-
turn to his native land.
N.S. Wales has been laboring under a
delusion in imaginingthatit possessed Responsible
Government—v.e one answerable to the people.
cting-Premier Brunker has denied the impeach-
ment, and has raised the standard of Theocracy,
acknowledging no one but God as his master!
Mow will it be when the people actually endorse
this policy, and relinquish their claim to being
the principal source of power in the State by
transferring it to God, or, rather, to theindividual
conscience of the members of the God-fearing
Government ?
When Griffith’s Free Education Bill was
counted out in N.S.W. Assembly, the other night,
there were but eight Labor-men present, though
I'lee Education is a plank of the Labor platform 1
Ihe case stands this way. Absolutely free educa-
tion—the abolition of school-fees—would cost the
State A lO,OOO a year, and (as the S.M. Herald
has thoughtlessly pointed out) the Treasury can’t
afford this. Cos why? Because the Govt, has to
buy the support of the daily press by giving free-
postage to the newspapers at an expense of tens of
thousands of pounds annually.
One especial fool of an amendment on the
lederation Bill, carried by S.A. Council, reads
that Ihe senators shall be directly chosen by
the people of the State as each State shall deter-
mine. The theory is that it is each State’s own
funeral, and no one else’s funeral whatsoever, how
it elects its own representatives, and if they only
governed the State which elected them it would
be right enough. But each State will be governed
by the senators of every other State as much as
by its own, and therefore every State has as much
right to a say in fixing the franchise of the other
States as in fixing its own. A senate elected on
six distinct franchises ranging from aggressively
Tory to strongly Democratic, would be a fearful
example of the legislative Kilkenny cat.


Re N.S.W. Sheriff Maybury’s favored
dozen execution-witnesses, oughtn’t some M.P.
to ask for names and reasons why ? If the law
refuses to pander to the morbid curiosity of the
many, the sheriff should have no power to gratify
that of the few, especially as certain press repre-
sentatives were refused admission to Butler’s
hanging on the pretence that the function was to
be absolutely private.
£35, £34, £33, and so on, was the way
unbroken draught horses sold at Camperdown last
Wednesday. It’s a long time since these prices
have been seen before, and it looks like a revival
in the horse-raising industry. Certainly, as usual,
the auctioneer’s enthusiastic eloquence made the
most of the opportunity, Pitt, Son and Badgery
Ltd. being the salesmen.*
Hard to conceive anything more grotesquely
hideous than the hope expressed by Sheehan—
recently hanged in Maoriland that he would
“ meet in Heaven ” the girl he had ravished and
murdered —when, presumably, she would be de-
lighted to renew the acquaintance ! And this,
too, in a letter to “Dear Madam,” the victim’s
wretched mother. Correspondence-manuals will
hardly now be complete without “ Admonitory
epistle of saved murderer to unregenerate relatives
of murdered,” or “ Consolatory reply of parent to
destroyer of child.” The born snuffler and the
born criminal come together in their ghastly lack
of all sense of humor.
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
“ The Patentees—Macniven & Cameron—deserve
A NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.”—Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen. The Pickwick Pen.
The Owl Pen. The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
TXS3S3
Spoolers.
IKIMMOItESSIIt
FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
I BOOTS & SHOES
!T OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
I DIRECTIONS FOR USE
MANUFACTURERS OF . .
(JoriValled
En?brocatioi},
Universal Cream,
Maori Gloss,
LIQUID BLACKING-,
Black Oil,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &o.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BICYCL6S.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4|in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New <£ls Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
6r€*/ill€ TCirfyer Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
Educational. „
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
8
TUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4; Saturday, 9to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
IN DESIGN . .
MATERIAL . .
WORKMANSHIP . .
and, consequently, RESULTS !
THE
‘phiz’ gicycles
ARE
Absolutely Unrivalled.
Catalogues Posted Free.
“ Phiz” Cycle Works,
61 to 65 Druitt Street (next Town Hall), SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
ffiSfflK
POST FREE
Watches-Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday-
Weddiislg £ CHristepliHc Presents
H NeWmaisl- i755i77-Elizabeth St*
OPPOSITE C:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
SIX <3RAND AGENCIES.
IN THE FINEST AND LARGEST
Piano and Music Warehouse
IN AUSTRALIA
Messrs, [jicholson and Co.
SHOW THE MOST SUPERB STOCK
OF
PIANOS
Absolutely Unequalled by any other House.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS
RONISCH PIANOS
SCHIEDMAYER PIANOS
WILMER PIANOS
MIGNON PIANOS
NANON PIANOS
The Grandest Variety of
MTJSIC.
PIANOS by EVERY MAKER of repute from
England, Germany, and France.
KTICHOLSON & COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT’S R€MARKABL€
How quickly a good wheel is appreciated. Mr. Henry Sturmey (England s
leading expert) by pointing out several special features in its construction first
called attention to the
“ROYAL PROGRESS,”
which is now more extensively patronised by the aristocracy of England than
any other make. It is ONE OF THE BEST machines manufactured. We
ask you to call and judge for yourselves, or send for illustrated catalogue.
Price, £25; PI DIES, £26.
Tbe eNCLISH & AMERICAN AGCNCY CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (two doors from STRAND ARCADE);
Also at 52 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
INVINCIBLES and other High-grade Wheels to select from.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle-
-1
For LADIES and GENTS.
C'MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbe lotcrcbaoscable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and Amerioan makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SIRNET
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tlie A.CME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
66
DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Q
*
cvg
y
■v/
T,
DC
VK
y'
2^CiSTtß^£
«***
&
cy C4e s
1897
AN €XC€PTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
of purchasing a First-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give up the Agency for “ Raleigh ” Cycles, we are
offering our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
at the following
REDUCED PRICES.
All fitted with Dunlop Tjrres, Martin Silent Toolbag, Pump and
Spanner. All Ladies’ Machines have Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Raleigh Co.’s] Post Pree
The Uustral Cycle Jyency [ld.,
‘Raleigh
Pepot, 393 <a€org€-St., Sydpgy.
Branches At :
Melbourne—229 Elizabeth-st.
Adelaide—33 Rundle-st.
Perth —Hay-st.
Brisbane —Adelaide-st.
Charters Towers—Gill-st.
Warrnambool—Kepler-sfc.
Goulburn
Christchurch—Liohficld-st.
Dunedin— l 23 George-st.
Hobart, &c.


Special Advertisements.
WONDERFUL
Blood-Purifying Effect
OF
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mr. Charles Stephenson, a well-known
Railway Employe at Kalapoi, New
Zealand, writes:
“About ten years ago, while en-
gaged in shunting, my loot caught
between the rails, and my leg was
fractured below the knee. It healed
in time, but I have been troubled
ever since with swollen veins, and
have been obliged, at times, to wear
a bandage. About a year ago it be-
came much worse, and I feared I
should he obliged to give up my
work. A friend advised me to try
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I did so, and
after taking four bottles the swell-
ing disappeared, and I have not
been troubled with it since.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS for Biliousness
A NOVELTY!
ATX KINDS OD
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
i Outvie every effort for the production of
\ natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
d Street
HAIHDKESisEKS AMU WI«H,tK»RB
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalurge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair-Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THEJLADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality ; best manufaetur ,
newest design, 10s. 6d. ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NBnV south wales barbers supply house
080 it 082 George Street, Sydney,
The damages recently awarded (as pe r
cable) to an English war-correspondent for an inr
putation on his courage, will help further to swell
the heads of the high-falutin fraternity. The old-
fashioned war-scribe’s sole ambition was to get the
latest news earliest home, whereas his Jin-de-siecle
representative appears to look upon his chronicle j
as primarily a mere setting for his testimonials to
his own superhuman courage, and cleverness and 1
all the rest of it. Also, when he happens to be his
own artist, he’s pretty certain to figure extensively
in his own foregrounds, in an aggravated state of
beard, and boot, and belt, and pistol.
Dunedin (M.L.) had a real good Jubilee.
The little town didn’t make adequate preparation
for the crowd that swarmed into it, and after
every hotel and lodging-house was full, and every-
body who could be persuaded to take in a
boarder had taken him in, and all the people who
could shake down conveniently in railway and
tram-cars and arcades had shaken down, over
200 tired, cold jubilators dragged themselves and
their wives and little Johnny up and down the
streets all night with a bun in one hand and an
umbrella in the other, and had a good time.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to j
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
A comic incident in Acting-Premier
Isaacs’s recent historic interview with the Melb.
unemployed concerned the ehueking-out of the
aged Anarchist, White. White had announced
that all Crown Ministers were thieves, and, as
Isaacs dramatically said, “ Constable Appleby, do
your duty,” a stalwart young man in plain clothes
seized the veteran “by the scruff.’’ A hat lay
on a table beside him, and this the officer jammed
on White’s head as he gently, but firmly, ejected
him from the building. Then the official chucker-
out returned to the Ministerial sanctum to get his
own hat, but a search of the whole place only re-
sulted in the finding of a battered billycock, which
Isaacs identified as belonging to White. Then
the fearful truth burst upon Appleby, and he
rushed into the street just in time to see the
white-haired revolutionary dancing on his hat, to
the plaudits of a couple of hundred proletarians
on the pavement.
The coolest cheek has been found at last—
and, of course, in Melbourne. Last Sunday week,
as the collection was progressing to slow music in
a fashionable suburban church, a well-dressed man,
with a pious complexion and holy whiskers, sig-
nalled to the official with the trencher. “ I wish
to donate 5s.,” he whispered, “but find I have
nothing less than .£1 on me ; would you mind
giving change?” “Certainly not; the Church
rarely gives change, but rather than lose 5s. —
why, of course.” The man took 15s., dropped a
pound-note into the plate, and the organ gave
thanks. Five minutes later it was found, when
the takings were counted behind the scenes, that
that pound note was a bad one, and quite unfit for
publication. And the pious stranger—where, oh
where was he?
NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
ontserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
* Sauce. «•
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
Jr
Jr
&E&
Lime-Frdit
Juice, it is
found, forms
[a most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 16/j, in a treatise on Scurvy :—“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
& Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co,,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
The recent trouble in Greece, like the
French overthrow of 1870, proves the rottenness
of royalty. A dynasty, to save its own position
and emoluments, will do anything—regardless of
life, property and national intei-ests.
My wife : “ No, I’ll never sail again in a
boat where they carry a stewardess.” “Why
not ? ” “A steward is ever so much kinder, more
sympathetic. A steward always seems gentle, no
matter how sick I am.”
I
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
s/a inch and 3/ 4 inch Blades,
Round and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
Thl* Razor Is True to Name—RINGS like a Bell,
and Is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydney
Forbes’s PHOSFERRIJNE.
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Fleasance,
HOMCEOFATHIC CHEMIST 3
180 Coliins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUt'K IN THE WORED.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OH BOTTLES
sold annually.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., x>, and 2- each.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIU.OCK & CO., KENT and UVERPOOI, STREETS, SVONEY.
12-
"ROOK OF NATURE
* * —and —
Complete Medical Treatise,
Fy Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRA VINOS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete tuition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
Tub Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1,6.
Amours op Gustavb, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Drbam of Love, and all Zola's
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free, Is 3d.
komance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mad pin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post, Is 9d.
New Rkai istio Novels:—Tub Serpent Tempted Her;
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories ok Love and Frolc, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries ok the Court ok Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post fiee 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Works in Frenchl/Assasmn-t ; Lk Bonnet
Vert ; Andre Chkiner ; Is 6d each pot t free, or 3 for 4s.
The Woman ok Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art ok Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book ok Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Boolt Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD
INFANTS
Benger’s Pood is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
DrugCo,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


On Dunlop tyres F. W. Chinn has won
the English professional quarter and mile cham-
pionships, while T. Summergills and E. H. Ains-
worth have respectively won the amateur mile and
five miles. Cyclists should read the interesting
and instructive booklet, “All about Dunlop
Tyres.”
The Australasian is strong in natural
history. Speaking of wild turkeys, it says:
“Owing to the drought in N.S.W. a good num-
ber of the buzzard species have found their way
into Victoria, and they are being ruthlessly
destroyed. Steps are bring taken to prosecute
offenders.” Turkey buzzards ? Ye gods, what a
feast!
The locking of the Darling at Bourke
robbed the lower river of any advantage from the
June and early July rains, and the townships
along the stream, from Brewarrina down to
Wentworth, have been on short commons. Wil-
cannia, the biggest of these townships, was for a
week without such every-day articles as potatoes
and kerosene, and a sale of chaff was made at Alo
per ton. Momba, the biggest station in IN. o. W.,
on the river just out of Wilcannia, ran so short of
supplies that, in order to get them, a tram of oO
camels was sent into Broken Hill (the track being
too bad to allow of economical transport by bul-
lock-teams) with an out-loading of skins of sheep
slaughtered for the sake of their pelts during the
drought.
A Boon to Subt’eheks. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which lie was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A. #
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,
says
“ Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know b cause I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too - ,
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
Hair Failing’, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i-, 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD,
| 16, Beyis Marks, kotidon, EnglaiiA.
yya/ti^oyXM^Gjc^^
Is Universally Accorded the Preference on account of its
High Quality. Economy and Delicious Taste
HOLM'S marvellous HIIR RESTORER
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
MR HOLLAND. Booligal Station, New South Wales.
Dear Sir —I want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but I do not know the price.
If you will let’me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers
and I find yours far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when m Melbourne, but
•t is used up.—l remain, Yours faithfully, Jos. J. Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT. *
* W &-ittK for p^ge.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
I<)3 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
4
m
VS
&
&
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING;
Per Post, Is. 3d.
Tbc
HA.LF - YEARLY
REPORT OF
Baokii)2 Conjpaoy of Sydi)€y, Linjitcd
Presented .0 the Shareholder at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Banking Honee, George-street, Sydney, on Friday, the 23rd July, 1827.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of
p ... «» » •
out of which the Directors recommend the following a PP™P riatlol } b •
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate ot 8 per (J Q
cent, per annum ... 15 256 19 5 .£55,256 19 5
„ Balance being undivided Broht ... ••• ••• ••• [ .
GU<Kfi£d: LongShtaTha'cotoy this Colony h.J
ing.ia.called - to elect a .£
!%&«J£S2S: it**!?»s» £- *. ■»“«"* to •«»*“ A " ditore
for the ensum| - briging to the notice of! the.
General Manager of Fifty Years of continuous service in the Bank, and to invite their concurrence
the to Mr. Dibbs their hearty
Jubilee in the service of the Bank, fence to place on record the.r deep »n»e of the |°”P>« °
ability and untiring energy he has devoted to the duties of ,* -V a ff a i rs G f the
filled, and which have more especially characterised his able managemen
Bank during thirty years of that period.” #
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable. EDWARD KNOX, Chairman.
Liabilities and Assets.
(Including' London Branch to 30th June by Cable.)
£ S. V.
UK.
{o Capital
Reserve Fund...
Reserve Capital
fo Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund...
Notes in Circulation
Rills in Circulation
Deposits aid other Liabilities ...
Profit and Loss Account
2,010,000 0 0
340,206 0 0
359,956 2 1
9,490,383 10 1
60,558 9 8
£12,261,104 1 10
£ S. D.
£ S. D.
Or.
By Coin and Bullion in
hand
Cash at Bankers
Queensland Govern-
ment Notes
Remittances in Tran-
sit ;
Notes and Bills of
other Banks ...
Governm’t Securities
1,900,378 5 9
432,509 4 2
37,124 : 0 0
258,629 17 8
20,553 17 0
712,300 0 0
Bills Discounted, and all Debts due to
the Bank
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c
3,361,495 4 7
8,496,993 17 3
402,615 0 0
£12,261,104 1 10
Profit and Loss Account.
5,301 10 3
fo Rebate on current Bills ... ...
Dividend Account for payment of a Divi-
dend for past half-year at the rate of
8 per cent, per annum
Balance of Undivided Profit earned to
next half-year
40,000 0 0
15,256 19 5
£60,558 9 8
Bv Amount undivided from last half-year
Profit for Half-year ended 30th June, 1897
15,137 10 l 1
45,420 12 0
£60,558 9 8
1897—June 30th ..
Reserve Fund.
£1,010,000 0 0
EDWARD RNOX, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
W. R. SAYERS, Acting Accountant.
. . J i- ~1 i U in +Vi hot
Svdney, 12th July, 1897. . .... j *v, e balances, and counted the coin in the head
M— the —«°' *• I>r “ che '’
have found the same as specified in the foregoing balance-sheet.
W. P. MANNING!
J. de V. LAMB f
Auditors.
T 11! St« 4f U A=;t Reived uud adopted, and ordered to be eir-
•‘ ThatMwarfTnot L|, tor the eneuingyear.”
I» oteSith whS to W, 1 with that of the
The note circulation has f rorn tl) , f tota s from £12,000,000 to .£12,261,000.
S;36hoS; ’ The increase in the number of the enrrent credit account, during the past
twelve months is 2326. increased its investments in Government Bonds during the
It wil! and it is the intention of the Directors to further increase this
am” Siding he S.Tt&tthe,! will soon arrive, when the money can be more profitably in-
vested in the ordinary business of cl.loiiy, f , rj ia that hav j ng received good promises of sup-
Another feature in the:LhohU in Queensland, viz., at Childers, Gladstone, and Longreach.
port, vve decided to open three Bianche-i 1 l v that the nrotracted drought has at last broken,
1 it is a matter of congratulation for the whole colonyGiat droug haye had an
and that the season has so far been very mild. the J ’drought-stricken districts, where some of
exceptionally good season, and our “ Lassurmg Notwithstanding these facts, the losses m
our constituents are concerned are distinctly pr Js heavily, but those stock-
Ssi » n,,. «»*«-*--«•».
enhanced value of those left#
I have much pleasure in calling your attention to a paragraph in the Report informing you of our
worthy General Manager having completed fifty years of continuous service m the Bank. Your cor-
currenee will be asked to a minute passed by the Board on the subject, and a special resolution will be
Pro Pjt'will be the duty of the meeting to elect a Director, consequent upon the retirement, by rotation,
of Mr. Edward Knox, and to appoint Auditors for the ensuing year.
Mr. G. J. Cohen, Deputy-Chairman, having taken the chair, ,
Sir William Manning moved that Mr. Edward Knox be re-elected a Director of the Bank. Me
said he felt sure it was unnecessary to add any words to the reading of the resolution, and he though#
it would be carried unanimously.
Mr. L. P. Bain seconded the motion. . . , . 1r
The Deputy-Chairman having put the resolution to the meeting, it was carried unanimously.
Mr Knox said he had to express his thanks to the shareholders for having elected him to the
directorate for the tenth time. The first time he was elected there was so to speak, » different com
stituency, for the election took place in 1845, and it was in connection with the old_Bank. t hat
time it had been his good fortune to serve the Bank in different capacities, as Manager, Managing
Director, and Director. On this occasion he had some doubts as to whether he should come | or w a ,
for re-election. He did not think it might be fair to himself or to the Bank that at 79 years of age he
should take upon himself the responsibility of a further term of office, but he had come to the con-
clusion that he should do so ; still he wished to let them all know that if, from infirmity °™ny other
reason, he could not do the work he had hitherto done he would at once resign his <
to last there had been varying changes in the institution, but he thought that on the whole the share-
holders would admit that few establishments had been more satisfactorily conducted. (Hear, hear.;
Upon the motion of Mr. R. Binnie, seconded by Mr. L. P. Bain, Messrs J. De Ve Lamb and
E S Cape were elected Auditors. At this stage the General Manager was asked to retire.
Mr F H Dangar then said he had a resolution to-move which, he ventured to say, would meet
with the general approval of the meetiug. The motion was “ That this meeting entirely concurs in
the minute of the Board on the subject of the General Manager’s faithful and mmiose
Bank for the past 50 years, and places at the disposal of the Directors the sum of £:250 for the’ Pu r P° 8 e
of presenting Mr. Dibbs with a suitable memento of his jubilee. (Applause.) Fortunately this
resolution did not require many words from him to ensure its hearty approval by the meeting. He
considered that it was a great privilege that he should have been called upon to move it. His acquaint-
ance with Mr. Dibbs extended over 44 years, and for most of that time he had , , kn^ V* '.'®
business capacity. They all knew that he had always enjoyed the confidence of the Bank and teat
he was largely responsible for the present position of the institution. There was no doubt that t e
Directors were quite right in embodying the minute with reference to Mr. Dibbs m the leport. he
Directors were the best judges of what Mr. Dibbs had done, and it was now for the meeting toendoise
in a very emphatic manner the opinion which the Board had expressed. He did not suppose that any
of those present would care to offer a money contribution to Mr. Dibbs, and therefore they should
empower the directors to purchase some present which would mark their appreciation or the taithtui
services which he had rendered to the Bank. (Applause.) ,
Mr. James Stedman said it gave him very much pleasure to second the resolution. He hacl al ways
looked upon Mr. Dibbs as a perfect manager, and he thought they should all be thankful to Almighty
God that he had been spared for so many years. Apart from the fact that it was Mr. Dibbs s Jubilee
he thought he thoroughly deserved the recognition of his services which the motion implied. He
thought that if it were possible for every shareholder in the Bank to be present at the meeting, there
would not be one dissentient voice against the motion. (Applause.)
Sir William Manning said it was undesirable that this vote should be passed without iurther com-
ment and he wished to say a few words in accentuation of the minute which the Direetors had
embodied in their report with regard to Mr. Dibbs’s long and faithful services. Mr. Dibbs had served
the institution for a lifetime, and the great institution had grown and developed with the growth and
development of the colony. It must be patent to everyone present, and, indeed, to everyone who was
an observer of the financial affairs of Australia, that for any gentleman to be connected with an insti-
tution of such magnitude as the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, in the capacity of manager
for such a length of time as Mr. Dibbs had filled that office, was positive proof that he possessed great
ability in matters of finance. They all knew' that the word “ banking ’’ had in these days a very wide
significance ; but unless they had capable men at the head of banking institutions in this young coun-
try their resources would not be developed as they should be. Further than that, Mr. Dibbs pos-
sessed that marvellous thing called tact, and, aided by the Directors, he had shown singular ability in
conducting the affairs of the institution. Not only did Mr. Dibbs possess great probity of character,
but he had that other great quality which English people called backbone. He had been connected
with the Bank when the colony had gone through great trials, and, though he had been known to
stand in fear and trembling, he had never lost his head, but had always had a thorough grasp of the
position and known what to do. He thought that the occasion was one calling for a very emphatic
expression of opinion, not only from shareholders, but from those who, like himself, represented
financial people both here and in England. ,
Mr. Josiah Mullens said that as an old friend of Mr. Dibbs he would like to endorse what had
been said with regard to his work in connection with the institution, and also to concur in the pro-
priety of the resolution which had been submitted for their approval. Mr. Dibbs was the
model managers of great institutions. He not only had plenty of backbone, but he could say ‘ No ”
when the occasion required him to do so. He could recall instances wherein Mr. Dibbs’s exercise of
this faculty had saved the Bank many thousands of pounds. He had also used a great deal of
discretion in the management of the general affairs of the Bank, particularly with respect to the
collecting of a staff of officers who were a credit to the institution. He not only enjoyed the affection
of his officers, but he could rely upon their zealously serving the interests of the Bank. He wished, of
conclusion, to say that he had watched the results 'which had followed from Mr. Dibbs s exercise in
the faculties he had mentioned, and had been filled with admiration for him.
The resolution, having been put to the meeting, was carried with acclamation.
Mr. Dibbs having entered the room, the Chairman said he had much pleasure in communicating
the words of the resolution to him.
Mr. Dibbs, in reply, said— , .. , .
Chairman and Gentleman,—l thank you very much for the congratulatory minute embodied m
the Report referring to my-fifty years’ service in the Bank, and also for the special resolution which
you have been good enough to pass so unanimously. It is very gratifying for me to know that in the
management of the Bank I have won the approval of the Shareholders and Directors. Fifty years of
continuous service in such an institution as the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney is indeed a
thing to be proud of. I can truly say that the service has been a pleasant one, and has been
made so by the consideration at all times shown to me by the Chairman and Directors of the Bank,
and by the valuable services freely given to me of a zealous and efficient staff of officers. I can only
say when the time arrived, as it would some day, when I could not cope with the affairs of the Bank
successfully, I would be the first to ask to be retired. I can assure you that nothing could have given
me greater pleasure than the vote that the shareholders have passed. I thank you. (Cheers.)
Mr. Josiah Mullens said he thought they should not close their meeting on this auspicious occasion
without passing a vote of thanks to the Directors. He thought he expressed the sense of the meeting
when he said that they always held them in grateful remembrance.
The motion having been seconded was carried by acclamation.
Tbe Chairman returned thanks for the vote. /


The Terrible Influenza <
ITS RAVAGES ARE APPALLING-ONLY
PROMPT MEASURES CAN RESTORE
THE SUFFERER TO HEALTH.
The people of this country have good cause to
view with alarm an outbreak of influenza, as it
leaves behind it more shattered constitutions than
any other known disease. Mr. Edward Botting,
for ten years a councillor of the united townships
of Bedford, Olden, and Palmerston, in Fontenac
country Ontario, Canada, is one who nearly fell a
victim to the scourge. To a Whig correspondent
Mr. Botting said :—“ About two years ago I had
a bad attack of influenza, and the after-effects of
that malignant trouble brought me so low that my
fri nds despaired of my recovery. I was troubled
with severe and constant pains in the back, sensa-
tions of extreme dizziness, weakness, and was in
fact in a generally-used-up condition. I had read
frequently of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and felt
they must have some special virtues else they
could not obtain such strong endorsations in all
parts of the country. I determined to try them,
and I bless the day that I came to that conclusion.
Before the first boxwas finished Ifeltbenefited, and
I continued their use till I was as strong as ever.
I consider Dr. W illiams’ Pink Pills the best medi-
cine sold, and I would not be without them in the
house if they cost five dollars a box.”*
Pr6i)k€Qi)?SS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriaey and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can be given secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
bo quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy Co,, 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Public Notices?
Patents Office,
Sydney, 27th July, 1897.
APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT OF
SPECIFICATION UNDER THE PA-
TENTS LAW AMENDMENT ACT, 1895.
NOTICE is hereby given that any person or
persons intending to oppose this application
must leave at the Patents Office, within one month
from the 27th instant, notice in the prescribed
form of his or their objections thereto.
Application No. 7408 for Letters Patent dated
20th April, 1897, of Carlo Guattari for “ Im-
provements in the generation of motive
power.”
Carlo Guattari (through his patent agents, Hep-
burn and Spruson) has applied for leave to amend
the specification of the application above re-
ferred to.
For particulars of amendments see Govern-
ment Gazette of 27th July, and Sydney Morning
Herald and Daily Telegraph of 28th July and
4th August. -
A. PARRY LONG,
4fl Examiner of Patents.
Patents Office,
Sydney, 27th July, 1897.
APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT OF
SPECIFICATION AND DRAWINGS
UNDER THE PATENTS LAW AMEND-
MENT ACT, 1895.
'VT OTICE is hereby given that any person or
persons intending to oppose this applica-
tion must leave at the Patents Office, within one
month from the 27th instant, notice in the pre-
scribed form of his or their objections thereto.
Application No. 6,975 for Letters Patent, dated
17th October, 1896, of Edgar Arthur Ashcroft,
for “ An improved process for the treatment
of metalliferous ores and products.”
Edgar Arthur Ashcroft (through his patent
agent, Manfield Newton) has applied for leave to
amend the specification and drawings of the
application above referred to.
For particulars of amendments, see Government
Gazette- of 27th July, and Sydney Morning
Herald, Daily Telegraph and Australian Stab
of 28th ,1 uly and 4th August.
A. PARRY LONG,
4f2. Examiner of Patents.
Publications, etc.
Original Story Competition.
FIRST PRIZE ... ... ... ... 6 Guineas
SECOND PRIZE 4
THIRD PRIZE 2
THE PROPRIETORS of the W.A. GOLD-
FIELDS COURIER, Coolgardie, offer
PRIZES as Above for the
Three Best Or ly Inal Stories
ILLUSTRATIVE OF LIFE IN
AUSTRALASIA.
All Stories sent in to become absolutely the pro-
perty of the W.A. Goldfields Courier Com-
pany. To be published or returned to the author,
as the Editor may deem it fit.
In the event of any of the tales (other than the
three prize-winners) being published, the Pro-
prietors undertake to make the author a donation
of ONE GUINEA.
Stories should be about Eight thousand words
in length, and the manuscript must reach the
Editor of the Courier, Coolgardie (W.A.), not
later than September 30, 1897.
gARGAISS IN GOT) D READING.
BLACK & WHITE, magazine, with superb picture 6d. ea.
THE HOUR I each with large beautiful pic-
THE SKETCH V ture of the celebrated actress, 6d. ea.
THE GRAPHIC ) “Mrs. Siddons.”
uADIES’ PICTORIAL, illus.; COSMOS, Ulus. 3d. ea.
THE GRAPHIC, wedding number, col. pictures 6d. ea.
ST. PAUL’S, beautifully illustrated 6d. ea.
MAGAZINE ON NATURE, 6d.
Post free throughout Australasia ; but Queensland,
«d. each extra. AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., 191 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
THE SOILED DOVE, being the History of a Young
Lady who ran away from her parents, and ulti-
itiately “ went to the dogs.” Also, Miss Skittles, the Girl
* ith Six Husbands; Life and Love in Paris, etc., etc.
Each post free, Is. 6d. The three for 4s. Anglo-Aus.
Publishing Co., 331 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
fIIHE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
X THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
■TIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
“* Melville Stoltz ... Director.
EVERY EVENING at 8.5 o’clock and Matinee
Saturday at 2.15 p.m.
CONTINUED and UNPARALLELED SUCCESS of the
FLYING JORDANS
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES.
PRICES —3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day sale at Bentwitch’s, Swanston-st., and at Skegmann’s
Cigar Divan, opposite Theatre.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1
Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“ Tbc Sigi) of tl>€ CroSS.”
MATINEE Saturday Next, July 31, at 2 o’clocck.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE*
Under the Direction of L. J. Lohb.
THIS (THURSDAY) AND EVERY EVENING i
THE GREAT LAUGHING SUCCESS I
“CNRRL€y’S : RUNT.”
Revived by
FRANK THORNTON and his New English Comedy Co.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls,
3s; Stalls, 2s; Family Cirole and Gallery, Is. NO
EARLY DOORS. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Missing Friends-
WILL Mrs. Monaghan, of New South Wales,
who inquires for relatives of ALICE
PICKTHORNE, communicate with Mr. M. H.
Pickthome, Railway Dept., Woolloongabba,
Brisbane, Queensland.
LRTCST NOVCLTY BROOCH,
m
m. ■ r
&
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
€i)gli3b Hall-Marked Gold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
Xlnapproaoliatole Value - £1 Post Free.
‘ONE PIECE’ Studs
AND CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. - PATENTED. - Unbreakable.
Section
Collar Stud
Actual
Size
Enlarged
Collar
Section
Shirt Stud
Actual
Size.
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece’ Studs.
I—Struck from single disc of metal—no solder.
2. —Elegance and absolute uniformity of curve, ands»
I.— Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease.
The World’s Most Service able Studs
Solid Gold. 9-Carat. 15-Carat. 18-Carat.
Suite of 3 Studs 6 6 9/- 10/- 10/6 12.'- 15/- 14/6 16/- 18/6per Suite.
Collar Studs ... 5/- 6 - 7 6 7/- 9/- 10/6 10/6 12/6 15/-each.
Cuff Buttons...lo/- 13/-15/-16/- 17/6 20/- 20/- 22/6 25/-per pair.
POST FREE.
The Public are CAUTIONED against vamped-up
IMITATIONS of these Studs —clumsy—in pieces, sol-
dered together, but shaped to deceive, and sold as the
“ One Piece.”
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address—
-90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME
SEWING MACHINES.
77
V i .
Saigas
Jp
p
1
w
s>«
*8
K
*4
»
i
9
k>
1
STYLE No. 14.
<69 98. OASH. £lO 108. TIME PAYMENT.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Haying been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d. ; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, 6d.
Needles.
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Bepair
Sewing Machines of any make.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST
"New Home” Hand Machine
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIFETITIOKT.
WINES 2716 Best Brands only °j SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY 1 .
Amusements.
TTEli MAJESTY S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
* ° 0le Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
Harry Paulton and Alma Stanley
In the Brightest and Merriest Absurdity ever staged in
11 Jw dney ’ H - A - Du Souchet and W. Lestocq,
My Fri$od fronj Mia.”
Pi SA J L ;. RUAY - 31st July—“GAY PARISIENNE.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRTCES-os.. 3s., 2s., and Is
S ALON CINEMA TOGRAPHE
23i Pitt.-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
200,000 People to Date, 200,000.
THE COUPON SYSTEM is NOW in OPERATION
Every person paying Is. is entitled to Free Admission
at any time when accompanied by one paying person.
. : F. MAC MAHON.
fjt H E A T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY
ANOTHER SUCCESS. “ A PALPABLE HIT."
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1
“TN€ PAUPER.”
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
£IRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SEASON COMMENCING
Saturday, 31st July.
Special Ladies’ and Children Matinee, Wednesdaj
and Saturday at 3 o’clock.
Prof. P. Bristol
And his Marvellous
PERFORMING MORSES.
Don’t Fail to See DENVER, the Mule Comedian;
SULTAN, the Wonderful Mathematician;
TONY, the Trapeze Pony;
ALEONZO, the Startling Mimic;
and all the other
STELLAR FAVORITES 1
Special Day Performances.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAY
and SATURDAY, at a
PRICES—3s., 2s., and ONE SHILLING.
At the Matinees all Small Children are given a
Free Pony Ride, and are admitted to anv seat in
the House for SIXPENCE.
PJ1HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
WEDNESDAY, 4th AUGUST.
COMPLIMENTARY TESTIMONIAL
BENEFIT to
Mis& Clsic Adair.
Under the Patronage of Hi'h Excellency the
Governor.
MOST GIGANTIC PROGRAMME EVER
SUBMITTED.
Popular Prices—Ss, 2s, Is.
HARRY M. EVANS) Wnn „
W. A. CRAWLEY \ Hon - Sec ®
Under Distinguished Patronage.
tllOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
"*■ SATURDAY, Slat AUDI
Farewell Benefit Concert tendered to
Master PECHOTSCH
(10 years of age) prior to his departure for Europe.
MASTER PECHOTSCH will be assisted by the followin
Artistes, who have generously given their services :—
Madame KELLERMANN
Mrs. F. J. RILEY
Miss MILLIE WYNNE
Miss EVA MYLOTT
Mrs. E. A. EDWARDS
Miss LANNEN
Miss COOKSON
Madame PECHOTSCH
Mr. F. J. HALLEWELL
Herr PECHOTSCH
THE MEISTER SINGERS
Mr. SEARLE
Mr. JULES SIMONSEN
Mr. HY. WEIR
Mr. E. J. SYKES
Herr STAEDTGEN
Mr. RIVERS ALLPRES
Signor PODENZANA
Mr. E. STRAUSS
Mr. T. MASSEY
Mr. SYDNEY IIOBEN
Mr. N. J. GEHDE
Mr. LYNCH Mr. GEHD
Mr. GORDON
The 2nd Regiment Band. Band-master, Mr. H. McMaho
TICKETS : 2s, Is. Reserved Seats, 3s.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Sir WM. MANNING, Chairma
ip I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
CO High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN O. LEETE.
■J*HE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
BSS*" Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan's.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
ROTUNDA - MELBOURNE - ROTUNDA.
Entrance—207 Bourke-st., through Yeoman’s Studio.
Entrance—Little Collins-st.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8.
PROF. NORTON B. SMITH,
EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS.
The Greatest Horse Trainer since the days of Rarev
AN INSTANT SUCCESS. UNANIMOUS VERDICT OF
THE PRESS AND PUBLIC.
“The Greatest Horse Exhibition Melbourne has ever
Seen.”
“ He is a Past Master of his Art ”
FUN ... EXCITEMENT ... INSTRUCTION
l iW A Word to the Ladies of Australia.—Follow
the example of the Grand Dames of England who
have regularly visited Professor Smith’s Exhibition and
sent their Hunters, Hacks, Carriage Horses, and Child-
ren’s Ponies to he handled.
Prices—4s., 3s„ 2s., & Is. Boxes, £1 Is. Children half,
price. Plan at Glen’s. Day Tickets. Bourke-st. entrance
Persons wishing to have horses handled, write or armlv
at the Rotunda to NAT BEHRENS. * > * >
A GOLDEN SCANTY (collected verse and
XI stories), Is. 3d.


Stocktaking Closing Out Cash
Sale of Winter Goods
—AT—
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
IS NOW ON.
Goods in every Department are substantially
reduced for this Closing Out Sale.
ORDERS should be sent EARLY, with a
careful description of requirements, naming
prices wished to be paid, and enclosing remittance
to cover amount. Any change over after execut-
ing orders will at once be refunded, and
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
may rely upon getting the benefit of all reductions,
and goods nearest in price to those mentioned.
Drapery Goods of the value of £2 and upwards
that can go by Parcels Post, with the excep-
tion of certain heavy or bulky low-priced
lines, are sent by us to any Parcels Post Office
in the colony POSTAGE FREE.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank
Drafts and Cheques payable to
Finney, Isles & Co.,
BrisDano.
The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair is
Ayer’s ♦ «
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
ns
FOR 8A W'-orU hjuE PLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
The Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
In the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
entginteers,
general MACHINERY merchants,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Rov/’S CrobrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n>brocatioQ.
Jubilee item from an English paper :
Elizabeth R. Kenneally, the daughter of John Maloney,
the man who saved the Queen’s life prior to her accession
to the throne, is in very poor circumstances. Last year
when ill she wrote to the Queen asking for some assist-
ance ; but received a reply to the effect that the Queen
could do nothing for her. Those persons who are so
anxious that Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee should be fit-
tingly celebrated have thus an opportunity afforded them
of relieving the wants of the daughter of the man who
made that event possible. Her address is 63, Watson-
street, Deptford, London, S.E. Maloney, it may be men-
tioned, lies in a pauper’s grave in Brockley Cemetery.
Minister Peacock, of Victoria, is invited to pub-
lish the above in that beautiful concatenation of
ignorance and loyal slush, the School Paper.
George Westinghouse tried to sell his patent
railway brake for .£6OO, but could not find a pur-
chaser. In the subsequent ten years it brought
him in three millions of money. There are many
other things to be invented just as valuable as
a railway brake. But many inventors have lost
their patents through defective specifications,
claims, etc. This risk can be avoided by inventors
consulting Mr. Arthur Griffith (M.L.A.), Patent
Agent, Sydney, who will not only do the work
with exactitude, but at rates within the reach of
every inventor. For instance, £2O will secure
Provisional Protection in the whole of the seven
colonies of Australia and Great Britain, and
Foreign Patents can be obtained through him at
similarly reasonable rates.*
Madden, M.L.A. (Vic.), as a Tory of the
most infuriated type, is bitterly opposed to all
“tinkering with small reforms” and “grand-
motherly policy,” and so on. But Madden bought
some land and went in for farming as a hobby,
and being presumably swindled with bad seed he
came down to Parliament with an indignant Seed
Bill, dealing with the practice of selling stuff that
won’t grow. Now he seems to have been further
defrauded over some guano, and he has a bill
before the House providing that “ Where any
manure submitted for analysis as aforesaid is
found to contain less nitrogen, phosphoric acid or
potash than the proportions thereof respectively
declared in the invoice certificate, and such defi-
ciency as to nitrogen amounts to 1| per cent, of
the whole sample in manures declared to contain
less than 10 per cent, of nitrogen, or 15 per centum
of the total nitrogen declared to be present in
manures declared to contain more than 10 per
cent, of nitrogen, or as to phosphoric acid 3 per
cent.,” &c. t &c., then the consequences are to be
too dreadful for description.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
The pretty daughter of a Sydney man,
forced by retrenchment to' “ answer ” the knocks
at her father’s street door, was so confused by the
butcher’s open - mouthed admiration that she
frowned severely, ordered a “ boiled leg of
mutton,” and slammed the door in his face.
mam
G-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. fid.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidoe,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London, E.O.
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes ... 10/- and 12/6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8/6, and 10/6 „
KROPP BRAND 6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6,10/6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 6/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
•*- getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M'GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
5 CASTLEREAGII ST., SYDNEY.
Aekles
w
—FOR—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS EOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
PMRoT
Br6Ne>
5 Wound?
(bOG«S (OLPS «C
OF” '
MELUN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
JjMjtott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell & Co., Ltd.
Ifydiai) Art flaq(ifactores-
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in. to 53in. wide, 5f to 6;Jyds.
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 7yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 10 to 12yds.
in piece. Price, Rs. 6/8 to Rs. 15/- piece.
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in. wide, 8 to 12yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece.
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wide.
Price—White, 4 annas and 6 pies yard.
~ Colored Stripes, 5 annas „
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width ISin., length 9yds.
Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syds.
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Rates; Retail Prices are 6 per
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work, Sandal-
Wood Boxes, &c., &c., Bombay and Cutch Works,
and all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplied.
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the Ex-
change current, or reference for payment to any
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency in
India. G-. Cx WHITE & CO.,
45 Radha Bazaar-st., CALCUTTA.
Tales oe the convict system, by
Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAREHCEA, &c-, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with Ine, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation,’*
m
m
10 YEARS!
With an increasing- demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility dl a bOUBT that wd
haVe the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, Which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK*
NESSES in all stages, hovV*
ever caused, ahd restore the
wellrer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the Wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
german Electric appliance agency,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
f IQUOR
I HABTJ
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 6 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
“HE drum
IN POSITION
Pcaffycss
Relied
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uru
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. foi
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Havir.g a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. CurO-
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ex
perience in Europe, America, and Australia
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousand-
of people to their true condition. A per
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anocious about
your condition ? This can he eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons' names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness ot
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O
rjIHE LAST OF
PRICE—Is.; Per POST,
S I J
i. 3d
The Horrors of Fat .
[For The Bulletin.]
“ An elderly man of independent means, named Thos.
Winnell, a retired contractor, was charged before Haw-
thorn court yesterday with attempting to commit suicide.
Winnell was so very corpulent that he could not stand
up. He had consequently grown tired of life, and cut his
throat almost from ear to ear with a razor. As his friends
undertook to provide a professional nurse to take care of
him, he was discharged. —Melbourne Paper.
Old Thomas Winnell blew his nose
And prayed, in weak despair—
“ O Lord, this tissue adipose
Is more than one can bear.
The less I eat the more I bloat,
Too fat am I to stand ;
Forgive me if I cut my throat
To reach the Better Land.
“ On earth I merely sit and sulk ;
But up above the skies
An angel may reduce his bulk
By flying exercise.
I cannot mix with mortals lean,
My solitude is drear ”...
The speaker seized his razor keen
And cut from ear to ear.
Tom Winnell, since you he not dead,
Repent! in pious haste.
How many brothers underfed
Would like to have your waist 1
This is a world of want and woe,
Where men loaf round about,
Craving, in vain, a chance to kno\V
'The joy of getting stout—
The joy of sitting like a toff
Upon a padded chair,
With lots of filling food to “ scoff,"
And woollen clothes to wear.
Your lazy, fat existence drags I
You dunno what he feels
Who lives and dies in draughty rags,
Devoid of mid-day meals.
Tom Winnell, place a podgy palm
Against your bulging vest,
And think with what internal calm
Obesity is blest.
Bid Nursey load the festive board
With dainties roast and fried,
And say this grace—“ I thank Thee, Lord—
I have no rats inside."


One of the Salvation Army’s trading con-
cerns—the tea-shop lately started in Prahran
(Melb.)—has closed up for want of custom.
N.S.W. railway authorities are adopting
stringent measures in re the holiday passes issued
to employes, which have of late been much abused.
A loco, employe who had jubilee-journeyed from a
far Western town to Sydney with his family
posted his pass to another resident of the town,
who, with his family, travelled as far as Strath-
field before the trick was discovered. Result, em-
ploye dismissed. Another case was that of a fire-
man, unmarried, who obtained pass for self and
wife, and (M.P.-fashion) travelled to Queensland
with a “lydy.” That fireman, it is ukased, will
never receive another pass while in Govt, employ-
ment. Other instances have occurred of employes
selling their passes.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The London Referee philosopher attri-
butes the Greek stampede at Larissa to the general
keenness of Greek intellect. Rare mental endow-
ments are not required of Tommy Atkins. He
isn’t even asked for moral courage. As the Ref.
man writes: “Let us not delude ourselves with
the idea that there is only one kind of courage.
What I have been describing is the courage of the
common soldier—-animal courage, the basis of
which I believe to be want of perception.” The
courage that may come to a passionate fool at any
time, though it can never animate a wise man
until he gets drunk, and is not likely to get hold
of him then. The courage that carries a plain
commercial person into the middle of a quarrel
before he has begun to remember that a pair of
black eyes may blight his career in life. Blind
courage !
SICINE.T
/?RE*WIUbS'IHRE£
w
IV/ l
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist: “ Zen vy ? You snj s?hmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
1
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
gold, Silver, [sad $ Copper Ores products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakkmohk, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Adanjs Tattersall Hotel,
PITT ST., SATDILTIEAr.
AdarpS Cafe, Seorge Street.
■ *♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION .
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAT.
• ♦♦♦♦ ;♦♦♦♦♦ ,
VISITORS CAN DIN E IN HOTEL OE CAFE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Hotels.
iim? R - IN F NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.—L Timothy v. 23.
Lyoos’ Palace Notsl,
South. Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST
RAILWAY STATION).
TATT ERSALL’S hotel,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
rpOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
5u pSr,’ a L he 1S still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
iravelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
T>V
OTICE
TO
MELBOURNE
VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THE GRAND CENTRAL.
OPPOSITE G.P.Q.
THE <£RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H. E. STOYE,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
REAL


Bananaland monthly statistics now include
a leper column. During April, the leper-stations
at Dunwich and Peel Island increased in popula-
tion by three, viz., one European, one Chinese and
one Kanaka. A cosmopolitan disease, evidently.
It was Baroness (Miss Angela at that
time) Burdett-Coutts who endowed the bishoprics
of Adelaide and Cape Town 50 years ago, and the
other day the Dean of Adelaide sent a diocesan
jubilee message to the old lady, through Bishop
Harmer, now in London. Harmer ! The name
recalls Barney Maguire’s account of the corona-
tion in “ Ingoldsby Legends ”
'Tvvoukl have made you crazy to see Esterhazy
All jools from his jasey to his di’mond hoots,
With Alderman Harmer, and that swate charmer
The female heiress, Miss Anjaly Coutts.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 000 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 0, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11 a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 10, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
STICK TO YOUR OPINION.
HOLD ON TO
Whose Business is
MARK FOY’S,
FIXEP HARP aijd FAST io
OXFORP STREET, SYDNEY.
“Our humble province is to ’tend the WINTER FAIR,” which is now
. . IN FULL SWING!
■ *
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMIIINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W H. Wigzell, 110 WHllam-st. Only, Sydney.
Whitehead's *.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
.Despatch Store: Washington-st., flatyi ViO TT
near Druitt-street. UUIilJJcUiy •
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The o-reatest care being exercised in the selection of the 1
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian ;
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“Triumpli.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as,
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and ,
pieces'), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from'
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
[ms Special Brand is Protected by Reoistration
by the
An?€ricao Import Co.,
PACKER S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the heading Warehouses.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY CORED BY . •
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
rpHOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
-1 ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
ulete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
e-ivino- strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR W G Hearne.— Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I bad to sit up. I write you .hi 3 acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. lor a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
as I am now, quite well.-Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
“ Will Mr Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.-J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“Mr Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured, my
cowdi" I never coughed since the second dose. lam truly g-rateful to you for it,, as I
had Vied so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“Mr W G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. The first
dose eased him and less than half the bottle completely cured hint We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he did so, and it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot he too widely known :
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
«mv son six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
along’ Kof lun/s and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
mpnts Cou°*h mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
11 " j without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne s Bronchitis
Cut rnd after my bS had taker. this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. P ATT HIBSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir —I have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been lm-
nmvi „" ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, TIIOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr W G Hearne—Sir,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent ine about three Weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M'BEAN, Carlton.”
“Deal- Sir—l had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it. —Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“Dear Sir —Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doing
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ItOSEVEAB, Malvern.”
“Mr W G Hearne —Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed
\ t this sta-e I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had aot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Age of your Bronchitis
Cure I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. After taking
iwr. hotfles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
•to eet°uD and anTnowTti good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall reco.n-
unend your Medicine to my friends.-Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain HearUe’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
.Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and llotail by
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to all \ address \\
the Proprietor, W. G: HeaTne, Chei nist, Geelong, Victoria,
'hen not obtainable locally.
* /?*
Small size, 2s. 6d.; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and
■; , .
Teaching a Farmer .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was up at Glen Innes last summer and called on
a farmer whose crops had been injured by rain
and frost. And, in order to hearten the poor
fellow, I pointed out that it was only a question
of time before his occupation would be gone.
“ You see,” I explained, “we already know all
the constituent parts of a cereal. When chemical
science can form a synthesis of these, food-pro-
ducts will be directly derived from the soil in
laboratories.”
il Now, just you clear ! ” said he, I won t have
none of you blanky book-agents about my place.
Git, you broody German ! ”
A book-agent! I was hurt.
“My dear sir,” I said, “you misapprehend
me.” , . , , , (T
“Ye’re a blooming liar ! ” cried Wapstraw, I
never laid a finger on yer !„ But if yer’ll put up
your blessed ’ands I’ll .”
I, with some presence of mind, hastened to
soothe the sore part, by applying whisky to the
patient, and when he had relapsed into his normal
state of tranquil idiocy I placed the fence between
us and bored in again. I wrestled with the matter,
put on the strangle-hold, and threw it repeatedly.
I appealed to him as a man of intelligence and
enterprise (the poor devil had never tried to grow
anything but wneat and spuds) to try and realise
the imminence of the danger that menaced the
back-bone of this great country. In the course of
lialf-an-hour I used up enough bram-tissue to over-
stock the N.S. W. junior Bar for 18 months.
“What will become of you,” I cried, quiver-
ingly, “ when we get a week’s supply of bread by
dropping into the chemist’s for a penn orth of
wheat-extract; or when a beef pellet swallowed
too quickly gives a swagman acute indigestion for
a fortnight ? ”
The cocky regarded me with a sadly critical look
in his little grey eyes, and sniffed despairingly at
intervals. , , , . ,
I pushed the question. I -showed that agricul-
tural lands would lose all value; that, if crops
grew of themselves, they wouldn’t pay to reap,
and that wheat would be down to a half-penny a
bushel. And all the time I rang “ synthesis
into him. I don’t quite know what it means, but,
if we would only speak of things we understood,
they’d never discuss Federation in our Parliament.
I’d slung “ synthesis ” at him 30 or 40 times and
was just getting through again when the cocky
spoke : ,
“ That’s all blanky fine,” he said. But s pose
you sows your gory sinisis, and s’pose we gets no
blooming rain and she don’t come up, what •
It was nearly sundown, and I pushed on towards
Glen limes.
CECIL POOLE.
Nord-deutscher - Lloyd’s new monster
steamer needs 30,000 h.p. engines and a daily
500 tons of coal to drive at 22 miles an hour
a mass of 20,000 tons’ displacement—carrying 450
of a crew, and accommodating 1600 passengers.
The leviathan has 24 boats, 68 subsidiary
engines, and breaks every record but that of
speed, which has now been wrested from the
Star by the just-la nched Turbinia—loo feet
long, by only 9 feet beam, and putting up, with
1500 h.p. engines, a speed of 32§ knots (37J nnle s )-
A proportionate horse-power for the colossal brer-
man vessel would be nearly 7,000,000 !
Land of the Crocodile.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
An ancient colonist told me the following
anecdote of Dr. Perry, first Bishop of Melbourne.
The A.C. was present on the occasion. Bishop P.
was on a visitation tour, and called at Redesdale,
near Beechworth. The usual procession of “ lead-
ing citizens ” acted as escort Curtis Reid and
John Reid were the owners of the station, and
John was acting as honorary protector of abori-
gines. When the bishop and party arrived, John
Reid was busy down at the washpool. Curtis
sent a blackfellow to bring him up. “ Mitha
Curtith want ’im you ’long houth; big fella
bithop come up,” said the Myall messenger.
John was covered with sweat, and grease, and
wool; and the temper of fiery Caledonian ances-
tors was at boiling-point as he replied “ Oh
the bishop ! ” The messenger returned and
delivered the reply verbatim to Curtis Reid in the
presence of the bishop and a goodly company ! ! !
A few smiled and the others felt ill.
* * * *
The thought of holy men recalls the departed
Rev. Peter Campbell, once bush-missionary of
Queensland. Peter stayed one night at Aramac
station. He arrived late, and ownerForsyth made a
shake-down on the dining-room floor. Before retir-
ing, he asked the Lord’s anointed if he would “take
a little whisky?” “Oh, dear me, no,” said the
abstemious apostle, clasping his paws and raising
his eyes ratterwards. “Oh, well, there’s the
decanter and some water if you should feel in-
clined for a little during the night.” Later on,
Forsyth went into Peter’s room to get the water-
jug, and lie found the jug and the whisky-decanter
both empty ! Likewise he found Peter sound
asleep, breathing and snoring like a pleuro-stricken
bullock, and the atmosphere of the room resembled
that of a distillery !
* * * *
Peter, in liis early, unregenerate days, had
won some fame as a boxer. On the way from
Aramac to Clermont his coach companion was
Edmund Rouse, manager of Culloden station.
Rouse was never remarkable for piety, or venera-
tion for “ Devil-dodgers.” He made various sar-
castic observations to Peter during the journey,
and, on arrival at a wayside pub., the warlike
evangelist invited him to “come down and have it
out.” This was a new phase of Christianity for
E.R., and after contemplating Peter’s broad
shoulders and the wild look in Peter’s eye, he
decided to adopt some Religion requiring less risk
in the process of conversion. Peter smiled a grim
smile, and remounted the coach, with a “Scots
wha hae ” expression that commanded respect for
the rest of the trip.
• * * *
Parry-Okeden, the present Q. Commis-
sioner of Police, is one of the first of the Men
from Snowy River.” He was born there on Mara-
numbla station in ’4l. The only available Lucina
was a faithful aboriginal woman. At three years
of age, he was carried on horseback to Rosevale
station, in Cippsland, where his father was the
first squatter to establish friendship with the wild
tribes. Young Okeuen was also taken on a visit
to Flinders Island, where he saw the last of the
Tasmanians—a forlorn group, seated on the sea-
shore, gazing, heartsick and homesick, at the far-
Off blue hills of that beloved native land which
they were never more to inhabit. #
Ex-Chief Justice Lilley, in his political
davs was present at a grand ball in Toowoomba.
One of the richest of the Darling Downs squatters
was standing near Lilley, as his wife went career-
ing past them in a waltz. Gazing at his fair part-
ner’s gorgeous and expensive costume, the jum-
buck magnate observed, “ Look there, Lilley (hie),
there gofs my Sal, with 20 (hie, blanky bullocks on
her back! ” , *
On another occasion, “Sal” was en g a S e^
at night in her dressing-room, when her maid had
only supplied one candle. Mi, tneie, rviaiy .
bring me six candles ! I cannot dress with less !
which earned her the name of 'Six-candle Sally,
still well-remembered by the old pioneers. But as
the lady’s descendants are swell society people
with an extensive bank-account, I may as well
stop here and avoid the risk of a blasphemy-pro-
secution. , ,
* * *
Another prominent Northern family de-
rived most of its coin from an eccentric bachelor
brother-in-law of the head of the house. We shall
call the aforesaid head “ old Mac, for the sake o
brevity. The brother-in-law we shall call Joe.
Joe came to reside with Mac, and fell ill with
some “curmurrin” in his epigastric region.
Thinking Joe was about to enter the Land ot
Shadows, Mac called on a local undertaker, and
bargained for a cheap coffin. The undertaker put
on all his store clothes and called at Mac s house
to measure the corpse. Mac met him at the door,
and remarked : “ Oh, he’s no dead yet; but he II
no be lang!” 0 „
At the Queensland Benevolent Asylum for
the aged, at Dunwich, on Stradbroke Island, a
humorist named Agnew is telegraph-master. Ho
was once, as “ Captain Agnew,’ commanding a
bloodthirsty squad of grammar-school boys in a
sanguinary battle where the opposing forces were
under drill-sergeant Grimes, a Hibernian warrior
with a rich and sonorous brogue. Agnew s Ber-
serkers got in a position where they were exposed
to a devastating fire from the enemy—a position in
which no mortal man could have lived for three
minutes. Agnew took all his men into the
trenches and told them to lie down and stop there
until further advised. Then he advanced alone,
in the form of a hollow-square, to meet the hostile
commander. Grimes, a strict disciplinarian,
called out in a voice of Kerry thunder : Captain
Agnew! I must have discipline, sorr ! Where
the divil are all your min ? ” Agnew saluted, and
in a sorrowful voice replied : “ I regret to say they
have all perished ! ” The battle being over, Grimes
rode proudly home leading the victorious troops,
followed a short time afterwards by Agnew at the
head of the dead. „
Agnew’s father was a well-known clergy-
man in Brisbane, and, about a month after his
arrival from England, while preaching in a local
church, he observed an old blackfellow stroll in,
sit on one of the front stools, and fix him with his
glittering eye all through the sermon— apparently
a most attentive listener. Agnew was delighted
with the effect of his eloquence! It had capti-
vated even the wild ’possum son of the primeval
past l The sermon ended, and the audience left
all but the blackfellow. Agnew was even more
delighted. He advanced to the artless child ot
the Stone Age, and observed, “You pleased with
my talk to-day?” “Yowi! My wud! you
yabba maroomba ! ” Maroomba indicated super-
lative excellence. Agnew continued “Next Sun-
day, you come back and hear some more ?
the noble savage, with great energy, replied, iNo
blanky fear! ” Agnew never afterwards enter-
tained the slightest idea of starting a mission to
the aboriginals.
* * • *
The late Christopher Gorry was the ‘ ‘ father
of Ipswich,” and a genial Irishman with the soul
of honor, but he had not been educated at Dublin
University. Rising once to deliver an oration to
a public meeting he led off by saying, “ Gintle-
min ! Oim goin’ to undress the lot of yez on a very
sayrious subject ”! One morning he met O’Malley,
the C.P.S., now one of Queensland’s Civil Service
Commissioners. “ You know that little dog o
mine, O’Malley ? He got his tail jammed in the
gate to-day, and it’s broke ! Do you think it 11
ignite ? ” O’Malley expressed a serious belief
that it would if Gorry soaked it in kerosene. His
own girls could not resist a little fun with the old
man. They told him not to say “ put out that
light,” but “extinguish it.” He bad
called Tiny, and one day at dinner he said Will
one of you girrils extinguish Tiny ! ” But Gorry s
masterpiece was during a meeting between him-
self, P. O’Sullivan, and Father Horan. Ihe
latter had not been well for some time, hut was
unable to go for a holiday on account of the diffi-
culty of finding a substitute. He stated this in
reply to O’Sullivan’s advice to “take a change
somewhere.’’ Gorry, in a sudden burst of sym-
pathy, “ Bedad, your riverince must go and get
better somehow ! What the divil is to prevent
yez? Sliure Bishop O’Quinn can get a prostitute
to take yer place at any minnit ”! That is
authentic.
MAKOOGALINE.


A Headache Way Et)d it) Ipfkigpza, a Body-Ache it) RbgOfpatisro.
W pink PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE
Successfully Treat these Troubles, and Re-instate Health.
Relief at Last .
fHE EXPERIENCE OF A LONDESBORO
YOUNG LADY.
A VICTm OF SEVERE PAINS, DIZZI-
NESS, AND WATERY BLOOD—AT TIMES
COULD NOT GO UP A STEP-HOW SHE
REGAINED HEALTH AND STRENGTH.
From the Clinton New Era.
Miss Kate Longman is a young lady of about 22
of age, who lives with her mother in the
pretty little village of Londesboro, six miles from
the town of Clinton. Both are well-known and
highly esteemed by their many friends. The New
Era having learned that Miss Longman had
been a great sufferer and had recently been re-
stored to health by the timely use of a well-
known popular remedy, despatched a representative
to get the particulars of the case. In reply to the
reporter’s inquiries, Miss Longman said that if
her experience might be the means of helping
some other sufferer, she was quite willing that it
should be made public. “For a long time,” she
said, I was very poorly. I was weak, and run
down, and at times suffered pains in my back
that were simply awful. My blood was in a
watery condition, and I was subject to spells of
weakness to such an extent that I could not
step up a door - step to save my life. I
'doctored a great deal for my sickness, but
-without avail. At last, after having fre-
quently read in the New Era of cures effected
by the use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I de-
termined to give them a trial. The result was
that my health soon began to return and the
paihs and weakness left me, and I was again
restored to strength.” At this moment Mrs
-Longman entered, and being informed who the
xtrfP* Was a “ d what was his mission, said : “ Dr.
Williams Pink Pills are the greatest medicine
known. My daughter was sq sick that I feared
she would die, and she continually grew weaker
until she began the use of Pink Pills, and they
have cured her, and she has not had a recurrence
of the trouble since. ” Miss Longman is now the
picture of health, and declares that Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills are entitled to the credit. The New
Lra knows of many others who have benefited
by this remarkable remedy.
Tortured by Rheumatism and
Influenza,
SUFFERED MUCH PAIN, WAS DESPON-
DENT, AND EASILY TIRED-SPENT
MUCH MONEY ON VARIOUS MEDI-
CINES BEFORE A CURE WAS FOUND.
The after-effects of influenza and rheumatism
are a combination well calculated to make any
life miserable. Influenza weakens the whole
nervous system, frequently leaving the victim
with a constant feeling of depression, fickle appe-
tite, headache, heart palpitation, and a feeling
of exhaustion, as the result of the slightest
exertion. As a cure for the depressing. after-
effects of influenza, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
have met with more marvellous success than
any other medicine known to science. They
act directly upon the blood and nerves, renew-
ing the one and fortifying the other, thus
driving disease from the system. Among
those who speak in grateful terms of the won-
derful curative powers of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills is Mr. William Carroll, of Sydney, Mani-
toba. Mr. Carroll has been a sufferer from
rheumatism to a considerable extent for up-
wards of twenty years, and to add to his
sufferings, for two successive winters he was
attacked with influenza in all its severity, and was
left in a weak and despondent condition. Mr.
Carroll says: “Following the second attack of
influenza my whole system was so weakened that
it was with difficulty I could do-any work. In
this condition I was an easy prey to my old
enemy, rheumatism ; and I suffered the agony of
its pains in almost every bone in my body. I
doctored a great deal, but without any beneficial
results, and I spent 17dol. for one medicine
largely advertised as a cure for rheumatism, with-
out the least benefit. I naturally felt despondent,
and thought the trouble had fastened itself upon
I
Yjf)
w
"A
I
%
w.
me in permanent form. I had read so much of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that I at last determined
to give them a trial. I can’t say that I felt any-
thing in the way of beneficial results until I had
used the third box, but at that juncture the
encouragement was so great that I determined to
continue the treatment, and I used the Pink Pills
throughout the winter, constantly gaining in
strength When spring arrived I found my-
self better than I had been for years • everv
V l fe ;\ tlge i° f rheumatism had disappeared, and
although ten months have now passed since
I took the last pill, I have not had
the slightest return of the trouble. I there-
fore think it is but right that I should make
r?° w-rr® gO . O i T , ha ve received from the famous
Dr. Williams Pink Pills, and I hope my experi-
* -iiioj tiiiu i £iop<
e nce may be the means of putting
sufferer on the road to renewed health
some other
Pale and Sallow Girls .
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the spring-time of youth ?
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow
or greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeak disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and persisted
m until the impoverished blood is enriched and
the functions of life become regular. Upon parents
rest a great responsibility at the time their
daughters are budding into womanhood. If your
daughter is pale, complains of weakness, is “ tired
Si. b P ° l J t i 6 sll " I hte , st exertion ;if she is troubled
with headache or backache, pain in the side, if her
cnnrhV 1S fit / U a , nd her a PP etite poor, she is in a
condition of extreme peril, a fit subject for the
Gonint? ° f rf ® m ° St dreaded of all diseases—
svmn i 11 ' If /° U . notlce an y of the above
M time in procuring Dr. Williams'
Y~i "dls. They will assist the patient to
develop properly and regularly ; they will en-
bright and rest " re .. h f alth ’ s roses to the
surelv ’ fol nw T® and I ™ sB ® of step will
surely follow their use, and all danger
averted UTri W'° n P re , mature death will g be
averted. Wise and prudent mothers will insist
upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pdls u P on the approach of the period of puberty
decay thUS aV ° id aH ° hances disease or early
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured numerous
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxy, pale and
sallow complexion, general muscular
loss of appetite palpitations, pains in the back
nervous headache, early decay, all forms of
female weakness, and hysteria. These Pills
not a purgative. They are genuine only with the
full name Dr. Williams' Pink Pills for Pal!
People, and are sold by chemists and by Dr Wil
hams Medicine Company, Svdnev w J'
forward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or Xst
order one box for 2s 9d„ or half-dozen for
9d. They are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes
With Coal to Callao .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They slewed her in to dump her load,
And cleaned her aft and fore ;
They turned her out to take the road
She’d taken oft before ;
All geared aloft, all free aloft, all tight and trim
below,
To take the road and make the road, the road to
Callao.
He kissed the girl ashore he’d found,
And said, “ You’ll never miss me;
You won’t start weepin’ if I’m drowned,
But kiss me, sweetheart, kiss me !
’Tis miles to go, long miles to go, eight thousand
miles or so,
With seas about and seas abeam, and coal to
Callao ! ”
Around his neck she twined her arms,
“ Luck speed you, Jack ! ” cried she,
“ And from the sea and all its harms
Come back some day to me.
I’ll wait for you, I’ll watch for you
Though well, dear lad, I know
There’s other girls and fairer girls—the girls of
Callao.”
He took his sheath-knife from his belt
And said, “ ’Fore God, my beauty,
Yon sun from out the sky may melt
But I won’t turn from dooty.
This lock o’ yourn, this curl o’ yourn,
Goes with me where I go—
Across the world, around the world, to Hell—or
Callao.”
Her eyes were like two shining stars
That sparkle through the rain.
All sail was bent upon the spars,
He kissed his love again.
’Twas “come aboard,” and “all aboard, and let
her shore lines go,
And take the road and make the road— the road
to Callao.”
They swung across Newcastle bar
And sou’ by east away ;
They saw the Cross hung out afar
Below the Milky Way,
They saw the land go down a-lee, and heard the
rollers go
Across the road, along the road, the road to Callao.
The sun came up on sixty days
And set on sixty nights ;
Beneath the star-lit heaven’s maze
She kept her course to rights,
And while the cool winds kissed her wings as
white as driven snow,
She drove the dancing spray ahead—laid down for
Callao.
They heaved her log for sixty days,
But on the sixty-first
Her greasy cargo went ablaze,
, And then the hatches burst!
Twas Man the pumps! All hands to pumps ;
and curse her as ye go ;
A broken ship, a burning ship, ten days from
Callao ! ”
They tied the air-pipes throat and neok
With canvas triple-fold,
Then passed the wet hose down the deck
To flood her flaming hold ;
All cursing hard, all praying Christ to heed them
in their woe
To bring their feared and sinful souls alive to
Callao !
The yellow smoke that trailed a-lee
It clouded in her wake,
The steam that tore the lashings free
Hissed like a scalded snake,
And, blinded, beaten, driven back, they watched
the Fire-Fiend grow,
And cursed the hour and damned the day they
sailed for Callao.
Death’s Angel bared his flaming sword
And smote her hip and thigh ;
Her foremast splintered by the board
Like twig three seasons dry ;
But when the mainmast crashed to port they
sweltered in their woe,
To see her useless boats drift by—ten days to
Callao !
The prisoned gas shot out aflame
And licked her mizzen yard ;
Her broken bones against her frame
Jammed home again and jarred ;
They flung the hurried scrawl adrift to let their
fellows know
What fate was theirs who’d fought with Death,
bound out for Callao !
She lurched abeam until the brine
Began to lap her rail,
Till Doom and she with level twine
Were reeving neck and tail,
l’hey dragged the rum-keg aft at that, and let the
liquor flow,
To die the death they had to die, ten days from
Callao.
But when she gulfed the water in,
And when her stern heaved clear,
With God’s good grace to shrive their sin,
They rose a British cheer—
Then choked like men who pay the debt all men
to Nature owe,
On either road, on every road ’tween this and
Callao.
They’re swinging coal aboard The Star
’Longside Newcastle quay,
And out across Newcastle bar
Far spreads the lonely sea ;
And Jack’s fond lass has found a friend to love
her ere he go
Along the road, the level road, the road to Callao.
E. J. Brady.
A hysterical Vic. parson, on Jubilee Sun-
day, suggested to his choir the intensely “ loyal ”
idea of holding flags (at ninepence each) in their
hands during divine service. The good shepherd
was crushed by a unanimous refusal.
F. P. M‘Cabe, the ex-manager of Mt.
Keira colliery, who died the other day, at Bowral,
unsuccessfully contested, in the early days, two
N.S W. Parliamentary elections with the learned
J. I. Hargrave. Hargrave became Solicitor-
General in the Forster Government and Attorney-
General under Cowper, afterwards going on to the
Supreme Court Bench as Equity and Divorce
Judge.
Told in the Tula,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The two pakehas stood by the edge of the puia.
ne was middle-aged, turning grey, degenerate, a
ard case ; the other was young, unversed in the
ways of Maoridom, innocent.
This puia is my favorite,” said the Hard
base. “Of all the puias, this has the tempera-
ture that suits me best.”
Both men gazed into the transparent, greeny-
blue, steaming water of the spring.
• my favorite this long time, almost
since I first came here.”
“ H?w long ago was that ?” asked the Innocent.
ca ” to mind. It might be five years ;
it might be ten—we don’t take account of time in '
these parts ; it’s not a Maori custom.”
get in,” said the Innocent.
Jtught you are. Take your duds off.”
t h?. two men stepped into the puia.
, rst . elass ! ” exclaimed the Innocent.
You re just about right.”
Cast? 0 angels bathe in Heaven ? ” asked the Hard
‘ ‘ Because ? ”
• They’ye got no better baths than this. Erihu
introduced me to it—Ah ! Erihu. She’s lovely.”
Ihe two men’s heads alone were visible above
the water. Their horizon was limited by the
• e “ cr “ sted . bai ?ks of the puia. They lay still
in the bath, enj’oying the magical properties of
the water.
Then a cry came from another puia :
rr\^ a f re J Haere ake koe ki a matou 1 ”
b hs Innocent stood up to see who called.
Blame me, if it isn’t a couple of girls. What
are they saying ? ”
tt r , want us to go to their spring,” said the
Hard Case.
Oh, bless me, I’m off,” said the Innocent. “ I
can t refuse an offer like that.”
“Get down, young man,” said the Hard Case.
Youd better far stay here. That’s just how
they caught Kempermann.”
“ Who the deuce was Kempermann ? ” asked the
Innocent.
“ I’m tollin' you. He came up here with his
, .^? e d a little cash, had Kempermann,
and he didn’t mind if he spent it—he expected to
get more. But he got a beastly skin disease—
mafiaki the natives call it—and his doctor-man
bought him up here for the baths. And he used
to bathe regular, twice a day, and the doctor-man
would sit on the side of the puia and yarn while
Kempermann soaked in the water.
“ Kempermann was to marry a rich white girl.
But the mahaki delayed the wedding. And the
girl waited on, hoping he’d get cured—and the
doctor made money.
“ T . h . e springs did Kempermann a lot of good.
His skin became soft and clean, and he began to
think of galumphing back to his girl—but Mairatea
chipped in. She used to call out, * Haere ake koe
ki a matou !’. But Kempermann, he wouldn’t go,
thinking of his white girl. So one day Mairatea
comes to his spring when the doctor-man wasn’t
by and gets in, friendly-like, for a chat, and plays
the fool a bit, and generally makes Kempermann
forget his white girl away down South.
“ By-and-bye, the doctor-man strolls up to see
how his patient is, and sticks a clinical thermo-
meter into his mouth. ‘By the Taniwha !’ * he
ys, I think I won t take your temperature this
ormng, Kempermann : I can see it’s all right,
he puia, has done its work—l prescribed it; I
guess, old man, you’re cured. Anyhow, the
wahvne thinks so. When Mairatea steps in to
ake over the case, delicacy demands I should
retire.’ And off he went.
• kempermann didn’t go back at once to his
hite girl. . He stayed on to learn the lingo. And
every morning when he bached Mairatea bathed
*'°® { the doctor bathed in a puia apart.
Hut at last they went South, and Mairatea
us f,,L. Sl t m “ er puia alone, disconsolate.
bix months later Kempermann comes back.
His mahakiis all right, but he is very pouri,
miserable. His rich white girl had chucked him.
■ i heard of Mairatea. His doctor had
joiced him about her before the white girl, and the
whitoiprlgotjado™. I don’t blame her—now.
d ” 00 tor married the white girl. That was
why Kempermann was pouri.
But Mairatea fixed him right again. And
they used to laugh and sing as they bathed in the
puias — just like old times.
“How do I know all this? Well, I’m telling
you ” ’ 6
this a Maori girl’s head appeared above
the edge of the puia, and presently her whole
figure, wrapped in a Kaiapoi shawl. She stood
by thepwirt’ smiling. The two men smiled.
. khe let the shawl fall upon the bank and stepped
into the water, and took the Innocent by the
hand. J
Yes,_ said the Hard Case, “as I was tellin’
you, Mairatea -God rest her soul! —died years ago.
Now, there s Erihu. I really think Erihu is even
more lovely. Rongo,” he said, speaking to the
girl in Maori, where’s Erihu ? ”
~ I l e tt |} er the other puia,” said Rongo.
•, , e: ? uess I’ll have to leave you two here,”
said the Hard Case.
He rose to go.
You mark me, young man,” he said just before
he went, you 11 be a fixture here—like Kemper-
marm. He never went back. Neither will you,
it Rongo takes you in hand.
How do I know all this ? Well, you see, I
oughter know. I was Kempermann.”
M.L.
ALFRED A. GRACE.
On May Ist, a law came into force in Ten-
nessee, U.S.A., absolutely prohibiting the sale of
cigarettes and cigarette-paper within the State.
Months ago a Bulletin correspondent
warned Southern pastoralists against the use of
dlp u’ PF°P he sying at the time that the cattle would
probably, by natural process, become immune.
And now Q. bacteriologist Pound condemns the.
dip system without reservation. Also, a month
ago a large mob of cattle travelled from Norman-’
ton to the Towers through tick-infested country
without losing a single hoof. Evidently all had
become tick-proof.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the.
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes 1 no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers
Nos. 203, 205, 207, .209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)
* The Maori Water-God.


h
1
/
/
\
*
e
Cf
•h*
fill*
The
Mighty Healer,
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.'
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
1,... j. Yo i* r Lung Tonic has done wonders for me in stopping my oough and
nnnni.* lun £ a - It certainly is a wonderful medicine. I have spent
pounds, and all to no good,’’before I tried it.”
ADA FLETCHER,, 146 Lawson Street, Darlington.
“ Tour Lung Tonic, l have used for years. I think it my duty Ao let
fathers know how valuable* medicine it is for the oure Of colds. I have found
invaluable benefit from it, aad-could not carry on my>professJon withoutits."
M. BIBBERO, Professor of Swimming, 416 Mile End Road, Loudon.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEYER FAILS.
_ Prepared by
W. TfOWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Botides, is. l|d., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and lie., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
S©LD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 3i KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX,
Ut
Mick Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP,
GOODS; also ©very description of HAIRDRESSERS SUNDRIEo.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
—AND —
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROL A, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIRE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
TALES OE THE -
- CONVICT SYSTEM.
Bt “PRICE WAETJNG."
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
AFTER THE WEDDING.
DE CAVERLY:“ Who gave the bride away ?"
YAN CLOVE: “Her little brother. He told the guests that she had
called Cholly her ‘last chance.’”


m
“54
\Tfri
‘Jabee’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
a
PObec”
Sold by the Leading- Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
, *
'--THE-'
Balktuirl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- her
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free X/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a g-lance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box Oia, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) POrppiog Eogii)€ Conjpagy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlllipSOll BfOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Sydney, X.S. \\ .
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Soutli Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., A 1 ice.-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. ,To’. ms-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zetland : E. PORTER & CD., Queen-street, AUC’LANT) ;
J. ANDERSON, 'Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps "or all Services
BZept in Afco els.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
ipp- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not -teen
recognised hv thousands of su ferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured onlv at 78 New Oxford-st., London. 5 Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
N OTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they m ii; be an-ibis
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who 1 ooa'd pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GI-iTEF U L—COMFORTING-
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & IGE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more);
REFRIGERATION ; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AhTEK-NOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135
SEND ORDERS TO THE
Agents Jtiv«
KINO STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARB UR STREET-
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PAXESON, Manager.
PARK€ & LACY COMPANY LIMITCD, SYPN€Y.
manufacturers & Importers
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates’ Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking Pump.
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking Pump.
Mining & General Machinery.
Knowles’ Pumps
Westinghbuse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Roots’ Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
ALL SINGEK SEWING MACHINES,
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR CHAIN STITCH
AXjXj SINCrER SEWIXO MACHINES* VJAAX-LAI KJ AAA A/X
Batho’s
®?!" n 9 Powder.
gcale of Advertising
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... . •••
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year „ (52 insertions)
Paragraph Advertisements
An EXTRA discount of 5 per cent.
... ... 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
... ... 10 per cent, discount.
... ... 20 ~ ~ „
25
... ... 10s. per inch per insertion, nett),
allowed for oash in advance.
B0l)l)il)gt0Q S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
VTTILL CURB ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
VV INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
