

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LAKC2T.
H. G. WATKINS dC 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
■#.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
• . M*** A * « *. V
<RAckA«ocK>
' £A "
V .*
R. A. HBRVBY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbk.vt <fc Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storaoe Syndicatb,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ WiQ£ & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUINART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACK AY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A Splendici Luncli for Is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence, 10/-per day.
15 tfare viyiHnj the City write to the Manager for
Car 3 ofTariff. (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BfUSBikIVTS.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETEEMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THIS -
6rostfeoorNotsl,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDNEY.
/7
/
/
“ RED BIRD
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
TEC IE
B
est
icycle
uilt
Australian Branch i
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots-
f MELBOURNE.
\ ADELAIDE.
[WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
Use “Pioneer” Sole Leather•
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OITR GOODS
ARE
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
THE BEST IN THE WORM*.
J. C. LUDCWICI a SON, Ltd.
TANNERS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery : Lane Cove River.
niWSi
Leading Vic. Hotel.
Visitors to
- - - Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence .£1 per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. X K ALE, Proprietor.
“ Tales of the
Convict System.”
THE
PITT and HUNTER
STREETS,
EMPIRE
SYDNEY. HOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. Write for Terms.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Travellers
TO
Europe and America.
CHEQUE BANK
CHEQUES
ISSUED FROM UPWARDS.
CASHED BY OVER 25,000 BANKS AT.T.
OVER THE WORLD.
- SEND EOR HANDBOOK. -
JAS. MALCOLM,
General Agent.
135 Pitl-st. (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol 18.— j No. 901. j
(Saturday, May 22, kvj,.
leistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Books Received.
Mostyn Stayne, by Quinn (Geo. Robertson), 2s. 6d.
Tales of the Old Regime (from Tub Bulletin), by
‘Prici- W'sruDit ' (Geo. Robertso|X ... 2s.
Sally, by ilrs. Richmond (Geo. Robertson), . 3s. 6d.
Cecil Rhodes, a Bioarapht and an Appreciation, by
* Imperialist ’ (Macmillan) ... 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.
Past and Present, by Thomas Carlyle (Ward, Lock & Co.).
George robertson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY S sTORIES (from The Bulle-
tin' price. Is. 6d.; posted. Is. dd.
TALES Of THE OLi> REGIME (.new series, from The
BcLLtTtJO, by Price W irunff ; price, 25. ; post-free,
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn : price 2s. 6d. -
posted, 2s. lOd. ’
Write to us for any 800 l or Magazine von want.
A. G. STEPHEN'S, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address: GEOEGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
A THREE
MONTHS’ SUPPLY
. . - WAS VOTED
on the motion of tne Premier, who, having attended to dntv , , .
~ w Jj _ " ueu 10 ail h v > nad leisure to studv his own
comtort. We recommended A Flv€ WCCKS’ SUPPLY of
He took the hint and swears bn CAMEOS.
CAMEO CIGARETTES,
labelled “WANTED ON THE VOYAGE*
THE RED PAGE OF NOTES AND QUERIES.
nt fs desired to collect information from all manner of
readers and observers on all manner of curious and in-
teresting subjects. A not-exclusive preference will be
given to notes and queries especially Australasian, or kin
with Australasian, in their origin and reference—parti-
cularly to those dealing with aboriginal life and language,
natural history, while-Australasian language, customs,
exploits and typical developments, characteristic old-
time anecdotes, and so on. Brevity of statement is
essential. Writers must observe the ordinary correspon-
dence conditions. The help of Bulletin readers every-
where is asked in recording some of many valuable facts,
impressions, or experiences wln-h may otherwise be lost
to our country. Notes may b< .warded on any interest-
ing topic—not necessarily rein; mg to something already
in print. Queries may he suggested; and any relevant
information will be welcome in reply, even if not precisely
answering. Contributions must be endorsed ‘ Notes and
Queries,’ and if dealing with matters previously referred-
to the number of note or query and date of issue must be
added. All references to books should state title, author,
publisher, date of publication, place where published,
and pages quoted from ; and all records of personal
experience should give date and place of occurrence
(provinoe, district, miles from nearest post-town), and
other helpful details.]
I.—Red Hair.— l7/4/97.
Red hair is generally tabooed in art and litera-
ture, or if introduced is used to characterise the
villain and the fool. The old painters always
made Judas Iscariot red-headed. Butler decorates
Hudibras with a red beard. No poet or novelist,
I believe, has ventured to depict hero or heroine
with hair of this unpopular color. Imagine
“ Sweet Alice with hair so red ” ! Perhaps there
is a physiological basis for the dislike in the
fact that red hair, unlike other fair shades, is
Coarse in texture, and may thus be classed as
abnormal, like a club-foot or a sqqint. The
hypothesis that fair-haired people lack physical
stamina remains to be proved. Th 6 fair-haired
races of Northern Europe and Asia overwhelmed
the dark-haired Latins, and have repeated the
feat with every dark-haired race with whom they
have come in contact up to date. But color of
bair and complexion is not an infallible index to
temperament. There are led-heads fat and phleg-
matic, and red-heads lean and nervous. It is
as absurd to put them in one class because
their hair matches in hue, as it would be to rank a
dray-horse with a racer for the same reason. The
unusual exaltation and corresponding depression
which, according to “ Schreibzeug,” characterise
the red head, betoken the nervous instability
which predisposes to insanity. Yet it seems the
red-head is a rare inmate of our asylums. Lom-
broso, in his “ Man of Genius,” never mentions
the subject of pigmentation, save in reference to
premature greyness, though hardly a physical char-
acteristic oi the genius or the lunatic seems to
escape him. Whence it might appear that he
considers colour of hair or skin an immaterial
point.—Ruhe.
Note the financial ascendancy of the Roths-
ehilds.— X.Z.
, The statement that * the red-haired have the
sanguine temperament’ is a text-book error un-
thinkingly repeated by every writer on the subject.
Temperament is not a question of hair or com-
plexion, though it is true that a large percentage
of carroty people are sanguine; but the number
of exceptions makes the rule valueless. Most
French people are sanguine and seldom red. This
I take as the true rule of temperament—Where
one division of the body is proportionally larger
than the others it affec’ts character and constitution
in a special manner. Also, temperament varies
with age and physical change; children being
mostly sanguine, and the middle-aged tending to
the lymphatic.—H.F.
2.— ‘The Never-Never Country.’— l7/4/97-
I have always fancied—without evidence —that
the Never-Never country originally referred to
the unexplored interior of Australia—so called
because men went there and never-never came
back again. Exploration and settlement have, I
imagine, robbed the phrase of definite significance;
and it seems now used as a mere airy generality
for any district well away from the coast. Thus
I have heard a Brisbane resident speak of Charle-
ville (a township 480 miles from Brisbane, and
connected by railway) as * up in the Never-Never
country.’ Probably theCharleville man’s ’ Never-
Never ’ lies a little further in—at Windorah, say.
The phrase is embalmed in Boake's ‘ Where the
Dead Men Lie” (Bulletin, 19,12 91)—
Out on the wastes of the ‘Never-Never,’
That’s where the dead men lie.
Barrere and Leland’s ‘ Dictionary of Slang,” &o.
(Lond. : Geo. Bell & Sons, 1897) classifies N.N.e.
as Australian, defines as ’ the Ultima Thule of
civilisation,’ and quotes J. S. O'Hallorau (sec.
Col. Institute)
The never, never country meaus in Queensland the
occupied pastoral country which is furthest removed
from the more settled districts—
and ‘ Globe ’ (? Lond.) —
There is no such thing as an ‘ Australian cow-boy.’
There is as much difference between the real never, never
stockman and the Earl’s Court article as there is between
the real shell-back of the forecastle or [? andl the British
tar in * Ruddigore ’ —
but gives no clue to origin or first use. — Yaga.
[‘Angus' and J. M. Sweet also write. The latter is
vert precise. He says: * The N >ver-Never country is
west of the Georgina River, runs parallel to the Georgina
country (so named after Lady Bowen), and extends west
towards the overland telegraph line. It is a strip about
400 miles long by 300 wide, and divides the Northern Ter-
ritory from Queensland. It has borne its uninviting
name since 1860, in consequence of the difficulties to be
surmounted before it can be reached.’]
3. — Whistling Spears. —l7/4/97-
In Queenslander of 20/3/97 A. Meston
writes : ‘No kind of spear ever hisses or whistles,
or makes any noise whatever, except in the writ-
ing of people profoundly ignorant of the whole
subject. The fast-driven woomera spear passes in
perfect silence through the atmosphere, and
would pass unheard within an inch of the most
sensitive ear. Arrows are equally silent. There-
fore, the “hiss” and “whistle” of spears and
arrows exist only in the imagination of those who
have only seen them in a museum, people who are
also ignorant of ordinary laws governing the flight
of projectiles.’ Are these statements and their
implications correct ?—D.R.
[No replies have been received to this. But scores of
people have in the past sent tales or sketches to The
Bulletin in which phrases like ‘The spears now began
to whistle round us,’ and ‘As the spears were falling
thickly . . .’ lent an air of attractive verisimilitude to
every page of narrative. The query is accordingly sent
round again; and continued silence will betaken as an
intimation that the spears are silent too.]
5. — Who named Australia? — 17/4/97.
It is generally thought that Bass or Flinders
originated the term ‘ Australia ’ about the begin-
ning of this century. There is not the slightest
doubt, however, that ‘ Australia ’ and ‘ Austra-
lian ’ were in use at least 150 years earlier. In
1670 the rather notorious Gaspard de Foigny
wrote ‘Les Aventures de Jacques Sadeur en
Terra Incognita Australis,’translated into Eng-
lish in 1693. In this curious work Foigny
describes the imaginary adventures of his hero,
who was cast away on the Terra Firma Incognita
Australis. He freely uses the words‘Australia’
and * Australian ’ throughout the book, and
gives a long account of the manners and customs
of the Australians. It was this work which gave
Dean Swift the idea of Gulliver’s Travels. Both
the French edition of 1670 and the English trans-
lation of 1693 are in the Public Library, Sydney.
—W. J. Mac Donnell.
I think the honor rightly belongs to Robert
Brown, F.R.S., who was naturalist to the Flin-
ders Expedition, the story of which was told in
Flinders’ ‘ Voyage to Terra Australis’(Lond. 1814).
At page 2 of the ‘lntroduction,’ Flinders says
that the name Terra Australis was first used by
the Dutch, but in a footnote on the following page
he says : ‘Had I permitted myself any innovation
upon the original term, it would have been to con-
vert it into Australia ; as being more agreeable to
the ear, and an assimilation to the names of
the other great portions of the earth.’ In the
same vol., p. 535, Brown, in his ‘Remarks on
the Botany of Terra Australis,’ goes a little farther
than Flinders by actually using the word Austra-
lian, viz., ‘The Collection of Australian Plants,
&c.’; and although ‘ New Holland ’ and ‘Terra
Australis ’ are both used in the same portion of
the work, vet ‘ Australian ’ is constantly repeated.
(See pp. 537, 539, 540, 546, &c.). Seven years later,
in Brown’s Latin edition, in column 702 the word
‘ Australis ’ is used without the prefix ‘Terra.’
The title of this very scarce work is—
Roberti Brownu,
Prodromus
Florae Nov-s-HoLLAitMiB
KT
Insula? Vas-Dieman.
Vincunt a Redactione Isidls,
Lipsise, 1821.
In an official order from Government House,
Sydney, July 16, 1821, the word * Australia ’ is
used. This was printed in the Government
Gazette of July 21, 1821.—G. Gerrard.
[This L.-ipsic edition does not appear in Sydney Public
Library cata., ‘ Australasian Bibliography ’ —which, how-
ever, includes a first volume of a prior edition of the
'Prodromus' (Lond. 1810) and a subsequent Nureuberg
edition—lB27.]
[H.P.S., G.W.M., and others write to similar effect.
Several replies are held over.]
NOTE.
7- ‘Dengue’, in ‘dengue’ fever, now prevalent
in N.Q., is supposed to be derived from the
Bengali thangue, pronounced ‘ tahngh,’ with the t
aspirated (th as in German), and meaning lame or
crippled. You clearly comprehend the derivation
when you get the fever.— Medicus.
QUERIES.
8. Despite accumulation of dirt, bones, and
filth, blacks’ camps are never infested by ants. I
have known large nests of meat-ants to shift when
blacks pitched camp in their immediate neighbor-
hood. What is the reason ? —6 xB.
9. What are the derivation and correct spell-
ing of shiok or sheoak—the Australian ‘wild
oak,’ glowing in the N.S.W. Western district
beyond B;ithurst? Is it found elsewhere in Aus-
tralia?—M.R.
10. What are the aboriginal legends respecting
the origin of the world, animals, and man—
specifying tribes and districts ?—Katoomba.
11. What is the origin of the expression ‘ Buck-
ley's show.’ siguifiying little or no chance?—
Durand.
NOTE. —lt. The Plagiarisms of Adam Lindsay Gordon and his Publishers.
In Bulletin of 15/5/97 ‘ Yellowbush ’ notes that a striking idea in ‘The Rhyme of Joyous Garda-
(Bush Ballads and Galloping Rhymes, p. 204 of collected edition 1894) is taken from Swinbmw.
‘ Les Noyades ’ ( Poems and Ballads, p. 55). It is worth while parallehng the passages- '
Swinburne.— ‘Les Noyades,’ stanzas 9,10.
“ * Lord if I loved thee—Lord, if I served—
If these who darkened thy fair Son’s face
I fought with, sparing not one, nor swerved
A hand’s-breadth, Lord, in the perilous place—
“ ‘ ] pray thee say to this man, O Lord,
Sit thou for him at my feet on a throne.
I will face thy wrath, though it bite as a sword,
And my soul shall burn for his soul, and atone.
Gordon.—’ The Rhyme of Joyoos Garde,' stanza S 7
If ever I smote as a man should smite
If I struck one stroke that seem’d good in Thv
By Thy loving mercy prevailing, * “ y “* ht .
Lord! let her stand in the light of Thy face.
Clotb’d with Thy love and crown'd with Thv eraoe
When I gnash my teeth in the tenibie place ’
That is fill'd with weeping and wailing.
Gordon has changed the sex of the heavenly substitute, while preserving the main idea—togethm
with its buttresses of justification by good fighting and atonement by good burning. There is no mis
taking the imitation. If anything, Gordon's version is the more vigorous, but he has lost several
nuances of form and thought. Poems and Ballads was published in 1866; Bush Ballads and GaUomv/i
Rhymes in 1870. “
‘ Yellowbush ’ does not note another plagiarism in the same poem
‘ Les Royad t,’ stanza SO.
But you would have felt my soul in a kiss,
And known that once if I loved you well;
And I would have given ray soul for this
To burn for ever in burning hell.
‘ The Rhyme of Joyous Garde,’ stanza Ss.
When I well-nigh swoon’d in the deep drawn bliss
Of that first long, sweet, slow, stolen kis-
I would gladly have given for less than this
Myself, with my soul’s salvation.
In ‘ The Swimmer ’ Gordon has imitated the metre (with a difference) and paraphrased much of the
thought of Swinburne’s ‘The Triumph of Time.’ Perhaps the most musical verse in Gordon— one
that for mere music is rarely surpassed anywhere, though the alliteration is too luscious for my elder
taste—condenses tags of phrase and idea from some half-dozen of Swinburne’s stanzas. Only a few
parallelisms can be indicated (italics mine) —
‘ The Triumph of Time,’ stanza SS, et eq.
I will go back to the great sweet mother,
Mother and lover of men, the sea.
I will go down to her, I and none other,
Close with her, kiss her and mix her with me J . « •
Thy large embraces are keen like pain.
Save me and hide me with all thy waves, . . .
I shall sleep, and move with the moving ships . . .
Clear of the whole world, hidden at home, , . .
' The Swimmer,’ stanza 5.
I would that with sleepy, soft embraces
The sea would fold me, would find me rest
In luminous shades of her secret places,
In depths where her marvels are manifest*
So the earth beneath her should not discover
My hidden couch—nor the heaven above her—
As a strong lore shielding a weary lover
I would have her shield me with shining breast
‘The Rhyme of Joyous Garde’ also shows trttfios of ‘ The Triumph of Time:’ e.g.—
„ * The Triumph of Time,’ stanza 7. 0
I have have put my days and dreams out of mind,
Days that are over, dreams that are done.
Though we seek life through, we shall surely find
There is none of them clear to us now, not one.
‘ The Rhyme of Joyous Garde,’ stanza SL
I have done for ever with all these things—
Deeds that were joyous to knights and kings.
The songs are ended, the deeds are done ” "
There shall none of them gladden me now, not one*
I should say that a good third of Gordon’s po ms is influenced or colored by Swinburne, and to *
greater or less extent echoes Swinburne’s thoughts and phrases. Marcus Clarke finds' traces of
Browning also, but does not point them out. Mrs. Browning’s footprints I can see in ‘Aahtaroth’
and some of the shorter poems. The lines ‘To my Sister,’ ‘An Exile’s Farewell,’ and ‘Early
Adieux ’ repeat the metre and strain-of-thougbt of the ‘ Adieu ’ in Byron’s ‘ Childe Harold,’ some of
the parallels being very close : e.g. —
‘ Childe U arc Id’s ’ Adieu.
Yon sun that sets upon the sea
We follow in his flight;
Farewell awhile to him and thee—
My native land, Good-night 1
A few short hours aud he will rise
To give the morrow birth,
And I shall view the main and skies,
But not my mother earth.
'An Exile’s Farewell," stanza t.
Against the bulwarks on the poop
I lean, and watch the sun
Behind the red horizon stoop—
His race is nearly run.
Those waves will never quench hit light.
O’er which they seem to close,
To-morrow he will rise as bright
As he this morning rose.
Of Tennyson there are touches in Gordon ; and W. E. Aytoun he had studied closely. Gordon’!
‘Podas Okus ’ imitates the metre and to some extent the plan of Aytoun’s (Enone ; and though a dif-
ference of conception sends Gordon’s ideas in a somewhat different groove, one gets every now and
then a glimpse of the original struofcure through the paint. E.g. —
* CEnone.’
Weeping ever, weeping low . .
Is my face no longer blooming ?
Are my eyes no longer bright?
Ah ! my tears have made them dimmer
And my cheeks are pale and.white.
I have wept since early morning,
I shall weep the livelong night;
Now I long for sullen darkness,
As I once have longed for light.
‘Podas Okm.'
Drifting ever, drifting onward . . .
Does my voice sound thick and husky?
Is my hand no longer warm ?
Round that neck where pearls look dusky
Let me once mor; wind my arm; . . .
But the toughest fives are brittle,
And the bravest and the best
Lightly fall - it matters little ;
Now I only long for rest
I am not now considering how far Gordon’s imitations are justifiable, and what measure of merit
can be conceded to a poet whose mind, like a shallow creek, shows so many traces of the medium
through which it has been running last ; but Gordon’s publishers were' and are most blame-
worthy in continuing to include with Gordon’s poems, and place before readers as Gordon’s
which it is well known he never wrote. First of these is “ A Voice from the
Bush,” written by Mowbray Morris, who is or was on the staff of Lend. Times. Gordon never
claimed these verses, or published them, and Clarke bad no business to insert them in his edition of
Gordon on the mere ground that they were like what the latter might have written. The matter is
discussed in detail in J. Howlett-Ross’s ‘Memoir of Gordon’ (1888), and a definite statement of
authorship by Morris is quoted ; and I was glad to see that ‘ A Voice from the Bush ’ was withdrawn
from the 1894 edition. But an even more glaring puidishers’ plagiarism from Gordon’s favorite
Aytoun, is persisted in to this day—
Both well,' by H\ E. Aytoun.—Part ii, stanza 18.
I’ve heard that poison-sprinkled flowers
Are sweeter in perfume
Thau, when untouched by deadly dew,
They opened in their bloom ;
I’ve heard that men, condemned to die,
Have quaffed i he fatal w ine
With keener relish than the juice
Of the untampered vine ;
I’ve heard that with the witches’ song,
Though harsh and rude it he.
There blend- a wild mysterious strain
Of weirdest harmony,
So that the listener far away
Must needs approach the ring,
Where, on the savage Lapland moors,
The demon chorus sing.
And I believe the devil’s voice
Sinks deeper in the ear
Than any whisp rs sent from heaven,
However soft and clear.
A Fragment (p. tss, Gordon' t poems, ItSk).
They say that poison-sprinkled flower*
Are sweeter in perfume
Than when, untouched i*y deadly dew,
They glowed in early bloom.
They sa\ that men condemned to die
Ha\ e quaff-d thesweetened wine
With higher relish than the juice
Of the untampered vine.
They say that in the w itches’ song,
Though rude and harsh it l»e,
There blends a wild, mysterious strain
Of weirdest melody.
And J [relieve the devil's voice
Sinks deeper in our ear
Than any whisper sent from Heaven,
However sweet and clear.
The explanation seems that Aytoun s lines (published 1856) were found among Gordon’s papers after
his death and were thrown into Gordon’s book ‘on spec-.' The result is that hundreds of Gordon
readers all over Australasia are taught to admire and value the lines as his—by a cheat which nobody
would have detested more than Gordon himself. Carelessness may have accounted for the original
interpolation; but nothing can excuse the perpetuation as Gordon's work of work which is not
his. In the forefront of Gordons book for a long time Massina and Co. printed a categorical
statement by K. Birme, one of our admittedly best critics.’ to whom they handed the book for
revision— (1) Here are no misprints; and (2) here is Gordon.’!! ! This testimony is judiciously
omitted from the current edition. - T.S.R.


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN.
YoOog MeO,
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business —if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living' away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee. 21/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTRD BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that H>r.
Sjpeexr’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
**of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
“MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MORMON ELDERS.
SPECIFIC for the recovery of HEALTH,
STRENGTH and VIGOR. Price and par-
ticulars sent free (sealed).
HARVARD AGENCY,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable hook. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
Medical.
Dr. SPEEE,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every" person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE PROM ORSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To Those who Wish to Marry.
Mumford's Vivifying Herbal
Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills
"ii positively restore_you to health aim vigour, m> mat Lei
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, l wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts. ..
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1 87*0
o 8 RX CORDS
I | F 6*
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength 10 the most shattered constitutions , regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or fou r quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra Pamph ets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
A gen's for A n^tralnsia — Perry <& Co., Baring Chambers,
M ihot Street JHELROVRNE
Agentsfor N. S. Wales— W. U. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC Effective.
An PURIFIER 51 " 00 SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cures dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of six doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrobrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S CrpbrocatioQ-
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “cure alls”
■eoinninq. 2nd week. specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
HomoeopathicTreatment,. which is a complete cure for Nervousness ciii€l I 1 ailiujj
Viuor in young and old men. All letters sent sealed
Address—Dr.
Medical,
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GZBBOfiTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Yount/ Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, k.c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr- Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IMMHOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Hipe Old Age.
YYTEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
*' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king- among men in body,
mine}, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other causes, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions, etc., sent free on
receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially .
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the un-iters
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable ,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
48.
Mr. J. H. WEttR, FARMEtt,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes: —“I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being- well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
<3?
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“Gentlemen, —l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.’’
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes : —“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over ±2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick , Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11A FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac.


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Holbart.
ROSEHILL C
June 19
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
MAITLAND C
June 21
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
£
Address
GRAND NATIONAL H
July 3.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Waterloo Coursing C. July 22 & 23.
100,000 Subscribers at 5 a
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
shares in the above.
Address.
CANTERBURY PARK C
July 31.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name.
Address
shares in the above.
Tattersall’s Great Dlstritoutlon
—OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S.'VV.
S- ar:s at £1 Each Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd ~ Empire Hotel, Temora
3rd ~ Albion Hotel, Cootamuncjra
4th ~ Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
. Assembly Hall, etc.
sth ~ 286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
6th ~ Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,065
valued at 8,100
valued at 8,000
valued at 4,000
valued at 4,000
valued at 2 550
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of tV.e TTS.-cf ,„;n i , • „
C,ixh equivalent, „f £lo,oti S . For full ~»rtku£s , see 8 ““ Hom “ te “ d '
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OP —
City ai>d SGbGrbai)
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss. Each.
Ist Prize, terrace Houses* Glenroore
ldoad, and large Hwellmg-Hnuse, value
Woollahra _. ’ £ 8 ,500
2nd Prize. J louse and Hand, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SCiitcd
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
Anthony Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY)
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
; in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
? ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
Do flot Hesitate \
BUT Call and See.
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
- HEALTHY BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Laivler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
IVla,ciam.e Rodney,
mHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
X may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
«<*
The “Korting Universal”
Boiler - Feed Injector.
MANUFACTURED BY
L. SHUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed Injector in this market.
It is working in thousands of cases to the very best ad-
vantage. It, takes water at a temperature of 150 deg.
Fabr. It is worked entirely by one handle, bend for
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulphohne developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
■
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins I
Posted (under cover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (id.
u l’ll Try It.” Soi,F, Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 630-632 Gaorge-st,, Sydney.
&
TRUTH
appeals to all, and a trial of my boots and shoes
proves the truth of what I say about them.
THE CELEBRATED HALF-GUINEA BOOT
IS STRANGER
than a dream ; in the latter your pleasure is mythical,
in the former it is real. It is a pleasure to admire
them, a pleasure to wear them, and a pleasure to
reflect that fact is more substantial
THAN FICTION,
and that you have grasped the fact. They are made
in any size or shape, in black or tan, with broad or
narrow toe, suitable for Town or Country wear, the
broad toe being especially recommended for tender feet.
WEAR WELL AND LOOK WELL.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
Corner GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
WaSl>ii)gtoi) N. SoGl & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars—that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON H- SOUL & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt-street, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
868 Pitt-street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
BcSSoq’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other Maher in the World-
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
ear Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms. ■»
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
A. P. SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Aqent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Every "Variety of
TEA !
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Ateherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
tsr SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. ta
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOLD UP.
“ Who’s a biddin’ for the gin-case ? What d’ye
say ?
(All right, Missus !) Here ! I’ll start it at a
crown !
Now, then, gents ! It’s going lively ; fire away !
Look alive, or s’elp me bob I’ll knock it down !
Just a common bloomin’ gin-case ? No it ain’t!
Hand it up here, Mister ; thank ye. Look at it!
Half to pieces—old and shaky—not much paint;
But it ain’t a common gin-case ; not a bit.
See that lanky half-grown sapling by the door?
He’s her eldest son ; six foot if he’s an inch.
But she rocked him in that gin-case on the floor,
An’ there’s been two of ’em in it at a pinch.
And the gal out there, a-leanin’ on the fence—
Them there rockers was put on when she was
bom.
What say ? Half-a-crown, sir ? You was nigh
too late.
Sev’n-an’-six, gents ! Look alive before its gorn.
Are you done at three half-crowns ? At eight-
and-six?
Just another eighteenpence to make it ten.
Much obliged, sir ! See them marks there in the
bricks ?
Them ’ere rockers made ’em ; Tom was in it
then.
Well! a pound I’m bid : I ain’t agoin’ to dwell;
And it’s goin’ at a pound, this little bed
(Twenty-five ? No half-bids; now I’m going to
sell!)
Where she used to rock the little one that’s
dead.
Little hands that move no longer played along
Where the wood is wore all shiny on the side
As the cradle rocked in time to mother’s song;
The song she hasn’t sung since baby died.
No, it ain’t a common gin-case, gents, this ’ere —
But it’s goin’ at —two pounds, at —two-pund-
ten !
Two pund Three !—at five, and now it isn’t
dear,
Except to her as used to rock it then !
And it’s goin’! goin’! Third and last time —
gone!
Oh ! here, missus ! Here’s a present from the
chaps.
What? Oh, something in it? There now, don’t
take on !
It may come in useful for the gal, perhaps.
NIL.
THE FATHER OF SEAMEN.
“ Illi robur et aes triplex
Circa pectus erat . . .”
When the windows of Heaven were opened,
And the founts of the deep were let go,
When fathoms were reckoned by millions
And the tops of the mountains sank low,
The Father of Seamen went groping
His way over land and o’er sea,
With ballast of rock, and a cargo of stock,
In an ark of the gopher-wood tree.
And he was a seaman—a genuine seaman—
A sailor and ship-builder too ;
For his three decker ship he had built for the
trip,
So, Noah, here’s looking to you !
The voyage was long, and the weather
Was hard on a man of his age
(Six centuries old and a trifle
When he locked the last beast in its cage);
But he stuck to the job like a good ’un,
With Japhet and Shem as his mates,
While Ham they all took as the nigger to cook
And to wash the ship’s company’s plates.
All hands were good seamen—the first of all
seamen—
A rattling good deep-water crew,
And he kept them at work with no chance of
a shirk,
So, Noah, here’s looking to you !
Though he’d no wire rigging, or patents,
Or compass, or sextant, or chart,
He made his landfall (with no pilot)
By pluck and by firmness of heart.
Then he reckoned he’d finished his contract
When he landed the stock without harm,
So he gave the sea best, and he took out his rest
On a snug little vineyard and farm.
Well, he was a seaman—a deepwater seaman—
And to him our gratitude’s due,
For we wouldn’t be here if he’d shown any fear;
So, Noah, here’s looking to you !
I.p.
THE DAY WHEN I SHALL DIE.
Amid the streets’ discordant hum,
The din of wheels and buzz of men,
A vagrant thought will sometimes come,
And oft repulsed return again.
It bids me listen (while I may)
As tram and ’bus go rumbling by,
And think upon another day—
The day when I shall die.
While brain is clear and blood is hot,
And heart and pulse untrammeled beat,
To think of that ! Strange, is it not ?
The day when Life and Death shall meet.
I wonder when, I wonder how,
And most of all I wonder why
That day must come—how far off now ?
The day when I shall die ?
As heedless how lives ebb and flow
The sun will rise upon that morn,
As when but thirty years ago
It rose the day that I was born.
And naught within the senses’ range,
No change in God’s wide earth or sky,
Shall bode for me the one great change
On the day when I shall die !
Sydney.
BERNARD ESPINASSE.


fiOStralial) Mutual provider Sodrtv
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■ " w I v. Mj L WW\I ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.;
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
< .
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
BATES
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
BRYANT & MAY’S WAX VCSTAS
and.
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
A USTRALIAA BRAADY
(Joshua Bros, “ Boomerang ” Brand),
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
ts- Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. "ES
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUITG- & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
ZRO^LID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Lo co mot i ves,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & 0 ., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The Condon m Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR STOCK
is selected from the
Leading London Houses.
CALL for PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
We Buy for Cash
and are 20 per cent. Cheaper
than other Houses.
For Example :
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits 5Qs
Serge Sac Suits SQ S
Scotch or West of England Tweed ... 45s
S. M. BAUMASCHE, Manager.
UNEQUALLED
FOR
QUALITY
AND
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
Sulkies, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£lll7s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydnej^,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY The who 1
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of rainless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed..
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
tW" Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
1-eod.a.lla. Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
I —godalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
"I—toda.Ha. HEams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10/- per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30/- go £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY. LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
"Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 41(i Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896— divided with Policy,
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Bates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ...£22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894-
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
, and „
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Diabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
__ Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. ELIDKIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
PIXSON 8i SONS
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAI
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yaokee Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so shorl
a ime. During the last two years the increase has reached over 100 pei
cent, more than that of the preceding year.
Cooqlieror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wales
PixSoo’s New CoQqderor.
To many smokers an improvement on the old by reason of its aroma
and flavor.
Cbarnpioi) Aronjatic.
Long and Rough Cut, Navy Cut, Blended Stock, Nothing can exceed
m quality these gold leaf goods.
DARK TWISTS— UncIe Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, etc
DARK PLUG —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AROMATICS— GoIden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CATALOGUE OF PRICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE.
Importers of Pipes and Tobacconists’ Wares in G-reat and Newest Varieties,
AGENTS Foil
CIGARETTES.
Moijopole RotbScbildS, La Rosiija, Flor d« ViSto Cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General, Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 901.
SATURDAY, MAY 22, 1897.
Price, 6d.
THE FLY IN THE OINTMENT.
“N.S.W. Attorney-General Want will uncompromisingly oppose the Federation Bill.”
LITTLE BROTHER JOEY CARRUTHERS : “I’M tell George when he comes bach!"
BROTHER JACK WANT: “I'm ’fraid it’ll be too late then. We’ll see what’s in it, anyway!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleoo, of
Hotanv-street, Waver]ey, for T-e Bit letin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the 00.,
214 Georg*-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
At 214 Geo rue Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERM. S TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ■■■ ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... na a
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 bo
NOTICE.
Jin sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by .'Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week ferr a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. B.
Archibald.
Special, Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion _ !.c.. liny picture which has to be re-draum—will be
paid for n a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office, of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<(• Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal : The Stan-
dard and IHgaers News Co., Limited, .Johannesburg.
Colombo.- 7. Smith <k Co.
Fiji. Chas. .. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia
West mlia anil Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on ! uterprovincial newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l. with :Is. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. (id. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
j/ie s£htZle£t/ri.
SATURDAY, MAY 22, 1897.
Old Age Pensions.
Victoria, following the example set by
Maoriland and New South Wales, is seri-
ously considering the subject of Old Age
Pensions. In Maoriland, the matter is so
far advanced that claims are being registered
with a view to getting the system in actual
operation by 1898 or 1899, and it would
almost certainly have been in operation this
year but for a difficulty as to the age limit of
pensioners. New South Wales appointed a
Commission to investigate the matter, but
the Commission presently lost courage as it
began to recognise the size of the problem
on which it had entered. Its report was
vaguely to the effect that a certain sum per
annum would he sufficient to pension a very
small portion of the local aged, and that a
part of that sum might be raised by certain
means which it indicated, and the rest of the
money and the great bulk of the aged were
left to be an unknown quantity. Victoria is
also considering the matter per medium of
a Royal Commission, and, so far as it has
gone, the results do not appear especially
promising. The Commission apparently has
started from the wrong end. It is dealing
with the question as one of charity, and its
witnesses are mostly the bosses of benevolent
asylums and other charitable institutions. It
is evoking much information about the de-
serving and the undeserving poor, the dirty
poor, the poor who are or are not respect-
able, the poor who are or were given
to drink, and whose orthodoxy ranges
from bad to awful, and who are
possessed or not possessed of relatives
capable of supporting them. Its attitude, in
short,-is that of' .J awbone Neild, M.L.-A.;
who, in a recent debate in New South Wales
Parliament, expressed a great deal of opinion
about how “ We ” should not “ give ” pen-
sions under certain circumstances, and how
“We,” under certain other circumstances,
should “give ” pensions.
* * * *
There are two separate aspects of the Old
Age Pension scheme. One is that enough
money should be raised by direct or indirect
taxation to pay a certain small pension to
every member of the community aged, say,
60 or 65 and upwards, who has habitually
resided in the province for the last 15
years, or any other term which may be con-
sidered advisable. The latter restriction is
necessary to prevent the scheme being
broken down by the incursions of the aged
from all the adjacent countries, and to
guarantee, as far as possible, that the people
who receive the pensions will also be those
who have contributed to the pension-fund.
The other aspect is that enough money
should be raised to pay a pension under the
same conditions of age and residence to
every poor and deserving member of the
community. The one idea is universal and
compulsory life assurance on the deferred-
annuity plan, and under its provisions the
richest citizen or the poorest, when he had
duly qualified by age and residence, would
be equally entitled to call round and collect
his 10s. per week. He would be simply an
old-established customer dropping in on a
matter of business ; his (or her) habits, cir-
cumstances, moral or immoral character,
religious opinions, &c., would have nothing
whatever to do with the case. The citizen
would be in exactly the same position as if
he had bought his annuity from the A.M.P.
Society, or any other office, and there would
be no obligation on either side. The other
idea is charity—pauperism—Bumbledom on
a stupendous scale. Even though the appli-
cant for a pension may have contributed
toward it as a taxpayer for a period of 50
years, the suggestion that it should only be
payable to him if he is poor and of good
character makes him a pauper. It implies
sitting humbly on a hard seat in a big room,
and meekly waiting till an official shall con-
descend to investigate the matter. It means
that the applicant will be questioned as to
whether he is orthodox and sober, was ever
in gaol, whether he washes regularly, and
many other things, and will be expected to
grovel with his hat in his hand, and say
“Yessir. ” It means that the ancient she-
citizen will be sternly interrogated by grim
official females as to whether she ever “fell,”
and required to show cause why she can’t
support herself by laundry - work and
mangling. It also means that—supposing
they do pass through the needle’s eye of
committee-inspection, and get their pensions
—they will always be liable to overhaul and
further inspection, and—being paupers—
will have to be duly ’umble for the rest of
their days. The Bulletin, for one, is of
opinion that an Old Age Pension system of
the pauper variety is hardly worth having.
It would relieve a certain amount of want,
but the grovel and Bumbleism attached to it
are wholly objectionable.
* * * *
So far, the evidence given before the Vic-
torian Commission seems to be mostly based
on the pauper view of the case. A few
samples are instructive :
Mr. David Fraser mentioned that drunkenness was the
cause of poverty in two cases out of three. He con-
demned the indiscriminate pensioning of all old persons
by the state, on the ground that it would create thrift-
lessness.
Mr. William Wrioht suggested that the most deserving
should have comfortable cottage homes and a small allow-
ance, while the less deserving should be sent to a general
institution like the Benevolent Asylum, and the utterly
worthless should be assigned food and shelter in an insti-
tution approaching the English workhouse.
Rev. A. R. Edgar condemned indiscriminate pensions,
on the ground that they would encourage thriftlessness.
* * * *
The idea of Old Age Pensions encouraging
thriftlessness is especially brilliant, but it is
also especially characteristic of Bumbledom
in general. If the nation decides to compel
itself, by Act of Parliament, to make pro-
vision for its own old age, it will be about
the largest and most thorough-going and
wholesale act of thrift on record. The spec-
tacle of every member of a community laying
up money against his or her declining years
is the very embodiment of thrift, and the
idea of universal thrift encouraging thrift-
lessness is unique drivel. As regards the
statement that drunkenness is the most fre-
quent cause of poverty, that has no bearing
on the case. The state’s largest item of
revenue is that which it derives from drink ;
in a strictly financial sense the “ drunk ” is
the prop and pillar of the state, the chief
source of revenue and the mainstay of the
constitution. If he qualifies for a pension by
a sufficient term of residence, and thereby
contributes through the general taxation his
fair share—probably, by reason of his thirst,
more than his share—-of the pension fund,
he is entitled to his old-age pension as a pure
matter of business. It is a thing he has
bought and paid for as fairly as any other
member of the community. His affluence,
or his poverty, or the drink which may or
may not have caused his poverty, have noth-
ing to do with the matter. If he spends his
pension in liquor then he has at least the
merit of handing most of it back to the
Treasury in the shape of customs and excise,
and of supporting the state manfully to the
last, and no mere outside person has a
right to complain. As for the proposal that
the pensioners should be graded according to
character, and that the “ utterly worthless ”
should get nothing, but merely be made as
uncomfortable as possible in a large, cold
building for the rest of their days, it
approaches dangerously close to fraud. The
utterly worthless, by hard drinking and
smoking and other sins, often pay more to
the state funds than the superior person who
condemns them so severely, and an old age
pension should be, as far as possible, pay-
ment in return for payment. Therefore, the
average utterly worthless individual has a
right to come into the pension scheme on an
equality with every other citizen. If he is
willing to strain a point, and let the respect-
able teetotal non-smoker, who has contri-
buted next to nothing to the Treasury all his
life, come in along with him on an equal
footing, the latter should be respectfully
grateful to the utterly worthless person, and
say as little as possible.
A system whereby every person who has
attained a certain age and put in so many
years continuous residence shall thereby
become entitled to a pension, provided he
cares to prove his claim and collect the
money, would, of course, cost a vast amount
more, on paper, than a system of pensions
to the aged poor only. Probably it would
cost twice as much. But, in either case, it is
only the community paying the money to it-
self ; it is, to all intents and purposes, a case
of every individual when he is young paying
a certain sum of money to himself when he
is old, and it is no more a tax than any
other form of life-insurance. A universal
pension system is the only decently effective
remedy for pauperism yet devised. All the
forms of mere charity involve pauperism
and the creation of a semi-servile class. The
schemes for pensioning only the aged poor
also involve pauperism. The recipient of
the pension may have contributed its full
value in many years’ tax-paying, but the
mere fact that it is given to him because
he is poor, that he has to ask for it be-
cause he is poor, that the receipt of it is
a proof of poverty —all these things make
him a pauper. The proposal that the pension
system should be confined to the respectable
poor is a still more pronounced form of
pauperism. It means the necessity to con-
form to somebody else’s standard of respect-
ability—to agree with his views, and be
orthodox according to his orthodoxy, and to
snuffle at the shrines of his gods—in order to
qualify for a weekly dole. The Victorian
Old Age Pension scheme has begun badly,
inasmuch as the pauper element seems to be
taken for granted. The bosses of charities
and preachers and advertising philanthro-
pists are allowed to invade the committee
room, and explain in a large, patronising
manner the terms on which “we” are pre-
pared to let the aged Victorian have the
annuity which he is to pay for with his own
money, and all manner of people come before
the Commission and express opinions as to
the class to whom “we” should or should
not give assistance. As these individuals
will contribute no larger a proportion of the
funds than anybody else their attitude is
wholly uncalled for. The Old Age Pension
question is a matter for insurance experts to
figure out by the aid of the census returns
and the state statistician. Professional
philanthropists and preachers and moralists
are wholly out of place in such a matter.
The “Dibbs Deficit” Myth.
The Bulletin’s list of the “ Last Eleven
New South Wales Deficits” aroused a small
storm in the Legislative Council, where the de-
ficits were quoted at length by Dr. MacLaurin,
M.L.C., to the agitation of that usually placid
mausoleum. The exposure of the fact (which
sticks out conspicuously in the Govt. Statis-
tician’s figures) that of nearly three millions of
accumulated shortage which the Foreign-
traders meanly describe as the “ Dibbs deficit,”
Dibbs was only responsible for about <£200,000,
while Reid accumulated over .£1,000,000, and
Parkes and Jennings did the rest, created a
cheerful boil-over among the mildly-equable
nominees, and Attorney-General Want flatly
declined the task of defending his chief’s figures.
Whereupon the newest Foreign-trade barracker,
Pulsford, M.L.C., stuck the old, weary,
exploded lie of the “Dibbs deficit” up again
before the House as follows :
Amongst some of the items to which the hon. member,
Dr. MacLaurin, did not refer, I may mention one. He
went back into the financial history of recent years, hut
he didn’t tell us that, during the last few years some hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds have been charged to
revenue to pay off the deficiency left by the Dibbs
Government, of which I think the hon. gentleman was
himself a member. . . . The hon. and learned gentle-
man has spoken of a difference of about £200,000 between
the cash in hand at the beginning of the year and the
close of it, but he did not point out that practically the
bulk of this difference was represented by the payment
made by the Reid Government towards the reduction of
the old Dibbs deficit.
* * * *
The Bulletin, as the paper whose figures
were quoted by MacLaurin and impugned by
Pulsford, replies briefly that each one of the
three statements contained in this stupid
variant on a stupid and mean and disgraceful
fiction is provably incorrect by the State
Statistician’s figures. (1) No “ hundreds of
thousands of pounds ” have been charged to
revenue in recent years or any other years to
pay off any deficit left by any Dibbs Govern-
ment. (2) No Dibbs Government bequeathed
any deficit save the gross shortage of £176,000
left behind in ’94, to which sum the Reid
Government has already added £1,000,000.
(3) The £200,000, or rather £229,000, deficit
this year was not created by paying off any
Dibbs deficit. Premier Reid, in fact, has, so
far, not only accumulated new deficits five times
as fast as Dibbs did, but he has paid off old
deficits a good deal more slowly than his
maligned predecessor.
* » « «
When the Government of Stuart, Dibbs, and
George Reid quitted office in 1885 it left a
small credit balance behind it. During its life-
time it spent a lot moie than its current revenue,
but the extra expenditure was all paid out of
former surpluses, and it handed down no deficit
to its successors. Since then the rei 7 enue short-
ages, as shown by the Statistician (N.S.W.
Statistical Register, pages 350-351), were as
follows :
Jennings (1886) ... ... ... £1 484 462
Parkes (1887-1891) 717 924
Dibbs 1892-1894 176’()92
Reid (1895-1897) 1,069,’569
Except that the 1897 shortage is based on
Premier Reids estimate only, these are the
figures after each year’s accounts were closed
and everything was duly debited back to its
proper year, and after the new Treasurer had
done all he was capable of in the way of load-
ing bis own expenditure on to his predecessor
Dibbs’ small deficit of .£176,092 is the worst that
can be charged to his memory as a financier
despite all George Reid’s weird ingenuity in
putting all manner of miscellaneous expenditure
back into the alleged “ Dibbs deficit.” With
these figures—issued by State authority, coin
piled by a trusted State officer, and published
by a State department—rising up to flatly con-
tradict his assertions, even so utterly reckless
a barracker as Pulsford is an empty "thing and
of no account.
* • * •
The newest explanation by the Shoddy-party
—that furnished per medium of Pulsford— of
the Reid financial wreck is to the effect that it
arose through the noble and unusual efforts of
that party to pay off the old “ Dibbs deficit.”
The truthfulness of this assertion can also be
gauged by the Statistician’s figures, set forth on
page 351 of the latest issue of the N.S.W,
Statistical Register, wherein are shown the
amounts paid by the last three Governments in
liquidation of old debts—
Parses (1887-1891) £289,483
Dibbs (1892-1894) ... 334,595
Reid (1895-1896) 133,313
These are the amounts paid in reduction of old
permanent debts, and they show that Parkks,
in five years, paid off back debts at the
rate of .£57,896 per annum. Dibbs, in his
three years, paid off debt at the rate of
,£111,532 per annum. Reid, in years, re-
duced the country’s old liabilities at the
rate of only £88,875 per annum. What he has
done this year is still an unknown quantity.
These, however, were matters handed down
from a remote date, and they had nothing to do
with the revenue deficiency. Towards that
burden the three Treasurers contributed out of
revenue as follows (Statistical Register, page
329), the law providing for a regular payment
of £150,000
Parses (1890 and 1891) ... ... £300,000
Dibbs (1892-1894) ... ... ... 450,000
Reid (1895-1896) ... ... ... 150,000
So far as the figures go, therefore, the spectacle
of George Reid posing as the one able and
brilliant economist w’ho manfully tackled the
country’s accumulated debts and deficiencies is
a piece of magnificent effrontery.
* * * *
If the new shortages of each Minister are
taken into account along with the amount each
paid off the old shortage, the figures pan out as
follows: — Parkes accumulated a deficit of
£717,924, and against that he paid off £300,000,
so the balance to be remembered against him in
the general reckoning is £417,924. Dibbs made
a deficit of £176,092 in three years, and paid
£450,000 off the old deficit, therefore he left
things £273,908 better than he found them,
and that amount may fairly be called his
net surplus. Reid, in his first 18 months
of office, up to June, 1896 (the figures for
1897 are not yet fully available) made a deficit
of £830,520 and paid off' £150,000, therefore his
net shortage in years was £680,520. In
addition to this, Dibbs paid off the country's
ancient back debts out of revenue to the amount
of £33,000 per annum more than his windy
successor.
* • * »
According to the irrefutable logic of the
State’s own printed figures it is thus shown
that, if the repayments are not taken into
account, Dibbs created the smallest deficit and
Reid tlie largest, save one, in the last fifteen
years. If repayments are taken into account,
Dibbs, whose name the mean and lying Foreign-
trade press and Foreign-trade politicians have
dragged in the dust for years as a man who
brought the finances of New South Wales to
the verge of ruin, was the only Premier who
had absolutely nothing to do with the deficit
which is named after him, and who left a good
credit balance behind him. As Pulseord,
M.L.C., went out of his way to impugn Thh
Bulletin’s statements as quoted by Mao
Laurin, this paper therefore lays its case
before that wearisome politician in three
sentences: (1) His statement that “some
hundreds of thousands ” have been charged
to revenue to pay off the Dibbs deficit is
absolutely incorrect; (2) his statement that
the Reid deficit is caused by the patriotic
efforts of the fatted jester who now runs a
comic Government in New South Wales to pay
off Dibbs’ past liabilities is wholly inaccurate ;
Dibbs’ gross deficit, if Reid had paid it all oil
in one year, wouldn’t have accounted for the
smallest of Reid’s shortages ; (3) there never
vvas, as far as the State Statistics show, any
Dibbs deficit worth mentioning. Premier Reid
did, however, on one memorable occasion,
make a considerable reduction in the aggregate
national overdraft, but it was not done inten-
tionally, and it was not done out of revenue,
and it was a comedy incident throughout.
Early in his career he discovered that certain
sums, amounting to about £400;0()0, which
might lawfully have been charged to loans,
had been paid by his predecessors out ol
revenue. To square this lamentable tendency
to pay things out of revenue he took the
amount out of loans, and included it in his
own current year’s receipts. The Auditor-
General, it is understood, objected, and re-
quired that the amount should be credited
against the old deficiency ; at all events this
■was afterwards done, therefore Premier Reid
actually did reduce the old deficit by sonic
“ hundreds of thousands”—by converting that
amount of temporary debt into permanent debt
instead. Under all these circumstances The
Bulletin invites Pulsford, if he is an lmnest
and straightforward M.L.C,. to explain away
his slander upon that much-maligned financier.
Dibbs, as quickly and effectually as possible.
Jury-Building.
Dear Bulletin, —While heartily agreeing with
you about the disgraceful alacrity with which
certain press-scribes have been pre-judeing the
still legally-innocent Butler, I don’t think the
American “ fiddle-faddle ” over juries is any
less of an abuse in the other direction. The
conditions required for a juror’s acceptance
even more exacting than as cited by you—an


(in some States, at least) that he shall neither
have conversed about the crime, read any news-
paper account thereof, nor formed any opinion
whatever as to the guilt or innocence of accused ;
limitations under which jury-trial, as Mark
Twain points out, has become “a most in-
genious and effective contrivance for defeating
the ends of justice.”
* • • •
The jury-system was instituted in times when
intelligence was so slowly and scantily diffused
that it was quite possible for a juryman’s mind
to be the virgin page now theoretically in-
dispensable to empanelment in America.
But, theoretically only ; because, obviously,
in these days of rapid and complex inter-
communication, a jury so empanelled must
be a jury of fools, or liars, or both. The culti-
vated and intelligent citizen—unable to avoid
hearing all about the crime—cannot helped hav-
ing formed certain conclusions, of which, if
he is also truthful, he will not deny the ex-
istence, and will thereupon have to stand down
in favor of a man who is either too dense
to possess an opinion or too designing to ac-
knowledge one.
* • * *
An accused person’s chances cannot, of course,
be too carefully guarded against possible results
of popular prejudication, but by the vast alter-
ation in intercourse-conditions due to print-
ing press, telegraphy, and so forth, what was
originally a just and reasonable precaution has
been rendered a gross and obvious scandal upon
American criminal procedure. The recent
Durrant murder-trial in San Francisco—
besides presenting a sickening example of
ravenous sensation-hunger furnished also a
notable instance of the folly of mechanically
applying to the nineteenth century the judicial
methods of the ninth.
* * • •
And, in any case, the man who is most
capable of deciding upon the merits of such
pre-forensic evidence as comes in his way is
exactly the man who would be most intelligently
amenable, as a juryman, to the effect of any
further and formal testimony in either direc-
tion. But he would also be the last man to
parade a cheap perspicacity-" after-the-fact ”
by reading "ruffian” and "criminal” into
every look and action of an alleged offender.
Also, it is astonishing what a variety of evil pro-
pensities would doubtless be promptly dis-
covered in the outer man of even the blandest
and most beauteous of reporters—chained, like
Butler, to the deck of an eight-foot cabin,
graced with a fortnight’s chin-stubble, cat-
watched night and day, and badgered with the
ceaseless questioning of those who hadn’t even
the decency to pretend to that impartial atti-
tude of mind which is as incumbent upon the
professional recorder of facts as upon the official
sifter of them.— Qujestor. /
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Tote and an Amendment.
The Totalisator Bill introduced into N.S.W.
Assembly by Sleath, M.L.A., is interesting
chiefly as a reflex of the moral attitude of the
community. It is distinctly a movement
towards reform, inasmuch as it proposes to in-
troduce an honest gambling machine in place of
the dishonest, illicit machine and the fraudu-
lent and unwholesome Ikey Mo at present in
existence. And, on the other hand, it is a
feeble and ineffective attempt at reform, and in
the desire to placate the great Rev. Stiggins
party and to bow to the aggregate Podsnau
most of the good has been left out of it. The
main provisions of the Bill are that the “ tote ”
may be used by racing clubs of a large, solid
pattern, whose desperate respectability and
financial strength enable them to pass the
requisite examination and get a license. No
cheap or common institution is to use the
machine. Each licensed club is to use it at not
more than eight meetings a year. It is
not to be used more than 20 days in
one year on auy one racecourse. The club
is to charge not mere than 10 per cent,
commission ; one-third of this sum to be paid
to the Treasurer, who will spend it for charitable
purposes; the other two-thirds to go towards
providing stakes. Lastly, no person under 21
years of age is to be allowed to patronise the
“ tote.” As the Bill provides no improved
method of putting down the illegal tote and
the “ double ’’ shop, and the welsher and the
Ikey Mo, the situation therefore amounts to
exactly this : At the meetings of the large,
solid clubs which can pass inspection and get
licenses, the honest gambling-machine will be
available ; at all the great mass of small, shady
meetings where a little infusion of honesty is
most needed, the shady I. Mo will have a
monopoly of the business as heretofore. The
honest gamble is restricted to eight meetings
per annum under the auspices of any one club ;
the dishonest one may skin the lamb at 52 meet-
ings per annum if it wants to. The square and
above-board “ tote” may be used only 20 days
a year on any one course; the “ bookie
who is neither square nor above-board, and
the welsher, and the illicit sweep-man may
ply their trade 70 days a year on one
course without any serious hindrance. Nobody
under 21 may use the honest machine ; any-
body who is old enough to walk may patronise
the dishonest one. The machine which is
above suspicion, and whose profits go to assist
legitimate sport and to aid charities, may be
used on racecourses only, and even there under
very severe restrictions ; the one which swindles
its patrons wholesale, and corrupts the police
force, and bribes venal detectives, and which is
conducted by an unclean swindler under condi-
tions that are as unclean, as himself, may be run
by the dozen all over Sydney and other towns
at all hours and every day of the year, there-
fore, as the police and detectives profess they
can’t keep down the illicit tote and the unlaw-
ful layer of odds any better than they are
doing, and Parliament accepts their statement
to that effect by not demanding their discharge
for wholesale corruption and incompetence, The
Bulletin moves that the honest betting-
machine should be allowed a fair chance to kill
the dishonest one by fair and square competi-
tion. It proposes : (1) that the use of the tote
shall be permitted to every racing club that
wauts it, for as many days in the year as it
likes ; (2) that the commission charged shall be
10 or 15 per cent., of which the Government
shall receive one-half ; (3) that the tote must
always be in charge of persons approved by the
Government; (4) that certain persons approved
by Government and capable of giving sub-
stantial security be authorised to run a limited
number of totes in Sydney and other towns,
said totes to be open every week-day and
to have authority to lay the odds on every
event the proprietor darned well pleases.
This arrangement couldn’t well increase
gambling, for—thanks to the connivance of the
police and detectives, and Parliament and the
Government—the public has already facilities
for doing, with the illicit tote and the illicit
Isaac Moses, all the gambling it can pay for.
All it would do would be to turn the great
bulk of the gambling that already exists into a
channel where it would be honestly conducted,
where it wouldn’t need to exist by corrupting
justice, and where most of the profits would go
to a good cause. Whereas the proposal of
Sleath, M. L.A., provides an honest channel
wide enough to absorb about one-tenth of the
gambling that exists, and leaves the other nine-
tenths to be the same unsavoury swindle as
heretofore.
♦
The Charmed Circle.
It isn’t easy to know whether to laugh
or to weep over the innocent effrontery with
which one participant in the current art-
wrangle has advanced, by way of a new light
on the subject, the hoary and oft-refuted fallacy
that the artist is himself the only competent
art-critic. Had the pronouncement gone no
further, however, it might perhaps have passed
muster upon a misapprehension of this authori-
tative person’s interpretation of the term
“artist”; but, when he proceeds injudiciously
to parallel the painter’s case with the doctor’s
and the lawyer’s, he lays bare a pleasing
confusion of ideas which it may be
woj’th while once again to disentangle.
It is too often forgotten, in the first place, that
a person who devotes himself professionally to
the painting of pictures is not necessarily an
artist in any sense but that of having a mechani-
cal acquaintance with certain technical pro-
cesses. There are artists, in the highest meaning
of the word, who have never put brush to
canvas, and there are prolific picture-makers
who would have been more appropriately em-
ployed in building boots or selling socks.
And to say that nobody but a painter
should presume to call another painter’s
picture bad is to say that only a lawyer
or a doctor is entitled to say that another
lawyer or doctor has lost a case or failed to
/cure a patient. Results not processes —
' are for the general judgment. The fact that a
man may know nothing whatever about wine-
making doesn’t in the least invalidate bis
opinion about the quality of a vintage, nor is it
necessary to be capable of the humblest attempt
at verse to be able to perceive that Jawbone
Neild’s exercitations are not poetry. In which
connection, by the way, it is significant that
our protesting artist’s philosophy of criticism
is much upon all-fours with that of the distin-
guished warrior aforesaid ; though hardly even
the Nocent Waterspout himself could match
the sublime self-conceit of the assumption that
no non-technical person —however comprehen-
sive of culture and delicate of appreciation—
should do aught but sit reverently and recep-
tively at the feet of any callow youth—circum-
scribed, perhaps, of soul, and barren of inspira-
tion—who, upon the strength of a more or less
mechanical proficiency with certain tools of
trade, may arrogate to himself with graceful
assurance the status of public instructor,
and prate haughtily of Art, with a very
large “A.” The artist, we are loftily in-
formed, “ does not show his work to the
critic to evoke his criticism which is
worthless —but to teach him that there are
some things in Nature that are beautiful.”
Beautiful, at all events, is the elaborate process
of reasoning by which this philosopher arrives,
after all, at no more recondite conclusion than
that the reason why everybody doesn’t accept
the artist at his own valuation is that some
people won’t so accept him ; and more lovely
still is the adamantine cheek of the assumption
that these people are, ipso facto, either ignorant
or insincere. “The common eye !” Leonardo
da Vinci exclaimed. “There is no common
eye ! So long as you strive to represent what
may be seen of any man in Nature, you must
be prepared to learn from any man.” But da
Vinci was a great man, as well as a great
artist.
Mr. Farry-Okeden and the N.Q. Blacks.
Writes “ J.L.D.” :
Dear Bulletin,—Be treatment of the Q. blacks. Com-
missioner Parry Okeden advocates humane and common-
sense measures, and says “the blacks must be —and shall
be, if I have a free hand and my native police—pro-
tected.” This has the true, manly ring-, but I am afraid
one of his projects is faulty. “The myall,” Mr. Okeden
says, “ must be gradually educated up to the idea that
the native-trooper is his best friend.” My experience of
the native-trooper does not favor much hope in this
direction. Your “ civilised” black-boy with a rifle is filled
with a strange lust of blood against his own kind. He
would rather shoot a “myall” than a white man, and
will, evt-ry time he gets the chance. Our party took the
first 10,000 sheep from “ the Downs,” down the Flinders,
to the camp now called Burketown, thence up the
Gregory to the Herbert table-land and down the water-
course then called the Herbert, as far as the point on the
map now' marked Lake Nash. We settled there early in
’O5. I have seen something of this black business. We
never feared those interior aboriginals so long as we knew
no whites had preceded us. On a grand six-mile-
long lagoon in the Herbert, we found camped over
200 blacks, a fine tribe, with whom we established friendly
relations, giving presents, &c., and keeping away from
them. With the old chief I would have gone anywhere,
confident in his protection. He was simply a grand type
of a man But the leaders of a party cannot ensure good
conduct on the part of all the men. The native women
are interfered with, and the next travelling stock party
comes along. The blacks do not discriminate between
one party of white men and another. Retaliation. Then
the native police are summoned and go on the job. “ Dis-
persing” the blacks, it is called. It is here that your
native police black-boy comes in. One of them showed
me the nicks on his Terry rifle. I counted 48. “ That
fella myall,” he remarked, and so he kept his tally. In
N0v.,’64, we came to a round, cup-shaped waterhole on
the Flinders, but we did .not . get any water there that
night either for ourselves or the stock. A tribe
of myalls had been “dispersed.” They made for
the water—men, women, and children, and the “ boys ”
sat round the edge, “plugging” till all were
shot. In that dry country, with W'ater scarce, the stupidity
of the commissioner in charge of the native police was
severely commented upon. Your par. in a recent Bulle-
tin convinces me that Mr. Parry-Okeden is a man who
understands the situation and has proper humanity in his
composition. My own fixed opinion is that, so far as the
interior Q. blacks are concerned, there never was a so-
called outrage on their part, except in retaliation for some-
thing before. Mr. Okeden will not, I fear, ever succeed
in “ educating the myall to the idea that the native
trooper is his best friend” ; and, if he could, his next task
that of educating the native trooper not to shoot
myalls—is about as hopeful a one as to get an Indian
man-eating tiger to abstain from human blood.
Ben Tillett to the M.L. Democracy.
From Maoriland The Bulletin receives a little
pamphlet called the “ Liberal and Labor Asso-
ciation’s Directory.” The most noteworthy
feature in it is a brief essay by Ben Tillett,
the well-known English Democrat, who, hav-
ing come from the land where the Democracy
has failed in most of its aspirations, to the land
where the Democracy has achieved more suc-
cesses than anywhere else in the world, gives
much good advice in a superior British tone to
the Maoriland people. A few samples follow :
The time has come when the workers should not be
satisfied with the political sops of the parties. . . . Shall
we be satisfied with moribund, paralytic measures filling
the Statute Book, turning the latter into waste paper?
. . . The unearned increment of land and capital should
be the property of the state. The state should own and
work all its mineral wealth. . . . My advice to the N.Z.
workers is to stuff the politicians with their own carrots.
. . . There should be a fight waged against every Ministry
not pledged to fight for the economic emancipation of all
wealth-creators and wage-earners. . . . The state should
alone possess the power to make a transfer in land or pro-
perty and thus put an end to swindling booms, mortgages,
&c. . . . Place no reliance on your land measures saving
you from the awful curse of landlordism. . . . Had the
workers at Home your opportunities they would, I am
sure, make better use of them.
Tillett, being a British Democrat, has got by
heart all the terms and phrases suited to the
British workers’ condition, and he assumes, in
true British fashion, that they must fit in with
everybody else’s condition. “Trust no poli-
tical party ” is a British bye-word. The
British democrats hardly even venture to
look forward to a time when they will be
the dominant political party. They take
it for granted that they must always be
the playthings of Whigs and Tories. In
Maoriland Labor is the party in power, and
Tillett actually, from force of habit, tells it to
distrust the party in power—itself. “ The un-
earned increment of land and capital should be
the property of the state.” In M.L. the state is
steadily annexing it by graduated land-taxes and
absentee taxes and other measures. “ The state
should own and work all mineral wealth.” If it
did it would go insolvent; the mineral wealth
of M.L. and Australia, taken as a whole,
doesn’t pay for the cost of extraction, and but
for the fools who are always throwing money
into the industry, tempted by the occasional
huge rewards, it would shut up. Even on the
prize goldfields of this country there are plenty
of years when calls are greater than dividends.
Then Tillett wants the M.L. workers to
“ fight against every Ministry not pledged,” &c.
The M.L. workers practically are the Ministry,
and they can’t well fight against themselves.
Further, this embodiment of British failure
tells the Maorilanders that their land legislation
is hopeless to save them from landlordism.
Yet statistics show that it is saving
them, though it has only begun to oper-
ate. Graduated land and absentee taxes,
state resumptions, &c., are fast breaking up
the big estates and making the Maorilander a
small independent holder living on his own
allotment, instead of a victim of the landlord ;
and the State Bank, State Land Bank, State
Life Insurance Department, State leasehold
system, State railway ownership, to say no-
thing of the Old Age Pension policy and the
State Fire Insurance schemes which are coming,
are rapidly bringing about the time Tillett
yearns for when the people will control both
land and capital. And Tillett’s boast that the
workers “at Home” would have made better use
of the same opportunities is unique. The Maori-
land workers made the opportunities by taking
possession of the State machine; the workers
“ at Home ” never had the sense or the energy
to do likewise. Ben Tillett’s address to the
M.L. democracy is a string of gaudy generali-
ties ; he doesn’t say how one of the beautiful
things he talks about is to be done, but merely
whoops at large in wild, whirling phrases.
Meanwhile the Maoriland people are steadily and
successfully doing every one of the things which
this superior person from the Land of Failure tells
them that they ought to begin doing. He has
hardly got beyond the limits of mere trades-
unionism ; they are building up the most
democratic nation that the earth possesses, and,
though they haven’t nearly arrived at the goal
which Tillett talks about in incoherent cries,
they are going straight towards it, while he
hasn’t contrived yet to show his own followers
how to get fairly started. Altogether, Tillett’s
address to the Maoriland democracy is a fine
example of misdirected British arrogance, and
ignorance, and mere theory. An address from
the Maoriland democracy to Tillett would be
much more appropriate.
“ The Position of these Gentlemen.”
One of the grossest contempts of the N.S. W.
Supreme Court on record was that committed
by Chief Justice Darley in dealing with the
charges brought against the four metropolitan
daily newspapers of prejudicing the forthcom-
ing trial of alleged-murderer Butler. Chief
Justice Darley is sworn to administer the law
without fear or favor or respect of persons ;
yet when faced by the representatives of the
four city dailies he consciously or unconsciously
shivers. His Honor’s volunteered expression of
confidence that the delinquent pressmen would
not do anything further to interfere with the
administration of justice in the matter of
Butler, and his refusal to follow the usual
practice of the court in sentencing them to fine
or imprisonment, strikes every'impartial mind
as a grotesque concession to the social status of
the culprits. When J. A. Andrews, a harm-
less and well-meaning theorist on whose mind
misery and misfortune preyed, was prosecuted
by the N.S.W. Crown Law Authorities for a
technical breach of the Printing Acts, nothing
was said about “ refraining from inflicting the
indignity of imprisonment” upon him. No, by
Platypus ! The poor moneyless wretch had to
rot in prison for many months. But a half-
starved, ill clothed “ Anarchist” is a very dif-
ferent person from the gilded Fairfaxes ; and
when Botany Bay Justice has to deal with per-
sons of the social standing of the Fairfaxes she
declares by her mouthpiece, Chief-Justice Dar-
ley, as reported in the Fairfaxes' S.M.
Herald, that—
The judgment of the Court was that in each case a
penalty of £lOO must be paid, and also the cost of the
proceedings. He might mention that the usual order was
that the parties be imprisoned until the fine was paid,
but, looking at the position of these gentlemen, he did
not think it necessary to make that order. He had no
doubt the fines would be paid, and the Court refrained
from inflicting an indignity upon these gentlemen by saj’-
ing that they must be imprisoned until the fine was paid.
“ Looking at the position of these gentlemen I”
It is a disgrace to justice that such words
should be spoken from the bench. What busi-
ness has Darley, C.J., or any other Judge, to
consider “ the position ” of any man or woman
brought before him ? Moleskins or broadcloth,
it is all the same to Justice ; and it should be
all one to the Judges. Chief Justice Darley,
if he forgets himself, should respect his office.
He talks roundly of the duty incumbent on him
to see that “ the course of justice should flow
with a clear, pure, even stream ” —and almost
in the same breath he abrogates his judgment
and departs from the practice of his court to pay
homage to “ the position of these gentlemen ! ”
even as “ these gentlemen ” had been paying an
upside-down sort of homage to “ the position ”
of the accused Butler. Judges often pretend
to be marvellously ignorant of things they ought
to know ; but what right have they—with a
view to softening “the indignity” of a w’ell-
deserved sentence—to officially know anything
of “the position” of any man brought before
them ? Fancy bluff old Chief Justice Martin,
or even Stephen, C.J., publicly “looking at
the position ” of ever a gentleman Fairfax of
them all!
Sydney’s principal shoddy organ can’t leav'
any subject without ringing in a sudden indig
nant bark about what M'Millan used to call
Pur-r-rtection. For instance, the Telegraph
of 17th May got on the Vic. railway problem :
On no less than 39 lines the earnings fall below actual
working expenses. ... It was by the expenditure of
borrowed money upon works of this kind that the great
Protectionist boom was vamped up, and Victoria turned
into a temporary “paradise of labor.” . . . The money
was simply squandered in creating a state of fictitious
prosperity, of u hich Protection was given the credit. No
doubt we have similar sins of our own to answer for, but
they are on nothing approaching the Victorian scale. . . .
In the other colonies it is the same, more or less, but the
case of Victoria with her 39 railways, all of which would
be dear at a gift, is quite unique.
And the official figures are : Loss on Victoria’s
non-paying lines last year (working expenses
and interest), .£334,228. Loss on N.S.W.’s
non-paying lines (Coghlan’s “ Wealth and
Progress,” page 451), £374,200. Therefore, it
would seem that it is the N.S. W. case which is
unique, and it was by works of this kind that
the Foreign-trade boom was vamped up, and
the money was simply squandered in creating
a state of fictitious prosperty for which Free-
trade was given the credit. The Bulletin
begins to think that the Sydney newspaper
variety of Freetrade is all crude, blank lying.
Ed. Bulletin, —The Pharisaic Puritans who
would take God under their smug patronage
and get Him recognised in set phrase at
their instance by the builders of Federa-
tion, are pleased to forget that if there
be one lesson history teaches more than an-
other it is this, that recognition of God by
a state almost invariably implies, if it does
not necessitate, that state’s indulgence in blas-
phemy and hypocrisy. Ex.gr. —(l) Two Chris-
tian nations, both recognising God with 1000
parson-power, wage war against one another.
A battle is fought. Each lustily claims
triumphant victory, and falls to Te-Deum-ing
—which strikes readers as an arrant piece of
stupidity tempered by delirious blasphemy.
(2) An Anglican episcopal election. The
bishop appointed by the Premier is sent along to
his dean and chapter to be by them elected
with the aid of the Holy Ghost ! Here we
have state recognition of God involving a scan-
dalous exploitation of the blessed Paraclete ! (3)
New South Wales, at its start as a state, recog
nised God in a quite wholesale manner—with a
handsome establishment of (mostly rum-selling,
lash-inflicting) divines. By these salaried God-
recognisers, the triangles and the stocks were
worked as instrumental means of grace. The
evil memory of their abominable behaviour still
stinks. The best citizen, and, a fortiori, the
best state, is the one that has no religion —l 6
speak of. Federation-builders will recognise
God reverently and truly if they do the work
allotted them in an equitable, brotherly, demo
crat.ic way, entirely omitting to insult Omni-
science by making priggish provision for pay
ing it the superfluous homage of an empty
lip-service. —J.S., Parramatta.
West of the mountains in N.S.W., on the
north-western plains of Victoria, and in a great
portion of S.A., the drought curse, at time of
writing, is even worse than it was in 1895 and
1896. Yet most of these regions are level
country and eminently suited for irrigation,
and the only large river system which Aus-
tralia possesses is peacefully running to waste
through the centre of them, in good years and
bad. Some day Australia has to sit down—or
rather to rise up, for it has already been
sitting down on this matter as long as any-
body can remember—and seriously face the.
situation. Said situation is something tq
this effect: If Australia is ever to be the
great country it talks of being it must construct
the biggest and most costly irrigation system
this world has ever yet seen. Secondly,
irrigation is so expensive that the system, if it
is to pay at all, must be constructed with our
own money ; there isn’t enough margin to cover
working expenses and a load of interest as well.
Thirdly, it must be done as a national work
and not by “ private enterprise ” ; the exHmple
of Mildura shows clearly that when several
dozen financial magnates in bell toppers are
living on the game, and getting pickings and
commissions out of it, the result is that there is
a great deal more bell-topper than irrigation to
B how for the money.
Record. A five-months’ lamb on Levin
station, Manawatu, M.L., after killing and dress-
ing the other day, scaled 701 b., and shorn ju.-t
before slaughtering gave a 61b. clip.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896.
ASSETS ••• ... ... ... £45,161,239
Increase in Assets during 1896 ... ... ... ... 3 284 283
SURPLUS ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,995,246
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ... ... 559 744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 190,646,’265
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896 ... ... 540 108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L C •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
PEFY THE WIN PS
unde^^^wXr^e^,^
undervests from 9£d. upwards. A special
SsAfng. zfTt v th b ,r s
attention. Hosiery and gloves 'for
wear in great varieV & S 5
TF. T. WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners
George and King Streets, Sydney. '
The Corbett - Fitzsimmons battle will
shortly be reproduced with faithful details at
the Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-st., Sydney.
It was cabled that the great fight was recorded
all through by the Kinetoscope, and the colonial
branch of the Edison Laboratory before the fight
took place made its arrangements for securing the
record. The Edison Vitascope, Kinetoscope, and
Kinetophone, and the wonderful X-rays are still
on show in the parlor, and are attracting great
public interest.*
We have
the Facilities
<§T\®
for satisfying all your
demands for high-class
Photography at low
prices
Therefore, we can give
you a better Portrait
than anyone else. . .
Better Likeness
Better Posing .
Better Lighting
Better Finish .
Better Photos .
AT
THE
SAME
PRICE
gxj)
6N#
®\§)
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits.')
with Beautifully Fini-lied Knlarpe- (
ment in Permanent Hromide or f
Opal. Any style orpose. No extras,'
7/61
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
FLOOR NO STAiRS )
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion. “ A White Elephant.”
Her Majesty’s “The Sign of the Cross."
Royal Stoltz’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ a Night Out.”
& OYAL “ In Siirht of St. Paul’s.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
AruENiEL'M Hall. Harry Furniss.
The Brough Comedy Co. duly turned up
at Sydney Cri. and started its farewell season in
the presence of a large, good-humored audience
that cheered vociferously at the entrance of every-
body and everything. “ Sowing the Wind,” the
bill for one week only, is a neat, artistic, finished
play which already has a good character in Syd-
ney. It isn’t an especially cheerful Grundyism ;
in fact, it is rather a gentlemanly weep than any-
thing else. It is practically the double of “ Sweet
Lavender,” only with Bob Watkin in lieu of Dick
Phenyl. Titheradge sows the wind carefully in his
young days, and harrows it neatly, and irrigates
and bone-dusts it, and sits up at nights to chase
the wallabies off while it is taking root, and then
goes away and waits for the nice, green whirlwind
to grow up and be reaped in his old age. As
he reaps Mrs. Brough instead, he gets a crop that
the most grasping agriculturist should be satis-
fied with. In “ Sowing the Wind,” as in “ Sweet
Lavender ” a woman falls before the story opens ;
she isn’t actually seen falling, but the crash of a
broken commandment leaves a faint echo some-
where in the back part of the programme. The
Irian deserts her on account of his beastly respecta-
bility, and grows old and rich and gouty. In each
case he has no children, and adopts the son of a
dead friend. Each man is unconsciously the father
of a daughter, the woman he fell with being her
mother. Each adopted son runs against this
daughter and wants to marry her, and each old
man objects strongly until he discovers the identity
of the girl, when he collapses. Barring the fact
that Dick Phenyl appears for the defendant girl,
while Bob Watkin is counsel for the plaintiff old
man, the identity is so close that it seems certain
somebody was a literary pirate. Possibly the two
authors had better fight for it, the first handful of
hair to settle the question.
» * * •
The Brough Co. has shaken down into the
new order of things, with Roberts and Ferris in
place of the lamented Boucicault and Ward, and
begins to run again with that careful, well-oiled
precision which in old times n.ade it the best com-
bination in Australia. Grundy’s play is full of
good parts —at least seven of them can be counted
as good—and they all get a fair measure of justice.
The two old men of Brough and Titheradge, and
Mrs. Brough as the missing daughter, are as good
as they were the last time this co. sowed the cold
blast in Sydney, and that is sufficient praise for
anybody. Ferris is almost as good as the last
Ned Annesley, and Roberts is a little better than
the last Richard Cursitor. Carey’s study of a
battered old iniquity belonging to the peerage is
admirable, and Miss Temple fills her little bill
well enough to pass muster. The Brougli co. is
trying to crowd a lot into a five weeks’ season, so
the “ White Elephant ” follows on Saturday.
** * *
The old Roman pageant at Her Majesty’s
is so vast an affair that it takes some time to soak
properly into the public comprehension. It hasn't
wholly soaked in even now ; still it is getting on
favorably, and the public is taking the gorgeous
drama is a kindly spirit, and trying to appreciate
the little dislocated Christian. And, apropos of
the dislocated Christian, the groan of the rack in
the next room, when it starts to extract informa-
tion from this small individual, is one of the very
few unrealities of the play. It suggests that the
instrument is rusty and neglected and ungreased,
and in a city where the Government spent so
much of its time in making the Christian sit right
up such a thing seems wholly improbable. The
poor-box might be rusty and the Benevolent
Asylum a good deal out of order, but the rack
would assuredly be in beautiful repair. The Bul-
letin still pins its faith to Nero as the best single
feature in the show ; in fact, its admiration for
that bejewelled Czesar has rather increased than
diminished. There is a touch of nature, or
very respectable art or something, in the way
he softly paws his empress, and feels her
arms with his shaky hands, and reaches for
her fingers, while fixing up the programme for
the amphitheatre ; it is the action of a weak man,
who wants something to hang on to, and a syba-
rite, who loves to gently maul a warm, soft
empress, and a haunted man, who is afraid lest his
boul may slip over the edge and fall back into
something grim and slimy, and ghostly if he lets
go. Also, Hawtrey deserves more notice than-
space allowed last week. That festive patrician is
a relief from the pomp and majesty, and stateli-
ness of things. He is the only man in the crowd
whom one could conscientiously slap on the back
and address as “old cockalorum,” if there was any
cockalorum in the Latin of Nero’s day. He is a
pleasant touch of comedy, too, and, where every-
thing else is ancient, his hiccup is perfectly modern.
This paper’s soul warms to that kindly, beery
pagan, who breathes a human whisky-breath over
a tale of dire inhumanity, and it wishes him well,
and trusts that he lived long and died happy, and
that his drink.agreed with him to the last.
** * *
Rickards’s new artists, the Selbinis—eight
of them —prove to be a gathering of respectable
gymnasts and altogether unusual cyclists. Cycling
is their strong point, and in the course of about
half-an-hour they do pretty nearly everything that
can be done with a bicycle. They have a careless,
off-hand way of taking the machine to pieces as
they ride, and throwing away the various bits of
it till there is very little left save a spoke, and
they keep on riding upon the solitary fragment
that remains in the same dreamy fashion as if it
was a whole bike. Sometimes, for variety, the
whole family goes round on one wheel without a
handle ; and in between times, when the Selbinis
are not careering about on a solitary rim or some-
thing of the kind, Phil Newbury sings “The
Death of Nelson.” A show which varies from the
“ Death of Nelson ” to eight scantily-attired acro-
bats on one £-bike has a wide range.
** * *
Burke, the least depressing of the three
walking comedians at Sydney Royal, varies the
performance this week with a short, blood-
curdling burlesque, in which the whole co. rages
outside a public-house with a certain amount of
humor and a certain amount of the other fellow.
Melville Stoltz’s show, however, depends mainly
on the wire-walking lady, the Jordans, and the
other acrobatic stars. They are all good, and the
houri on the wire rises to the rank of a hair-rais-
ing phenomenon. In some countries it would be
possible to start a new religion with Virginia
Aragon as the sole stock-in-trade ; the way to
start a new religion is to set forth the doctrines
and then work miracles as an irrelevant but con-
vincing proof of their accuracy, and Virginia on
her tall wire is a good enough miracle to float a
very tough creed upon Among these stars the
stage humorist with the ironmongery joke, and
the other one with the horse that has convulsions,
and the one who tells stupid lies till the whistle
blows, are only bye-produets, and don’t matter to
any extent worth mentioning.
** * *
Gourlay’s now programme at the Palace
has brightened up the fortunes of that luckless
house a little—not very much, but still a little.
The “Living Models” is a pleasant musical shriek,
and in the “ Dumb Witness ” John Gourlay
spreads himself recklessly in a character that has
many possibilities about it, and grinds out a lot
of results. If all the rest of theco. were equal to
Gourlay the results would be better, but John is a
wild and frisky oasis, the like of which is only to
be found occasionally.
** * *
A stop-gap revival of “ Matsa,” at Melb.
Princess's, is the third and best edition of that
serio-comic variety show. Several changes from
the original cast have brought new life into the
concern, also the retirement of the Cat-King
with his live-stock supplies a long - felt want.
Melbourne never knew how much it didn’t
want the monarch in question until John Coleman,
Albert Whelan, and other uncrowned performers
came along to fill his vacant place in the third
act. The Scarecrow Dance, in its green old age,
is worth a whole wilderness of tame tabbies,
and Albert Whelan’s mimicry amounts to ten
ample atonements for the loss of those educated
rats which used to carry a nasty odour across a
pole. All that was imposing, or cheerful, in the
first “ Matsa ” production remains to tell the tale.
The remorseless heathen lady who reveals one leg
to an admiring world gets carried away by a first-
class flood as of yore, and the scenery in general
glitters with undiininished splendour. “Matsa ”
retires again on Friday.
** * *
“A Night Out,” described as the most
successful farcical comedy of the day, falls due at
the Princess’s on Saturday, and will introduce
Harry Paulton, likewise Miss Alma Stanley, to
Australian notice. The new arrivals would have
been very welcome under any circumstances.
Coming at the present time they deserve special
recognition, as artists who might have stopped in
London for the precious Jubilee, but didn’t.
** * *
The same remark applies to Harry Furniss,
who starts his little scries of illustrated mono-
logues at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall on Satur-
day. Up to now this country has not heard of
much that is remarkable concerning Harry Fur-
niss as an “Artist Entertainer,” but it knows a
good deal about R. S. Smythe. When Smythe
hovers around the pay-box the show is apt to be a
success of one kind or another, therefore The Bul-
letin inclines to think that Furniss will reflect
credit upon his business manager. “The Humors
of Parliament ” is the opening monologue.
** * *
At the Royal, there is no premonitory
symptom of a new programme. “Jn Sight of St.
Paul’s ” still turns money away on Saturday
nights, and seems likely to run into next month.
At the Opera House, they have Alice Leamar
once more on a flying visit, Alice’s comprehensive
smile being quite as popular as ever. The 28th
instalment of Rickards’ artists from Hingland—
viz., the Three Haytors—likewise earn encores
from a grateful audience, and the main body of
the entertainment is going strong.
*# * *
The old, un-Hinglish, not to say “ beastly
colonial,” custom of a public holiday on May 24th
will be responsible for a Record Reign concert at
Melb. Exhibition building. The list of singing
artists for this “loyal” celebration includes
Fannie Liddiard, whose name is to memory dear,
and the second half of the festival will consist of
living pictures, both warlike and amorous in
character. 10,000 copies of a new song, entitled
“ Our Queen,” (words by Johnny Sandes, music
by W. J. Turner) are to be thrust upon the audi-
ence without compunction.
• * • *
Also, at the Town Hall (Melb.) a Queen’s
Concert Company, likewise living pictures illus-
trating British valor against enormous odds, may
be looked for on the date aforesaid. Gladstone
Wright, Mrs. Palmer, Beaumont, the Cathedral
Quartette Party, Miss Charlotte Hemming and a
choir of boys are to appear (in the presence of
Lady Brassey) and the general admission charge
is fixed at a numble shilling.
** # *
David Lee will never more make a noise in
Melbourne Town Hall; the organ of sound
wherefrom he extracted popular tumult in the
dark ages—say, 10 years back —stands where it
did, but the City Organist had a funeral last
week. There was much pathos about the fall of
David Lee from his organ loft, so to speak. Ihe
Melbourne public sincerely believed in him and
his Town Hall thunder prior to the arrival of a
new organ and organist at St. Paul’s Cathedral, a
stone’s throw away. The first burst of opposition
music was the death-knell of David’s reputation.
His audiences melted away, the charge for his
recitals was reduced from sixpence, to nixpence,
at which price they failed to draw, and dethroned
David—well, it is charitable to let the story end
here.
** * *
Poor Charley Ryley, whose death is
cabled, must be ranked about next to Bill Green
Verdi and Bellevv as an object of Australian
female worship, yet he was not an immediate craze
with the sex. The Firm produced him for the first
time in “ Dorothy,” at Melb. Princess’s, without
any idea that the bronzed, rather round-shouldered
baritone would develope into an idol; and his
alleged loveliness had no market value until he
came to hop around the stage in “The Gon-
doliers.” For a long time after that Ryley
found himself regarded as a professional
beauty. Girls spoke of his “cruel” mouth —
meaning that it was a cruel temptation to place
before them—and a record in Ryleymania was put
up by a Melb. sassiety dame who hurled her fan
across the orchestra and hit the baritone upon his
near foreleg. Ryley had almost outlived his
glory ere the end of his engagement with the Firm.
When he came back to Australia as a member of
the “Gaiety Girl” company, the halo had quite
vanished, and he was cast for elderly parts. In
the character of a white haired duke he promised
—as The Bulletin observed at the time —to grow
old gracefully. He has done better than that.
The girls who used to call their hero an angel were
not many years in advance of the truth.
*** * .
J. P. T. Caulfield, ex-Boy-Politician, and
a champion of “ booze” until quite recently, tried
his luck as a temperance lecturer at Melb.
Athenaeum Hall last week. He is not likely to be
heard again in the same capacity, unless he drivels
gratis. With the exception of Alfred Deakin in
the chair, and two or three cold-water apostles,
the various representative persons who had been
advertised to sit around Caulfield’s platform
didn’t come to support him. The audience in
front numbered a hundred, or less. These were
invited to close up, irrespective of ticket-class
distinctions, and when the humble “ bob ”
patrons had taken seats in the three-shilling
section Caulfield, with one hand in his pocket
and a bit of chewing-gum in his colossal
cheek, told them that inebriety is a disease
rather than a crime. He started his aged chest-
nut in the worst possible elocutionary style, and
ha,d nothing else to say in the course of a 40
minutes’ talk, at the end of which it had become
dimly suspected that Caulfield was barracking for
somebody’s cure for drunkenness. Somebody’s
circular was thrust upon members of the disgusted
audience as they turned their backs upon Caul-
field, and went out to take a drink.
At Poverty Point .
Best, the famous organist, long very ill, is dead at last.
He was the only man on record whose habit it was, in
Sydney, to order two whiskies at one time. Sydney
waiters, he said, were such a slow lot.
Juliet Wray farewells Melbourne in this week’s
“Matsa” revival. Since her first appearance, at the
Princess’s, Juliet has got no fatter very fast. Had she
decided to remain much longer, she would certainly be
known at last as Rontgen Wray.
The whirligig of time. A former Moderator of N.S.W
Presbyterian Church in a gallerv-seat at “Matsa” (Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney) a few weeks ago.
About £'so worth of bouquets and elaborate floral
tributes of all sorts were heaved to the feet of the “ sas-
siety” amateurs who performed in “ Lelamine,” at Melb.
Princess's, on the opening night, and an average of £TO
worth each night during the run of the solemn opera
The performances were for the benefit of two charities—
the poor florists first, apparently. Whv should not the
enraptured Johnnie throw his 1.0. U. at the fair warbler
on such occasions, the collected paper to go into the pot
for the good of the cause ? *
That idoi of the women, Charles Ryley, used to tell a
yarn about receiving a pink missive in a feminine hand all
roses and raptures, and imploring him to meet the writer
outside Melb. Princess’ after morning rehearsal The
beauteous Charles strolled out at the appointed time but
saw no female about but one of the “ flash,” short-skirted
long-haired, 16-year-old damsels peculiar to the Southern
metropolis. Ryley concluded the note was a hoax and
started to walk down Bourke-street, when he was startled
by a voice at h.s elbow-" Oh, Charley, you’re not going
to slip me up . Ryley turned and saw the same flash
y o '> , >pte r w * lo . had been standing outside the theatre
Did you write me that note?” he asked. “Yes’
Charley. replied the maiden earnestly. “ Well inst
wait a minute till I get you something,” said Ryley slin
pmg into a neighboring shop. A minute later he emerged
and, shoving a big, yellow-headed wax doll into the girl’s
arms, raised his hat and strolled down Bourke-street*
White-eyed Kaffir Chirgwin exhibits portraits of him-
self nursing his latest baby, in Melbourne shop-windows.
A free tip : Let him be photoed black, wearing his pro-
fessional rig nursing blacked baby with the famiiar
white eye, and rejoice in a valuable advt.
. Alfred Dampier draws attention by advt to the
“ B e iack°Fl a ?r r " Pri H tor ° f the , Aust,alian rights of
rettitt s Black r lajr, and any co. playinir it without hpr
authority will be jointly and individually fried
otherwise dealt with as the law provides.
Told of a certain pretty actor that he lately received a
letter from the 17-year-old daughter of a Melb ma'nate
enclosing her photograph, and begging one of Ws in
ft n rn Vv T i e ette :, fU u rther declared tHat g the tender young
thin- liked him oh, so very much.” The actor-man
SUfra?- 1 send, . n >?™ uch S°°d, fatherly advice, and a por
himself in his most hideous character. The world
has heard something like this before. In extenuation of
the pro. s exemplary conduct, Tub Bulletin is premred
to swear that the portrait of Miss Seventeen showed her
fl o gure a a S n P d a n Wkh * ba^of-flour
hoe, as no word of encouragement ever comes to her f,
the powerful and far-reaching Melba camp-whth “
fact, devotes quite an amount of time to denrerkH.’., 111
beautiful little daughter of old Madaine the
Saville may not be quite so great a T n ’
Kangaroo Charlie, but she is so nice to look atLsn- Mr8 ’
to that the opposition brigade can find nothin lBten
enough to say about her. Ilothln * nasty
The line that knocks ’em in “ Lelamine" is wher» a .
Mau says to Shaftesbury : “lam looking out for. K nie
chance than you.” out for a better
Fitzgerald Bros, were lately under tbe painful ■.
of taking legal measures to prevent Madame Adding y
tomo from departing for Paris, in defiance of herein? An '
The high-trapeze lady retaliated, at the Perth law
with an action for wrongful arrest, but got cast in rt ?’
for her trouble. e cast ln costs
Tenor Newbury’s engagement with Rickards is for tv,
months, after which the Anglo-M.L. warbler definfe
returns to London. unitelj
Mischievous for lady amateurs to act a whole „ ,
Many of them can’t wash off the kisses with the mint
like the pros. B P ain ‘
Charles Frohmann, one supposes, was turned from w
intention to visit Australia with a comedy compan! hi*
the angry misstatements of Nat. Goodwin. p ny by
The sassiety amateurs had to run “ Lelamine ” for
week at Melb. Princess’s simply because they couldn't ™ !
the theatre for a shorter term. The original propot
to piay the new opera two nights only, and had i n
Wi.liamson anticipated the big success of the PotV„
Bellew season he would, presumably, have been vkd V
cut the amateurs’ sub-lease as short as possible ahvT
time, however it seemed advisable to fix then, for h®
full week, and let them buy dresses for the chorus out oi
the Firm’s superfluous stock. “Lelamine” must, h™,
been a rather expensive flutter in amateur management
Jules Jouy, the celebrated French song-writer is riearf
after three years’ illne-s. Three days later died X
Rudolphe Sails, the almost equally celebrated ex-paint!?
and gentleman-landlord of the Chat-Noir Hotel which
for many years has been ihe recognised rendezvous n
Parisian litterateurs and artists. Not long ago Satis in
the course of some talk over the bar, remarked ■ “ Whe
you are dead, Jouy—.” “ When / an, dead, Sails, y u
won t have another three days to live,” broke in Jonv
scornfully, which prediction was fulfilled to the letter
Jouy died March 17, and on the 20th Salis gave un the
ghost. r
Actor Wakefield of Her Majesty’s (Sydney) fills the Dost
of librarian at a Chinese Sunday-school on Sabbath after
noons. Also, more than one Sydney barman is an
esteemed Sunday-school teacher.
Annie Mau, who played the title role in “Lelamine "isonlv
22, yet she played Josephine in “ Pinafore” and Stella in
“Tambour Major” at Melb. Bijou in ’Bl, when Mrs
G. B. W. Lewis was running her operatic co. there.
Johnny Wallace’s latest atrocity : “ Ladies and gentle-
men, you really must be more punctual at rehearsal
Take example from Lord Shaftesbury, he’s always early.”
Stories of a sassiety-soanda! scrimmage in a Melbourne
theatre have been rather mixed thusfar. The gorv inci-
dent occurred at the Bijou, on Easter Monday ‘night
when a well-dined and wined person of the sheep-breeding
class found that the reserved stalls hooked for self and
wife were already in possession of earlier arrivals. There-
upon the angry social ornament addressed himself to
Brac.v, on the stage, asking for his money back, and
otherwise disturbing the peace of the audience. In due
course, the brawler and his spouse got forcible notice to
quit. Having retired to the stalls entrance, they made a
desperate Grajco-Turkish stand at the threshold of their
lost paradise, and a furious onslaught upon the youthful
doorkeeper ensued. This ill-fated Horatius received,
among other damages, a blow on the skull fr -m the dis-
tinguished matron’s scent-bottle, a heavy glass missile,
almost as formidable as a tomahawk in the hand of an in-
furiated fat-woman. Way down the Bijou corridors the
victorious retreat of the sassiety battlers was arrested by
the police. Names and depositions were taken on the
spot, and the only subsequent damages received by the
doorkeeper came through a solicitor, who squared the
case with a £2O solatium and costs. Both parties are now
satisfied. Hora' ius’s forbearance in not administering a
retaliatory stoush to his fair assailant is suitably acknow-
ledged, whilst the attacking force feels that the honor of
a titled family was avenged when the lady drew first
blood.
Moulton, the “ Lelamine” composer, is a protfeS of
Melb. Savage Club, seemingly. The Club put up £4OO
towards the production of Moulton's opera, and now
plumes itself on having done “something for art."
Readers of the S.A. Register have been rather startled
by the accounts Geo. Flecker, hotel proprietor, and not
half a bad writer, has given of “small events” which oc-
curred in his recent Continental tour. For instance, Mr.
Flecker describes what he as one of a “ fashionable
audience” (including two Australian Agents-General)saw
in a theatre in Buda-Pesth. “The curtain rose and
showed a large bedroom, bride and bridegroom entering
in the company of their parents. The old people examine
the bedroom, the same is repeated by some intimate
friends ; at last all slowly and reluctantly quit the room.
When left by themselves the bridegroom tries to approach
his fiance6, when she shows him the door. No words are
exchanged, all is pantomimic. He protests with his
hands, with his feet, and with his body, hut with no re-
sult, he must leave the room, but he promises to return.
She appears very bashful, hut with an effort she begins to
make a rare exhibition of all the goods she wears on her
body. The trousseau which she had on her was the
entire show.” So much the Register could stand, but
Mr. Flecker, it is understood, has a good deal more to say.
An English jury promptly stuck St. James’ Budget for
£5OO libel damages for having announced that Marion
Terry was going to marry her sister’s widower. It is a
terrible thing to fall under the snout of the British
evangelical hog over the deceased-wife’s-sister hypocrisy.
(Continued on page 17).


Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98 100 %, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, lar cheaper than Drug
Houses.
Hy.Warkwald,
11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
.■
The Dolly Superseded.
Everv Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little tiliint "
Prospectors’ CRUSHER.
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
THIS MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
/ess labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Sots Agent—
Fredk. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIR JOHN - -
Power’s Whiskey.
Q, I P. MacMahon
Sydney \ Lucas Bros
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M‘Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Moonev & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co.,
Rockhampton.
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville.
Australasian
Representatives:
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office & Chemical Laboratory,
Telephone
2444.
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
file Simpson guskboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Sti'onger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Buekboard.
High Dri vitig- seat.
Baggage Tray G x 3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coach builder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth— W. B. Gordon & Co.
Gbraldton —W. Meadowcroft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Apropos of the astounding statement by Puls-
ford, M.L.C., that Reid’s deficit is caused solely by that
great man nobly paying off Dibbs’s old debts, the follow-
ing is a condensed statement of the case, compiled from
Coyhlan’s Statistical Register, pages 329,350, and 351
Jennings Government.
Deficit (1886) £1,48 ,432
Paid off old debts ... ... ... 3i,049
Net Deficit ... ... ... £1,452,913
Parkes Government.
Deficit (1887-1891) £717,924
Paid old debts ... £289,483
Paid off deficit ... 300,000 ... ... 689,483
Net Deficit ... ... ... £128,441
Dibbs Government.
Deficit (1892-1894) £176,092
Paid old debts ... £334,595
Paid off deficit ... 450,000 ... ... 784,595
Net Surplus ... ... ... £608,503
Reid Government.
Deficit (1895-1896) £830,520
Paid old debts ... £133,313
Paid off deficit ... 150,000 ... ... 283,313
Net Deficit ... ... ... £547,207
For the current year, Reid alleges that, by collecting two
years’ income-tax in 12 months, he will only have a deficit
of £229,049 ; he also alleges that he will pay off £150,000
of the Jennings-Parkes deficit and £109,000 of miscel-
laneous old debts—total, £259,000. What he really does
will be known a few months hence.
The payments towards old debts don’t in any
way affect the deficit; they were ordered before the
deficit was dreamt of. But still, they are so much paid
out of revenue in reduction of the N.S.W. public liabili-
ties. And, whether the new deficit compiled b3' each
Government is alone taken into account, or whether the
payments made in reduction of the old deficit are allowed
for, or whether credit is given for payments towards the
deficit and also for payments in reduction of old debts,
Dibbs makes the best show of the last three Premiers, and
Reid the worst. And the spectacle of Reid, of all men,
posing as the individual who is struggling hard to pay off
Dibbs’ back debts is tolerably sickening.
• * « *
The Auditor-General’s report to June, ’96, casts
a light on the finances of the New South Wales railway-
department. Quite a number of other state publications
tell what the gross revenue and working expenses are,
but they all keep a blank silence about the amount of the
bill for interest. Therefore some theories have it that
the N.S.W. railways show a clear profit, and others put
the loss as high as £lOO,OOO. The Auditor-Genera! ex-
plains it thus for last financial year : Revenue, £3,121,732;
working expenses, £1,967.029 ; interest on borrowed
money, £1,476,394 ; total outgoings, 3,443,423. Loss on
the year’s working, £321,691. This is a sad and incom-
prehensible knock. The loss made by thatawfnl example
of mismanagement, the Victorian railway system, only
averages about this amount.
Westralia’s loan of £1,000,000 at .1 per cent, froze
badly. The public onlv subscribed for 769,500, and if
the London and Westminster Bank (which issued the loan)
hadn t taken up the balance the frost would have been
still worse. The price all round was £95 os. 10d., so the
alleged 3 per cent, loan really costs about £3 7s. 9d. per
cent. Westralia s boom, so far as the loan market is con-
cerned, has been going down for 12 months past. In May,
’96, the province floated a £750,000 3 per cent, loan, was
offered nearly £4,000,000 and got the money at £2 19s, 9d.
per cent. In January, ’97, it could borrow at £3 3s. lOd.
per cent. In February, ’97, it couldn't borrow at less than
£3 6s 2d. per cent. Now it has to pay £3 7s. 9d. Ap-
parently, Westralia must either ease off borrowing or else
pay per cent. That is about its fair limit, too. Only
the drunkenness of the boom ever enabled it to borrow at
3 per cent.
* * * *
The town clerk of Perth (W.A.) announces that
drainage, tramway, and electric-lighting works are to he
started in that unsavory capital upon a scale which will
employ 2000 men. This means finding work, at one fell
swoop, for about one-third of the adult male population
of the city, and if this doesn’t keep the blessed boom
alive nothing will.
• * * *
The Vic. State Land Bank has now raised
£81,156 at 3 per cent, and lent it out at low rates, so the
undertaking is getting past the preliminary stages and
growing into a solid and established institution. The
last fortnightlv issue of bonds was for £15,956, and the
public took 114,925 of this at par, leaving only £1625 to-
be absorbed by the Savings Bank. This is the most suc-
cessful issue up to date. Apparently the State mortgage
bonds, as they become better known to the public, are
growing more popular as a form of investment.
Vic. railway revenue for the ten months ended
April 30 is £149,000 more than for the corresponding ten
months of last year.
• • * *
Waverley (Sydney) Council struck the usual
trouble the other day, and began to have revelations.
It was found that some essential acccount-hooks were
either missing or had never existed, and that the accounts
which did exist were such an unspeakable muddle
that the real financial position is a mystery. Also,
apparently, it has been a mystery all along, and how
many hundreds or thousands of pounds of rates have been
lost in the course of years through the hopeless confusion
no one can guess. The auditors passed the accounts as
correct every year, but it seems that in many cases they
didn't even see the books ; certain figures were given to
them, generally in pencil on scraps of paper, and they
accepted them practically without question. The whole
municipal audit system in N.S.W. is a howling
mockery. A municipal auditor doesn’t require to
know anything about accounts or figures ; he may
even be guiltless of simple addition, and long
division may be a blank to him. All he needs is to lie a
ratepayer, and to get the other ratepayers to elect him.
As 99 out of 100 of the ratepayers know nothing about
what an auditor ought to be they simply elect the best-
known man ; a financial genius who was not personally
known to them would not have a shadow of a chance
iwainst a popular local butcher-footballer. Capable men,
as a rule, don’t compete for municipal auditorships-ex-
oept, perhaps, in the largest towns. They have to canvass
lor votes in competition with the butcher or farmer or
poultry-grower ; and if they get in they have to do the
work at the price the butcher is willing to accept, and
though that price may be sufficient payment for the work
the way the butcher does it, it isn’t enough to pay anj'-
one who does it decently. Therefore, the accounts of the
average municipality are naturally a horrid nightmare
and a bewilderment.
The only sure remedy for this weird condition
of things is the abolition of the butcher-auditor, the
abolition of the system of appointing auditors by popular
election, and the regular examination of all municipal
accounts by permanent state officials. The state grants
endowments to nearly all the N.S.W. municipalities, and it
has a right to see that its own money is properly
accounted for. A long experience of the popularly-
elected, farm-yard auditor who brings all his deep know-
ledge of manure and beans to bear on the finances, shows
that it is absolutely necessary for some competent
authority to see that the ratepayers’ money is also pro-
perly accounted for. When the council consists of three
farmers, a cattle-dealer, a carpenter, and a man who hauls
out stumps by contract, and the accounts are kept by a
man who gets 20s. a week and fills in his time looking for
stray dogs and metalling the roads, and they are ex-
amined and passed by a man who drives a cart and a
person who shoes horses, the need of some expert assist-
ance is very obvious. Considering the state of the muni-
cipal accounts at Waverle.v —a large and wealthy
metropolitan borough under the present pot-luck
system, the condition of affairs in some of the bush muni-
cipalities is a subject for much thrilling speculation.
* » » *
The report of the A.M.P. Society for 1896 is
mostly encouraging, and the figures are as large and
dazzling as usual. Renewal premiums (£1,193,518) are
£15,000 more than they were last year, and it is worth
noting that the A.M.P. is the only large Australian office
whose income from this source has steadily increased even
in the worst years. New premiums (£104,727) are nearly
£6OOO more than they were last year. The total income
(; 2,029,674) is £26 OUO more than last year, and is the
biggest year’s income to date. Against this claims
(£565,567) are £llO,OOO larger than last year, and no less
than £396,575 (£21,000 more than Inst year) goes in sur-
renders. The net result is that £565,926 is added to the
funds, whereas last year the addition was £727,372. The
expense rate has also increased slightly, but this is
entirely owing to the new land and income taxes, and the
A.M.P. is still by a very long way the most cheaply-
managed office doing business in Australasia.
In 1894 the A.M.P. realised from interest on
investments £699,107. In 1895, with £727,000 more funds
it only realised 1 694,903. In 1896, with another £565,000
of funds earning interest, the total drops again to £692,990.
This means that the rate fell from £5 11s. lOd. per cent,
in 1894 to £5 os. sd. in 1896. This is partly the natural
result of the policy hitherto adopted of not writing off
losses, but keeping the inflated value of the assets on one
side of the sheet and the reserve against them on the other,
and it also suggests a possibility that the provision for losses
is insufficient. This year, the society departs from the old
policy, and writes off £190,828 from the nominal value of
foreclosed properties. This is equal to 25 per cent, of
their total value, and looks as if they had been written
down to bedrock prices. Yet the total reserve against
£7,300,000 worth of mortgages (including a further pro-
vision of 50,000 made this year) is only £279,ooo—less
than 4 per cent. Whether this is a sufficient provision is
a matter of some doubt, considering the lamentable con-
dition of things at present, and considering how fast the
foreclosures are coming in, and the large amount oi loss
on those already on the books. Apparently the society
has £400,000 worth more property on hand through fore-
closure than it had two years ago, and if this goes on a
lot more writing down may be essential. The reserve of
£279,000 doesn’t look very liberal. The amount of mort-
gage interest in arrear, however, is only £36,534, which is
£lO,OOO less than it was two years ago ; and, if this repre-
sents the entire arrears on 7J millions of mortgages, it
certainly speaks well for the security of the investments.
The A.M.P. has now less money on mortgage
than it had two years ago, which is a good feature, as
mortgage business is just now more or less precarious.
The reduction is entirely owing to heavy foreclosures ;
still, the fact that the society is not going in largely for
new mortgage business is gratifying. The surplus for
division, after reserving £50,000 for further depreciation,
is £512,000, which is very handsome. The future rate of
interest assumed on the funds is now only £3 12s. 6d. per
cent., and will next year be further reduced to 3£ per
cent., and, considering that several other Australian
offices still assume the old 4 per cent, rate, this means a
vast amount of extra strength. Altogether the society
looks very sound and prosperous, and if the policy of
strengthening the reserve against depreciation is pursued
steadily (and the A.M.P. can well afford to do so,
seeing that the £50,000 reserved this year still leaves a
splendid surplus), there can be nothing to complain of.
After next year, when the reduction of assumed interest
to 3J per cent, is accomplished, the profits should increase
considerably, and the A.M.P. could spare £50,000 a year
for ten or even twenty years towards building up a splen-
did reserve, and yet pay larger bonuses than any other
office in Australasia, or any office th; t is likely to come
here. A tendency to keep the reserves too low in order
to make the large bonuses still larger is always a danger.
• * * *
B.H. North has tapped a lode in its western
crosscut at 700 ft.. Size uncertain. The silver and lead
value is pretty fa ; r, but it is heavy in zinc, which, worse
still, appears to be m very close association with the
other metals. Soon, perhaps, the presence of zinc in
large quantities may add to the value of an ore ; at pre-
sent it doesn’t. The new body in the North will, how-
ever, just about pay on present prices to mill, though
there will be trouble if it becomes much more compact
than it is in the exploratory crosscut.
British developments continue quite satisfac-
tory. But silver goes down, down, down, and has touched
the lowest on record. This doesn't yet mean stoppage of
any mine or even the extinguishing of profits. These
Broken Hill mines, or most of them, could pay for a while
with silver at eighteenpence. But it means the passing
of the lower grade ores, and the extraction of the higher.
Herein lies the necessity for keeping exploratory work far
ahead. Co.’s must, in order to work safely, have gieat
bodies exposed so that they may pick and choose as the
market for silver fluctuates. Fortunately lead keeps firm
with a distinct upward tendency. Latest quotation,
£ll 15s.
The Pinnacles mine is once more putting out
ore, the original Group Co., which, for so many years,
conteuted itself with levying tribute from other com-
panies, having begun to mine on its own account. It has
also taken over the old Pinnacles Consols. A favorable
opinion has already been here expressed of both mines.
They are, however, under the disadvantage of being
about seven miles from the Broken Hill railway-station ;
but if the new concentrating plant overcomes the old
pyrrhotine bugbear a light loop-line may be run out the
necessary four miles or so from the Silverton line. At
present expenses are almost being met by the export of
40 tons of hand-dressed ore weekly ; close upon 50 men
are at work. Of ore there is already exposed in the
Pinnacles alone, say, 50,000 tons ; but though the quality
measured by metallic contents is far higher than the
average of the stuff mined at Broken Hill, its com-
plexity has baffled successive engineers in the past. How-
ever, more is now known about sulphides than ever
hitherto, and remembering that tribute has not to be
paid now, prospects are fair notwithstanding the con-
tinued fall in the price of silver.
Still another little flutter in North Centrals, as
usual upon what, at time of writing, seems very poor
foundation—merely a change in the character of the
country rock.
* • • •
“ A Dissatisfied Shareholder ” is alarmed at the
statement of the Sydney D.T.’s mining man, to the effect
that it will take many calls to put the Overflow silver,
copper, gold and lead mine into div.-paying shape. He
took up contributing shares under the idea that it would
be made to pay from the jump. They generally do, and
seldom is an attempt made by promoters to prevent them.
Life seems too short for the N.S.W. amateur-specker to
learn that, generally, mines may be divided into two
classes—the pocket and the permanent. The one can be
gutted without capital, the other can only be made with
it. Many mining-men make money by following a wait-
and-watch policy. Lansell often steps into a Bendigo
mine when more than half the shares have been forfeited,
and by this means occasionally reaps the harvest of others’
enterprise. Let us hope that" will not be the fate of the
Overflow.
» * * •
Mr. R. Griffiths, chairman of the Overflow Co.,
N.S.W., replies to the complaint of “ A Dissatisfied Share-
holder,” by quoting all the good things said about the
mine by the D.T. mining representative ; and promising
that the calls will be few and far between. But he does
not get away from the fact that, in the first stage of their
mining fever, the promoters never imagined so many
calls would be required.
* * * •
“Rackarock” to The Bulletin There are
two distinct Hongkong co’s working at Mt. M'Donald,
N.S.W. The first one, which bought the Balmoral and
other properties, had some weird experiences with its
managers, but, after reconstruction, had the luck to hit
upon a thorough miner in the person of the late ' Mr.
Willmott, who soon had a few very fair crushings out of
one of their properties, the Queen of the Mount. Just
as things grew shipshape, Mr. Willmott died and was suc-
ceeded by Mr. Oglethorpe, a practical miner also, who is
now sinking the Queen shaft another 100 ft. The other
Hongkong co., for which Mr. Oglethorpe also manages,
bought Oliver’s freehold, together with the Eureka mine.
He began to sink a new shaft 200 ft. on the Eureka. At
the If. Ift. level the second make of stone was discovered
30in. wide; at the 200 ft. level the reef was again cut, this
time sft. wide. That occurred about two months ago,
since when there has been crushed from the Eureka alone
396 tons of stone for 4200 z. 12dwt. ; profit after all ex-
penses, nearly £lOOO for two months’ work. The writer
has been 40 years on the goldfields as digger, miner, and
business man, and knows exactly what he is writing about.
* » » *
Gibraltar mine, N.S.W. Cable from Eissler,
dated April 1: “I find myself unable to maintain pre-
sent rate of production for some time to come till more
stopes are opened.” A further cable dated April 5 : “ For
four months expect output will be at least 23000 z.
monthly, afterwards steady production 3000 oz. Have
not sufficient stopes opened. The mine looks splen-
did.” The London paper from which this is taken
puts the splendid returns from the Gibraltar, as well as the
yields from the Beacon, another N.S.W. mine, Under the
heading “West Australian Crushings.”
* * * *
N.S.W. must wait on London for definite news
of the working of the Ashcroft sulphide process near
Newcastle. April 8, “ Sulphide Corporation.” A cable
received from the local directors in Australia says :
“ Electrolytic process worked day and night since March
29, depositing good quality zinc, first section, quarter of
the whole, running ; further quarter will be started in a
week’s time, and the balance in six weeks. Messrs.
Savage, Schlapp and Ashcroft consider practical working
process completely established.” A good thing for New-
castle, and a better thing for the sulphide silver-mines of
Australia if it is. More than one capable metallurgist
feared that the enormous consumption of coal required
to produce the electrical power required, and the great
consumption of iron also necessary, would be the “fliesin
the ointment.”
* * * *
Inverell, N.S.W.—“The Inverell-Bulong De-
velopment Syndicate has a wire from the manager stating
that the lode does not carry gold in payable quantities,
the assays averaging 3dwt. A second wire says they are
40ft. into the formation, but there is no improvement.”
How novel such truths read ! It was m Inverell syndicate
that discovered the General Gordon mine, and for a time
it was in a state of glorious mining intoxication.
* * * *
“The Beacon and Coramba King batteries
(N.S.W.) are running regularly, but profound secrecy is
observed as to the yields.” Time the Mines Dept, took
this matter of secrecy in hand. Publicity of monthly
returns should be made a condition of lease-holding.
From London, April 8: —“ Beacon-Mill ran 26 days,
raised 380 tons, crushed 424 tons, yielding 718 oz. smelted
bullion ; value of total yield. £2531. We cannot advise
you at present as to expenses.” Without this it is impos-
sible to say how good this yield is. It does not look too
good for the big sum paid for the mine.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—As you are already aware, no
one takes the “ mining news” in Westralian papers seri-
ously ; and whenever an opportunity occurs of judgb'r
between “ shearers and shorn ” they promptly take
Talleyrand’s advice and “join the ranks of the former.”
Our wardens, as a rule, adopt a like policy. Consisting
generally of half-educated men, with no legal training,
underpaid and underbred, they rarely decide an impor-
tant case till they have communicated with the Depart-
ment in Perth. Instead of administering our silly mining
laws as they find them, and so giving them a chance of
being amended, they make up laws out of their own heads
to suit individual cases, and coolly reverse their own pre-
vious decisions as occasion seems to require. In the above
remarks I have tried to show that there is no justice to be
obtained here either from press or law. The other day I
heard a warden say to a lawyer : “ I am convinced you
are right, Mr. , but 1 have always hitherto decided
the other way, and f must do so now in order to be con-
sistent.” In other words—“ I have made a good many
blunders, but I must go on blundering for the sake of
uniformity.”—Lictor, W.A., sth April.
• * • •
From Westralia to The Bulletin :—A short
account of the position of the present Hainault jump. A
few months ago the Hainault lease was gazetted as for-
feited for non-payment, of rent. Then it was found, or
said to have been found, that the rent had been paid, so
the forfeiture was cancelled. The co. did not, while the
property was Crown lands in consequence of the for-
feiture, repeg and apply for a fresh lease, but, up to about
a week ago, went on under their old lease, which was
assumed to have been reinstated. Last week four men,
under their miners’ rights, marked out four prospecting
areas, embracing nearly the whole original lease. Some-
one pulled out their pegs, and the manager, an elderly
man, wildly assaulted one of the “jumpers,” a youth
of 18, who was trenching at the manager’s doorstep. Last
Saturday a solicitor, on behalf of the co., made an ex
parte application to the warden, and pointed out to him
that he had power under clause 47 of the Regulations to
remove all persons from a forfeited lease. The warden
concurred, and gave written orders to the police, who
went out to the property, and drove every man, woman
and child from the ground. This was late on Saturday
afternoon, after the “jumpers” had knocked off work, so
the latter were not interfered with. The manager then,
in his own name, repegged the original lease, and applied
and paid for a new lease. The “jumpers” meanwhile,
acting, it is said, under legal advice, are quietly going 01?
with their trenching ; and so the case stands. I omitted
to say that the Minister for Mines was on a banqueting
visit to lvalgoorlie on the day the warden acted under
clause 47.—One of Them. Kalgoorlie, W. A., April 15, ’97.
The foregoing reads all right, but the reflection
again recurs : Why on earth should a man get a valuable
claim simply because he acts as informer? Does the
policeman who arrests a murderer who is afterwards
hanged get the hangee’s estate ? If State mining-lease
conditions are not kept, let the lessee be heavily fined,
and, in extreme cases, let the lease be forfeited. But,
when forfeited, let it be publicly auctioned and the pro-
ceeds paid into the Treasury.
* « » •
The state of Menzies (W.A.) may be gauged
from the fact that three hotels are closed, and 15 shops in
the principal streets are to let.
* * * *
Lady Sherry, Menzies, W.A., first crushing,
201 tons, 2960 z., worth £3 7s. 6d. per oz. Shares, 2s. 6d.;
contributing, Is. Many months ago, when there wasonty
a remote hope of a crushing, they were five times the
price.
* » « *
A little improvement in prices of shares all
over Australia, and probably all over the world, has been
seized on by Westralian boomsters as conclusive evidence
of the boom coming again. The good old boom prices,
however, will not return this century. Fool crops cannot
be reaped yearly. One or two comparisons will suffice,
Brookman’s Exploration, capital 1500,000, with a working
capital of £150,000. About this time last year these shares
reached 655. ; they are now 6s. Time has proved that
they were never worth any more. Hannan's Proprietary
Development, capital £500,000, with a tremendous work-
ing capital ; price reached last year, 70s. ; price to-day,
10s. A hundred similar cases could be given if necessary.
* * » »
An attempt is being made to float a Coolgardie
mine—the Golden Dyke Junction, £lO,OOO cash and
40,000 shares to vendors. A crushing of 96 tons has pro-
duced 218 oz. gold. “ Special attention is drawn to the
report of G. R. Fearby, Esq., M.E.”
» » * *
Golden Arrow—another W.A. gone-wrong mine
owned by Bull : “85 tons, 280 z.” Capital only £200,000.
Shares, once above par, now 4s.
* • * •
Another wonderful change is reported to have
occurred in the Mt. Charlotte mine, Hannan’s. Once the
ore was hard as steel, now the pick can be driven up to
the eye, and since the change the ore is said to be very
rich. So many crams have been wired re this mine that
faith now only remains in the battery.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) fortnight : 1070 tons,
32440 z.
* » » *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) month : 1081 tons, 21640 z.
Though the average has come down, directors’ report
says that the reserves are in excess of the last estimate,
and they are now sufficient to insure big returns for long
to come. Obvious that shareholders must look for divs.
from two-oz. rock, and not from three, x predicted last
year.
• * * *
Nothing rich from the Maritana (Hannan’s)
lately. Shares 2s. 6d., which is an accurate description
of the condition of the mine.
* • • •
A trial crushing of 11 tons from the bottom
level of the Queensland Menzies mine, W.A., returned
85oz. After all the monkeying done with this show, the
public will not regard such a crushing aa any criterion of
general value.
* * * *
The rivalry between Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie
still rages. The self-styled “Capital of the Coolgardie
goldfields” newspapers contemptuously refer to Kalgoor-
lie as “ Dustopolis. ” The Kal. Miner, in a recent issue,
got even bv disclaiming the truthfulness of a paragraph
in reference to the Ivanhoe which appeared in one of the
“ suburban ” papers. The unkindest cut of all perhaps
was administered by a Kal. man asking at the railway-
station for a ticket for “the 24-mile siding,” Coolgardie
being 24 miles from Kalgoorlie.
» • * *
Some of Kalgoorlie’s smartest men got badly
left over recent developments in the Ivanhoe. Getting
their information direct from the face, where nothing but
the most uncompromising-looking granite was being met
with at the 300 ft. level, “ specking ” shares at about £lO
through Adelaide and Melb. brokers was freely indulged
in. Suddenly prices beg .n to go up in Adelaide on an
industriously-circulated report that the lode had been cut
and would go 2oz. ; £lO ss„ £lO 10s., £lO 155., £ll, and,
finally, til 35,, w'ere the quotations successi'ely wired
to the now thoroughly dismayed oversold brigade, accom-
panied by requests to wire cover or send scrip. As the
alarm was only a false one, prices receded as rapidly as
they had arisen until £lO Bs. was quoted, with plenty
sellers. The “ speckers” were beginning to congratulate
themselves on not covering when a special messenger
arrived from the mine —an attack of “sudden
illness ” having compelled him to knock off—
with the staggering news that the lode had just
been cut showing gold. Then followed a rush to the
Telegraph-office, and buying-orders were wired cover-
ing quantities sold and several hundreds more to
make a “recovery on ;” for, argued the speculators, if
shares went up on a false report what will they go to
now ? £l5 at the very least. Some of the more sanguine
reckoned £2O wouldn’t stop them. “ Get in,” was the
cry, and they “ got in ”at an average of £lO 15s. Within
three days, alas, £9 10s. was the ruling price; the fact
that the lode might be narrow and poor not having been
reckoned on. When within another week drafts with
“ scrip attached ” began to arrive few were able to take
them up, and there were plenty of “ brokers” in Kal-
goorlie.
* • * *
The official return of 2Joz. from the Queen
Margaret “knocked” some of its most sanguine share-
holders, who were confidently anticipating a soz. or 6oz.
yield. Whispered on good authority that the actual re-
sult was 3oz. 17dwt., but the Board, following the line
adopted by the Boulder, has determined to establish a
yield there will be no difficulty in maintaining. This line
from end to end is patchy; but the patches may be rich
enough to make up for the intervening poor places.
» • * •
The fall in Clark’s Worcester (C. Towers),
despite late 4oz. crushing and declaration of 6d. div., is
attributable to the old cause—gutting the mine to make a
“ splash ” at the expense of development work, which at
present is much behind. History repeating itself; Mills’
United to wit.
* • * *
Victory (Towers) looks promising for dividends
in the near future from reef of that name.
* * * *
Towers crushings; Papuan, 558 tons for 12500 z.
19dwt. 12grs; Brilliant Extended, 1150 tons for 7640 z.
3dwt., and concentrates sold for £4OO. The East Mexican
cleaned up roughly on 6th May for 178 oz. 4dwt. from 110
tons. Final clean-up about end of month ; probable re-
sult about loz. 15dwts. per ton.
♦ » • *
Waihi mine (M.L.) month’s output, 3060 tons
for bullion valued at £9304.


DURABILITY AN D ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Out from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRUHK.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all tkxttres, suita le for
BUSINESS
OFFICE
PROMENADE
RIDING
BUSH
TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR
FIRST DUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
KXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40-
SFECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45 h
We pay carriage on all parcels of .£2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
value unrivalled. patterns free by post. inspection invited.
DAVID J ONES AND COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE 4. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B.
L. COBTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
made ok THK
finest Havana tobacco-ed. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and be,rare imitStii*
Society
Just imagine that any one of “ the gentle-
men ” of whose “ position ” Chief Justice Darley
was so tender—when sentencing the proprietors of
each of four Sydney daily newspapers to pay =£loo
fine and costs for contempt of court in prejudicing
Butler’s trial —had possessed spunk enough to
refuse to pay the fine under the circumstances !
Chief Justice Darley said that the usual alterna-
tive was imprisonment till the fine be paid; but
“ looking at the position of these gentlemen ”
(while the gentlemen grinned sympathetically at
one another and Chief Justice Darley) he would
let them off the alternative —wouldn’t inflict such
“an indignity ” upon them in the course
of his even-handed justice! Now, suppose—
it’s an impossible supposition, of course—that
“Mister James” suddenly went off his very
respectable and law-abiding onion, as it were, and
refused to pay the fine, on the ground that it was
monstrous that the press should have any privileges
not accorded to ordinary people, and that it was
necessary, in the public interest, to give the
N S.W. Full Court a severe lesson iu judicial
decorum, what a dreadful thing it would be for
the Chief Justice ! For what could His Honor do
but grin and bear it? It wouldn’t be safe to give
the masterful David Syme such an opening.
The Chief Justice’s remarks to the effect that
he “ was sure these gentlemen wouldn’t do so-
and-so ” sound all the more ludicrous in face of
the fact that “ these gentlemen ” had done so-and-
so and were pleading guilty to having done it. In
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES.
ROMANTIC SUITOR: “ Would you love me if I were rich?"
PRACTICAL MAIDEN: “I don't know; but I’d be more likely to
marry you! ”
fact, n was a case of “Here is an honest man
who has stolen a pair of boots.”
• • • •
The Butler “ contempt ” proceedings
against the four Sydney daily papers gave
opportunity for observing their love for each
other. As the information against each was
practically the same, the papers could easily have
combined to employ a solicitor and counsel.
Instead, however, four separate legal firms were
engaged, and no less than six barristers—including
two Q.C.’s!
• * • •
The judicial unborn babe again. “ The
Chief Justice pointed out that deponent Butler
did not say he had been committed for trial, and
asked whether he had been committed. Mr. Ed-
munds replied that Butler's affidavit stated
he was under committal. The C.J.: “ Does he
say that he was committed?” Well, what else
did he say, in stating that he was under com-
mittal ? And if Chief Justice Darley is so ignor-
ant concerning Butler’s position, how comes it
that his Honor knows so much about the “posi-
tions” of the gentlemen before the court for con-
tempt ?
t • • •
The hanging of Hines for an offence which
stamps him as a moral madman—a barbarism pos-
sible only under N.S.W. law—is another reminder
of how far, penologically, we are behind the age.
Whether or not hanging is ever of any value as a
deterrent, it should be evident to every man who
doesn’t think with his elbows that, where those
moral factors are lacking which sicken the normal
man at such offences as Hines’, we have to deal
with a creature whom no oonceivable punishment
would deter. And the sooner it is recognised here,
as elsewhere, that we have no more right to mur-
der a man for moral disease than physical, the
sooner we are likely to be freed from the reproach
of being unable to crawl out from beneath the
bloodthirsty traditions of our brutal Botany Bay
beginnings.
• * • *
A man flogged inTamworth (N.S.W.) gaol,
the other day, fainted at the 20th stroke, and was
removed in a state of collapse for medical treat-
ment. The whipping, it is said, “was humanely
administered.” Humane brutality! “The mild-
est mannered man . . . that ever cut a throat!
* • • *
Re application to have two unnamed solici-
tors compelled to answer certain charges, N.S.W.
Judge Owen said that, as solicitors were peculiarly
liable to false accusations, their names ought not
to be divulged till last stage of proceedings against
them. Judge Stephen couldn’t see it; but, as the
C.J. weighed down Judge Owen’s end of the
argument, Shark’s name is in future to be kept
dark in all preliminary actions against him- The
Bulletin shares Judge Stephen’s indistinctness
of vision, and asserts, moreover, that Gent One is
less liable than other people to even well-founded
charges, because the prudent layman, however
badly rooked by a “limb,” will often sooner let
things slide than chance the legal box-of-tricks.
But the wind must be tempered to the—wolf !
• * * *
Gov. Buxton has apparently waived his ob-
jections to horse-racing, for he has attended all the
principal meetings lately. He was quite promi-
nent on Adelaide Cup day, and lingered long
around the sinful totalis&tor.. After, all, perhaps
it is Gov. Buxton’s face which is his most pious
feature.
* • « *
It is alleged that diseased poultry which
the Govt, expert refuses to pass for export to
England is sold to local shop-keeepers, and eaten
by the Victorian consumer. Who can plumb the
depths of our devotion to the dear old mother
country ?
• • * *
Vic. : “ Bendigo
Catholicism is a bit
torn. Father Back-
haus, who died there
some years ago, left a
huge private fortune,
to accumulate for 20
years, at the expiry of
which time his succes-
sor, ‘a secular priest,’
the will says, is to dis-
pose of the money.
Bishop Crane and Dr.
Reville, the two prin-
cip a 1 churchmen of
Bendigo, are contract-
ing enormous obliga-
tions over St. Kilian’s
Cathedral. The obvious
intention is to fall back
on the Backhaus be-
quest. These gentle-
men both belong to
the Augustine Order,
to which, it is alleged,
Backhaus had a pecu-
liar aversion. Their
enemies (and they have
them bitter in the fold)
declare that the priest
concerned will turn
rusty and leave them
in a hole, with the
church frightfully sad-
dled and, in fact, bank-
rupt.”
• • •
The patrons of some
Sydney pubs, who can’t,
capitalist-like, putdown
3d. for a drink, are now accommodated with a pro
rata allowance for l£d.
• * • •
“A Simple Drunk ” to The Bulletin :
The other day a couple of prisoners were lodged in Er-
skine-st. lock-up, Sydney, one charged with drunkenness ;
the other with assault. After a couple of hours in the
cells they were escorted by four constables to Clarence-st.
and again locked up. Next day at 6 a.m. they were
marched to the Central Police Court, in Liverpool-st.,
under strong escort, and a*.>ain locked up. Instead of
being tried there, they were later on bund'ed into the
Darlingrhurst “ Black Maria,” with a few old criminals on
remand. The van then proceeded to Woolloomooloo
station, and picked up a b itch of drunks and vagrants,
including two beer-sodden Domain women. After travel
ling almost in a circle and passing through three stations
with cells, escorts, and a “ Black Maria,” the alleged cul-
prits at length faced the music at the Water Police Court.
The case against the alleged assaulter was dismissed ; the
drunk was let off at the lightest penaltv—“ five shillings
or the rising of the court.’ When askEi for the reason
of all the circuiulocomotion, which could have been pre-
vented by sending the van from Erskine-st. to.the Water
Police Court, an official replied : “ The Public Service
Boar-rd retrinched wan av the Black Murovas. ”
• • • «
“ Those silken bonds ’ were stretched to
their limit by the action of tLe newsboys at the
recent annual shivoo of Melbourne Gordon Insti-
tute. The grimy-faced ones were mussed on one
side of the hall, the other being allotted to
invitees, among whom were Baron Brassev and
two score of Melbourne’s Nicest. A programme
of songs and dances by the model boys of the
PIPPED.
SHE: “Jack, don’t you think Mr. Shovehard would make a good
whistler?”
JACK : “ Why? ”
SHE: “ Oh, all canaries have fine legs!”
society was half through when H. Ex. was called
on for a few remarks. At the instance of the
monitors, the youngsters yelled three discordant
cheers for the Viceroy ; but, a moment later, when
the Baron’s few remarks proved to be like the few
remarks he always utters —“ Yah, yah, yah,
interspersed with “Um, um, um” —the vendors
of the Yerald burst into open roars of laughter.
It wasn’t intentional rudeness on their part, nor
was it ignorance. They really considered that
Baron B. was doing a “ turn ” like the rest of the
performers, and that his “Yah, yaha ” were part
of the funny business.
».• • •
Hobart is getting ready for the Record
Reign celebrations by all small and sundry meet-
ing every Sunday afternoon in the local Town
Hall to howl “ Praise God from Whom,” “ God
Save the Queen,” and “Britons never, never,”
&c. As there is no pretence at organisation in the
so-called choir —anybody and everybody is ex-
pected to sing—it takes the big organ all it knows
to even modify the discordant burst of loyalty.
As Mark Twain remarks: “ Inherited ideas are
a curious thing.” By the way, the three verses of
the Anathema are fought right out to a finish, and
the paradoxical words
O Lord our God, arise,
Scatter her enemies
And make them fall.
Bid strife and discord cease, &o.
are yelled by the knock-kneed natives and narrow-
chested nurse-girls with a frenzy of patriotism.
• • • *
Seriously proposed, in Launceston (Tas.),
to celebrate the Record Reign by filling the poor
of the city with a feed of rabbits, thus thinning
the pest and fattening the poor. Rabbit loyalty 1
A Brisbane daily lately adver-
tised for a “ reporter ’’ and offered £2
10s. a week to a first-class man ! There
were four applications The average
Australian reporter now works his
brains from about 9 a.m. until 11 p.m.
or later for seven days a'.week, receives
no more than wharf-laborers’ pay, and
is usually an old man at 40.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, — Sin Fat’s con-
version to the blessed trewths of Keris-
tianity is almost invariably a matter
of business, and if those devoted youug
women who are so zealous in the quest
of the soul of the pore heathen were to
visit South Melbourne Chinese Syna-
gogue at the right time it is ten to one
they would find their choicest converts
wriggling on their stomachs before the
boss Joss, or burning paper-money
under the sacred horse, with incanta-
tions like the midnight wailings of a
lost dog. I was in the building a few
days back, and heard the sound of dis-
tant lamentations. My guide, a holy
Chow with the whiskers of a patriarchal
he-goat, explained with a leer : “ Him
Clistian Chinaman. Him make it all
li Joss. Day-time Chinaman, ni’-time
Clistian ; savee?”—Yours, See., E.D.
• • •
Brides who start on what the
daily papers call “a secret honey-
moon,” and which really means an
hour’s trip from town, should beware
of using the telephone, A couple who
left ostensibly for an extensive tour
were located at a second-rate hotel quite
close to town by a friend who, while
waiting to be switched on, recognised
the bride’s voice imploring her mother
to send her an extra pair of gloves.
According to Maoriland’s Legitimation Act
of ’s4, anv child bom out of wedlock whose parents
afterwards marry is deemed to be legitimised
by such marriage on the birth being registered in
the manner prescribed by the Act. For this pur-
pose the Registrar must register a birth when
called upon to do so by the party claiming to be the
father but that same papa must swear he is the
father. Aran, he must produce evidence of his
mamage. Thus registration becomes the test of
legitimacy In ‘W 11 children were legitimised
Ki eXt £f ar an< f were 56—making 135
WUh 8 fathCT 3iDCe th< “ Act came into
*
A recent Chinese (N.S.W.) bankrupt-
George Ah Kin—deposed to having 15 children
£MySf i£pt£" 6 - Fi "“° -tUdreo
Dear Bulletin
In Melbourne’#
cable tram-cars the
custom of giving up
one’s seat to oblige a
lady is dying a na-
tural death. All
through the summer
months the dummy
gets rushed by
women, and so, when
cold, wet weather
arrives, the male sex
sticks to its forced
seclusion within the
car proper. I Was
travelling by the Bt.
E.i Ida tram last
week. It was ful]
inside. An elderly
gent thrust a severe
countenance through
the doorway and
said: “There are
ladies standing here
on the footboard.”
He focussed his eyes
upon my neighbor, a
trousered brute, who
snorted : “ Plenty of
room on the dummy ;
/ don’t want to stop
’em from smoking.”
I loved my neighbor
and shook hands
with him. All pro-
fessions are now open
to women, includ
ing the dummy on
a damp day.—
Carlton.
“The child was conceived on June 15th.
I made a note of defendant’s familiarity at the
time in order to see if anything would happen.''
And, as in this case the expected did happen, the
above testimony came to be calmly rendered in a
N.S. W. police-court the other day by an ingenuous
damsel of 15. If the alleged father, a lad of 18,
wasn’t shaken up enough by this establishment of
matters on a strict business footing, he was pro-
bably paralysed by the further discovery that on
one occasion when he had been in this unsophisti-
cated young thing’s company in a paddock a lady
relative of hers had been watching proceedings
through a telescope. And yet there’s no “ age of
consent ” for youths !
• • • >
The will of one James Maher, of Pennant
Hills (N.S.W.), is being disputed in the law-
courts by three plaintiffs and 55 defendants. The
deceased citizen who leaves 58 litigants— repre-
sented by 10 lawyers —to have a free fight over his
will is a man with an eye to the picturesque. The
row' is o v er a document executed in ’59, so it would
seem that the late individual had been saving up
the present shindy for 38 years. .
$ $ » |
The capital of Tasmania—The cash of Vic-
torian tourists.
• • • •
“ Philosopher ” Smith, an old Tasmanian
identity and discoverer of Mt. Bischoff, now lies
at Launceston dangerously ill of paralysis. There
is a tradition to the effect that the philosopher,
when tramping the ranges on his exploring ex-
cursions, never travelled on Sundays. To while
away one dreary Sabbath in the mountains, he
examined the indications by his camp-fire more
closely than usual —probably looking for sermons
in stopo*—and struck what has Droved the
“ PHILOSOPHER ” SMITH, discoverer of Mt. Bischo[?]
Tin Mine, Tas.
world’s biggest tin-mine. The finder gave most
of his interest away to friends, and started out ti
find a bigger and better show— but didn't succeed.
He is not at present a wealthy man by any means,
and as he didn’t endow a church in the day of he
abundance, the Lord’s Day Observance folk don t
extensively quote his Bischoff exploit as a shining
example.
* * « •
Pilcher, Q.C., says “they never quarantine
for small-pox in England ” —which is certainly a
curious reason why we shouldn’t do so here.
Small-pox is endemic in England, and, while it
isn t so here, we should continue to quarantine for
all we’re worth. Also, the fact that doctors differ
is no reason for depending solely upon a V estra-
lian medical pronouncement. About the qualm-
cations of the Albany health-officials the East is not
supposed to know anything, but we are supposed


R
OSES CELEBRATED
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
ln lions, <fec. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-street,
S\dney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.,
H
MATRIMONY.
APPY and Advantageous
. . ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain oover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
ft
Soft Car) v/aS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO - per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
V
Very Strong:, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. /' / li. /*.’ II HOTII T'.RS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for ihe
Genuine Cawnpore Khafei and Assam Silk.
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager Jeer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
■jo have ascertained that our local men were up to
the mark before entrusting them with the duty
* * * *
Signs of times in Melbourne, seen in
grocer’s shop at Richmond during the course of 30
minutes. Little girl buys candle, pays ha’penny,
takes half the purchase, and says she’ll can later
with the balance of purchase-money and take
away the remaining portion. Man buys four-
penny plug of tobacco, pays twopence, will call
again for other half of plug. Man buys loaf of
bread, and asks for two onions to be thrown in
with the deal. Poverty, they say, does not exist
to any extent in this country.
• * * *
English “as she is wrote ” by the super-
cilious Sydney Morning Herald
Last Monday he was taken suddenly ill and had to lay
up, but his medical attendant was hopeful of pulling him
through.
This appeared in connection with the news of
Melb. city-organist David Lee’s demise. The
horse-reporter, no doubt.
* * * *
“ Bishop Goe is only one of the ten thousand observers
whD sadly proclaim that never was Mammon more power-
ful. \ irtue has increased in the land ; has this particular
evil diminished? Some day Bishop Goe may offer the
explanation.”—(Melh. Argus.) But “some day” is an
uncertain date, and meanwhile the world is most anxious
to hear further on this subject from the one person who
carries the key to the mystery in the pocket of his
episcopal apron.
The very latest divorce rumor is calculated
to warn all verdant bachelors against the Spinster
with a Past. When the frisky daughter of a cer-
tain “big” family got married, a while ago,
sassiety smiled its most peculiar smile, but the
male section of the gilded world charitably
assumed that the lady had quite made up her mind
to settle down and live happily ever afterwards.
Even Mrs. Grundy, with a little list of the bride’s
alleged delinquencies on the tip of her tongue,
thought that, if the young man already knew what
he was doing, he might not find cause to kick him-
self later on. Now, it seems that everybody’s
hopes for the best were doomed to be blighted.
The confiding bridegroom has placed his domestic
troubles in the hands of his solicitors.
• • * *
Writes “ Melbourne ” :
Dear Bulletin, —You take for granted the truth of an
Arous suggestion that the Queen intends to cross the
Thames with her Jubilee procession in order to “ give the
poorer classes an opportunity of seeing their Sovereign ’’
--and you publish satirical comment on the arrangement.
Be fair to the old lady. House windows and roofs along
the whole route of the coming pageant will be letable at
fancy prices ; and the first idea of V.R and her theatrical
managers in this matter was to do a good turn for the im-
pecunious householders of the Borough-road district.
This is made clear by recent developments. When the
greedy landlords of houses along the line of route started
[jiving their weekly tenants notice to quit on the eve of
Jubilee week—so that they, the landlords, might
reap the little harvest designed for the tenants
—an Act of Parliament was passed to for-
bid the ousting of these poor people. Also, the pro-
putty owners’ right of evicting tenants who are in arrears
is to be suspended, for Jubilee week, along the line of
procession. The Queen is a business woman, willing to
purohase the “ love” of the “poorer classes” at the ex-
pense of sightseers who book seats for the spectacle. By
driving down the Borough Road she transfers so much
money from the pookets cf well-to-do “ loyalists ” to the
pockets of rather disloyal householders. Therefore the
CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE.
THE BRIDEGROOM (who notices a nasty taste about the celery): “ Are you sure it has been
properly washed, my dear? ”
THE BRIDE: “Of course it has, Charley. I washed it myself, darling—and with soap, too!”
local inhabitants may be expected to stand along the
pavement (or retire to the pub.) and whoop (or their little
bit of Jubilee “ bunce,” which will seem much the same
thing as a demonstration of affection for the Throne.
• * • »
The peaceful Syrian up North continues
to make it hot for those who give his little com-
mercial swindle away. At latest seven of him
stand remanded on a charge of conspiring to
murder. Over one batch of Syrian cross-sum-
monses for assault, lately, the lawyers’ bill was
upwards of .£l5O.
» * • *
The great amount of space given of late
by certain “great” dailies to R.C. celebrations
and festivities is to be in future severely curtailed.
The jealousy of rival denominations has been
excited, and a demand made for “equality of
opportunity.” Equality one way would madden
the public ; therefore, it will go the other way.
* • * *
A N.S.W. solicitor’s defiance of a ca. sa.
man the other day illustrates the fact that a soli-
citor who alleges he is on his way to a court to
defoud a client cannot be arrested. And when he
PURELY IN A REPRESENTATIVE CAPACITY.
TRAP: “What are you doing here?"
DABBLER: “ It’s all right, guv’nor; I’m represinting a (hie) shindicate.”
emerges from one court he has only to say he is
off to another to make the thin-faced man in faded
black explode in impotent rage.
• • * •
The average J.P.’s remedy for the familiar
trouble with an infant in it is “ Let him marry
the girl.” Very often he does marry her, and
they drop out of sight, and respectable people
assume that they spend the rest of their lives
blessing the paternal beak who brought about
their happiness. As a case in point, a man is now
waiting trial in one of the Australias, charged
with the butchery of the girl he married under
these cirouinstances. They were both very young
when the benevolent J.P. rushed them into mat-
rimony, and then they threw dishes at each other
for three years, and wound up with a tragedy.
And when the policeman fetched him away on
suspicion from their desolated home he noted that
the chief ornament was a text done in beads and
the picture of an angel over the bed.
Good Bishop (too, explain
Why happens it that Mammon
Controls this world of gammon,
Since Virtue ought to reign ;
Good Bishop Goe, explain.
Each Sabbath-day each priest
Condemns our love of money ;
And yet —how sadly funny !—-
The Church lias not decreased
This evil in the least.
The vulgar greed for gold
To me seems quite surprising;
For in your sermonising
The creed that you uphold
Is just the Word of old.
You cry aloud in prayer
For God to make us “humble.”
A faint “ Amen ” we mumble ;
But dooce a bit we care,
As far as I’m aware.
Fat wages you receive,
Besides your private income,
And reckon it “ fair dinkum,”
Whilst many who believe
Must starve, unless they thieve.
Pale curates on your mat,
Obsequious as waiters,
Pay homage to your gaiters.
They carry you your hat,
And vanities like that.
And you would frown and snort,
Although you be so holy,
Were they less meek and lowly.
His Nibs at Bishopscourt
Is—well, not quite their sort.
The same respect for rank
Is common in the city,
Where bosses—more’s the pity—
Look down upon a “ crank ”
Who’s never robbed a bank.
A prelate, or a lord,
Or any person toney,
Thinks Virtue which is “ stony “
Can very well afford
To be its own reward.
Though millionaires regard
Our wants without a shudder ;
Their milch-cows have no udder
Whereat a struggling bard
Can take a pull. It’s ’ard.
Good Bishop Goe, explain
To us, this Easter season,
Why Mammon sways our reason.
Though Virtue ought to reign,
Good Bishop Goe, explain.
FITZ-SINNAH.
“TELEPATHY.”
(Manly Beach.—Next boat the last.)
He (aside ):
Her pretty face and figure trim
So close to me reclining ;
The wavelets rippling on the sand,
The moonlight on them shining.
Sing:
“Lips were made for kissing,
Boats were made for missing.”
Ah 1 do not tempt me so !
She (aside) :
His pleasant ways and handsome face,
The good cigar he’s smoking ;
His sudden, speaking silence now
In place of cheerful joking.
Say:
“Lips,” &c.
Ah ! do not tempt me so !
H u (aside):
But Jack’s my friend and she’s his wife.
Ah ! do not tempt me so !
She (aside ):
But Jack’s away, and I’m his wife.
Ah ! do not tempt me so !
Both (aside) :
There’s the bell! Let’s go.
D.D.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice mil be taken of communications imuficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on JUS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Rackarock : Will print. Glad to hear from you
Again Dingo : Thanks. May do for illustration
J.F.C. : Original suggestions for illustration are accepted
either with or without drawings W.C. (Braidwood) :
Can only tackle episodes : no space for histories
J.M.S. : Imaginations and intentions no use ; let’s see the
copy on usual conditions ... C.W.M. : Thanks; fear un-
usable G.G.S. : Thanks. L.M.D. : “Unanswered”
very crude .... Silver Grey : Received, one corpse of
Maloney P.M. : Verse below ... Toto : Too abstract
for B. ; try and throw' it into a story .... E.T. : Thin
M.L. : Send name and address Wizard : Don’t care
much for literal and verbal quiddities Ambi : The
complaint was not that artists are themselves left-handed,
or ambidextrous ; but that some of them habitually por-
tray normal right-handed people as left-handed
which is un-Truth, and therefore probably bad Art....
Andrew W.: You see, the R.C. prelates of Maoriland are
all, or nearly all, English Alo. M. : Bulletin doesn t
print mysterious paragraphs. You must let us into the
secret of what and whom you are writing about Tarax-
acum : Thanks ... H.W.H. : Much cheaper and better in
the long run to come to Sydney and see a good doctor.
If you come, will try to put you on right track J 1). :
As the nephew's of a doughty bushranger they ought to
be men of more grit E. K.V. : A stock joke - long in
stock at this office Hugh M. W. : Alas, the thieves had
us J.D. (W.A.): You haven’t hit it this time. The
barrow sketch is too brutal A.P.B. : But then a pecu-
liarity of Maoriland journalism is the marked success of
evening journals. In Auckland and Wellington the
leading organs are evening papers Veldt: Bet ter ;“ A
Token ” will do ; others doubtful .... Walter S. : Not quite
up wants more personal interest Banana-boy :
Strange, isn’t it, the idea that N.Q. is a place of hellish
heat ? Away from the coast, it is really one of the world’s
sanatoriums Servant-girl: The country paper certainly
ought to pay you H.E.C. : Thanks .... lan G. : Insipid
little thing R.S.W. : A lot of truth and no poetry
Gamnet: The unreadable green MS. has just rushed down
a steep place into oblivion J.B. : In a dim, pathetic
vision we see the editor of 2897 heaving our own weary
sigh as he casts out the MS. of your g.g.g.g.g. &c.-grand-
son. For the wishy-washy person is a worm that never
dies Injured Author: Do you know w'hat we’d do if
really owning the malice you impute? We'd print your
letter. Not a fact; not an argument; and sufficient
abuse —“Grub-street blackguard . . . w'hite donkey
suddenly struck by a flash of greased lightening . . .
Inspector of Water Closets . . . ” —to damn you for
ever with intelligent people Helen M. : Is it her own
name? .... Biko: But why don’t you send the clipping?
Can’t take such things on hearsay Possum Skins : No,
thanks T.L.M. (New G.): Portrait too badly-taken to
reproduce Alone : Acceptable. Name and address,
please, for remittance. S.G.: “ Fighters” g00d,...5.G.G.:
“ A Milestone ” unacceptable. And does “ A Retro-
spect ” end on page 2 ? Thistledown : Over-handi-
capped by weak verses. Only four of the ten really pass
muster .J. : Please don’t scissor and send along all the
Argonaut. We read it —in the Australian Star F. :
Caulfield to W. good Margot: Thanks. Name and
address ?
Editor Bulletin, —Following up my last
letter: The Govt, party who started to cut and
improve the track towards Mt. Scratchley met
with much detention owing to the difficulty of
obtaining carriers. Nearly all they took with
them from Port Moresby deserted, and others
were hard to get—in fact, could not be got, so half
the stores had to be left behind. There is now a
cleared carrier track for about 75 miles from
Douro, the port on the Vanapa Rivei\ From the
end of the cleared track to the top of the Wharton
Chain, over which the main range is crossed at an
altitude of about 8000 ft., it is a five-days’ stage,
and from thence to the field about five days more.
The end of the track cut by the party is in a very
long valley which contains, on rough estimation,
from 3000 to 4000 native inhabitants, some of
whom, no doubt, could be used for carriers
and who at present are quite willing to carry.
Up to this point, however, carriers are practi-
cally unobtainable, and the road is so brutally
rough that white men will never be able to carry
for themselves. A native track leads over the
range, and the natives on the two sides are in
communication. The party of 13 whites who
stai'ted in Feb. for the field are all returning. They
are split up from insufficient carriers and sickness,
eleven out of the thirteen having fever. 1 had it
badly myself, and he will be lucky who escapes.
The natives get it as well as whites. Some of
latter have behaved badly to the former, and now
they cannot obtain carriers to take them either
backwards or forwards, and, as usually the case,
the innocent have to suffer as well as the guilty.
Jimmy Malay, whom we hoped was on
something good, turned up at my camp on Ist
inst. with two white men, who have been with him.
Two more were left at an adjoining village, one
being unable to travel from sickness. They have
been out since 10th Dec., and did not find a single
color of gold. Although on the top they did not
cross the main range, but prospected the south side
fora considerable distance. They have had a very
severe time, as their carriers left them on reaching
the top of Mount Knutsford, and for about three
months they had to manage as best they could
themselves. They are quite satisfied with their
New Guinea experience, and only desire to get
away. We have had no news from the field, and
won’t until the range is crossed or return to port.
In conclusion, it would be well for those who
think of coming here to stay away until something
more hopeful is known, or until a horse-track is
opened to the field, which will render them inde-
pendent of carriers.—Yours, F. A. Repost,
Vanapa River, New Guinea, 4th Apr 1, 13 07.
Mr. R. G. Mallinson, Engineer and Patent
Agent, of Vickery’s-chambers, Sydney, begs to
inform his clients that he has entered the office
of Mr. Arthur Griffith, Patent and Trade Mark
Agent, of 41 Castlereagh - street, Sydney, as
manager. Henceforth all Patent work placed in
Mr. Griffith’s hands will have the benefit of both
gentlemen’s experience.*
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.


BAKER & ROUSE, LIMITED.
The BULL’S EYE HAND
CAMERA— £I 17 s. Gd.
The POCKET KODAK
—£l Is.
The CYCLIST HAND
CAMERA— £3 3s.
The PREMO HAND 4s.
Catalogues Free.
IMPOETEES OIF PHOTOGBAPHIC MATERIAL,
375 George Street, SYDNEY.
In the
47 Years
When the Wear Test is applied.
that we have been in business, we have
never been more able than now to give
Buyers of Footwear the class of Boots
and Shoes that give satisfaction
If this is the class of Boots you
want get a Callaghan Boot.
Ladies’ Glac6 Kid Boots, 14/6, 16 6,17/6, etc
Gent’s Calf Lace Boots, 16,6, 19,6, 22,6.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 18, 1897.
Mr Deab Myee—
Polo was the fashionable flutter last week. The
three days’ matches were watched with interest,
and on Saturday the gymkhana—merely Kipling-
esque for “ sports ” —was thronged. Most of the
spectators arrived in vehicles of their own ; car-
riages-and-pairs and dog-carts—on the road there
was one fascinating little cart with red wheels
pneumatic-tired, but I don’t think its destination
was Kensington—bikes, horses, and only one or
two humble persons arrived per boot. Two four-
horse ’buses were laden inside and out with
smartly-dressed women, holding aloft gay para-
sols, and rattled through town with all the style
of four-in-hands. The mount in Moore-st. was a
godsend to business men strolling back from lunch ;
they watched absorbedly the girls climbing up the
iron ’bus-ladder.
On Friday, the sassiety day at the polo races,
when everybody drank tea and devoured caramels
in paper collars at gubernatorial expense, his Ex.
and a party rode out. As the day was hot a
rather free-and-easy style of dressing obtained —
cool habits and light hats. Mrs. Freeman-Thomas
dismounted from horseback and displayed a natty
pair of high riding-boots. Some of the gowns were
summery, though one woman in a pretty green
“ tailor-made ” and a scarlet cloth vest glowed
comfortably like a robin redbreast. The fair,
haughty Berenis quite eclipsed all the other
women present; dressed in a well-cut gown of
French-grey, with white and feathery hat, she
showed a flash of frillery as she walked about with
a Melbourne admirer, and had all the men around
her. Her good looks are chiefly a matter of eyes,
teeth, manner, and pale-olive complexion without
a trace of make-up on either skin or hair.
The newly-wedded pair, Capt. and Mrs. Fer-
guson, were two of a jumbo theatre-party at the
Criterion on Saturday night, and were as much
gazed at as the performers. A glance over the cos-
tumes in “Sowing the Wind” shows that the
threatened return to early Victorian modes during
this year of God-save and grovel is fortunately im-
possible. Women do still commit wild sartorial
crimes, but we are ahead now of the notion that
womanly refinement demands thin sandals with
brown-paper soles in all weathers, bare arms in
the day-time, an absurd, untidy shawl hanging
round the elbows—it must always have been in the
way—continual blushes and the gaze of a startled
fawn. A coal-scuttle bonnet wouldn't look pretty
on a bicycle, and the girl who shook her clustering
ringlets at the typewriter would be bound to get
her curls badly tangled in the keys. In men’s
dress there has been a revival of the long-tailed
“ paddock ” coat, but oblivion has mercifully swal-
lowed the stock.
The death of Mrs. Stevenson, mother of R.L.S.,
will be regretted by many Australians who made
her acquaintance during her visits here. She
spent some time in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne, in which latter city she stayed with
her relatives, the Balfours, of Toorak. Believers
in the doctrine that intellect descends from
the mother are always interested in the
mothers of notabilities; they would not have
been disappointed in Stevenson’s mother, who
was bright in manner with a keen, refined face, a
thin, spare figure clothed in black, and the air of
natural, dignified simplicity belonging particularly
to old Scotch ladies. She loved her “ kirk ” as she
loved her son, and, when staying with him in
Samoa, often trudged down from the mountain
heights of Vailima to the little mission church on
the beach.
The puzzle ot the hour is why the Cretans
should be so amazed at the dress of the Seaforth
highlanders, as stated in a widely-quoted par.
“The wild Albanian kirtled to the knee” must
be familiar to the Cretan, and the Greek petticoat
is much more womanish than a kilt. Melbourne
once rejoiced in an inhabitant who dressed in full
Greek rig: he was the Hopetoun menial who
made such a picturesque figure at all the big Govt.
House balls with a stiff white ballet skirt, fez cap,
and sash stuck full of murderous weapons. Chat-
ting in every-day clothes with his countrymen in
the Elizabeth-street fruit-shops, he looked much
less tremendous.
At the two productions of Berlioz’s “ Faust,”
last week, by the Philharmonic under Hazon, the
Town Hall was crowded. This version of
“Faust” isn’t an opera, it just stops short of
stage-effect, and the people who expected to see
red lime-lights playingaround Burns-Walker all the
time were disappointed. Mephisto Faust and Mar-
guerite were all in evening clothes, and the chorus
was stout and spectacled as ever, and warbled
from the organ-benches. This is a really “ musi-
cal ” “ Faust,” which despises the Soldiers’ chorus,
the valse and the garden-scene, and is modern and
Wagnerian, carefully avoiding all melody with
contempt. Blessed be Gounod, he is never above
a tune ! The chief idea sought to be conveyed is
the devilish and supernatural element in the
legend—-which is principally tuba mirum and big
drum, and the principal singers have a tremendous
force to shout against. In the audience were
several ladies’ schools taught to say the full title,
“The Damnation of Faust,” in French, and then
it doesn’t sound so much like swearing. Books of
the words were freely sold giving the text in full
of the Pandemonium scene, which looks exactly
like a page of Meredith.
The destinies of the Philharmonic are ruled by
a fossilised committee, who have ruled that con-
cert tickets are not to be given to weekly papers.
They haven’t caught up to the idea of newspapers
yet—probably wedge-shaped inscriptions on baked
clay about represent their period. Sometimes
weekly critics have been known to force themselves
into the sacredly-guarded concerts with disastrous
results, and one elderly person with Dundreary
whiskers is still pointed at as “ the man who put
out Mrs. Carl Fischer ” when on one occasion that
intrepid old lady strove to get in on the nod as
Mail representative. Quite lately a high and
mighty personage, who has been one of the patrons
of the society, and is connected with both a daily
and a weekly, has handed in his checks as vice-
president owing to the slight put upon one of his
journals.
Afternoon teas at the little picture -show in
George-st. continue to attract visitors. On r I hurs-
day last Madame Henry was hostess, and on batur-
day Mrs. A. Usher distributed tea and cake for a
record attendance, and arranged a musical pro-
gramme of singing, violin and piano selections ;
also, there were recitations, and L. Phillip played
a piano solo by a Russian composer with a name
like a hacking cough. Russian music is quite the
toniest sort of piano-exercise just now. Most
listeners haven’t caught on to it yet; it is weird
and crashy, with long dead pauses and a fresh
beginning in a wailful minor working up to loud
and furious agitation, and when the player stops
exhausted the initiated murmur “charmingly
original,” and the outsiders mutter “ what atrocious
pounding ! ” But be Russian if you wish to be
“ in it ” musically.
Many dancers assembled on Monday evening
at the French ball in Paddington Town Hall,
which was festooned with bunting and looked gay
and festive. The ball opened well and went with
a sprint all 'through. There was a party of no-
tables —the French Consul, Capt. and Mrs.
gnson, Mine. Rougier, and others —who made their
entry to the “Marseillaise (“Godsave” had a
night off), and sat under a draped canopy like a
huge four-poster. The bride wore a gown of
heliotrope watered-silk and some of her numerous
diamonds. Honors in dressing were about even
between French and English, any eccentricity in
costume being thrown in by the “oui oui men,
one of whom displayed a fancy shirt-front white
and pimply. The foreign naval uniforms were
plentiful, looking hired for the occasion, as foreign
uniforms always do. One leader of fashion wore
a pink poem with a knotted sash. The wife of the
C.J. sat under the four-poster a,nd watched the
cotillon with the smile of the British matron ; her
daughter wore black with shiny spangles. Some
girls went in for odd sleeves, one of silk, the other
nothingness—a bunch of violets and roses perched
on the shoulder, apparently pinned on the bare
skin, but really lashed securely to the lower
rigging to keep the flowers firm throughout the
evening. The floral bodice is quite a scheme with
a girl who doesn’t care about concealment too
much.
The cotillon was a long-drawn-out valse com-
plicated with small toys. A ring was formed and
the dance was proceeded with, but many of the
onlookers became tired and went waltzing on their
own account at the other end of the room. A he
male dancers in the cotillon circled up to their
partners and hung silver threads around their
necks, or a man-dancer playfully waltzed after a
couple, fanning them. The leader banged a tam-
bourine to change the figures, and the gambols
seemed unending. The band played every tune it
knew and then encored most, and still the dance
got no forrader. French was jabbered on all sides,
but I find it is rash to tip the lingo too freely with
a foreign partner. After a prolonged conversation
you really are not quite sure whether he has been
asking you to flee with him to his palace by the
lake of Como, or to advertise a new brand of
corset. It may be only the corset, but there is
always a doubt. He was so very impassioned.
An idol of the moment is so much pestered for
his photo., and for requests for “the pleasure of
hiscompany”—forafternoon teas —mostly a deux —
that he declares it would take him five hours’ hard
work every day answering notes, and signing and
putting up counterfeit presentments of his god-
like phiz and figure, to say nothing of good money
spent in stamps. Consequently he never answers,
and rarely reads letters with unknown autographs.
Once, touched by the devotion of a note signed by
two girls’ names, he had addressed photos to them,
but a friend came in and told him the requesters
were absolute nobodies, and the idolised one was
saved in the nick of time from writing to some-
body who was not a Very Nice person.
Owing to Sir William Robinson’s death, the
daughters of one of Perth’s toniest families—not
related to deceased—have donned half-mourning.
A little less than kin and more than kind !
Gov. Lamington, on tour in the North, had his
only evening in a self-important sugar-town
rushed by the bong-tong tennis-club, intent on
raising funds by holding a ball blessed by vice-
regal presence ; but all the other local cliques were
not having any V.R. patronage at the exorbitant
rate charged by the committee for entry, and
stayed outside the ball. When the evening came
the promotets and a few friends foutid themselves
gazing sadly at a vacuum— the war-ship upon
which they had relied for the men necessary to
make up the first set had departed on the after-
noon tide. While the sad little group of revellers
were wondering which of the local nobility to pro-
mote to the state lancers, loud knockings were
heard at the wrong entrance, and the reception
committee hastily rushed forward, tore open the
door, and admitted H.E. and suite and the
Mayor, who was annoyed at being kept waiting.
To the Gov., smilingly surveying the empty hall,
was allotted as partner the wife of the M.C. ; and
after this effort the M.C., overcome by the dazzling
situation, gave in, and the rest of the set formed
itself as best it could.
More girls’waltzes ! “The Kelvin,” by Amy
Holt, is dedicated “ by kind permission ” to Lady
Nelson ; “ The Australia,” by Henrietta Irwin, is
dedicated “ by kind permission” to Lady Hamp-
den. The hardest person to find in all this conti-
nent now is the woman who hasn’t written a waltz
and obtained a “ Lady ” to stand sponsor.
When the band at the French ball, on Monday
night, gaily played the “ Gondoliers ” as a dance-
tune, how many dancers remembered, as a coinci-
dence, poor Charles Ryley’s death cabled in that
morning’s paper ? It was as the twin-king in the
“ Gondoliers ” that the once-adored baritone made
his name in Australia. It was his best character,
and his only one, for he was always Guiseppe. On
the stage Ryley was modest and painstaking, and
never showed off in society. Probably half the
stories about him were exaggerations. Fictions
are wreathed around handsome celebrities, and the
shuttlecocks must be kept going.
An exclusive club in a backblocks township in-
tends to jubilate on the 21st of next month by
holding a ball, for which circulars have becn issued
to a very select and sacred circle. The terms for
joining in this high-toned revel would be amusing
to a stranger unacquainted with the cast-iron ru e
regulating the cliques of a small town, Each sub-
scriber invited to join is entitled, after paying his
two sovereigns, to “ nominate two ladies ana
one gentleman. On these selected names the com-
mittee will sit as a secret council, from whom there
is no appeal, and remorselessly cast forth into cold
oblivion those belonging to the common herd ot
the indistinguishable many. So, at the ball, on y
a chosen band will assemble to drink H.M. s health
on the stroke of midnight on the 21st. lhey
jubilate in cliques in N.S.W.
A programme of a concert at the Chinese mis-
sion school of a Perth bethel proves that Westra-
lian damsels are just as eager as some ot their
eastern sisters to convert Wun Lung from the
error of his ways. The “ Chinese choir and Mr.
Sam Ken ” are to duet with “Miss Daisy Blank,
and all the familiar features are present. Chris-
tianising among the degraded whites has no
attractions for these missionaries while the mys-
teries of the Chinese camp exist for feminine
curiosity to pry into. There’s no accounting tor
tastes. But the early-Christian girls like Mercia
had all the plums of the proselytising business, it
would be easy to work up a zeal for the soul ot a
beautifully-dressed, well-washed pagan like Mar-
cus S. Knight. The bottom is clean out of the
business now. It must be uphill work enthusing
over an opium-saturated yellow brother.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent: —
“Gallery audiences were exceptionally large
during the recent Potter-Bellew season at the
Princess’s, the gallery being mainly responsible
for the undoubted success of ‘ Romeo and Juliet
and other items. This circumstance was almost
entirely due to an extraordinary Bellew craze
amongst Melbourne shop-girls. These gushing
and sentimental damsels, fed on penny-dreadful
literature, suddenly discovered in the pale,
pathetic Kyrle an idealization of the prevailing
hero in cheap romance, and they rushed the ‘ bob
place in mobs, and brazenly doted from aloft. It
has been nothing in my workrooms but Bellew,
Bellew, Bellew, for three solid weeks,’ declared a
city draper to the writer, and (another in the
same line tells me his factory walls, half-an-acre
of them if an inch, are papered with prints of Bel-
lew of all sorts and sizes. At Blank s, the other
day, the white-workers heard that Bellew and
Mrs. Potter were in the street, and they besieged
the windows and flocked out of the place, and
neither fines nor threats of dismissal could get
them back to work till they had satisfied their
curiosity.
“ The departure of Beauty Bellew and the ador-
able Potter from Melbourne this time was a
touching ceremony, and sufficiently imposing. It
suggested the passing of the high priest and
priestess of a new religion from their devout and
sorrowing apostles. The whole of the female, and
many of the male, employes of a very large local
firm were in attendance —it being Saturday after-
noon—offering humble devotion and many choice
vegetables. Smitten shop-girls gazed long and
hungrily, with meek, idolatrous eyes upon the
Adonis, and young men from behind the counters
adored Potter openly. The climax was reached
when a tepid dude, clammily nervous, with un-
stable knees and a wilted collar, stepped forward,
and, in a thin, awed voice, begged to be permitted
to kiss Cora’s lily-white hand. Bellew (two-penny
colored edition) with the manner of an Emperor
bestowing honors, thought that ‘ the young man
might be so far privileged.’ Cora’s fist was ex-
tended, & la ‘ Lady of Lyons,’ and publicly pecked,
and the curtain fell upon a grand tableau : Belltw
hanging from the moving tram, tearing up his
button-hole bouquet, and bestowing the fragments
upon a bevy of scrambling virgins, victims of his
fatal beauty.
“ The tragic death of the N.S.W. matron, who,
being addicted to dancing ‘socials,’ threw her-
self upon the kitchen-fire when her husband cut
off her fascinating fringe, has been somewhat
avenged by a Melbourne wife. In this case it was
the husband who too often neglected his house-
hold duties for the mazy whirl. One night re-
cently, the indignant wife humped her baby, aged
18 months, to the Moonee Ponds (Melb.) Insti-
tute, where the guid man was in active attend-
ance at a cricket-club Cinderella. The uninvited
guest marched down the room, snorting audibly,
and placed baby at the feet of dear papa, just as
he was about to turn his partner in a quadrille.
After which the heartless woman departed hastily
with head erect, leaving her discomfited ‘ old man ’
to pick up his pledge of affection and get away as
best he could. The family man who goes out
dancing ‘ on his own ’ runs an awful risk.
“Say what you like, federal feeling has not
‘taken’ so far.. Melb. ‘ medicals’ for example,
look coldly upon S.A. students driven Victoria-
wards by their own Hospital squabble. In local
haunts of Bob Sawyer and his kind, callow
youths dilate upon the personal unloveliness of
the foreigners, male and female, especially the
latter. ‘ Goodness knows, the skirt - show at
the schools was poor enough before ! ’ they
grumble. ‘ And now, with these new girls tacked
on, it’s just awful! ’ The critics themselves are
frequently hard favored, even for their unhand-
some time of life. And that says a good deal.
Boys of a certain age generally look in need of the
advice bestowed upon broad-faced jun<jlin<is by
canny German parents conscious of the value of
good looks : ‘ Fritz ! Fritz ! make de moud schmall
und the eyes large ! ’
“ Melbourne Mayoral receptions, besides having
an attraction for the humorous and curious as
free tea-and-scone scrambles, are drawing another
class of caller—the light-fingered. Last month,
at the reception in South Melbourne, a woman
was caught in the very act of emptying the pocket
of the Mayoress, who, being of a very meek and
mild character, gave the pilferer a reproachful
look, and bade her begone. After that contre-
temps the gentle Mayoress moved more timidly
among the rest of the crowd, not knowing when
the next pocket-stripper might turn up. Those
who did not see the sleight-of-hand wondered why
such a lady-like person had been summarily
banished.
“On each of the vice-regal nights of ‘Lela-
mine ’ his Ex. Gov. Brassey dropped off to sleep
in his pen as the curtain rose, and woke up again
as it fell. Lady Brassey was more considerate—
she had evidently instructed Lord Neville to rouse
her whenever Shaftesbury was before the lights
at which time she showed laudable signs of ani-
mation.
“ Brof. Tucker and H. Murray Smith, two
litterateurs noted for their D’Orsayish style of
dress and manner, have been appointed on the
Public Library Trust, to the vacancies caused by
the death of Sir George Verdon and the retire-
ment of Cornelius Job Ham.
“ The V ROUS obituary-notice of the late city
organist winds up with these remarkable words:—
‘ Mrs. Lee died about five years ago. The funeral
will leave Mr. Lee's late residence at half-past two
to-day for Melbourne cemetery.’ Rather a long
wait for the corpse.
“ Speculation is at an end as to the second wife
of a wealthy widower, whose first wife died in
England a year or two ago. The deceased wife’s
sister, who has taken the widower’s household
under her charge since the death of No. 1, has
secured the prize.
“ The dresses worn by the chorus and principals
in ‘Lelamine’ brought some rather varied
memories to the minds of beholders. Poor Violet
Varley’s ‘ Cigale ’ pink silk, in which she sang
‘ One between three ’ so charmingly, was worn by
the heroine in one act. Miss Rose Musgrove ap-
peared in Nellie Stewart’s ‘Dorothy’ dress (act 1),
and the men’s clothing was a strange jumble. How
is it that the amateur man can not wear his legs
in public ? Bicycling dress should, by this time,
have accustomed his legs to exposure. The con-
sciousness of the gentleman in the lavender opal
blue and other light-colored hosen was painful to
behold. Sarah Bernhardt's break with the Com<klie
Francaise was the merest circumstance to the agi-
tation caused when one of the minor characters in
‘Lelamine’ grumbled and finally threw up his
part after the first night. Does anyone in the
world take himself and his affairs as seriously as
the average amateur ? The Melb. people consider
themselves lucky that up to this they have escaped
the bubonic plague and small-pox and other minor
ills, but the whole of their fair city is blighted
with that incurable malady, a passion for amateur
mumming.”
“ Melbourne is comparatively alive with ‘ move-
ments ’ just now. One of the oddest of these is a
movement to raise funds for the building of a
church for deaf mutes, where sermons will be
delivered in sign-language. How the heart of
Abbd Sicard, the Apostle of the Deaf and Dumb,
would have been delighted if he could have fore-
seen this development of the idea he originated
and, even under the shadow of the guillotine, fos-
tered with such zeal 1
“ Lecturess Mrs. T. R. Andrews, the ‘womanly
woman’s advocate,’held forth the other night, in
Melbourne, on ‘ Shelley,’ whom she called, in her
title, ‘ The Poet of Modern Socialism,’ though
there are fair grounds for argument that he
died before modern socialism was born. Clad in a
black robe, with a long train and a deep lace
collar, and dressing her hair with an intellectual
droop over the forehead, Mrs. A. gave her audience
a dose of Shelley’s ideas on woman, marriage,
atheism, kings, priests and politics. She touched
on all the more shocking portions of Shelley’s life
and writings, and said he was to be excused for
writing such naughty things, because of the times
he lived in and what he had to put up with, and
also because of the lovely other things he wrote.
She even said that ‘ Saon and Cythna ’is to be
excused on account of its beautiful passages. Con-
sidering what happens in ‘ Saon and Cythna,’ this
is rather steep for a ‘ womanly woman.’
“ A while back a young lady assistant m a toney
tea-room grew tired of working for wages and
started ‘on her own.’ She and hfer sisters had
always been smart, plucky girls, and even in their
salad days in their father’s up-country manse had
made a brave show on small means. The new
venture throve splendidly, for lots of regular cus-
tomers had followed the seceder from her old
haunts. Indeed, when her engagement to a suc-
cessful Westralian was announced the other day,
it looked as if the Fates meant to pamper her un-
duly. Now comes news of the fiance’s death, and
the girl lie left behind him must go on smiling and
cutting sandwiches as if nothing had happened.
Happiness is just dangled before the eyes of some
unfortunates and then snatched away again.
Some time ago on a holiday down the Bay a man
was drowned before his wife’s eyes, a few weeks
after their wedding. They had both tried matri-
mony before, but the widow’s bliss had been just
as short-lived the first time. Her bridegroom
unaccountably disappeared almost at once, and
only after years of suspense did she resign her-
self to the idea of his death and venture to re-
place him.
“It’s a welcome change to hear of women or-
ganising a society for the benefit of their neigh-
bors’ tightly-laced bodies in contradistinction to
their immortal souls ; and the efforts of a new
feminine association that isn’t inspired by a parson
or a brass band will be worth watching. The Vic.
Women’s Health Society has been formed, and
has agreed to preach the glorious gospel that it ia
the duty of every maid, wife, and widow to become
a good cook, and encourage her relations to take a
shower-bath regularly. Converts are to be sought
for in all heathen localities where lovely woman
washes her claws in the dipper after frying the
steak.
Yours affeotionately,
CLEO.
The reclamation of theKoo-wee-rup Swamp
(Vic.) by “village settlementers ” has proved a
great success. This is the swamp which Mrs.
Clara Parker was supposed to be reclaiming when
she used to wheedle cheques from benefactor Joe
Clarke. Purves, Q.C., asked the lady in court—
“So you merely had to whisper ‘ Koo-wee-rup m
his ear, and he would give you a few more thou-
sands ? ”


EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
[iyerpool ft [ondon ft (lobe,
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates.
Head, Office for Australasia : 62 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 ...
Total Claims Paid
Total Claims Paid in Australasia
Income for Year 1896
£9,708,495
32,796,549
2,259,404
2,339,622
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Head
office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
Os le donian Liqueur Whisky
r.i'iiiti
ink
m
;n*>
I'MIlllilll"!!
3*
It!
*.\\
Si'*
mm
i«E£SS
* «. r.l
UlllU
Mail
ISLHlirtl
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
• ■ - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Warner’s Safe Core is a Specific for Liveb
and Kidney Disease.*
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2 fi
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderm**
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Fares*
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I hare ora*
known. It has, after a few applications
cured me most effectively, and I have hac!
no trouble for the past eighteen months. 1
can recommend it to all.”
Personal Items.
Melb. : “Long May She Reign” is the
hollow inscription of the first transparency put
up.
Topical rendering of Ne sutor ultra
orepidam. Let small attentions be strictly con-
fined to the old Dutch.
No “son of his father’ has yet made a
mark in Maoriland politics. A Vogel secundus
and an Atkinson ditto have both wooed the
electors in vain.
N.S.W. Parliament met April 27, the
Urst anniversary of the death of ex-Premier
Parkes, and there was not a word about him.
And where is the Parkes statue ?
Salvationist Herbert Booth told the Argus
man his wages, but the considerate scribe only set
down that they were less than those of a junior
reporter. The amount is <£3 10s. a week.
Cardinal Moran, during the years he has
been in Australia, never presided at a christen-
ing until last week, when he operated on the 48
hours’ old baby of Mr. “ Mick ” Meagher.
Little “ Tuppeny ” Twopeny is the head,
tail and middle of this loyal idea of sending
20,000 sheep and 5000 bullocks to England for con-
sumption there free of charge at Jubilee time.
The new Baronet Clarke (Vic.) is grandson
of Peter Snodgrass, an old Vic. political identity,
and great-grandson of Col. Snodgrass, who was
acting-Governor of N.S. Wales in 1838, pending
the arrival of Sir George Gipps.
Slab from Sydney D.T. leader : —“ The
great Napoleon came, after Waterloo, to seat him-
self at the hearth of the British empire (!), and his
misguided son took refuge there both before and
after he occupied the throne of France.” (!!)
Murderer “Willie” Phillips’ innocent
little Christian name undoubtedly had a lot to do
with saving his neck—it gained for its wretched
owner a modicum of excusing pity which would
have been wholly denied to anyone named Joseph
or Jedediah, Elijahs and such seem capable of
any but Willies—why, no one could ever
imagine them backing shilling doubles. Phillips’
counsel knew the value of the Willie business and
played it for all it was worth.
“GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD."
N.S.W Labor-Minister Garrard says good wages can be earned at scrub-
cutting (Govt. relief-work) on the Bogan.
A workman, after four months’ trial, says that he and his gang earned
Is. Bd. a day.
This depicts a scrub-clearer trying to earn his supper by getting-up before
daylight.
When the Indian famine fund was started,
the students of Melb. University took round a
kerosene-tin for collections. Chancellor Bi ownless
put in a ha’penny, instead of the customary half-
crown, thinking it all a joke. Then his generosity
was placarded all over the buildings until the
venerable doctor realised the seriousness of t.ie
situation, and sent the boys a guinea.
The Age never gives MTntyre, leader of
Vic. Opposition, his correct name twice running.
“Sir James” now and then, but usually “Sir
John,” sometimes, “ Sir Joseph.” This is David’s
way of insinuating the insignificance of the bold
MTntyre.
Martin Hood, popularly known as Hud,
is almost Melb.’s senior teetotaller, having signed
under Father Mathew. Yet he has been the most
successful brewery-manager, while the bete-noir
of landladies as vice-president of Archbishop
Carr’s League of the Cross.
The other day, sea-captain Hugh Craig was
made by the King of Portugal a Kight Com-
mander of “the Order of Our Lord, Jesus Christ.”
Upon his arrival at Sydney, some friends sought
to greet him under his new title, but Vic. tele-
graph-office refused to send the message.
Melb. : “Met Pastor Colin Campbell to-
day. The only man I ever heard of who deserted
Parliament for pulpit. It is long since he retired
from Vic. M.L.A.-ship and became an Anglican
clergyman. On the other hand, look at the mass
of rogues who have made the pulpit merely a
stalking-horse, or stepping-stone, for the political
grab. ”
Phil May, on being formally introduced to
Irving at the Savage Club, a few Sundays ago,
reminded him of their previous meeting when
Phil, as a struggling youth, waited upon the actor
with a caricature portrait of himself, for which
Irving generously paid a “ fiver.” A good invest-
ment, at present market prices for the artist’s
work.
Judge Bundey holds the S.A. record,
inasmuch as he never yet tried a murder case
which ended in the rope. Boucaut J., until he
tried Lynch, the Balaclava murderer, a year ago,
was similarly lucky ; and now Judge Bundey,
who has to try Joshua Beard, the Streaky Bay
bushman, for the alleged murder of his two mates,
is in fear and trembling.
Emerson writes: “Never postpone your
existence.” Demised Gov. Robinson made this
error. He hung on in the service, to save money,
and made more by speculation, with a view of
figuring as a representative of Greater Britain, in
the Commons. At 65 he was going to start.
Why, he would never catch up even to Henniker-
Heaton, not to say Hogan. Better in his little
bed.
“David Syme,
since the introduc-
tion of linotype
machines, has pen-
sioned off eight of
his oldest composi-
tors, men who have
been in the service
of the Age for
many years. Each
super an nuat ed
comp, receives £1
a week. Good busi-
ness ! ” —says a con-
temporary. Well,
as this world goes,
Mr. Syme is act-
inggenerously. But
he must be saving
at the very least
<£Booo a year by
substituting steel
and brass for flesh -
and-blood.
Barrister An-
stey, the first Aus-
tralasian - born to
secure a seat in the
Commons, recalls a
yarn about his
father, Tas. magis-
trate Anstey, one of
those dear old-
timers whose
memory deserves to
be kept verdant.
Anstey’s favorite
sentence on prison-
ers was fifty lashes,
which humane pro-
nouncement he
generally followed
up by the com-
ment : “And that's
none so dusty, my
man.” Which earn-
ed himVthe sobriquet
of “ None so Dusty
Anstey.” On one
occasion an as-
signed servant, a
shepherd, called on
the autocrat about
registering his dog.
“What d’ye call
the dog ?” enquired
Anstey. “ None so
Dusty,” replied the
facetious lag. “Oh,
do you 1 ” roared the
beak ; “ then I’ll
order you fifty
lashes and shoot
your dog. That’s
none so dusty,
either, my man.”
And the sentence was duly carried out.
When G. H. Reid first appeared on East
Sydney hustings as a party candidate, someone
wisely advised him to doff his eyeglass, which he
was cute enough to do. At a later stage of his
political career, the now Premier talked to a Syd-
ney optician of wearing spectacles, the eyeglass
being, he —half in joke, half in earnest —said, some-
what obnoxious to the Labor-party. Still later,
he remarked to that optician that he thought,
after all, he’d stick to the old eyeglass till the
Labor brigade became “more dangerous.”
HER TROUBLES.
SYMPATHETIC NEIGHBOR : “ Don't cry, Maggie; father won't get hurt.”
SMALL DAUGHTER: “I ain't a-howlin' 'lout 'IM. Carn't yer see the 'arness is all bein'
broke up—and how can I go out drivin' ter-morrow? ”
When Napoleon landed from Elba, the Pari-
sian papers called him “the Corsican ogre. A few
days later, when he entered Paris, they styled him
“Our illustrious Emperor.'’ This circumstance
is recalled by the S.M. Herald’s allusion to
“Frank” Butler, the morning after the papers
were fined for their contempt of justice re the
mountain mystery man.” Perhaps the accused
may yet be “ Mr. ” Butler.
Dear Bulletin, —Victoria Kwaje Vrouw
stands a very fair chance of being historically thus
agnominated; and, as kwaje means simply
“testy” or cantankerous, it would by all accounts
be a lot nearer the mark as a personal description
than the “ good” or the “ great ” which an insane
flunkeyism wants to thrust upon an old lady,
distinguished for nothing but the acerbity of her
Royal and Imperial temper. — Macassar.
The appointment of Treas. Holder (S.A.)
to the position of Acting - Attorney-General in
Kingston’s absence, supports the statement that if
the Law Reform Bill passes this year he will study
for the bar. Long ago Kingston said admiringly
of his Treasurer : “ He could run every depart-
ment in the Ministry, except the Attorney-
General’s, quite as well as all the rest of the Govt,
put together, and, with a little training, he d be
able to lead the bar, too.”
A story is told of reputed millionaire
squatter M'Caughey, which, though of course a lie,
it is not safe to allude to in his presence. It is to
the effect that Mac once “ went to London to see
the Queen,” and just missed knighthood by a
fluke. He was on his knees before Her Gracious
who, in a K.C.M.G. tone of voice, enquired:
“What is your name?” “ M'Caughey,” re-
plied the recumbent Samuel. “ Then rise Mister
M'Caughey,” snapped the Queen, and Mac s
chance petered out like a shallow billabong in a
drought.
Dr. Nicholson, one of N.S.W.’s only pair
of baronets, now in his 89th year, is expected to
be recommended for some signal mark of Royal
favor in June next. Queensland influence has
also a shoulder under him, for he was Speaker of
the first Assembly of that division. It is some-
what remarkable that among those who will take
part in the record celebrations will be this Nichol-
son, who was first Speaker in the unreformed
N.S.W. Leg. Council and later in Queensland
Leg. Assembly, and Daniel Cooper, the first
Speaker in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly,
General Roberts, in his recent book,
makes a modest passing allusion to the Indian
Mutiny incident which won him his V.C. :
I saw Younghusband fall, but could not go to his assist-
ance, as at that moment one of his sowars was in dire
peril from a sepoy, who was attacking him with a fixed
bayonet, and had I not helped the man and disposed of his
opponent, he must have been killed. The next moment
I descried in the distance two sepoys making off with a
standard, which I determined must be captured; so I
rode after the rebels and overtook them, and while
wrenching the staff out of the hands of one of them,
whom I cut down, the other put his musket close to my
body and fired. Fortunately for me, it missed fire, and I
carried off the standard.
“The exquisite, refreshingly - egotistical
James M'Neil Whistler, artist and idiosyn-
cratic, witnessed in the libel-case of Pennell v.
Saturday Review and vibrated the dry and
dusty cobwebs of the law-ladlers with his delight-
ful expressions of super-artistic self-appreciation,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“ Pennell, who was accused of dishonesty, was
only guilty of a trick of the profession in passing
off transfers as etchings, and got a verdict for £5O,
and Whistler withdrew, leaving in his train frag-
ments of many shattered monocles. His un-
attached eye-glass disc is continually falling to
destruction only to be replaced by another window-
pane from a well-stocked vest pocket, and thus the
artist’s path is strewn with shivered visions
‘slightly significant of his own life.”*
The Earl of Seafield, bom at Oamaru
(M.L.) where his father was at one time bail ff,
has come of age and goes ’Ome. Though he can
enter the Lords, he can’t take full possession of
the estates while the Countess lives. She is 7f
Old David Coutts, M.L.C., honorary m m-
ber of the Yio. Ministry, who died the other aay,
was a political failure. He never learned that
judicious silence which is an essential of states-
manship. When the Bill extending the hours of
polling in municipal elections was before the
Council, David made a fine exhibition of his e ce-
city for putting both feet in it. The Council wa»
half-inclined to reject the Bill because it would
give the workman more chances of voting, and
half-inclined to accept it because it would g> ”•
WESTRALIA'S COAT-OF - ARMS
Fat Man more time to hustle round the differ
polls and get in all his 25 or more property-vc-ot
Every MIL.C. was trying to decide which-way
the advantage lay, but as nobody wanted his rea
views to get into Hansard, everybody talked
vaguely about the waste of gas through late poll-
ing, and things like that. Then Coutts arose and
cheerfully asked the Council to pass the Bill
because it would give good, solid, fat property-
owners like themselves more time to go round and
register all their plural votes, and talked about tife
inconvenience which arose through Fat 3'lan
ineffectually busting himself to get the last of nu
votes in, and not being able to arrive in time.
Whereupon there was a great, horrified sil«,;ot>.
Also there is a legend that his Ministerial col-
leagues shook Coutts when they got him outside
A “ massage-house ” advt. in a Lon cum
weekly states that “ Madame Julia, assisted dj
seven young ladies, receives patients from tan til)
nine.” Probably Julia and Co. make considerable
reductions on a long course of treatment.
Influenza Again,
Mrs. Mary Ann O’Brien, a well-known forty
years’ resident of Maryborough (Mariners’ Rfeefj,
was a victim to influenza and low fever, wruoft
confined her to her bed and rendered her unable w.
follow her household work. Becoming very de-
pressed in spirits, and after trying various medi-
cines and treatments, she tried Warner’s “Safe’'
Cure, and says : “With wonderful results, foraises
taking a few bottles of this medicine I began to im-
prove in health, and in a few weeks was quite wel
again.” 1


V\',
argues nob only a want of proper patriotism,
but of sympathy with a high ideal, to sneer
at the spontaneous jubilation of an entire
Empire. ~
■ //ie oix
//ctc{es Mail z*cr^ o
v/’/’osrd YJe /c/e«
///U 7tj/?? a l!/ng~' / s-l
/fonour- /?f 7^ e
777/77-jc/ Jubi /ee . i'l
Sc/ea?'
eft A
a PP a,rov ellel '
-yAe ‘jt ov
Wold f
1/ TION-LLR $■
"0-1000
/ uKjeni/f o
jjl 11 ufanTed
NVitli a federated Australia. w« \
should hope that uot only should wt
obtain such staff officers as we need
from Great Britain, but that the
officers on our colonial staff would
from time to time obtain Imperial ap-
pointments.
"/) Aui7c(i-ee(%SoTr>'elt i n-' i y
• /V, , y/e?c/?ecT<?c/ / >/ ~ p7770 ‘ / ° ~
r/us/, „ ?/ V-,/-^//e
r2*s<YSsA /~ OsL
f % r, '' ' ' ft 11
S Sec<c7 c*A oz ,^£r."
ross,^e
%
f, e fA/A<*{»*'*
A^J^vr^h^ur*-
3isho/o
.
Tha Professorial Board suggests that
when a professor is incapacitated by
Age or infirmity ills .salary shall be shared
’between him and an noting professor.
for
7?.
Af £t f, ac
s { ? ;,- ? "
/ f a/ “^ e^e/ (ctttfoj - iPrrt ~7emf>os-a/~//yy / mstfracr/a.YecA;
MELBOURNIANA.


The coir.mlttee state that they tfoulJKhave Hired
to suggest that some steps bo
the event on the maftiories o/ Lh% public scno-of
children of coieny, but tTte proposals which
occurred to then* in this direction involved toq
considerable a» expense to be recommended!
Some steps towards this end. however, seemea
sSs>
\o, Jf
Ic 7fc VS-h^r^'f 0 '
Jill Under fake foc/o 7fc" mfires?',n<f'- |
l^ c \ TjofiCost
1
. to «J,s>
«.
K
/#/ ft- OP/-
v - 4j ■> KZ%hz‘t%v‘ *"'"^
dZ S *Uf>’£“' M; I**' 1 **' e ‘ ut *
r / rl/j a Z C qJ l f-/y//tff/-00/r? .
The committed appointed by the Goverrnneni
o make suggestions for the commemoration of.
the completion of the 60th year of the Queen's
• reign have forwarded a report to tho Acting Pre-
m;er, Mr. Brunker, containing their recommon-
datioDs.
_ The following are the suggestions.—
„:’■ jCTf" I ** <*tspla.y to be Fort lirmsoiv
1 Exeelknov life Adn ’' r “ 1 ' t 0 lo -nvitcl through his
Excellency the Governor to illuminate the ships
’ioin’in m4r "“ W U »'*> *»
»rir,*' Ven .. t 0 i butelle *. storemen, ind'tra.lT
wards f tU i : ard end )aatio -- 3 “•* £
fBEsKMm]
be « ive ? *0 the inmates of tire un-o.
Rrlgadef n tSe‘'in°m^te/or„ t0 I'"! members ° f •"* Bnjtf
dinner t'o 2 #585 $ % !&'£&»***
&■
hr'
J %,■ fv.
m fa
|U, W>,
W?*fZ?Y
I ‘^W'l
3. All extra -supply -or iciyuuug tuiu r*ciona to oe giro#
to the* aged and infirm aborigines of jthe colons, and
sit allowance «!• food and tobacco, to be
•amongst the* aborigines generally <the distribution to
be caixicd out by the Aborigines Protection B-.ard;.
THE RECORD CELEBRATION IN N.S.W. —A FEAST OF FAT THINGS.


Granuma for Health,
Fodali saveth Wealth,
Honiah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive —
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, btc., btc.
Catalogue on application.
p
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to —
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD.,
DONCASTER, ENG., and. MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agent 3—
00
uu
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is now admitted in the British Parlia-
ment, as well as by local manufacturers, that the
“made in Germany ” stamp has utterly defeated
its purpose by advertising the cheapness of Ger-
man goods.
First N.S.W. Parliament under Respon-
sible Government opened May 22, 1856—41 years
ago to-day (Saturday). Memorable dead of that
first House: Dailey, Deniehy, Foster, Lang,
Martin, Robertson.
“ Jimmy ” Thompson, of many-exhibitions
fame, and founder of the dead Evening Standard
(Melb.), was a defeated candidate at the Wes-
tralian general election. ‘ * Smiler ” Hales, late of
Sydney Referee, was another.
It would be a public misfortune if for any
reason Sydney Truth were to stop publication.
Foolish, violent, and scandalous it is at times ;
but there is no paper in the country with alike the
space and the bravery to do what it does nearly
every week of the year —expose abuses in high
official places, denounce disgraceful privileges, and
let daylight into the dirty holes and corners where
crawl all the injustices and meannesses and rob-
beries of public life.
A LEADING ACTRESS AT A MATINEE.
Attorney-General Want should begin his
wrestle with Carruthers on Constitutional defini-
tions by denying that members of the Leg.
Assembly are solely entitled to the descriptive
letters “ M.P.” Sydney dailies have used that
form of designation for some time now, giving the
other House “ M.L.C. ; and correspondence which
has lately passed between present Crown Minis-
ters and M’s.L.A. shows the same habit.
The Kara Kara (Vic.) election resulted in
the return of M‘Bride, Tory and Oppositionist,
by 325 majority. Kara Kara has returned a Tory
for years past, but at last election the fossil
party had only 11 of a majority. The Tories
claim this as a sign that the Turner Govt, is on
the down-grade, but as M‘Bride got in by enthu-
siastically advocating the State Land Bank and
many other items of Turner’s policy the result is
a good deal mixed.
Pearler Clarke before the Q. Commission
testified that he did not believe in Japs., as whites
■were superior divers if they only stuck to it. The
Japs, had the numerical superiority, and were
not afraid of death by drowning. When a Jap.
diver was pulled up stiff another was always ready
to jump into the dress, saying, “No good cry ;
plenty more Japanese.” The Jap. was an intel-
ligent, active, and industrious man, and his small
belly was easily filled.
All the biographies of the lately-deceased
Due d’Aumale make us think of the glorious
French Revolution. The events of 1789-95
grounded it on an impregnable rock. All the
structures of the Bourbons, Orleanists, and Bona-
partes thereafter were ramshackle weatherboards,
dashed off by the.green sea wave of insurrection.
France is the cockpit of Europe, and has mar-
shalled all the rest the way it is inevitably going.
It has afforded the Colisseum arena, round which
the other nations have sat in amaze.
A loyal suggestion from Nelson (M.L.) is
to the effect that the Queen should signalise her
sixtieth anniversary by assuming the style of
“ Victoria the Wise.” This grotesque idea would
at least bring her into line with a lot of beautiful
potentates whose designations have stuck to them
better than their numbers. Charles the Fat,
Charles the Simple, Charles the Wicked, Selim
the Sot, Murad the Terrible, Ivan the Terrible,
Malcolm Bighead, Abdul the Damned, Clovis the
Hairy and a few more make nice company.
Stephen Barker, a member of Melb. Trades
Hall Council, had the temerity to oppose the
proposal that the Council should illuminate its
hall and.hang out flags in honor of the “Dia-
mond Jubilee,” and the local press is pursuing him
with loyal rancor. According to Age, Argus
and Herald, and all the wormy weeklies, he is a
treasonable person and a blasphemer, and it is
hinted that in other and better days he would
have been smeared in pitch and ignited in honor
of the blessed occasion. The David Syme (D.S.
will be foremost among the illuminati), with tre-
mendous wrath, attacks Barker for “want of
sympathy with a high ideal,” a sentiment that
will be warmly applauded by the gas co. directors.
Last year’s estimates show Victoria as the
only province where population decreased. The
estimate is that Westralia increased 36,700 ;
N.S.W., 19,700 ; Maoriland, 15,400 ; Queensland,
11,600 ; Tasmania, 5200; S.A., 2800; while Vic-
toria decreased 6800. The estimates, however,
are not made on quite the same basis ; Victoria
alone adds a heavy percentage to the known immi-
gration for possible “unrecorded departures”—
this allowance, in the four years, 1891-94,
amounted to 24,134 persons. (None of the pro-
vinces makes any allowance for missing pros
pectors). Reckoning on the same basis as the other
provinces, Victoria would have just about held its
own, and no more. Australia badly wants a uni-
form system of statistics ; the present motley
arrangement only makes darkness more visible.
Premier Reid’stwo undoubted
surpluses: His own surplus fat,
and N.S.W.’s surplus labor.
It is interesting to speculate,
now that it is too late, on how the
war would have panned out had
the Greek fleet, instead of wander-
ing around the Gulfs of Volo and
Arta, tried to force the Dardanelles
and shell Constantinople. If the
alleged descendants of Leonidas
had got there, and had bombarded
the Yildiz Palace, and combusted
the grand old capital, the chances
are that a revolution would have
scattered Abdul-Hamid off his
throne. The Greeks had a good,
serviceable little fleet. The Turk-
ish ironclads, on the other hand,
hadn’t been away from their moor-
ings for 19 years—some of them
hadn’t even been cleaned or
painted or had the boiler fires
alight since the 70’s ; and though
they got to sea somehow, the best
of them was about as seaworthy as
a sieve. On paper it looks as if the
Greeks had one splendid chance
and lost it. Possibly, however, it
wasn’t such a chance, after all.
Seventy years ago that great un-
known quantity, the Turk, drove
a British squadron away from
Constantinople with a good deal
of damage, and just then he had
no fleet available at all. The Turk
has a way of rushing at things
head-first, which upsets all calcula-
tions.
“The Land for the People.” Warran
estate (N.S.W.) contains 249,000 acres, and em-
ploys permanently 26 persons; Goonoo Goonoo
estate (also in N.S.W.) contains 312,000 acres, and
employs 36 hands. And yet there are professing
Democrats to condemn a progressive or graduated
land-tax.
John M’lntyre, leader of the Yic. Tory
party, babbling at his farewell banquet: “The
measures brought forward by the Ministry had
been of such a character that the Opposition, while
subjecting them to criticism, had not felt at liberty
to oppose them. Now, however, that the Govern-
ment had put the finances right, and had attended
to other matters of pressing public concern, he
would give his party a free hand in ousting the
Ministry if they could. ” Poor, flabby old John
thus acknowledges that his only case against the
Turner Government, so far, is that it put the
finances straight and brought forward measures
which even the Opposition couldn’t seriously oppose.
And he proposes, if he can, to throw the Govern-
ment out for doing it. MTntyre never could lie
well enough to be a politician, and his announce-
ment that he is a hardened Scotch billet-hunter
and nothing more is very pathetic.
The S.A. Judges propose to get over the
difficulty about acting-Attorney-General Holder
by “ not seeing ’’ that gentleman if he appears in
court. Holder isn’t a lawyer, therefore it is held
that his appointment as temporary A.-G. is an
outrage on the horse-hair and long sacred rags of
the profession. The Judges can’t deny that he is
A.-G. for the time being, and they propose to re-
cognise him as such, but if he appears in court
they propose to look blankly over his head and
refuse to be aware that he is present. This opens
up a large question, for if the Judge declared that
Holder wasn’t there, and then Holder struck him
on the head with a brick, it seems that the acting-
A.-G. would have a good alibi. Then supposing
anything sudden and particularly lamentable hap-
pened to Samuel Way, it would be no good for
Holder to offer the Chief Justiceship to a Judge
who couldn’t see him. Again, supposing Holder,
when the Judge assured him that he was wholly
invisible, proceeded, relying on his invisibility, to
take off all his clothes in court, what would happen
then?
RIGHTEOUS INDIGNATION.
SANDY: “ D'ye think I wass sic a fule as get
drunk? And, onyhow, d’ye think ony
reasonable man’d get drunk on sic a necht as
St. Patrick’s necht? ”
Softgoods Sargood, ere sailing ’Ome for
the Jubilee grovel, contributed £lOO to the funds
of the Vic. Freetrade Democratic Association,
which employs Max Hirsch in preaching Free-
trade and the taxation of unimproved land values.
Sargood’s little cheque was dedicated, doubtless,
to the importers’ interest, but it is worth men-
tioning that the inflated draper “ sees no reason
why revenue should not be raised from land so
long as it is not carried to the extreme length of
the Single-tax.” In fact, Tory Sargood, being
much more of an importer than a land-owner,
would gladly sacrifice a sprat to catch a mackerel.
Yictoria was
the only Austra-
lasian province
which showed
no increase of
population last
year. There is a
beautiful sym-
metry about the
figures. Wes-
tralia had by far
the biggest per-
centage of in-
crease, and that
province, in the
last two years,
borrowed to the
extent of about
£l3 for each in-
habitant. Ta s -
mania had the
next biggest per-
centage, and it
borrowed in the
two years at the
rate of £5 per
head. Queens-
land borrowed
nearly ,£3 per
head, and had
the third biggest
increase. Maori-
land borrowed at
the rate of about
£2 lss. per head,
and came fourth
also in the per-
centage of popu-
lation increase.
N.S. Walescame
fifth in the
grow'th of popu-
lation, and it
was also fifth on
the list of bor-
rowers ; apart
from con version s
it only floated
loans in 1895-96
to the extent of
about £1 per
head. Victoria
borrowed noth-
ing at all and
came last on the
list—quite naturally. The connection between
prosperity and hard borrowing in this great
country is a wonderful thing to contemplate.
Queen Yictoria is thoroughly discontented,
feeling herself a prisoner in the Vatican of
Liberalism, dla Pope. Read between the lines of
Martin’s “Life of the Prince Consort,” and the
querulous papers which appear from time to time
in the Quarterly, Blackwood, Standard,
Morning Post, and other Tory organs, not even
excepting the Daily Telegraph and Times. All
through the Queen’s reign her beloved subjects
have been peeling off her privileges, flouting her
to the face, grieving her to the soul. Monarchs
are not to be bamboozled as to the sapping of their
foundations. They know very well that if they
do not rule they are doomed.
Yic. : “I find all the Sunday preachers
leathering-in about the impiety of the National
Convention in not recognising—what ?—them.
How it fetches up Moliere’s Tartuffe preface
where he points out that a vicious play called
* Harlequin Scaramouche ’ passed without rebuke
because it only attacked the Deity and not the
clergy.”
The Boodlewraith is again at the old game
of wiping out Southern deficits by the sale of Cen-
tral lands. Hundreds of thousands of acres on
Corona and Katandra runs, the very eyes of the
country, are being offered to the lessees just now
under circumstances which practically preclude
outside competition. Central Queensland is at
present three-fourths Oppositionist ; at next elec-
tion it will be entirely so.
Sydney Telegraph hysterics : “Freetrade
(in England) will never be in danger until a
Liberal Government assails it, and the prospect
of such a contingency simply does not exist.”
What a truly blessed thing it is to be able thus
to see accurately into the farthest future, 500,000
years or more ahead, and know exactly what is
never going to happen ! And what a saddening
thing it is to reflect that the only paper that
knows all about the remotest future, and is dead
sure of what isn’t going to occur through all the
ages to come, shouldn’t have known even a week
in advance that it was going to be fined £lOO for
contempt of court.
Yic. Postmaster - General Duffy having
been sent to Washington to attend a postal con-
ference where the proceedings are to be held in a
language which he doesn’t understand over-well,
Outtrim has been created Deputy P.M.G., and is
busy reorganising the muddled department. This
is about the broadest possible hint to Duffy that
he is a failure and a nuisance, and has to be got
out of the way before reform is possible, and any
reasonably thin-skinned individual would send in
his resignation. If Jonah Duffy could be dropped
overboard without too much splash, Trenwith
would most probably be his successor. Why
Duffy is in the Ministry and Trenwith hut of it
are mysteries which do a great deal to illustrate
the general unfitness of things.
On this Saturday five elections take place
in S. A., of which three are periodical Leg. Council
contests. In Central division the Tories are
running Parsons and Tomkinson against Guthrie
and Hutchison (Labor), and the latter party
expects to elect both its nominees. Only one
Labor man is being run in Southern division
(Kirkpatrick) and he and Baker will probably be
returned, but Conservatism is spending much
money on behalf of a second nominee, Sandford.
Haslam (Liberal) and Warrin (Tory) will probably
be returned for the Northern district. T>o
Assembly elections will also eventuate. In Albert
POSTHUMOUS CONSOLATION.
CAPTIVE MISSIONARY (with the fate of Latimer As Co. in his mind's eye) : " They
won’t burn me, will they?”
CANNIBAL GUARD: “No fear! We have an excellent chef, and you’ll find
yourself done to a turn!"
district, Peake is the Liberal and Riddock
(squatter) Tory nominee, and the Govt, expects
to increase its majority by Peake’s return.
Glynn and Buttery contest N. Adelaide. It is
rather a strange anomaly that Glynn, although an
advocate of doubling the present land-tax, has the
Tory support, but S.A. politics seem to be
governed by personal considerations just now.


WAHOO!
More Unsolicited Praise .
Buck St., Adamstown, N.S.W.,
20th April, 1597.
Manager, Loasby’s Wahoo Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in recommending
your “ WAHOO ” to any who suffer from Indigestion
and Liver Complaints, as it completely cured me
before I had taken two (2) bottles. To-day 1 am a
better man in health and spirits than ever I was, and
I attribute the change in my condition to LOASBY’S
“ WAHOO.”
Yours truly,
ROBERT NICHOLS, Jem
111 111 ("I I Price 26, front all Chemists and
if An U U i Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s "Wahoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
A striking exemplification of the value of a
good idea is the way the suggestion is being taken
up that Australia should contribute a direct supply
of meat to the London poor in connection with
the record-reign celebration. Some good people
interested in the frozen-meat trade are responding
liberally, and will no doubt in ample time be
imitated by many more. The distribution of the
supply will be undertaken by the Colonial Consign-
ment and Distributing Co. Ltd., whose agents in
N.S.W. are that go-ahead co., Pitt, Son, and
Badgery Ltd.*
The Colonial Consignment and Distributing
Co., of London (the concern which is represented
in N.S.W. by the energetic firm of Pitt, Son and
Badgery, Limited), has undertaken to receive and
distribute the vast supply of gratis meat which is
’ -ling sent from Australia to feed the poor of
London at the Jubilee. As there is no sign yet of
any large movement to feed the poor of Australia,
it looks as if the movement was mostly good ad-
vertisement and the rest bad philanthropy. The
good advt. consists in booming the Australian
meat-trade in England, and the philanthropy may
result in a casual knighthood or C.M.G.-ship for
somebody. Anyhow, the advt. is a clever stroke
of business, and should be worth a great deal
more than the outlay, and Australian industries
want all the advt. they can get just now.*
The Seventh Year
of Success.
75,000 in Daily Use.
Easiest Running
Typewriter known.
Requires less
Movements to
Operate.
Manifolding
Unexcelled.
Sa" 14
SMITx W
r «AN
25"«»tvp£iw*«<
Corrections Easily
Made.
Keys all Locked at
End of Line.
Triplex Ribbon
Movement.
Direct Interchange-
able Platen.
Fixed Rotary
Type-Brush.
Solid Ball-bearing
Carriage.
The SIQITH PREMIER TSPEIIIRITER SHEES
. . EXCEED AT |T ■ OTHERS . .
THE KEYBOARD is specially constructed for Australian users, and the characters are inter-
changeable The platen is self-feeding. Line-spacing automatic, adapted for cdaimn-writing.
Automatic right and left margins. Solid steel typebars. The onlv typewriter with solid ball-bearing
carriage. Direct-lateral reversible ribbon movement, with interchangeable spools. Regular rectan-
gular keyboard. Punctuation marks do not puncture the paper, and the only machine that writes
direct on lines without alteration of gear. Special attachment for card writing and envelope
addressing.^ Second hand Machines, of various makes, from -£3. Write for specimens of work.
Edison Mimeographs, Stencil Paper, Ink, Silks, Varnish and Paper, Carbon and Ribbons for all
machines. „
. See Our Special Typewriter Table . .
Lioghan),
Sole Importers for Australasia,
1* 2 k 3 Victoria Arcade* Sydney*
WHY DO
PALINC’S PIANOS
Sell so readily and prove easily VICTORS over all
competition ? It is because of the overpowering
magnet of well - known and honorable names,
such as —
STEIN WAY & SONS, New York
JOHN BRINSMEAD & SONS, London
RICH, LIPP & SONS, Stuttgart
JULIUS FEURICH, Leipzig
GORS & KALLMANN, Berlin
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, Heilbroun ...
ESTEY ORGAN COMPANY
BOOSEY & CO., London ...
BESSON & CO., London
COUESNON & CO., Paris
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
AMERICAN ORGANS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
&c., See. , Sc c.
These names are sufficient in themselves to vouch for all that is meritorious and excellent,
but to make assurance doubly sure, we add our own guarantee that in every instrument sup-
plied, the very best material and workmanship have been used, and that they excel in all-round
merit and intrinsic value. In beauty and chaste elegance of design they are far in advance of
competition.
The “ VICTOR ” and the “ BELLING ” Pianos, constructed especially to our order at
.£46 and =£36 respectively, are extraordinary good value, and we can recommend them with
confidence.
Our new Showroom for Band Instruments is now full of every description and variety of
musical instrument, and well worth a visit. Our prices are extremely low—wholesale or retail.
We sell for cash or on easy time payment terms. Please call and see us, or write for catalogues.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNTEY & NTEWCALSXLE.
Travelling on Ufind.
Figuratively speaking, this is what all
Cyclists are doing. . . .
PRACTICALLY SPEAKING,
un
TYRES
travel on a well-earned reputation of being
made of the purest rubber and best material
obtainable. These tyres are specially manu-
factured to stand the Australian roads and
climate.
GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
FIRST IN 1888. FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co, Ltd,,
486 Kent Street, SYDyEY.
Head Office . Melbourne. Branches also at Adelaide and New Zealand.
Shaftesbury can plead the illustrious example of Car-
/melon, who was shocked beyond measure on Pall Mall
Maoazixb lately exhuming a photo, of him as a kind of
Charley’s Aunt in the University A. D.C. theatricals.
Theorbo : “ Melb. demise—-David Lee, city organist.
His wife has been dead live years. She was eldest daugh-
ter of Mrs. -Johnson, widow of a rich Western district
squatter. The buxom Mrs. Johnson married young
Nieholls, causing a lot of tattle. Her second daughter
was the celebrated Boy-Girl, long: dead. It was abetted
that, for a waiter, she walked Coll ins-street daily with
hair cut like a boy. In the height of this reclame she
acted in Katharine and Petruchio at Melb. Bijou.
Lieutenant-Colonel Bingham jibbed on his “ Lelamine”
part, buffetted Buvet, the publican, and handed it to a
gent, unshackled by considerations of dignity. Svdney
Smith wrote that a gentleman could not, with impunity,
allow himself to be kicked, even in fun.
Alma Stanley was the original of the costumes, or no-
costumes, introduced by the massive Addie Conyers in
Australia.
Steady-going Chirgwin sent £l5OO to his London bank-
ing account the other day, which represented his surplus
Australian income up to date. Chirgwin’s six months’
engagement at £lOO per week has not shown much profit
for Rickards probably, but it paid its way. The old
identity will be the means, too, of inducing other people
to jump at Rickards’s offers. He goes ’Ome with a glow-
ing description of Australia and a good word for the
people who appreciated his musical ability.
Mr. Patrick Costello’s methods are simple but expen-
sive. Enters room where actress-lodger is ill in bed ;
ordered out; comes back and demands spot cash for rent
not due, according to the lady, till following Monday,
and, not getting it, pitches her boxes forthwith over bal-
conv into street. Seventy shillings, or two months, will
probably sicken Patrick of being his own sheriff.
The inflation of the “Lelamine” amateurs, after per-
forming for one consecutive week at Melb. Princess's, was
excusable, perhaps, but none the less pathetic on that
account. When the curtain fell upon the last night of
the season —which was assured of a good aggregate
attendance before it started—the amateur general man-
ager made a speech to the effect that “ the success of the
opera, composed bv a local musician and performed by
local amateurs, should encourage managers to look for
theatrical successes in Australia as well as in Europe and
America.” The young man honestly thought that the
show had been applauded on its merits, and would satisfy
a hard, unfeeling public if revived under ordinary condi-
tions. As for the particular reference to “ local " aspir-
ants, including the lord from Hingland, it provokes one
to remark that the most satisfactory amateur opera per-
formance given in Melbourne within the last dozen years
was accomplished by a German company at the Alexandra.
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent : “ I met Toole
limping along the front, at Brighton, on Saturday, with
an attendant, and looking very lost and unlike himself.
The reports of his health, both mental and physical, are
very disquieting.”
“ Steele Grey ” has been commissioned for an operatio
curtain-raiser, written to clever George Pack’s music. It
will likely be in rehearsal when this meets the eye.
Spagnoletti : “ A pious lady of my acquaintance is
aghast to find her daughter can high-kick. lam informed
it is taught in Melb. by a professional at three half-pence
a lesson.”
H. : “ Amateur opera is comparatively new in Melb. On
the other hand, dramatic clubs have failed to reach the
status of the Melb. Garrick and Histrionic, of yore. A
blow was given to really fashionable amatenring through
three high lights becoming embezzlers and having to bolt.
However, the modern Dagonet yielded Scot Inglis.”
At Carlton (Vic.) is a plumber named E. Slinn. It is in
accordance with dramatic unity that the water should be
turned on by a personage of that name.
A good audience, even a fair one (writes “Silas” to Tub
Bullktin),'s never permitted to hear the wheels going
round in a decently-managed theatre. A bad one in the
intervals hears the clatter of the moving castle, the hoof-
beats of the supers., and the soulful wail of the soured
manager shrieking his commands in good round bullocky 7
lingo. Is this the managerial method of expressing con-
tempt for the weary fragment in stalls and pit and circle?
The writer was in a theatre one night last week, when the
house was peopled with a few furtive deadheads, and a
score or two of people who had paid, and were stricken
with remorse, and during each interval the racket behind
filled the house. In momentary lulls, it was possible to
catch the glug-glug of the comedian’s “ ’arf-an’-’arf,” and
the giggling of the giddy girls discoursing with privileged
johnnies in the wings. The audience was small, but it
felt, the insult keenly, and the manager who takes it out
of those who come for spite of those who don’t, had
better by far start an orchid-farm at Spitzbergen.
Ghastly tales of more drought still come
from most of N.S.W. and Victoria, and a great
part of S. A. and southern Queensland. The re-
ports are all the same—the water supply getting
lower, the feed scarcer, the dead cattle and sheep
more numerous, and the live ones fewer and more
b°ny. It is mainly a narrative of dust and bones
and ruin. So far, prayer and humiliation haven’t
shifted the disaster by one iota, and the various
meteorological authorities report that there is not
the slightest sign of it shifting. Whether prayer
and humiliation and faith don’t affect the pro-
blem, or whether they didn’t affect it this time
because there wasn’t enough of them, is left an
open question. Where the bitter irony of the
thing comes in is that a few people prayed hard for
rain in Australia where it was wanted, and they
got none; but in Maoriland, where it wasn’t
wanted, and wasn’t prayed for, it came down a
deluge. A great part of Hawke’s Bay district is a
muddy ruin, and the total losses will probably run
to something near half-a-million. The rain that
wasn’t prayed for will be remembered way down
the Rangitikei Valley for many years to come.
“ I was present at a trial of the new
Hotchkiss gun, and saw it fire forty-four shots in
four seconds,” writes The Bulletin's London
correspondent. “It spits out 1000 bullets in
2min. 3sec., and has two points vastly superior to
the Maxim. There is no water-jacket, and merely
a third of the parts of the Matabele-mower—32 in
place of 100. Its principle is an extraordinary
one, though but the practical modernisation of an
old Belgian invention. As the ex plosion-recoil is
used in the Maxim to automatically fire, empty,
load and shoot, in the Hotchkiss a portion of the
powder gases following the bullet turn from the
barrel into a separate cylinder through a small
hole Bin. from the muzzle. The gases fill the
closed cylinder and force back a piston, which
does the rest. A corrugated steel jacket covers
the explosion section of the barrel and acts as a
radiator, throwing off the heat and dispensing
with a water-chamber. The gun is a great man-
potter. ”
The Bulletin, which has occasionally
passed rough remarks upon “ Swilliam ” Clarke,
from its political-economy point of view, is sorry
to record the sudden disappearance of that free-
handed Victorian identity. He died in harness.
That is to say, he was a pretty regular attendant
at his Melbourne office, where ho did nothing in
particular beyond dispensing financial favors, and
last Saturday morning, after alighting from the
tram-car that bore him to “business,” W. J. Clarke
dropped unconscious on the street. A minute
afterwards, having been carried into the nearest
hotel, he joined the majority. Death resulted
from failure of the heart’s action, doctors say ;
possibly it was hastened by two consecutive doses
of the “ Lelamine ” amateur performance at the
Princess’s Theatre. Ever a willing supporter of
charity-benefit shows, baronet Clarke swallowed
“ Lelamine ” on the Thursday and Friday nights,
with his eyes open all the time. His wiser wont
had been to close his eyes upon such occasions,
and peacefully sleep off the effects. A better-
meaning property-owner never lived and died in a
vinous atmosphere than the generous son of a
sordid father, which is much more than can
be said of the original Chtrnsides and the squattah
class in general. His whole life since he succeeded
to his share of “Big” Clarke’s wealth was
devoted to more or less unostentatious money-
giving deeds, and although Ins sensational gifts—
dating back to 20 years ago—may have been in a
great measure biddings for a title, “W. J.” leaves
no enemy who will call him a snob. Indeed, he
leaves no enemies whatever. His one notorious
failing injured nobody but himself, whilst his
virtues of kindly munificence and all - round
charitableness made his name an honorable by-
word. A more self-respecting man in his cups
than his equally-liberal brother Joe, the late W. J.
Clarke played his part like a true gentleman of the
three-bottle era.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIKTIIKK KKUIICEU KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.B.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every <£l to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Oapi tal payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
-THE-
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4, *OO,OOO
Paid-up .. .. £2,050,211 ss.
Directors :
flon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Men res, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornlev,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoorl, K.C.M.G., M.L.O.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cuteheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjiee: 1 Sishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aarency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,627 16 4
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manage,..
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macg*reg*or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BROKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-C.vanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
< able Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, eta Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
TL r _ is noted for its Prompt
I I) IS vonjpaijyand Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Aocident Insurance.
Authorised Capital .£600,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 261,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
sr., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
8. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and niients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
phcenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed .£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890."
Authorised Capital .. „ .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up ... .. £1,660,032 3 0
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 89,967 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman; JohnGrioe,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirYV. A.ZeaI,K.C.M.G., M.L.C.;Auditors: W.H.Tuckett,
Esu.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
\ Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
, Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
j Office: 123 Bishopgat.e-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP J,. - £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. - 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
David graham $ C°-
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
(a'Qtleroeo’s 8 ™““
Winter SOitiQgs
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BE AH AM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
Hotels.
fy Poverty Pointers»
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.” —I. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
Soutb. Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’B HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville,
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position—
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists
Boating’, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
oelve prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Eor )
MELBOURNE f
Peregrine, Saturday, May 22,12 noon.
Leura, Saturday, May 29, 12 noon.-
ADELAIDE )
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE i
Gabo, Tuesday, June 1, S p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GER\LDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, June 1, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, May 22, 2 p.m.
Burwab, Tuesday, May 25, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG \
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE I
LUCINDA POINT f
GERALDTON
CAIRNS J
Tyrian, Saturday, May 22, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, May 29, 2 p.tn.
(Jargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST 41KKENT FAKES TO ALL POKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Lite Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR i
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE Vi
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS. !
S.S. Bullarra (from Melbbourne)
Tuesday, May 25.
-S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, May 25.
S.S. Innamincka(from Svd.) June 1
ALBANY, A i
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle I <
to y
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON !
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Bullarra (from Mel-
bourne) Tuesday, May 25.
S.S. Adelaide (from Mel-
bourne) Tuesday, May 25.
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd-
ney) June 1.
ESPERANCE BAY }- Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Emu, Tuesday, May 18.
S.S. Franklin, May 25.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
G. 8. YUILL AND CO., I-TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & Go’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Eoyal Mail Line
—TO —
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
ITINGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £125 to .£7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent
Shipping,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Ro.val Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For liondon.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7o
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25 £97
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A- U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday' Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agent*:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddelej’ & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare —London. 16; Natal and Capetown
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON'& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS 6i CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
Mining Notices.
T. ,J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHA REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
A delaide.
N.S.W. Cban>b?r of
CVTOTICE is hereby given that a PUBLIC
MEETING will be held on FRIDAY,
MAY 21st, at the Equitable Buildings, George-
street, Sydney, at 4.15 p.m., at which it is pro-
posed to form a N.S.W. CHAMBER 01
MINES. Draft Memorandum and Articles of
Association will be submitted to the Meeting.
Provisional Committee :
Messrs. Alexander, Batley, Bensusan, Boucher,
Buzacott, Cohen, Dodds, Eissler, Gainford, Howell,
Inglis, Kirk, Low, Malcolm, Marks, Massey,
Mullens, Danvers, Power, Robson, Samuel,
Tarleton.
ARTHUR J. CHAPPELL, See. pro tem.,
Equitable Buildings,
April 30th, 1897. George-st., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
ti ?€ Leading Pipe.
(GBP)
Wholesale Depot:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Ladies’
«*v.
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each 5s- 6d-
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. oa.
COMB INGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. Oa.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W H Wljrwell, IM willtam-it Only.


First Prize at the Royal Agricultural Show
v>*«*
>
HOW I FEEL
b :fore taking
PIL-KOLA.
(Rboistbrbd).
AWARDED TO
FISHER & GO.’S PIL-KOLA
(REGISTERED).
Fisher & Co.’s Famous Tonic in Solid Form.
PT 6 !^ 68 °L°Y famouB KOLA NUT TONIC in a 80lid form. The principal ingredient of these
from Weak N '? t ’ t ? v wh , loh 18 added valuable medicines, which make them an invaluable remedy for all diseases arising
Nerves Muscular Weakness, Loss of Appetite, Depression of Spirits, Constipation, Palpitation of the Heart, Bad
ISS if Nervev latU T nCe ’ N f rvo . us Headache Loss of Memory, Enlargement of the Liver, Kidney Diseases,
DT R PmOKS n and Youthful Vigor, Locomotor Ataxy, Partial Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, and Sea Sickness.
DI KED HONS : ° %?Qm4V^m^ e T 8 T1 ? T da / hal^V T h ™ r J 3efore takin ? food - Children, half a Pill. For INDIGESTION,
GASTRIC TROUBLES, or CONSTIPATION, it is better to take them after food.
Price, 2s. 6d. per box; Six boxes, 13s. 6d. Postage Free.
Post Free ! Post Free ! Post Free to all Parts of Australia !
TRADE MARK.
nnim,v _
HOW I FEEL
BEFORE TAKING
PIL-KOLA
(Registered).
THE AFRICAN KOLA NUT EATERS.
THEIR REMARKABLE PHYSIQUE AND POWERS OF ENDURANCE.
The cut in connection with this article is from a photograph of native Africans of the present day
Their immense physical development is apparent. There is not a pound of superfluous flesh on their
bodies. Barring his color and his features, any one of them might sit for an ideal portrait of Hercules.
Civilisation can boast of
no such men. In an exhibi-
tion, with sculptors and
physiologists on the jury,
they would take all the
prizes for physical power
and beauty. They do not
know what disease is, and
never suffer pain save from
injuries received in war or
in the chase. How formid-
able they are in war—even
with their crude weapons
—their white enemies have
learned through many
costly lessons. The modern
athlete, however much
muscle he may have piled
"ii by laborious training,
may well look enviously
upon these giants of tin
tropics. Yet their amazing
p i.ysical development is no
new thing. What the pie
tu es show them to be now,
so have they been for cen
turies. They are eaters of
the fruit or nut of what i-
botanically known as the
ombene, or sterculia plant,
products of which, undei
the name of Kola, are fast
becoming celebrated in
civilised countries for their
wonderful nourishing, tonic
and stimulating properties.
To the immemorial use of
this nut more than any-
thing else travellers and
explorers, as well as the
natives themselves, attri-
bute thur phenomenal de-
velopment, strength, health
and longevity.
Mr. LAi’ACADIO
HEARN, Journalist and
Traveller, writing of them
in a leading magazine,
says :—“The muscular de-
velopment of some of the
men is wonderful. Many
specimens far surpass our noted athletes. To appreciate this fact one must see them working in the
fields, naked to the waist, with only a clout about their loins. Nothing could be more striking than
their leaping, moving figures as they bathe in the early morning along the ocean sands. Their muscles
f
m
Y/t
/
Zh
mm
OT EATERS DEFENDING THEIR CAME.
are solid as mahogany, and they are pictures of anatomical grace and symmetry—perfect from crown
to heels. The women and girls, continues Mr. Hearn, “are supple, straight as palms with
finely moulded and compact figures. They walk up and down steep hills, and over mountains ’under
an awful sun, bare-headed bare- imbed, bare-footed, carrying on their heads burdens of from one
to two hundred pounds. They-fill ships, discharge cargoes, build railroads, bridges and masonrv
carrying everything by head-pads. Their endurance is astounding." ' y ’
It is not claimed for Pil-Kola that it can do what Physicians and Hospitals cannot do Physicians
and Hospitals are the people and places for those to go who wish to be cured of disease, and the man
or men who imply other-
wise are frauds and impos-
tors, not fit to take an
honorable place in society
or in the commercial com-
munity. It is not claimed
for Pil-Kola that it can
make the dead speak or re-
pair broken limbs. Pil-
Kola will not do sensa-
tional wonders and impos-
sibilities. But it is,claimed
for Pil-Kola that it con-
sists of the finest Pills ever
placed on the market to
cure indigestion, cleanse
and revive the Liver, clear
the Brain, and sustain and
invigorate the Human
Economy. It is a wonder-
ful Pick-me-up, and a
splendid preparation for
strengthening the Nerves
and Heart.
Cyclists, singers, auc-
tioneers, and Publio
Speakers swear by it.
These pills are beauti-
ful and pearly and pleasant
to take. No pink dye is
used, which irritates the
stomach and does mors
harm than enough.
One Pill taken three
times a day will keep the
system in thorough order,
giving tone to the body
and beauty to the face.
One great advantage of Pil-Kola is that it can be posted free to every part of the world,
and another advantage is that the Box can be carried in the pocket, and the Pills taken regularly
as recommended. 7
IJne ctualle d.
Public School, Darby’s Falls, February 19, 1897.
Dear Sirs, —Will you please forward to me, as soon as possible, another bottle of your famous
Kola Nut Tonic.” I consider it an admirable Pick-me-up, and strongly advise all who suffer from
Dyspepsia to commence taking it without any further delay.—Yours faithfully, JAS. FARRY.
Woodbury, Tarro, October 29, 1896.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me another bottle of Kola Nut Tonic. It is an excellent Tonic, and I
strongly recommend it to all suffering from indigestion.—Yours faithfully, H. MACKAY.
Actual Facts.
A leading Sydney lawyer called on us and stated that after a very merry night he felt so bad and
sick the next morning it was necessary to see his doctor. The doctor advised him to go straight to
FISHER & CO.’S and get a draught of their KOLA NUT TONIC. In half-an-hour he was bright
and fresh enough to conduct an important law case, which meant £250 to him. He is quite positive it
would not have been done without the Tonic. The gentleman naturally will not have his name men-
tioned in the papers, but it can be made known privately. This gentleman is most enthusiastic in his
praise of KOLA NUT TONIC, and will now have no other medicine.
Pneumonia.
Worry kills business men. Heavy losses and hard times make them depressed in spirits. The
brain and body become weak ; unknown to them, they are debilitated. It is then that the least chill
strikes them, and pneumonia carries them off. To fortify the system and make the spirits buoyant,
nothing can equal Fisher and Co.’s famous PIL-KOLA. It is the most remarkable invigorator and
sustainer known.
(Copy.) What Henry Bracy, Esq., says about FISHER & CO.’s TONIC.
HENRY BRACY’S ENGLISH AND COMIC OPERA COMPANY, SYDNEY.
Messrs. FISHER & CO. Lyceum Theatre, March 6th, 1897.
Gentlemen,—lt is with much pleasure that I testify to the merits of your Kola Nut Tonic. In
my professional vocation I am very often tired and fatigued after long and worrying rehearsals, and I
find great benefit at the time from a dose of your Kola Nut Tonic with a little soda-water. It in-
variably has a most reviving effect, and I have got quite fond of it.—Yours faithfully,
H. BRACY.
Memo, from W. M. Maclardy and Co.
82 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have been using your Kola Nut Tonic for a number of years, and find it a grand
appetiser. I still use it, and when low down from the worries of business its effects are grand, it
having wonderful reviving and stimulating properties; it seems to act on Brain, Liver, and
Kidneys.—Yours faithfully, W. M. MACLARDY.
134 Pitt-st., Sydney, 24th March, 1897.
Messrs. FISHER & CO., George-st., Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have found the reviving powers of your “ Kola Nut Tonic” most remarkable,
and almost magical, especially after the worry and lassitude attendant on a sedentary literary life. It
is the best restorative I have ever used. As a “Pick-me-up ” and Reactionary agent in the place of
Alcohol its effects are certainly unique. I can heartily and safely recommend it.—Yours truly,
J. L. PARSONS.
To be had of all CHEMISTS and STOREKEEPERS, and be sure you get it. Telephone 2538. Also from ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS (Haymarket only); F. LASSETTER & CO.
Limited; PATTINSON’S (all shops). Wholesale from ELLIOTT BROTHERS; AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY ; HOFFNUNG’S ; FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO.; E. RICH & CO.
Merchants, Spring-street; or any other Wholesale House. HANKS & CO. ; S. BENNETT & CO. ; CIVIL SERVICE CO-OP. STORES; MYERS & SOLOMON; R. HALL & SON, Newcastle
NORMAN SHELLEY; MITCHELL & CO. Agents for Newcastle-HART & FIRKIN. Agents for Maitland—WOLFE, PRENTICE & CO.
jA. IVEost Efficient
’reventative of Sea Sickness.
KTo Traveller slionlci be with.out it;.
MANUFACTURERS: FISHER
Wholesale and Retail Chemists and Druggists—The Busy Manufacturing Firm.
OTTR DRUGS ARE PURE AND FRESH. ALWAYS MANUFACTURING AND IMPORTING. NO OLD STOCK REMAINS ON HAND. ESSENTIALLY HOMOEOPATHIC
BUT ALSO SKILFUL ALLOPATHISTS. BOTH HOMOEOPATHIC AND ALLOPATHIC PRESCRIPTIONS ACCURATELY DISPENSED. OUR DISPENSERS RANK AMONG’
THE BEST AND CLEVEREST IN AUSTRALIA. REGISTERED AND QUALIFIED.
Lowest Prices in Sydney. Country Orders faithfully attended to.
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (nearly opposite General Post Office).
Agents for Queensland—Messrs. ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Brisbane. Agents for Victoria —Messrs. FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne
g Agents for South Australia—Messrs. F. H. FAULDING & CO., Adelaide.


Packets
of
■s f 'EI
Z~>4LIGARS
‘V«LIV>
w apSgF pisw
Y
norutacluFed by M
Payerne, w ,
ins
Is.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmusaen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
&
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CKEs( E vr,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
" EH'n’ Kiii<>'>sti‘cct Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & CO., Lin>ited,
• . 45 York Street , SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“ Gollan was robbed of a victory with Erl King
at Windsor," writes Tub Bulletin's London correspon-
dent, “ by the inexcusable, though understandable, folly of
jockey Hickey. The Australian lepper was second favor-
ite at 5 to 1, carried lOst. 41b. and the stable considered
the Bucks steeplechase of 150 sovs. was theirs. So did
Hickey wheh he led over the last jump well away from
everything. He was still peacefully and leisurely think-
ing of the golden prospect when the 8 to 1 Baccarat, lOst.
11 lb., came and caught him napping and scooped the post
and pool by half a length. The humiliated Hickey came
in with his chin on his breastbone, a choice coterie of
’Stralian supporters freely utilised their national
adjective to relieve congestion, and the writer had a
mental vision of a Melb. Derby with T. Hales stealing
along the rails on Ensign, while Derritt, on Carbine,
smiled cocksurely on the lawn spectators—and finished a
deplorable second.”
* • * »
At S.A.J.C. Autumn meeting, concluded in
Adelaide on May 8, £38,926 10s. passed through the
totalisator on the three days, The club commission at 7$
per cent, is £2919 19s. The Morphetville racecourse, as
a result of the revival of racing interest in S.A., is now
one of the best appointed courses in Australia.
* * • •
The S.T.C. commences its Birthday meeting at
Randwick to-day (Sat.). The Hurdles looks like lying
between Pat. and Favor, and perhaps the country horse
will prevail, as the extra half-mile in the Second Hurdles
on Monday will be more to Favor’s liking. San Marco,
Wollumumbi, Crfime d Or, Aurea, First Mate, and Feu-de-
Joie are all more or less fancied and backed for the Royal
Stakes, and the chances of the first and last mentioned
appear the most promising. Insulator and Physician
should account for the Amateur Welter between them, if
the uncertain Cranbourne does not give his true running.
The Birthday Cup will attract a big field, and the best of
Hordern’s (probably Hindoo), Projectile, Sam, or Glen-
dennon should provide the winner. Glendennon in par-
ticular looks very well in.
» * * *
Galtee More is a hot, “odds-on,” favorite for
the English Derby, run on Wednesday week, but, as in
the case of the presumed certainties, Macgregor and
Surefoot, the race may prove to be a boil over; for not
only should Velasquez prove a dangerous opponent, hut
that very clever trainer, John Porter, thinks he can win
the race with Vesuvian (Royal Hampton—Fusee).
* * * *
The V.R.C. hold a one-day’s meeting at Flem-
ington on Monday, and a fair list of entries has been
obtained. The Royal Handicap may be won by Key,
Laupdress, or Don John ; whilst in the Birthday Handi-
cap Rosella, Clive, or Damien should be found good
enough to win, as the weight must surely stop O’Trigger.
* * * •
“ Now-and-then ” Newhaven started for ’Ome
last Monday per Oroya, on which a marvellously-con-
structed and sumptuous box has been prepared for him.
The big handicaps, which bring out enormous fields, will
prove his stumbling-block, but in the w.f.a. ten-thousand-
pounders he should have a look in if he be in anything
like his V.R.C. Derby form.
* * * *
A correspondent writes that in booming Streak -
o’-Light and young Riddle’s jump at the Bathurst Show,
The Bulletin acts unfairly to Lawyer, the hors - that won
the competition. As a matter of fact, the contest was
muddled by the show committee in starting the event at
such a late hour. When the pair left off on the Friday it
was practically dark : the horses could not see the jump,
so there was no alternative but to adjourn till next
morning, when the owner of Streak-o’-Light suggested
that the horses should begin again at five feet,
as it was ridiculous to start a horse at a 6ft. 2in. jump
after a heavy previous day’s work. Mr. Riddle then re-
fused to risk injury to his horse and hoy, and withdrew,
the prize being awarded to Lawyer. It was the pheno-
menal riding of the toy that The Bulletin drew special
attention to, and Lawyer s win is all the more creditable
in that he was jumping against a powerful horse with a
child on its back. They might just as well have stuck a
postage-stamp on Streak-o’-Light’s saddle, so far as weight
was concerned.
» * * •
It has long been openly stated at the street-
corners that the square ex-proprietor of what was
perhaps Sydney’s most successful tote avers that he had
to give up business because of the ever-increasing black-
mail he had to pay the police and their touts. Perhaps
this gentleman will be shortly afforded an opportunity of
telling his story on oath.
• * • *
Payton’s cast-off, Le Var, is among the entrants
for the Perth Birthday Cup, to he run on the 24th inst.
Laura, Stiletto, and Paul Pry are among others nomin-
ated. The Westralian Derby winner is now very well, and,
if not overweighted, will take some beating in the utile-
and-a-half handicap.
• * * •
Perth Tattersall’s has begun to be more sporting-
club-like. Bookies are now admitted to membership— at
60 guineas a year apiece—but the Ikey Mo class have little
or no show against the tote on W.A. courses. The Can-
ning Park Turf Club, a proprietary, runs a ten-shilling
machine in the grand stand enclosure, a ss. one on “the
flat,” and a modest 2s. 6<l. one for the ladies in the grand-
stand. The latter frequently pays divs. at the late of Bor
10 to 1 when the bigger machine returns 2 Or 3 to 1, and
Ikey Mo is asking a shade of odds on. Two or three
cute books of the better class have got into Perth Tatt.’s
as ordinary members, and pay a license of 40g. only for
the privilege of betting.
* * • »
“ Jarnac ”: V.R.C. licenses about 100 hill
bookies, £lO each per annum, and about 120 grand-stand,
£25 each.
* • • •
The recent issue of Miller’s Australian Racing
Chronicle, with incidental reference to the stock win-
nings of certain racing sires, has brought Sunrise into
particular notice. Breeders seem to be suddenly struck
by the fact that the success of Sunrise is remarkable,
considering that his stud alliances have been restricted to
“ unfashionable ” mares.
* * • *
Overheard in the Derby-stand, Morphetville,
S.A. Mrs, Punter : “ Did your husband win at the races
on Wednesday, Mrs. Tipper?” Mrs. T. : “He made £3
6s. 6d. selling his tips, but he lost £4 10s. backing ’em in
the tote.”
Ireland is avenging its wrongs by hitting the
Sassenach in his breeches pocket. The amount lately won
by Irish stables on the English turf is fabulous. In
steeplechasing they were as successful as ever, and wound
up by carrying off the Grand National ; but it is on the
flat that their doings have created consternation. The
most successful handicap horses now running—Clorane,
Victor Wild, and Winkfield’s Pride —are all Irish ; and the
Tipperary-bred Galtee More has won the Two Thousand
Guineas, and is favorite for the Derby. Like many other
Derby favorites, he, as two-year-old, won the Middle
Park Plate—a circumstance not in his favor, for no
animal won both events —Derby and Plate—until Melton
broke the spell. And now the Irish-bred Count Schom-
berg wins Chester Cup.
» * * *
S.A. Anglican Synod got into an awkward
corner recently. Some clergymen agitated for the setting
apart of a Saturday (May 8) for private humiliation and
prayer on account of the drought. The proposal would
have been carried, but one of the lay members timorously
pointed out that the proposed date was the third day of
Adelaide Cup meeting and many Anglicans owned race-
horses. Were they to wrestle in prayer at home and miss
the chance of getting on to several good things, or could
they wrestle by proxy ? Matter postponed.
• * • *
A.J.C. secretary Clibborn to an Argus inter-
viewer : " One hears a good deal now on the figure
system of breeding, in connection with which Bruce
Lowe's name is so often mentioned. Mr. Frank Reynolds
is, to my mind, the real author of the system, and in the
first instance got together all the information upon which
the figure system was built.”
* * * •
Ikey Mo still pursues the M.L. racing clubs.
One of the tribe entered a gathering lately as owner,
having a horse running. He was ejected, and sued for
£2OO damages for assault (technical). The Bench decided
for the club. Plaintiff, though an owner, was a book-
maker, and had no right on the course. Also, there was
no assault. This bookie-club biz. is taking a long while
to settle.
• • • •
When “ Pendragon ” started London Referee,
he made a rule that the paper would not hold stakes, or
be in any way interested in matches, sports, &c., his aim
being to remain an independent critic above all. Some
sporting and other papers might follow the example with
good results.
• * • •
St. George, lately dead in M.L., was full brother
to the mighty Chester. He never had the latter’s oppor-
tunities at the stud. Loyalty was about the best he got.
• • * *
The latest champion M.L. equine is Goldspur
(Rubezahl-Rosespur), bought for £l4 a few months ago.
The way he hops off the mark is reminiscent of the palmy
days of old Bungebah, when the latter was in his prime.
At Wellington, the other day, the handicapper was
obliged to put lOst. 121 b. on him, but Goldspur made
hacks of his field. And the crowd to a man were on him.
This unique sprinter mav visit Australia.
* * • •
The unluckiest owner and breeder in M.L. is
Capt. Russell, the political-squatting-racing magnate.
Years agone his jacket was constantly in front, but a
blight fell over his stable ; he could n't win, his youngsters
went wrong and brood mares died. Yet he battled on.
The other day the fatuous Leonora and her foal were
drowned in the flood, and while the captain was brooding
over her loss his best colt got away, jumped at a gate and
broke its back. Russell hasn’t won a race for years.
* * « *'
A Northern sporting man is said to have struck
a big thing in consequence of the death of a relative.
That the legacy will benefit the turf generally will be ad-
mitted when it is known that the legatee is Eugene Mona-
han, one-time owner of Marvel, Corsican, Bloomsbury,
Calm and co. Mr. Monahan is at present managing Green-
vale Station, near Charters Towers.
* * • •
“R.” to The Bulletin Your last issue con-
tained a paragraph quoting John M'Elhone’s Parliamen-
tary statement that a certain magistrate accompanied a
lady in visiting Pitt-st. betting-shops. This statement is
truly M’Elhonian, and intentionally cruel on the part of
its author, who carefully suppresses the fact that the magis-
trate in question accompanied his daughter on Hospital
Saturday while she collected money for the Hospital funds
in the places mentioned. It’s a sovereign to a pound of
M'Elhone’s best tallow that the lady was at least quite as
respectfully treated by the Pitt-st. gamblers as she would
have been by John Chesterfield M'Elhone, Esq.
» * * »
An extract from London Truth, to the effect
that Paris 111. has gone all to pieces, and that the sooner
he’s return d to Australia the better ’twill be for all con-
cerned, has gone the rounds of the papers, hut though
the game little son of Grandmaster failed to win the
Northamptonshire Stakes, his people hope to see him re-
turned winner of a good event ere long. At latest, he was
doing good work at Newmarket, the crack jockey, Watts,
often riding him in his morning spins.
• • * *
Panoply, the erst Sydney crock, paid a div. of
£55 in Maoriland the other day. At another meeting,
three fools put a pound each on Lady Agnes and she re-
turned £144 for each flimsy.
» * * •
The ungallant Maoriland Trotting Association
has once again refused the valiant Miss Button a racing
driver’s licence. This petticoated enthusiast
fully applies for a permit e\ ery year.
* * * *
An improved racing hurdle has been invented
by a M.L. man. The top and lower parts of the obstacle
are connected by hinges, and kept in position by india-
rubber springs. If the top is struck heavily it gives, the
moke reaches the other side safely, and the hurdle as-
sumes its original position. Reads all right.
* * * *
The fields in hack races are invariably large in
N. Maoriland—regular Sydneyside crowds when half the
latter are out “ airing.” Consequence, the totes are too
small and some of the prads have to he " bracketed.” At
Wellington, lately, eight were thus dealt with. One was
coupled with the winner, and, though she ran last, her
admirers scooped in £l6 14s. div., same div. being paid
on both.
* * * *
Mr. Sam. Hordern does not often run his horses
at suburban meetings, but when he does they gener-
ally win. Miss Nora (Nordenfeldt—Lady Nora) was given
a spin at Moorefield last Saturday, and, starting first
favorite, managed to squeeze home first in front of
Taranaki and Euglo, who dead-heated for second place.
Mr. Hordern’s luck now seems dead in, and his horses
should be dangerous at S.T.C. meeting.
* * * •
At Sydney Polo Club Gymkhana “Banjo”
Paterson landed Namesake an easy winner in the hurdles.
’Midst a crowd of ardent but very amateurish riders',
’twas a relief to watch the workmanlike manner in which
the “Pote” handled his diminutive jumper.
* * * •
In passing any Tote Bill, provision should be
made for the disposal of the fractions of Is. Up north
they go—well, anywhere but into the pockets of the
winning ticket-holders. At one Ch. Towers meeting they
amounted to over £lOO.
• * » •
Lately in an Australian knacker’s yard waiting
the axe, a starved, worn-out old hack. Yet some years
back a special train decked with flowers and filled with
friends took him to the course to get beaten for a pile by,
they said, a tongue. And his owner would afterwards
hold your horse for a consideration.
* * * *
’Tis hardly fair to attribute all the in-and-out
running of Vic. and N.S. W. horses to roping, dishonest
owners and jocks.—the fact is that, with one or two excep-
tions, the animals now running are so much abused by
gruellings on the training-track and far too-frequent
racing that they become stale and cunning and, like
livery-stable hacks, only go when it pleases them.
The Queenslander, Battalion, who lately per-
formed so very well at Randwick, has been given the
thumping weight of lOst. 31b. in Brisbane Cup run for on
Monday next. But as the form up North is mediocre, Bat.
will probably be returned winner if he can manage to beat
the lightly-weighted Brazentace.
The placing of old-time trotters with good
records on marks that made it merely a matter of letting
their heads go to win has had the effect so often pro-
phesied by this paper, and it looks much as if the trots at
Brighton, Sydney, which promised so well a few months
back, are things of the past. Amongst the 13-hands trot-
ting ponies running at Brighton there is one now placed
on a mark, race after race, that makes it, “when wanted,”
as good a thing as Mummell Boy proved. This sort of
thing paralyses speculation amongst the other owners
and makes the race a one-horse show. That the handi-
capper should be the only man on the course who does
not know this pony’s form is remarkable, to say the least
of it.
* * * *
Roundly and widely declared in Melbourne that
the real pushers of “ tote ” legislation are the big, solid
bookmakers of the Alf. Josephs type ; that a ring exists
among the small men to offer immensely long odds to a
greedy public on a horse they have stiffened, thus making
cupidity grab at the shadow of a shade and turning aside
money "that would be legitimately laid on “ form ’ or even
“ fancy ” ; that the big, honest men find it difficult, there-
fore, to average a good “ book ” all the year round ; that
the big men, therefore, being, so to speak, outflanked,
seek “ tote "-legislation, so that they can lay and pay
“ tote-prices.” The “ tote,” on its principle of percent-
age, must always win, the honest bookmaker must mathe-
matically calculate up probabilities, and pay up to the
last cent if an improbability gets home on him, if he has
to sell his shirt to do it.
* * * *
From a dispassionate view of the various ac-
counts of the Fitz-Corbett fight, it would really seem as
if Fitz. had a lump of luck in just “ fetching ” Corbett and
disabling him for the requisite lusee., hut not many
moments longer—for, as the world knows, Corbett was
immediately at him like a tiger, almost heating him down
under the ropes. Foley heat Abe Hicken with just the
same hit, when the pair fought on the N.S. W. Border,
but writer recollects Larry telling him shortly after the
battle that he had a great bit of fortune in getting home
just on exactly the right spot. Corbett is a wonderful
boxer, as shown by his making a chopping-block of Fitz.,
whom no other fighter could extend ; but, like most phe-
nominally smart boxers, Corbett is an elbow-hitter, and
too anxious to get away from the return to throw his
body into the blow, more especially with a man possessing
such a “ dirty ” right as Fitz. Lovers of the game would
like to see a return match just to show if Fitz.'s win was a
fluke, but Fitz., or rather the second Mrs. Fitz., is too
level-headed to take any chances, at all events whilst the
dollars are plentiful. Corbett’s seconds all through
begged of him to stand off and beat Fitz. with the left,
reserving his right for defence, and had he done so it is
hard to see how Fitz. could have got his knock-out blow
on to such a master of the noble art.
» * * *
Alleged by London Sketch that Australian
Bob Fitzsimmons used to train by wrestling with a lion,
but, since its death by contact with an electric-wire, he
habitually wrestles with a Great Dane (dog) named
Yarouni, 3ft. high, and ancestored by Bismarck’s Faust
and Fearl. How the Sketch came to forget that Jack
Want got his powerful jaw by wrestling with his pet
alligator before breakfast, and that Peacock acquired his
laugh from practice with his pet kookaburras, is stranger
than fiction.
» * * *
A cyclomaniac about his god. “ The moral tone
of the community is being elevated by the wheel. Fill a
man with fresh air, give him plenty of sunshine and
exercise, and he can’t go very far wro..g ; the stays about
him to keep him morally wholesome are too strong.”
Which is unmitigated bosh : there’s no ruffian like your
calf-and-breastboue ruffian.
* * * *
A yarn now going among Southern cyclists con-
cerns a quarrel between a lankee bicycle agent and
another Yank. "Now, look here, Willyam,” drawled the
former, “ 1 don’t wa-ant to get excited ; 1 don t wa-ant to
quarrel with you any ; 1 don’t wa-ant to call you hard
names ; hut i can’t he.p calling you a damned scoundrel
who ain’t tit to inhabit the same earth as any other hog.
Now, there s nb need to get bad-tempered about it,
Willyam.”
-** * •
“ Oxford passed the post nearly three lengths
ahead of Cambridge, and won as they liked, ’ writes ins
Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ Head-beat to the
world, their backbones curved and bodies swaying, the
Pale-Blues, swinging their dislocated heads in irregular
unison, like so many china toy-mandarins, wallowed and
spluttered in the Heavy wash of their conquerors, whom
they were never capable of bustling. Said to be the best
crew that ever rowed in the University-race, the Oxford
showed that rhythmic swing and ' catch ’ that only a cock-
sure crew in the lead can, and they were certainly a
clinking eight. At practice, they broke all records, and,
in the race, they broKe the • books ’ of those who, de-
ceived by their roughness in the early- training stages,
backed Cambridge lor a ■ scoop.’ ”
» * * »
“ Oars with counter-sunk holes through the
blades were tested by both crews, but not used in the
race, as their value to the oarsman had not been agreed
upon,” contmues our correspondent. “It is thought the
blades with their three rows of apertures ‘ bite ’ the water
better and tend to prevent an oar ‘ running down,’ but
the experts considered that their actual improvement
over the solid blade was as yet purely problematical.”
* * • »
There were some fine marksmen amongst the
Maoris in the early eighties, but none ol them seem to be
amongst the Maoriland record-reign contingent. Hori
Matene, of the Hauraki Native Volunteers, once put up a
record, in competition, of 67 out of a possible do at 200,
400, and 500yds. “ Siah ” Webster, one of the Auckland
representatives to Bisley, is about 37 years of age, and
lias scarcely missed a week at the targets since his
eleventh year.
* * * *
Reflections of an intelligent football umpire in
Melbourne : “Thegame won’t pay big dividends this year ;
it isn’t going to rope in the girls. Cycling shows have
spoilt their taste lor football. Our fellows look so
deucedly over-dressed, they won’t be able to pull crowds
now unless they play in cummerbunds and corn-plasters.”
•** * r
A Wellington (M.L.) cyclist has just met with
an adventure which goes a long way towards making
cycling endurable. While wheeling round Porirua Bay,
during the early morning, he heard sweetly distressing
sounds coining from the direction of the water.
On going to the spot whence the sounds issued, he found
two damsels crouching in some scrub “mid nodin’s on ; ”
they implored him to open the door of a small bathin’o-.
house close by, which had slammed while the ladies were
having a dip. He effected an entrance through the top,
undid the catch, held the door bucK, and manfully i,, azed
seaward while the grateful maidens whisked past him.
* * • ,
Adelaide footballers are beginning to realise the
damage done by lacrosse. There is no junior football
association this season, and one of the newly-admitted
senior teams recently put out a 20 on Adelaide Oval, of
whom nearly half were recruited from the spectators
present, and played in ordinary dress 1
* * • .
Platt-Betts, on Dunlop Tyres, has lowered the
world’s standing mile record to lmin. 47 3-ssec ; ltelph
on Dunlops, has lowered the Australian mile to lmin.
48 sec., and A. A. Middleton, on Uuulops, has struck off
the Aus. quarter in 25sec. dead.
* * * *
Vic. cycle road-racing season opened disastrously
on Saturday by killing a competitor, Brenton Sheppard.
The race was fiom Melbourne to Werribee, and at
Kororoit Creek 1 ridge, where there is a sharp turn,
Sheppard came downhill at a terrible bat, and misjudging
his track ran r gut into the stone abutments of the bridge.
At the hospital he was found to have fractured almost
every big hone in his body—skull, arms, legs and ribg.
He was a tribe old fora racing man, lieinga widower of 36
but was spurred on to start for an open contest by
having recently won a race in his club, the N. Suburban
When he left home Sheppard told his 12-year-old boy that
he would “ either win or he found in the hospital.”
When Sheppard fell Crotty fell on top of him
and was seriously injured as well. Crotty, a warder in
Pentridge Gaol, is one of the crack weight-putters and
hammer-throwers of the province. He will throw none
for a few weeks.
• • • •
Melb. Bicycle Chib’s balance-sheet for the past
year shows no liabilities and solid assets to the value of
£3024. Most of this was raised by the huge attendances
at the last two Austral meetings.
* * • •
Bilmartin is going to sea ; going to have a trip
to New Caledonia. And when Bill comes back in a month
or so, feeling real good, he will give Time the greatest go
he has yet had in Australia. Bill savs that half
the cyclists in Melb. are in love; they put their
money into the bank and drink sarsaparilla. He also
says that the Red Bird is his wheel.
« * * *
Wallaroo v. Randwick did not prove the good
game expected by Sydney followers of football. Wal-
laroos made too much of their forwards to the neglect of
the hack division. Randwicks played the reverse ; their
back division showed to advantage" and won the game for
them by 5 points to nil. Winn got a try just in'time as
shortly afterwards he was “ laid out.” University’ v
Pirates did not draw a big attendance, but proved a good
and evenly-contested game. University played up better
than was expected of them and won by 8 points to 6.
Paddington was fairly outclassed by Wentworth, which
won by 00 points to nil.
• * * •
Harry Mus grove to a Melbournite : “The Fitz-
simmons win will send the Australian stocks up high
and it could not have happened at a better time, for, as
the Yankees tell me here, ‘ if the kangaroos can put up a
good game of hall, they will be all right.”
PILES.—Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “Canna-
lin ” cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Over 90 shocks of earthquake at Kingston,
S.A. The place is evidently trembling for the
democracy of its godfather, who has just gone to
the country where the knighthoods are.
It lias just struck people that when a large
consumptive sanatorium is established in N.S.
Wales it will be even more necessary to follow
Maoriland’s example and prohibit the landing of
foreign consumptives who otherwise would flock
to Australian shores. It is necessary now.
The Sultan of Turkey wasn’t invited to
Queen Victoria’s Jubilee, but he is sending an
envoy all the same. The Bulletin rejoices to
see that Chamberlain will thus be able to provide
a suitable table-mate for the also uninvited Q.
Attorney-General Tommy Byrnes.
Vice-President Hobart, M'Kinley’s under-
study, the other day travelled from New York to
Washington (231 miles) by special train in 235
minutes ! And a special train from Chicago to
Denver, hired by Broker Henry J. Mayham to
get him to his son’s death-bed in Denver, did
102G miles in 1132 minutes !
In a recent Melb. disputed will-case it was
stated that testator considered his wife could not
cook as well as his mother. One day he went to
see the latter, and he looked so ill that she “ at
once formed the conclusion that he must have been
kicked by a horse.” Which is probably the record
remark in such a connection.
A correspondent:—The minernamed Went-
worth, who lately died in Westralia, was certainly
not an uncle of the William Chas. Wentworth
lately admitted to N.S. W. bar. The latter’s father,
Fitzwilliam Wentworth, had only two brothers,
one of whom (William) died about 40 years ago in
England ; the other (D’Arcy) lives in England
and is there now.
Mrs. Champion Fitzsimmons besought God,
on the morning of the fight, to help her husband
lick Corbett. Now, was Fitz’s victory an “answer
to prayer?” And, when the clergy have
answered, with an exceeding great shout, “ Blas-
phemy ! blasphemy ! ” jierhaps they will kindly
explain wherein it is more blasphemous to pray for
the defeat of one of two men than for that of one
of two armies—involving the slaughter of thou-
sands and the wholesale making of widows and
orphans.
Sydney’s detectives are anxious for an in-
troduction to the Hebraic-looking gentleman who
has been collecting delivery-money upon duly-ad-
dressed little parcels of cyanide of potassium—
which cheerful drug has been mostly taken for
salt, though there don’t seem to have been any of
the interesting developments which would speedily
have followed its use in the family stew-pan. Has
the Wandering Jew taken at last to turning a
strictly dishonest penny ?
There’s a sharpening of the bayonets going on,
Just to reap a human harvest in the spring;
Hear the blood yell growing louder —
Mauser rifles, smokeless powder,
War-balloons and all that sort of thing.
There will be a crown of laurel for a few;
Some fresh titles; j»ewter medals for the brave;
Gorgeous fireworks, jubilation,
Empty praises from the nation—
And a poem for the carrion in the grave.
H.


The last sanitary inspector at Menzies,
W.A., died of typhoid, and his successor is now
recovering from an attack of the same fever.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
It ought to be generally known that Rose’s
Lime Juice Cordial supplies a delicious cooling
drink in water—effervescing in all mineral waters
— and an excellent stimulant blended with spirits,
wholesome and refreshing in summer. It is en-
tirely free of spirits. Recommended by the
Lancet. It possesses valuable medicinal pro-
perties, cooling and purifying the blood, stimu-
lating and assisting digestion. Purchasers should
be careful to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others
being imitations.*
A Melbourne divorce-court plaintiff swore,
the other day, that her husband had been drunk
three times a week for eight years. This makes
1248 separate drunks, and the old man is still
alive and healthy.
The man who wishes to enter Heaven had
better take a sample of Sir John Power's whiskey
as a passport. Judged by universal experience
no saint can withstand it.*
The Celebrated
LOUIS Velveteen,
/, * t.
m
;|fl!
[ ft 1. i I
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
A
Y
Genuine “LOUIS” YELYETEEN
Is special] v recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELT.. — Each Yard of Genuine "LOUIS"
Velveteen bears the name (swelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
H. M. Gooch, the Melb. wine merchant,
brought back from England recently 50 cases of
bottled cider, for which he found an enthusiastic
demand. And yet in Victoria, where tons of
apples are wasted annually, there is no manufac-
ture of cider worth the name.
w. w.
GREENER’S
CELEBRATED
GUnS * RIFLES.
Have you a GREENER? Is it genuine? If
you wish to know, read the “ Breechloader, and
how to use it,” with notes on rifles, by W. W.
Greener —the best 2/6 book of its kind published.
It is now in the fifth edition, which proves its
popularity: it contains 373 pages profusely illu-
strated. This work teaches sportsmen all they
want to know about guns : what to buy and what
to avoid, and how to detect spurious weapons.
TT TS 'WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade ” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “ Hijrh
Grade ’’ as a sisrn of Excellence—have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The Greville,
ABSOLUTELY the
CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GRKVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney
MUSIC IN THE. HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MED Ali
MELODEONS
Have Orran and Celest al Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
Mo Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring liyn n, the cheer
fill Song, and the Merry Dance can all be played on these
charming Instruments. No know lelge of Music I.equikei>.
A Useful and Pre tv Present. Enorn ous Demand.
200,000 TKSTIMONI LS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of the
■ SYUNEy Bulletin. '
Campbell’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 106
Campbell's “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22 6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, or the amount.
Ritter sent carriage i aid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers "f music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privi’e e Price List for Musical Season lt>y7, now ready.
150,000 ol these valuable Lists senr out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL X Co , Musical Instrument Makers.
U«. Trongate, Glasgow. Est. 50 Years. Agents Wanted.
PATENTA
(gii
- - TUB NEW - -
Herald Bicycle.
For LADIES and GENTS.
PMBODTES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
' fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs ; nd hearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC S ADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, - 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc lotcrcbaDatable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24=.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CL AHENCE STREET, ST T)NET
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
THe A.CMK
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“ DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
'And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Public Notices.
pUBLIO SERVICE BOARD.
60 Young-street, Sydney,
9th April, 1897.
The Public Service Board hereby notify that the next
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION for JUNIOR CLERK-
SHIPS in the PUBLIC SERVICE of the colony will be
held on the 28th JUNE next, and four following days, at
various centres, which will be fixed to suit the conveni-
ence of candidates. The estimated number of appoint-
ments to be made during the year is 50. Candidates must
be over sixteen and under twenty-one years of age on the
first day of examination, be of good moral character, in
sound health, and have resided in the colony for at least
three years at the date of application.
Every person who desires to submit himself to examin-
ation must forward to the Secretary to the Board, to
reach him not later than the 7th June, 1897, a statement,
in his own handwriting, giving his full name and address,
and his age, and notifying in which of the principal towns
of the colony he wishes to be examined. He must also
submit, with his application, an extract from the register
in which his birth is recorded, or other satisfactory evi-
dence of his age ; a certificate to the effect that he is of
good moral character, signed by his teacher, if he is at-
tending school, or has ceased to attend school for a shorter
period than six months ; by a clergyman or Justice of the
Peace or other responsible person if it is more than six
months since he left school; and a certificate from a repu-
table person to the effect that the applicant has resided
in the colony for at least three 3'ears.
A list of registered candidates will be advertised, with
the times and places of examination ; and, in addition,
every candidate registered will be personally notified of the
time and place when and where he must present himself.
Every candidate whose name is not registered by the
Board will be so informed, with the reason why registra-
tion is refused.
The subjects in which candidates will be examined are—
Handwriting, English (dictation, grammar, precis writing,
and compo-ition), Arithmetic (full course), Geometry
(Euclid, First Book), Outlines of Physical and Political Geo-
graphy, and the Geography of the Australasian Colonies in
moderate detail, English History from the middle of the
Eighteenth Century to the present time, especially with
reference to the colonies and dependencies. Candidates
will also be allowed to take any two, but not more than
two, of the following subjects:—Mathematics. English—a
prescribed author—(the same as that prescribed for
the Junior Examination of the current year), Latin,
French, German, Elementary Chemistry, and Elementary
Geology. Every candidate who wishes to be examined in
the extra subjects must give notice of his desire in his
application.
The fee for examination will be 10s., which must be paid
to a Clerk of Petty Sessions or into the Treasury, and the
receipt lodged with the Secretary to the Board 10 days
before the examination. Every successful candidate must
produce a medical certificate to the effect that he is in
sound health,and free from physical defects, before he will
be allowed to enter upon his duties.
The regulations governing the examinations appeared
in a supplement to the Government Gazette dated Ist
April, 1897. Copies can be obtained from the Govern-
ment Printer.
By order of the Board,
9a48. J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fisn and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
** Trivimph.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
Ari}cricao Injport Co.,
PACKER'S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
■Wholesale from All the I.ending Warehouses,
CYCLES
Are made by the Oldest Firms in the Cycle Trade, and embody all
the features which experience has shown to be IMPROVEMENTS*
STYLE AND FINISH UNEQUALLED.
SOLE AGENTS:
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE ACENCY
LIMITED,
285 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Head Office:
Sran.cb.es :
Melbourne —139-141 Elizabeth-st.
Sydney—393 George-at.
* .
Adelaide—33 Rundle-si.
Brisbane—Adelaide-st.
Perth —Hay-st.
Charters Towers (Q.) - Gill-st.
Christchurch ( N. Z.) —Manchester-st.
Dunedin (N.Z.)—123 George-st.
Goulburn, N.S.W.
Hobart, Tas.
Launceston, Tas-
CATALOGUES FREE.


Special Advertisements.
Health and Strength
RESTORED
by The use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. Cumming, of Yarraville,
Victoria, Australia, Says :
“About a year ago, I had a severe
attack of Influenza, which left me
very weak, without energy, appe-
tite, or interest in life. Obtaining
little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recom-
mended to me, I finally tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and from that time,
began to gain health and strength,
I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very
great pleasure in telling my friends
of the merits of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use. I
consider it the best blood-purifier
known.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
lyCpiO pill Q for Constipation
AlLn O IILLO and Biliousness.
Sugar-Coated, Mild but Effective
CY A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
'
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stoies, Perfumers, Nr
or.direct from
Stree^jj
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
.Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &e., Stored. Furrii
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
c fteethajn’s
tea
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“BEETHAM|S” is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/- & 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAH
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous*
Does Not Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of alt Chemists and Stores,
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
tyiSS E. Twccdic,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbs Up-to-dats FrockiSt.
JMeiiE/ ms?"
SIQNETPCKWKTTB
•T© ■ TH^££
>
1m
?*
O
ra
tr*
tr
r
O
> u^m
o
m
S£
ME-mW
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Bailway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist • “ Zen Vy t You tay schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
VINOIIUIAIV
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Heft Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Tb€ Bapk of Australasia.
(incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835),
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ...
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter ...
... £1,600,000
... 800,000
... 1,600,000
.£4,000,000
Sixty-third Annual Report of the Directors,
With the Accounts for the Half-Year to 12th October, 1896, presented to the Proprietors at th»
Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, Ist April, 1897.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-Sheet as at 12th October last, with the Profit Account for
the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonial rates and taxes, and
for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £40,399 10s. Bd. The addition of £12,222
4s. sd. brought forward from the previous half-year gives a disposable balance of £52,621 15s. Id., of which the
dividend declared will absorb £40,000, leaving £12,621 15s. Id. to be carried forward to next account.
The season covered by the operations of the half-year did not bear out the favorable prospects anticipated. The
cereal crops were much damaged by the want of rain, which caused a materially diminished yield, insufficient for the
requirements of the colonies, and necessitated large imports. The yield of wool was also diminished through the
same cause.
The frozen meat industry has been much depressed, and the prices realised have been unprecedentedly low.
Efforts are now being made by a committee to effect a more complete organisation, and it is hoped that beneficial
results will follow
The present season has opened more favorably, rain has fallen generally, and the prospects of the squatters and
farmers are thus brighter. The general outlook shows signs of improvement, and there is evidence that properties
are more easily disposed of than has been the case for some time past. . There is reason, therefore, to hope that a
better demand for banking accommodation will ere long arise.
The dividend declared is at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum, or £1 per share for the half-year, and will br
payable, free of income tax, in London and in the colonies, on the 2nd April.
W. A. M'ARTHUR, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 25th March, 1897.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, FROM APRIL 13, 1896, TO OCTOBER 12, 1896.
Undivided Profit, April 13, 1896 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...£52,222 4 5
Less Dividend, October, 1896 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 40,000 0 0
£12,222 4 f
Profit for the Half-Year to October 12, 1896, after deducting rebate on Bills Current
at balance date (£12,093 12s. 6d.), and making provision for all Bad and Doubtful
Debts £143,659 19 6
LESS :
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial-
Salaries and Allowances to the Colonial Staff, including the Super-
intendent’s Department and 142 Branches and Agencies .. £64,421 16 2
General Expenses, including Rent, Repairs, Stationery, Travel-
ling, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 19,971 4 2
London—
Salaries ... - 6,891 7 8
General Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... 1,927 12 4
£93,212 0 4
... £8,369 14 10
... 1,678 13 7
10,048 8 5
103,260 8 9
40,399 10 8
Leaving available for Dividend ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... £52,621 15 1
11. Rates and Taxes —
Colonial
London
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 12, 1896.
LIABILITIES.
Dr.
Circulation
Deposits
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
£474,172 0 0
13,695,369 13 9
1,965,627 11 1
£16,135,169 4 10
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 800,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2J per
cent, consols at 95).
Profit Account; undi-
vided balance ... 52,621 15 1
2,452,621 16 1
£18,587,790 19 11
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, and Cash Balances
Loans at call and at short notice
British and Colonial Government Se-
curities ... ..
Cr.
£3,902,355 19 0
1,336,000 0 0
715,137 9 5
£5,952,493 8 5
Bills receivable, Advances on securities,
and other assets 12,190,301 12 1
Bank Premises in Australia, New Zea-
land, and London 444,995 19 5
£18,587,790 19 11
R. W. JEANS, pro Manager.
J. LAIRD, pro Secretary.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-
sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books
London, March 15,1897.
WELTON, JOI
and 00., Auditors.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F ° R
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
\ AND
THE ACED.
“ Yellowbush ” to The Bulletin
Apropos of Marin Island (Tas.). Bernacohi alleges that
he spent £60,000 mainly in building “the finest township
on the East Coast.” The greater part of the “ township ”
consists of the old convict buildings re-roofed. The bill
for repairs and new cottages may have amounted to
£5000. At any rate, they are empty now and likely to
remain so, and empty townships on small islands are not
a very realisable asset. Maybe some “ patriot ” will come
forward to take Smith O’Brien’s cottage off the co’s hands.
But Australians have short memories for such matters,
and probably have forgotten that O’Brien was ever a
political prisoner on Maria Island. About a year back
the only inhabitant was a Chinaman, who, with his wife
and half-caste family, had taken possession of the hotel.
His wages had not been paid, and he was taking it out in
house-rent. Maria Island is one more illustration of the
fate that overtakes Governments which meddle with syndi-
cates. The Tas. Govt, has lost twelve years’ rent, and 1000
acres (the “ eyes” of the island) selected by the co. The
industries that were to have been introduced have failed
hopelessly, and it seems impossible to evict the company.
In fact, no one seems to know what company is in posses-
sion. The Premier may know, but apparently he can’t
tell. To make matters worse, the island might have been
disposed of in a more profitable way. If it had been opened
to selection, selectors would have fairly fallen over one
another to get at it. One man, well known on the coast,
offered £1000 a year for a 99-years’ lease, such as the com-
pany obtained, without the right of selecting any portion.
But, of course, the hypothetical capital of a foreign syn-
dicate had more charms for our benighted legislators than
the hard cash of a local man. Were they not “bringing
money into the country ” ?
Dear Bulletin, —This appeared in Melb.
Age of 17th April last: —
M. Karnia is a benevolent Russian inventor, who has
discovered an apparatus for counteracting the inconveni-
ence of being buried alive. The mechanism apparently
consists of a knob, which is in contact with the thorax of
the supposed corpse. Any effort to breathe causes this
knob to ring an electric bell in the lodge of the cemetery-
keeper. That official at once proceeds to the grave indi-
cated and exhumes the victim. A telephone is also
placed in the coffin, and, if desired, a tube may be pro-
vided for pumping in air, as in the case of a diving-bell,
i The question of refreshments is apparently left to the
discretion of the surviving relatives.
And the following appeared in a sketch entitled
“ The Coffin Club,” written by me and published
in The Bulletin Xmas number of ’87 : —
It was Quirby, too, who advocated—and, in fact, origin-
ated —the plan of putting a pipe down through the grave,
the end of it above ground to take the shape of a speak-
ing-trumpet, and the end below to be fixed exactly above
the mouth of the corpse. By this means he considered
that a person buried alive would (especially if he had a
few sandwiches and a bottle of whisky put in the coffin
' previous to screwing down) be able to give notice of the
fact that he still had a vote. . . . Quirby proceeded
to enlarge upon his pet idea of grave-pipes. He suggested
| that pipes should be inserted in every grave dug after a
certain date, and that these pipes should be connected by
telephone wires with a Central Corpse Exchange, where a
clerk and a relieving clerk should sit night and day
listening. Each grave should have its number registered,
and arrangements should be made so that every corpse
buried, after the date pre-arranged, should be enabled-
in case he were a revived catalept— to communicate with
the clerk and be duly disinterred.
Now I hold that this is swindling. Muscovite
Karnia stole the idea of his so-called invention
from me, and spoiled it in the stealing—he hadn’t
enough gumption to include the vital item of
f whisky and sandwiches —and I want to know
[ what I had better do in the matter. Shall I write
! to the Czar and put the whole case before that
j bloated young autocrat ? Or will you ?—Y. J.D.
Extraordinary recent telegram in Sydney
papers :
At the inquest on the little girl named Augusta Robert-
son, aged 13 years, living at Little Panpong, a verdict of
suicide by poisoning was returned. The post-mortem re-
vealed the fact that the deceased had a cyst of hydatids on
the liver, and this appeared to be the only reason for the
act of self-destruction.
A cyst on the liver, only discovered by post-mortem,
the motive for suicide by a little girl of 13 ! What
tragedy does this seek to cover up ?
A Melb. girl, who aspires to be another
Rosa Bonheur, tells how her maiden aunt ob-
jected to a just-finished group of horses as “so
very pronounced, my dear —-quite indelicate.
“ But, aunt,” rejoined the artist, “I must follow
Nature, you know.” “ Ye-es, dear, lam afraid
so,’’answered the old lady, “ but couldn’t you-
couldn’t you restrict yourself to female models ? ”
The latest great English society scandal
relates to an unwelcome baby. A highly-con-
nected couple had long been married without
issue. It was provided in a large marriage settle-
ment made on her by a rich uncle of her husband’s
that, failing issue, the fortune was to go to some
relations of his, the uncle in question. The child-
less lady, it is alleged, met and was intimate with
at a seaside hotel, a certain young gentleman • in
course of time a baby appeared. The young gen-
tleman (to whom the lady had sent a draft for
.£5000) afterwards blabbed in the presence of a
lawyer’s clerk, who told his employers of the
affair. The employers having ascertained the
conditions of the settlement, communicated with
the uncle’s expectant and disappointed relatives.
Then they talked ; now follows a sensational libel-
action brought by the husband.


Herr Hushbul,
111 K ( ELKIiIUTKII
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SU CCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOE THE —
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULO.S CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfahne Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice; the
very fact of their having been before the public
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a- very large and palatial Depot
was ojiened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Bundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W. A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
Contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the uttermost parts of the earth.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Testimonials.
■A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
„. 160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
near Sir, I nave much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your ylfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, whioh I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
ful ‘y. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear
° lr,— \i."k my duty to inform 3011 that a course of
3'our Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. a. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
„ „ March 7th, 1896.
To Herr R»ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
1 have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. t-UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. t eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later“ The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
vvhen three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near mj’ place on the Rose River, one w as taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning, to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
_ „ „ Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr RassmUSSEN.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 vcars of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, whioh several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended vour Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised,
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S. W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Haoerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Piles.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J. KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, arid the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cyole Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
HBRR RASSMUSSEH’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press:—
Sydney Bulletin. —" Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—" Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—"Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
B. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—"Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bonafides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading peopleof New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Fhemtst and Drnggist Journal, Melbourne.—
“Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depot at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal. Adelaide. “Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Trute. —“ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r quire any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Mines. Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
The Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable.”
The Nord Australisi-lic /oilin g, Brisbane.—“We
speak from personal knowledge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show' the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
i 3?" ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING,
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free,
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
■-AWARDED
♦TWO GOLD
sv®S
&
2s. VP
THE
rrn
./-■•V
ALFA LINE PILLS.
"RED 100.000 fOR THE BLOOD fc NERVES.
A Certain Cure for the Nerves.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfalme Vitality Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Fills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Araline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment—Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Gostiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE “ NATURAL DOCTOR.” - A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “ Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - - - 150 Bourke-street


N.S.W. Government Railways.
Birthday, 1897.
MONDAY. 24th MAY.
Holiday excursion tickets win
be issued from all stations to all stations
(except for distances 13 miles and under between
stations in the Sydney and Newcastle suburban
sections) by all trains, until MONDAY, 21th
MAY, both days inclusive, available for return
until MONDAY, 31st MAY, 1897.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS.—In addi-
tion to the Cheap Excursion Tickets ordinarily
issued on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, similar
tickets at 2d. per mile first-class return (minimum
Is.) and Id. per mile second-class return (minimum
9d.) will be issued at Sydney and Suburban
Stations to the country by trains leaving Sydney
as follows, AVAILABLE FOR RETURN BY
SPECIAL AND ORDINARY TRAINS UP
TO (and including) MONDAY, 31st MAY, 1897 :
SOUTH COAST LINE.
Saturday, 2?nd May.—l.ss p.m. to Nowra,
7.30 p.m. to Wollongong.
Monday, 24th May.—7.3o a.m. to Wollongong
and stations beyond only, 7.38a.m. to Wollongong.
SOUTHERN LINE.
Saturday, 22nd May.—2.2B p.m. to Bnndanoon.
Monday, 25th May.—B.o a.m. to Goulburn.
WESTERN LINE.
Friday, 21st May.—4.so p.m. to Mount Viotoria.
Saturday, 22nd May.—B.2o a.m. to Bathurst;
2.25 p.m. to Mount Victoria ; 6.15 p.m. to Orange.
Monday, 24th May.—B.2o a.m. to Eskbank.
NORTHERN LINE.
Saturday, 22nd May.—l.ls p.m. and 11.15 p.m.
(11.25 p.m. from Milson’s Point) to Newcastle.
Monday, 24th May.—B.ls a.m. to Newcastle
(7.50 a.m. from Milson’s Point).
SIMILAR Tickets to Sydney only will be issued
by trains leaving Newcastle at 6.0 p.m. on Satur-
day, 22nd May ; Orange at 9.20 p.m. on Sunday,
23rd May ; Nowra at 4.35 a.m., Goulburn at 5.0
a.m., West Maitland at 5.0 a.m., and Newcastle
at 6 a.m. on Monday, 24th May, AVAILABLE
FOR RETURN BY SPECIAL AND ORDI-
NARY TRAINS UP TO AND INCLUDING
MONDAY, 31st MAY, 1897.
Closing of Goods Shsds and Central Booking
Office, George-street, Sydney.
The Goods Sheds at Redfern and Alexandria
will be CLOSED on 24th MAY, but the Darling
Harbour Goods Shed will be open until 10 a.m. for
the delivery of perishables.
The Goods Sheds at other stations will be closed,
except for the receipt and delivery of perishables
only.
The Central Booking Office will be open until
10 a.m. for the sale of tickets and delivery of
perishable parcels only.
FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS SEE
HANDBILLS AND POSTERS.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. M'LACHLAN, Secretary.
Public Notice.
fIIHE MOUNT LYELL MINING AND
JL RAILWAY COMPANY LIMITED.
RE FURTHER loouE OF SHARES.
39 Queen-street,
Melbourne, 15th May, 1597.
Sir, —
I am instructed by the board of directors to in-
form you that they have determined to shortly
make a further ISSUE of 28,901) of the present
unissued SHARES in the capital of the company,
for the purposes explained in the half-yearly re-
port, thus bringing the total issue of shares up to
250,000.
27,638 of the shares will, in the first instance, be
offered at a premium of £2 per share (viz., £o a
share) to all persons who are on the register of
the company as members on the lfith June next,
in the proportion of one share for every eight
shares then held by each member. For the pur-
pose of ascertaining the number of shares which
each member will be entitled to apply for, the
transfer-books of the company will be closed from
the said 16th June to the 18th June, both days
inclusive. Payment for the new issue will be re-
quired as follows:
.£2 with application on the Ist of July next.
.£1 on 2nd August next.
.£1 on Ist September next.
.£1 on Ist October next.
In all cases where, by reason of the number of
shares held by any members, and applications
made by them as herein mentioned, such members
would be entitled to fractional portions of shares,
such shares will be sold by the directors to the
best possible advantage, and the proceeds will be
distributed amongst the members entitled to such
fractional portions of shares. As soon as possible
after the 18th June next a form of application
will be sent to each person who is then a member,
and a notice specifying the number or fractional
portions of shares which such member is entitled
to apply for. Such application form must be duly
filled in, signed, and returned to the company, to-
gether with the first instalment of £2 per share on
all shares applied for, on or before the date to be
named in such notice; otherwise such member will
be taken to have declined to avail himself of any
such offer, as aforesaid, in respect of such further
issue. All shares not applied for, and dealt with
as above, will be disposed of in such manner as
to the directors may seem fit. The 1,262 shares
of the present issue, not offered to the share-
holders, will be sold by the directors for the bene-
fit of the company.
By order of the board.
ALFRED MELLOR, Secretary.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
5 Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
rAN g^>
TancentStjel Reeds
aiberA patent
e7Ae_
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. 6d. NATIVE WA-
RATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding covers,
price 2s. J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Bydney.
Amusements.
fJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.5 p.m. and MATINEE,
SATURDAY, at 2.15.
3RD WEEK and UNDIMINISHED SUCCESS of
THE FLYIN<S JORPANS.
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES. ,
PRICES-Ss, 2s, and Is. No Early Doors. Book Plan
at Elvy and Company’s. Day Sale Tickets at Power’s
Cigar Divan. Doors open, 7 ; commence, 8.5.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening and Saturday Matinee,
“Tljc Sigi) of tbc CroSS.”
By WILSON BARRETT, Esq.
A Noble Drama. Splendidly Produced and Acted.
Plan, Nicholson’s. g W~ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
IJIHE MUSIN CONCERTS.
FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR!
OVIDE MUSIN, the World-renowned Violinist.
ANNIE LOUISE M USIN, the Highest-ranged Soprano
in the World.
EDUARD SCHARF, the eminent Pianist.
CONSTANCE HATHERLY, the charming Harpist
(pupil of Oberthur, Medallist of London
Academy of Music).
ALFRED HILL, the Australian Composer (composer
of “ Hinemoa ”).
o- FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR! ■«
E. D. WOODWARD, Manager.
Address all Business Communications to John Laure,
c,o Paling & Co., Sydney.
237 gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
150,000 'j
150,000 I
150,000 |
150,000 J
Visitors to date have wit-
nessed with amazement
and delight this indescrib-
able Exhibition.
l 150,000
J 150,000
| 150,000
1 150,000
TO-DAY, FROM NOON ONWARDS.
J. MACMAHON, Director.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Mr. ROBERT BROUGH.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. Hamilton.
FAREWELL : APPEARANCES : OF : THE
| BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY^
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, 20th and 21st MAY,
“Sowing the Win^.”
SATURDAY 22nd MAY—“A WHITE ELEPHANT.”
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
VJIH& CINEMATOGRAPHS. “LUMIERE.”
Mr. H. W. Barnett is now able to supply complete
apparatus for producing
ANIMATED PHOTOGRAPHS
by the LUMIERE system, together with FILMS both
LOCAL and FOREIGN, at PARIS PRICES.
Full Particulars on application to
11. W. BARNETT, The Falk Studios, Melbourne (only).
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brtuuiant Success of
Mr. Marry Jiickards’s Nov Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged, Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, tl Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE LAST OF
SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST. Is. 3d.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BOU,
AND
V
V
G*
SCOTCH
BUTTER
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
Commemoration Box- of Butter Scotch
With It will be presented a History of the Victorian
Bra, written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie Hatton.
Ready June Ist.
Order «i once of confectioners as only a tbirited
number will be issued^
St. John’s Works, W.C. LONDON
Pubicatlons.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Retail Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
“ pHILDBIRTH WITHOUT PAIN a Code of
Directions for escaping from the Primal Curse : to
which is added Golden Information for Females. This is
a most valuable book, and no lady should be without it.
In secure cover, post free 2s. 6d. Only of
Madame HOMER, Box 992, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE SOILED DOVE, being the History of a Young
Lady who ran away from her parents, and ulti-
mately “ went to the dogs.” Also, Miss Skittles, the Girl
with Six Husbands; Life and Love in Paris, etc., etc.
Each post free Is. 6d. The three for 4s. Anglo-Aus.
Publishing Co., 331 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Amusements.
IJIHEATIiE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT’S
Intensely : Dramatic : Spectacle,
IN SI6NT OF St. PAUL’S.
Written by SUTTON VANE.
PRICES —3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
The Up-to-date Edition of
“Matsa: QCjeer? of Fir*.”
SATURDAY, May 22—“ A NIGHT OUT.”
Prices of Admission—Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss;
Stalls, 3s ; Amphitheatre (early door Is extra), Is.
TO W N HAL C, MELISO U K N E.
Directors—The Gladstone Wright Entertainment
Agency, 77 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
MONDAY, 24th May, Queen’s Birthday, at 8 o'clock p.m.
The Queen's Concert Company (under Vice-regal
Patronage), Grand Concert and hiring Pictures,
Illustrating Stirring British Battle Scenes.
Artists—Mrs. Palmer, Miss Clarkson, Mr. Beaumont,
Mr. Gladstone Wright, St. Paul's Cathedral Quartette
Party, Miss Hemming, &c., &e. Chorus of Choristers.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Balcony, Two Shillings.
Copyright of Plays Act.
CAUTION TO PIRATES.
CAWING to the fact that several travelling companies
are and have been announcing and playing under
various titles the late Henry Pettitt’s drama,
“ Tb? Black Flag,”
Well knowing that the “ BLACK FLAG ” is the Sole
Property in Australasia of Mrs. Alfred Dampier.
This is to notify that any and all persons who either
produce it or take part in its performance are infringing
Mrs. Dampier’s rights, and will be prosecuted according
to law.
Information with regard to past and present un-
authorised performances will be gratefully acknowledged
by
OEOROE PULLER, Business Manager.
Box 1296 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
STREET
X
THE BEST VALUE WATCH
I2M AUSTRALIA.
GENTS’ FUEL STZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, OPEN FACE £2 0 0
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, FULL HUNTER £2 5 0
GENTS’ FULL STZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, DEM 1-HUNTER £2 15 0
Finely finished movement, full jewelled, compensation
balance, and a most perfect timekeeper.
GUARANTEED FOR THREE YEARS. POST FREE.
ART JEWELLERS AND WATOH MANUFACTURERS,
Our Only Australian Address— 90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Exhibition Building-, Melbourne,
Monday Evening, May 24th (Queen’s Birthday)-
Great Patriotic $ Mtiskal Festival
IN CELEBRATION OP THE
Queen’s Record Reign
UNDER THE DIRECTION of MR. W. J. TURNER.
IDarvellous Attractions J
A S»Perb CONSTELLATION of MUSICAL STARS
and DEEDS of LOVE and WAR illustrated by an en-
under the direction of Mr. HARRY
buted by all the People’s FAVORITE ARTISTS and Miss FANNY
Accomplished Pnma Donna (her first appearance since her tour through America).
IMPORTANT AND SPECIAL NOTICE.
AWAY ’ of a Song entitled
Admission, One Shilling.
eentSsoSteS;. 11 ' MUBiC Warehouse - wWe Purchasers of Tickets will receive the Pre-
W. J. TURNER, Musical Di*
And yet Another Cure of Locomotor
Ataxia.
SYDNEY INHABITANTS
PARTIAL PARALYSIS,
MOST PEOPLE
HAS AT LAST
BY DR. WILLIAMS
ASTOUNDED.
SUPPOSED BY
E TO BE INCURABLE
fT CONQUERED ’
uLIAMS PINK PILLS.
MIRACLES ARE BEING WROUGHT TV
OUR MIDST.
INVESTIGATION BY
REPORTER. NEWSP APEB
A wonderful instance of the recuneraHve™,,.
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills i. iSTI!3“"
the Press Association, and an account is «
be ow by our representative, who interviewed th«
lady m question (Mrs. Nellie Denver, of Counted
Cottage, William-street, Double Bay) who hr
over the lut six years has been a martyr to that
dreaded affliction, locomotor ataxia, and it is th«
almost instantaneous benefit derived from th«
of these Pills that makes the following little hil
tory an item of such thrilling interest. In M™
Denver s own words she stated :
“ About six years ago, when residing in Hobart
Tasmania, I had the misfortune to meet with a
serious accident, which happened in the sinmW
manner possible, as I will endeavor to relate On
Raving my house by the back gate the bolt slipped
whilst I had hold of it, which caused me to fall
very heavily, which I subsequently discovered had
seriously injured my spine, although, strange to
say, I felt no ill-effects for about two years after
1 then commenced to suffer from great weakness
and dizziness, and an intolerable feeling of ex
haustion ; in fact, I felt so nervous and uneasy
that 1 feared to cross the street, alarmed that I
might meet with some accident from a passing
vehicle. Not at first recognising the really dan-
gerous condition to which I was reduced I did
not seek medical attendance, but when I’at last
became aware of my serious condition, I was per-
suaded by my friends to go to the Sydney Hospital
where I remained two months without receiving
any permanent benefit. On leaving the hospital I
again rather neglected my state of health, and on
applying for re-admission was informed that my
case was perfectly hopeless. Being unfortunately
not over-blessed with this world’s goods, I obtained
admission to the Newington Asylum, where I re-
mained seven months ; yet still I got no better,
being unable to swallow any nourishing food. I
then took two courses of electric baths, for which
I paid six guineas, and after them, with the excep-
tion of some slight alleviation of my suffering, I
cannot say that they did me much good ; in fact,
I couldn’t even walk, so I returned home feeling
very despondent, and imagining t at there was no
cure in store for me. One day, on reading the
daily paper, I noticed an account of a marvellous
recovery effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and considering that this case (the
one of Boilermaker Jarvis, suffering from locomo-
tor ataxia) closely resembled mine, I determined
to make a trial of them, and sent a boy from the
house to buy some for me. I experienced relief
after the first box, and have steadily improved
ever since ; my appetite returned, and I ceased to
suffer from that terrible feeling of nervousness. I
am now in my seventh box, and can confidently
assert that I am most decidedly improved in
health. My friends also notice a marked improve-
ment in my condition, and this I entirely attribute
to the health-giving properties of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills ; in fact, it must be solely due to them,
for I have tried no other remedy. The proprietors
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are at perfect liberty
to make whatever use they may think fit of this
statement, for I feel deeply grateful for the benefit
I have derived from them.'
(Signed) “NELLIE DENVER,
' ‘ Countess Cottage,
“ Willi am-street,
“ Double Bay,
“Sydney, N.S.W.”
Dr. Williams’Pink Pills have cured numerous
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxy, spinal disease,
rheumatism and sciatica ; also of diseases arising
from impoverishment and vitiated humors of the
blood, which cause scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general
muscular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,
all forms of female weakness, and hysteria. These
Pills are not a purgative. They are genuine only
with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and are sold by chemists and by Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who will
forward, post paid, on receipt of stamps or post
order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 14s. 9d.
They are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.*
EVERY VARIETY OF
BLAKE
MFC
c°
17
■
MpS
m
LEX
PU
IN ALL SIZES,
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single - -
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
MINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
WHEN YOU BUY’
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST!
PLATYPUS BRANP,
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w, aqbnts : Messrs, ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd,»
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil 00. Ltd., Hobart


NEW
WINTER GOODS!
Ex Duke of Buckingham and Southern
Mail Steamers.
267
CASES AND BALES,
Now being Marked off and Put
Forward EVERY DAY, making
763 BALES & CASES
To Hand for this Winter Season,
up to the present.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient
Consumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It has long
been the most popular and successful
anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere approved and
recommended by the Faculty. It
soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays
coughing, and induces repose. As a
family emergency medicine, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral takes the lead. For
the relief and cure of croup, whoop-
ing-cough, sore throat, and all the
pulmonary troubles to which the
young are so liable, it is invaluable.
No household is quite secure without
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. *T. O. Ayer <& Co,,
LOWELL, MASS., U. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral —is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
X
Reginald A. F. Murray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
pt-epared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
Send P. 0.0, for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoq’s Noted AccordeoQS,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown ;
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COX OX & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
no YOU want *
CATALOGUE?
POST FREE y'c>' >
wvrcriEs ■ Clocks - J eWellery- Birthday*
WeddipJc z CHristeiMg Presents
n-NEWMAfJ- 1755177-FIIZARFTri ST*
OPPOSITE G:P.Q-
MELBOURNE-
Editor Mahon, once of Sydney D.T. and
later editor of Gosford Times (N.S.W.), and
Norman, the enthusiastic Sydney Daily Post
man, both fell in the Westralian elections. Both
stood in the Labor interest. Mahon unsuccessfully
contested Gosford some years ago.
An English paper relates a North Sea
horror. There were twin brothers, one a fisher-
man, the other working on a steamer. One night
the steamer was run down and sunk with all on
board. An hour or two later the other twin was
helping to haul in the big net on his fishing-boat,
and noticed in it something that looked like a
very large fish with boots on. It was his brother.
Providence had taken that way of breaking the
news gently.
We reply on scientific, mining or general
matters for Is. Every other subject by arrange-
ment. We will act as your agent in any way at
lowest fees. If you have money to invest in
mines or property, or want to buy a few shares
only, consult us ; it will pay you. Australasian
Answers Bureau, 35 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,*
Listen, ye cattlemen, and beat this if you
can in your list of bovine curiosities. At Charters
Towers is exhibited just now the tongue of a
bullock. Round the tongue are clasped two
hobble-rings with connecting ring between them.
The tongue is contracted where the rings confine
it and expanded outside them. The metal is worn
almost flat in places by friction. This curiosity
Was taken from the mouth of a healthy four-year-
old bullock slaughtered a few days ago. Supposed
the animal passed its tongue through the rings
while chewing the piece of raw-hide that bound
them.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Ever since the beginning of the present
Turco-Greek unpleasantness Gladstone has loudly
demanded that Britain and all Europe shall wade
in and wipe the Ottoman Off the face of the earth.
For many years Gladstone —when out of office—
has raised the same demand, that some one else
shall swim in blood if necessary to abolish Hassan
the Turk, and remove the great Unspeakable
from the list of nations. Yet Gladstone was in
office many, many years, and he never fired a
single gun at the Turk, or was even moderately
uncivil to that dreadful person. Gladstone is a
furious warrior by proxy; an individual who
wades in gore through his agent, and a man whose
knowledge of what the other man ought to do is
painfully extensive.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post freer or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
“ Scotty the Wrinkler” writes from Ber-
rigan, N.S. W., on “ The Halves System ”: —
Dear Bulletin, —The country is praising the immense
good done by the cultivation on the half-system. But the
half is not the half. It varies from one-quarter to three-
quarters in each direction. There’s a lot of difference
between supplying machinery, horses, and seed-wheat,
&c., and only giving the seed-wheat, besides charging
for clearing. All the landlords declare they have
done well in the two years they have tried it, and all
the temporary cockies also say the same. That it is for
the good of the country is a moot point. I, for one, only
see a boom in it. It is like Tom Sawyer charging other
boys for permission to do his work of fence-painting.
The land is cleared and rendered more valuable, and the
big estates are fast paying off the bank debts. The
system certainly gives temporary work to hundreds of
men, but it does not settle them on the land; and
most of the half - and - half men have other land
in Victoria, where the money will go. Worst of all
is the fact that these same locusts are getting the pens at
shearing-time and the billets of the rouseabouts. All the
time that they are taking our wool-harvest money the
great Jah is ripening their crops, unless the Devil sends
phosphorus or a slice of Gehenna to blast them. As
Bobby Rand said, the travellers know more than the
squatters about a station, and they say that one magnate
has squared a debt of close on six figures with his half
crop.
A Bulletin correspondent :—
The Bulletin’s comment on a recent Queensland
criminal case wherein the Judge refused bail, although
there was a precedent in the case of a man named W ,
has a background that few people are aware of. W
was not a man, he was a gentleman —well-connected at
’Ome. One of Queensland’s best-known squatters went
bondsman for the gentleman to the tune of £2000. Then
W made his bow and departed for London society-
circles, taking no precautions to conceal his whereabouts.
Did the Govt, of that day advise Scotland Yard ? Not
much. At any rate, W was never harassed. Did the
bondsman cavort? No, a remit of £2000 caused him to
bear up with Spartan fortitude. Yet, after all, the
alleged crime was very mild—only killing a nigger, albeit
under allegedly very brutal circumstances. Old hands
in Q. can still remember a Wide Bay tribe known as
W ’s widows ; the gentleman having at one time been
an officer of black troopers with a wide license to “dis-
perse.”
&O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6«1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZA KETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Medical.
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genu in e Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without, it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
TRADE MARK
v> KRUSES"
—DESTROYS—
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden.
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth.
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of c
Parasites. y
Harmless to animal life.
CAUTION. - Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
ffiomto's
FOB
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s 66 Parrot Brand.”
TfiemuTUflQ store, ltd;
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
KW Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
r<r
m
n
Hairdressers and wigmakkrs
To tlic Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CFtJVICi <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 <t 682 George Street, Sydney.
The Smelting* Go.
of Australia, Ltd.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—Mutual Life Buildings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rnHE Works are now in course 6f construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be tested
for the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Celebrated
POKER MACHINE
f| A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
FRE
CIGARS
DROP 3
THE
SLO
II 111 l
818
HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.,
SYDNEY, Agents for Australia,
Price «■ £5.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I he ante,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.— J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tam worth, N.S.W.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
PcafQcss
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using R©|io\/od
Wilson’s COMMON r V\ ll \*'C u
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
10 YEARS!
With an increasing: demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC
APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOB
HABIT
EucraNy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED


To Prevent or Remedy INSECT BITES or STINGS, RINGWORM,
ITCH, PILES, and most SKIN AILMENTS, use
CALVERT’S 207. CARBOLIC SOAP.
APPROVED BY THE LATE SIR ERASMUS WILSON, M.V., F.R.S.
1/- Tablets (English Rate).
IF USED AT BED-TIME, IT INVARIABLY PREVENTS MOSQUITO BITES.
Gairdner Blackmore, Esq., Wellington, N.Z., writes :—“ When in Australia, during the hottest weather,
we used it on the body where bitten by Ants or Centipedes. It quickly healed the spot and drove away pain.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., MANCHESTER.
APAMS HOTCL, Pitt-st, Sydosy-
Superior Accommodation.
Private Suites.
ELECTRIC LIGHT and
BELLS throughout
the House.
SOT AND COLD BATHS.
TERMS :
From Bs. per Day.
Idams,
Manager.
<Al2te
MAIN ENTRANCE.
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS :
M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
fHE
‘ Plum ’
pro
THE
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEIn who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p • f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
nce \ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful ease, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG 8c AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY,
. Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with ail Modern Luxury. Two
minutes . from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst gf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road,
London, S.W.
Rubber Manufacturers.
•9
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING COATS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
COATS. OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE.
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, <fcc. BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE, STEAM HOSE, DIVING lIOSE, FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
Forbes’s PHOSFERRINE
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood,
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue,
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin S& Pleasance
HOMCEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.
WHITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depot, 4«4 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Haps burg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will eSect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with'buying them from dealers.
The actions are all cheek-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are nvetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate, and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra.
long and plated. All
wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hamburg Pianos can
bo had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. Tho price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. DEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout Hew South Wale 3.
12-
T>OOK OF NATURE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Inlanders, In D Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1,6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post, fiee, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koo», post free, Is 3d.
KOMANCE OF A FAIR GIRL’S BATHROOM, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron, unexpursraled, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besunt - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, ls9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mai pin, R tnance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Fox’s Sensational Series, Fiench Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2s 6d each ; posted 3s.
New Reai istic Novels:—The Serpent Tempted Her;
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Shout Stories, by Gu v de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
Madame Bovary, from the French, posted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife, posted 2s.
The Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
La Oiiasse au Chastre (in French), posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private hook, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
inj; all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieap Book
16 PARK STREiT,
Depot,
SYDNEY.
EASY RUNNING
U
HOME
77
SEWING MACHINES.
m&m
slStfsaSSSattaai'.
m
■se3j»»v
wm
* i rf^l
in
C\‘
M
v>
ml
«
STYLE No. 14.
«? 9s. CASH. £lO 10s TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Beßt Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
H„Nb MACHINES
(Made by ihe New Home Co)
MANGLES CLOCKS & PERAMBULML
Having been :i|-p..i. te-> Agents
for MADAME WEIGr.L, we c«n
n w supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; Ly post, 4-1.
Journals, 4d. ; by post, sd.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep stock *»f NtedleS»
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
auy Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, ••lid having a staff
of Competent Mechanics c;»d
guarantee to thoroughly Repaid*
Sewing Machines of any make
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TALES OF THE COiWLCT SYSTEM
“Ants!” said Jack Stanley, “Tell you
what I have known ’em to do. Out in one of the
back paddocks on ‘Thurloo,’ tank-sinking was
going on. The ants, sand-flies and other flies and
mosquitoes were something damnable. We had
‘ bought out ’ the store of eye-lotion and veiling
and had to come to cheese-cloth. That kept the
flies and mosquitoes off, but not the ants. The
camp was about 50ft. from a fence, and one
morning Jack the horsetailer, on waking at first
daylight, found himself and blankets removed
clean to the other side of the fence and the ants
still hauling away with him. What puzzled the
boys was how the insects managed to get him
under the bottom wire of the fence, which was
about 6in. from the ground.”
Dear Bulletin, —Lately, I have lost all
track of H. J. M'Cooey, the Australian bush-
naturalist and writer, and my “ freen an’ crony.”
I have, therefore, however unworthy, to put on
record a fact connected with emus, which, in
future days, will doubtless form the subject of a
paper for the Federal Australian Ass Society’s
meeting at Kangaroopolis. The evidence I give
is verbatim from a J.P. (which fabrication, like
the apaaratus, cannot lie). Q. : “ What has be-
come of your two tame emus, that used to run
about the little paddock?” A.: “Both dead;
and a good job, too. You have no idea how
cunning and mischievous they became. They
swallowed nails, nuts, washers, and little bits of
iron. We used to chuck hot miggets off the end of
bar-iron to them. This only whetted their un-
healthy and unholy appetite. They learned that
the night-horse was shod, and picked at his nose
until he turned and let out with his hind feet.
Seizing the shoes, they wrenched them off and
swallowed them. We always wondered why the
hind feet only were bare, and we never found the
shoes. One day, the blacksmith was doing up a
set of splitter’s wedges ; they also went, but one
of the brutes was choked by the big ben wedge.
Next day, his mate was found dead with the horn
of the anvil in his mouth. I fancy he wanted to
do me out of that also ; but all the women-folk
have put it down to suicide, during temporary
insanity, caused by grief.”— Scotty the W.


A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Tbc Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S..
OXFORD STREET.
ASK FOE COLONIAL-MADE WIEE NETTING,
And. see that you get it.
PROOF
jur Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER thm
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
LySfIGHT BROS, # CO.
LIMITED.
598935
5>
SSmSi
Q
msfi
msm
s£SB
l|i|
SSh
SasSn
s
mE
PROOF
' Oh
E'f
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given tor
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb Cbanjbcrs, Bligb-St., Sydney
"W orks
Cbiswick, Parranjatta Riv/er.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
21 QUEEN STREET, MELBOI RU’D.
When Had Conies out of Gaol.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our sheep were dead a month ago—
Not chance, but blooming fluke ;
The cow was boozed last Christmas Day
By my big brother Luke ;
The fence is rotting in the ground—
A fence to make you rail :
I tell you things is pretty mixed
Since Dad was put in gaol.
The kids can’t take their fees to school—
They’ve neither boot nor shoe ;
The store keeps sending its acc Hint,
But that is bootless, too ;
The neighbours shake our blessed ft w.s
To eat, and never quail—
They won’t be all that’s gone to pot
When Dad comes out of g tol.
The horses paid the lawyer bloke
That tried to bounce the beak ;
There’s only one that’s left us new.
And he was staked last week ;
And as the trap Had taken Dad,
The buggy went for bail—
So Dad will have to start per boot
When he comes out of gaol.
The pub. has got a down on us ;
The store has got us set;
We’re mortgaged to the blessed eye ,
And we can’t do a get;
And mother has a shearer bloke
For ever within hail—
The fam’ly will have grown a bit
When Dad comes out of gaol.
Our Bess got shook upon a chap ;
He’s cleared—we don’t know where ;
He acts in plays about the sheds,
But he ain’t acted square ;
I’ve sold the harness on me own :
The place is up for sale ;
There won’t be much that isn’t jumped
When Dad comes out of gaol.
They’ve let Dad out before his time
To give us a surprise.
He looked round on the lot of us,
And gently blessed our eyes.
He shook hands with the shearer cove,
And said he found things stale ;
Then left him here to shepherd us,
And battled back to gaol.
N.S.W.
CECIL POOLE.
The Paris charity bazaar holocaust is
horribly reminiscent of that in Santiago 30 years
ago. Nearly 2000 lives were lost, the bulk of them
women, including the cream of local “society.”
It was at a Jesuit festival in the cathedral, the
altar of which was fantastically done up with
painted canvas in honor of the Virgin, adorned
with a myriad of candelabra lustres. The igni-
tion of one caused all the mischief.
It Wasn’t His Bizness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Bosher ” told me this yarn. No one knew his
other name, and no one knew how he got the
name of “ Bosher ” :
“ 1 was camped between the Laura and the
Kennedy rivers—between the two Lauras, we
diggers used to call it—on the Palmer diggings.
A bobby came along with a Chinese prisoner in
his charge, and concluded to camp along with me.
“I went off a bit to hobble my horses, when I
heard two shots fired. It wasn’t my bizness,
anyway.
“Presently, the bobby came running to me and
asked : ‘ Have you seen the Chinaman ? Did he
pass this way?’ ‘No,’ I said. It wasn’t my
bizness, anyway.
“ ‘ The (sanguinary) Chinaman bolted while I
was opening my valise,’ said the bobby ; ‘ I fired
two shots at him, but the beggar got away.’
‘ Yes ?’ I said. It wasn’t my bizness, anyway.
“That night I woke up suddenly and saw the
bobby burning the Chinaman’s clothes. It wasn’t
my bizness, anyway.
“ Now, the Palmer field was just swarming with
Chows at that time. You’d meet Indian files of
them day after day. You couldn’t miss meeting
’em, anywhere. And, sure enough, next day, a
mob of ’em came along.
“The bobby stood alongside the track as they
filed by, and, presently, made a spring and caught
a Chow by the throat, hiked him out and hand-
cuffed him, saying, ‘This is my prisoner.’ After
a bit of gibberish, the other Chinamen, recognis-
ing the uniform of the law, and our two rifles, con-
tinued to plod nonchalantly on and were presently
out of sight. ‘ Yes, this is my man, right enough,’
said the bobby. ‘ls it? ’ I said. It wasn’t my
bizness.
“ It was a case of larceny, if I remember right.
The Chow got 18 months. It wasn’t any affair of
mine, anyhow.”
“ And you ? ” I asked.
“Me? Oh, I got £lO from the bobby after-
wards. Still, I felt ashamed of taking it. You
see, it wasn’t my bizness anyway.”
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
Two hard-up new-chums in Westralia found
an easier way of making a speedy pile than mine-
promoting, recently. Flies were—and are still—
unbearably troublesome on the fields, so the two
smart men, striking a fly-plague at its height,
smeared paper with thin and sugary glue, did a
roaring trade in fly-papers, and cleared =B2O in a
week.
“The will of a wealthy young lady of
twenty-three, recently found dead in her bed, is
likely to be disputed,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “ By that document the
late Miss Isabel etc. Murphy disinherited her
relatives, and left nearly .£60,000 to a R.C. priest.
The rev. gentleman had been very friendly with
deceased for several years, accompanying her on
an American tour, and at the time of her death both
occupied the same house. Hinc illae lachrymce of
the relatives, who are friends of Card. Vaughan.
The only medical attention the deceased received
was at the hands of the spiritual adviser aforesaid,
who, as she declined to see a doctor, wrote out
twelve prescriptions for her at different times.
She died from mixing unlimited quantities of
brandy and morphine as a chronic habit. The
father and his housekeeper, under isolated treat-
ment, crushingly contradicted each other at the
inquest.”
A remarkable story of coincidence and
sailor-superstition was told by the survivors of the
John Carey on their arrival, the other day, at
Auckland, M.L. The John Carey, a trading brig,
ran into dirty weather and sprang a leak, which
at last forced the captain and five others to take
to the only boat left uninjured. They were picked
up by the Ladybird, another trader, which next
day went ashore a total wreck. Two days later a
third trader (the Brightwell) hove in sight, and,
being signalled by the castaways, sent a boat to
take them off. The John Carey’s men were the
first to embark, and going through the surf the
Brightwell’s boat was upset and the occupants
were drawn on board half-drowned. At this dis-
aster the Ladybird’s crew set up a cry of “Jonah.”
The J.C.’s people, they said, had been twice-
wrecked, and to embark with them again was
certain death. And so firm was their faith in the
old superstition that when the Brightwell sent a
second boat they actually refused ■to be rescued,
preferring to stay where they were and take their
chance of another ship coming that way, to
sailing in company with a crew of Jonahs ! Ac-
cordingly, the Brightwell sailed away with the six
survivors, who must have experienced lively and
varied emotions when, the very next day, a heavy
sea broke on board, stove one of the boats, and
carried away a portion of the bulwarks ! How-
ever, the weather cleared, and the much-harassed
and luck-tormented John Careyites were eventu-
ally landed in safety at Auckland. This recalls
the extraordinary train of events which followed
the loss, in Oct., 1829, of the Mermaid in Torres
Straits. The crew was picked up by the Swift-
sure. Three days later the Swiftsure was wrecked,
and the two crews were saved by the Governor
Ready. The latter, being short of men, wel-
comed the additional hands, who signed-on there
and then. On May 18, 1830, the Governor Ready
was lost, and the three crews were saved by the
Comet. She shared the fate of her predecessors,
and the four crews were picked up by the Jupiter.
Marvellous to relate, the Jupiter went ashore at
Port Raffles Harbour, and the five crews, without
the loss of a man, got ashore in boats! One of
the original crew, then a very old man, died some
years ago at Sandridge (Melb.), from whom the
writer obtained these facts.
Recipe-list for the post-Lenten season :
To Make a K.O.M.G. Wash carefully a back-blocks
publican ; brush and trim him ; let him simmer six
months in Leg. Council grease, and then serve up with
ribbons, stars, and any other suitable trimmings.
To Make an Able Financier. —Take a hopeless bank-
rupt whose estate pans out l-32nd of a penny in the £,
make him director of a bank that gives overdrafts to all
friends able to produce a cheque-book as security ; and
then, if he be hot murdered by dupes and depositors,
put him into Parliament and appoint him Treasurer
first opportunity.
To Make a Reformer.— Take a biped possessed of one
pair leather lungs, one pair horny fists (for exhibition
only), one brazen throat, one corny brain ; show the
animal £3OO a year on the distant horizon, and teach it
to bellow loudly “ The Cause ! the Cause ! ”
To Corrupt a Patriot. —First catch him. Marry him to
an ambitious wife ; send him ’Ome as a Representative
Celebrant; tickle his ears with a feather and dazzle his
eyes with a bit of tinsel, and the trick’s done ! (Even
the toughest Red Republican turkey has been rendered
tender and palatable by this method.)
“Loved His English.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Business demanded my presence at the worst
and lowest part of Sydney. Knocking at the door
of a cottage, a voice from inside bade me enter.
On doing so, I almost fell across the prostrate
form of a woman, who obviously mistook me for
another person, for she snarled out, “You’ve
called on the wrong ’un, ’cos I ain’t the one to
split on him, even if he did mark me face a bit.”
When she lifted her head I recoiled —the face
was a complete pulp. I' resolved to find out all
there was to know. What link could there be
between her and the brute who would thus smash
a woman ?
“ But surely he deserves severe punishment! ”
She looked at me curiously, a hideously sickly
smile lurking in her face. “I loves ’im ; ain’t you
never loved nobody? ”
“Perhaps,” I replied. “But I doubt if love
would run with cruelty in my case.”
“ But you men don’t understand.”
“ But how can you love him ? He’s a brute.”
Again that sickly attempt to smile. “’E talks
like a novel—like one of them I’ve ’erd of. Ye
see, ’e don’t mean to ’it ’ard at first; ’e forgits
who ’e’s fitting, and fits ’arder. When ’e comes
to know jest what ’e’s done, why ’e’s most sorry,
puts ’is arms round of me, and says, soft-like,
‘Yerknow I don’t mean nothing. Yer know I
wouldn’t let another fellow do it-toyer ; don’t yer,
old gal ? ”
PIRATE JOURNALISM.
It is a sphere where no one grieves
To batten on ill-gotten gains :
Where liars league themselves with thieves
To profit by the thinkers’ brains.
P.M.


nobody welcomes pain and disease. . . .
These Undesirable Visitors are driven from the System by
QMPg PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE
Influenza, Paralysis, Bheumatism, etc., Dispelled.
A Story for Mothers,
A. YOUNG LADY AT MERRTCKVILLE SAVED WHEN
NEAR DEATH’S DOOR—HER ILLNESS BROUGHT
ABOUT BY AILMENTS PECULIAR TO HER SEX
—ONLY ONE WAY IN WHICH THEY CAN BE
SUCCESSEULLY RESISTED.
(From the Ottawa Citizen.)
-JU.
v
J.
J
,s«
Your correspondent on
Monday last called at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs.
H. Easton, Merrickville,
and interviewed their
daughter, Miss Hattie
Easton, a handsome
young lady of 20 years,
who is known to have
been very low, and has
been restored to health
by the use of Pink Pills.
“ Yes,” she said, “ I suf-
fered a great deal, but I
am so thankful that I am
once more restored to
health. You have no idea
what it is to be so near
the portals, and feel that
everything in life’s future
is about to slip from your
grasp and an early grave your doom. I was taken ill four years
ago with troubles peculiar to my sex, and which have hurried
many a young woman to her doom—an early grave. I have taken
in all about twenty boxes of Pink Pills, and I am only too glad to
let the world know what these wonderful little pellets have done
for me, hoping that some other unfortunate young woman may be
benefited as I was. When 16 years of age I began to grow pale
and weak, and many thought I was going into a decline. I became
subject to fainting spells, and at times would become unconscious.
My strength gradually decreased, and I became so emaciated that
I was simply a living skeleton. My blood seemed to turn to water,
and my face was the color of a corpse. I had tried different kinds
of medicines, but they did me no good. I was at last confined to
my room for several months, and hope of my recovery was given
up. At last a friend strongly urged the use of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and after using a few boxes I began to grow slightly stronger.
X continued their use until I had used about 12 boxes, when I found
myself restored to health. I now quitted using the Pills, and for
six months I never felt better in my life. Then I began to feel
the old tired feeling once more coming on. Once more I
restored to Pink Pills, and by the time I had used six
boxes I found my health fully restored. J keep a box by
me and occasionally when I feel any symptoms of a re-
turn of the old trouble, I take a few and I am all right again.
X cannot find words of sufficient weight to express my appreciation
of the wonderful curative qualities of Dr. Williams' Pink Pills,
and sincerely hope that all who are afflicted as I was will give
them a trial, and I am certain they will find renewed health.”
Sickness in Sydney.
At the present moment there is a great deal of sickness in the
oolony. Influenza, coughs, colds, debility and other ailments are
'/Jr.
(Ml
&
fW.
very prevalent. To those who
are unfortunate enough to be
afflicted with one or other of
these prevailing complaints, we
commend the following letter
received from Mrs. T. Yertsee,
Middleberg. She says: “In
December I took a cold, and
since then I have suffered so
much with pains in the legs that
walking was very difficult. My
skin was very pale and sallow,
and I could not eat. I con-
sumed a quantity of medicine,
but to no avail. Nothing gave
relief, until one day I was ad-
vised to try Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. I did so.
and after taking them for a
short time my appetite returned,
my color became good, my legs
were quite at my will again,
tuju r tv/tj . m yself stronger than
I had been for years. My daughter, who was debilitated and
weak, and had a pale and sallow complexion, had been attended
n 7 a w^y SlCl t^- b ? t^ ned s°. Permanent relief. She also took
Dr Williams Pink Pills, and is now quite well again, eats well
and sleeps well. She now looks quite blooming.”
The Terrible Influenza.
ITS RAVAGES ARE APPALLING. ONLY PROMPT
MEASURES CAN RESTORE THE SUFFERER
TO HEALTH.
The people of this country have good cause to view with alarm
an outbreak of influenza, as it leaves behind it more shattered
constitutions than any other known disease. Mr. Edward Botting 1 ,
for ten years a councillor of the united township of Bedford,
Olden and Palmerston, in Frontenac Country, is one who nearly
fell a victim to this scourge. To a Whig correspondent Mr.
Botting said : “ About two years ago I had a bad attack of influ-
enza, and the after-effects of that malignant trouble brought me
so low that my friends despaired of my recovery.- I was troubled
with severe and constant pains in the back, sensations of extreme
dizziness, weakness, and was in fact in a generally used-up condi-
tion. I had read frequently of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and felt
they must have some special virtues, else they could not obtain
such strong endorsation in all parts of the country. I determined
to try them, and I bless the day that I came to that conclusion.
Before the first box was finished I felt benefited, and I continued
their use until I was as strong as ever. I consider Dr. Williams
Pink Pills the best medicine sold, and I would not be without
them in the house if they cost me sdol. a box.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have had marvellous success in re-
moving the after-effects of influenza and restoring sufferers to
their former vigor. No other medicine can accomplish the results
they achieve, and those who have suffered with influenza should
use them without delay.
i mm
ILLS
o
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure not only in cases of nervous
breakdown, but all the many disorders which arise from an im-
poverished state of the blood and nerves, such as ansemia, pale and
sallow complexion, general muscular weakness, loss of appetite*
shortness of breath, pains in the back, nervous headache, early
decay, all forms of female weakness, hysteria, paralysis, locomotor
ataxy, sciatica, palpitations, low vitality, and wasting strength
from any cause. These Pills are genuine only with th efull naiM>
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by chemists
and by Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who will for-
ward on receipt of stamps or post-order one box for 2s. 9d. or six
for 14s. 9d. They are unrivalled as a tonic and strengthening
medicine for both sexes.
The Old Bark School.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was built of bark and poles, and the floor was
full of holes
Where each leak in rainy weather made a pool;
And the walls were mostly cracks lined with calico
and sacks—
There was little need for windows in the school.
Then we rode to school and back by the rugged
gully track,
On the old grey horse that carried three or four ;
And he looked so very wise that he lit the master’s
eyes
Every time he put his head in at the door.
He had run with Oobb and Co —“that grey leader,
let him go ! ”
There were men “ as knowed the brand upon his
hide,”
And “as knowed it on the course” . . Funeral
service : “ Good old horse ! ”
When we burnt him in the gully where he died.
And the master thought the same. ’Twas from
Ireland that he came,
Where the tanks are full all summer, and the
feed is simply grand ;
And the joker then in vogue said his lessons wid
a brogue—
’Twas unconscious imitation, let the reader un-
derstand.
And we learnt the world in scraps from some
ancient dingy maps
Long discarded by the publie-schdbls in town ;
And as nearly every book dated back of Captain
Cook
Our geography was somewhat upside-down.
It was “in the book” and so—well, at that we’d
• let it go,
For we never would believe that print could lie ;
And we all learnt pretty soon that when we came
out at noon
“ The sun is in the south part of the sky.”
And Ireland ! that was known from the coast-line
to Athlone:
We got little information re the land that gave
us birth;
Save that Captain Cook was killed (and was very
likely grilled)
And “ the natives of New Holland are the
lowest race on earth.”
And a woodcut, in its place, of the same degraded
race
Seemed a lot more like a camel than the black-
fellows we knew:
Jimmy Bullock, with the rest, scratched his head
and gave it best;
But his faith was sadly shaken by a bobtailed
kangaroo.
But the old bark-school is gone, and the spot it
stood upon
Is a cattle-camp in winter where the curlew’s ery
is heard ;
There’s a brick-school on the flat, but a schoolmate
teaches that.
For, about the time they built it, our old master
was “transferred.”
But the bark-sdhool comes again with exchanges
’cross the plain—
With the Out-Back Advertiser ; and my fancy
roams at large
When I read of passing stock, of a western mob
or flock,
With “James Bullock,” “Grey,” or “Henry
Dale ” in charge.
And I think how Jimmy went from the old bark
school content,
With his “ eddieation ” finished and his pack-
horse after him ;
And perhaps if I were back I would take the self-
same track,
For I wish my learning ended when the Master
“ finished ” Jim.
HENRY LAWSON.
" A Trick in Gum.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A tropical summer had descended on Tamati,
and all the clay hills that formed the gum-lands
were cracked with heat and drought.
“ It’s noa good trying to spear, and ground’s soa
hard we’d hev to dig wi’ a pickaxe,” said Bill the
Swiper.
“ I’ve tried the big swamp from end to end,”
remarked Jim, “and all I struck was bogtimber.”
“ There’s devil a bit of gum in all the country
side,” went on Bill, “ and old Shylock wean’t let
us hev noa more tick at store. ”
“ I’ve tried Mother Coggan five times for a pint
on trust,” sighed Jim, “ and it goes against my
dignity to ask her again. Just one pint, and I’m
as thirsty as the Old Man Plain.” Then Jim
sucked steadily at his short clay pipe, and seemed
lost in admiration of his tattered trousers and
broken boots.
“ What’s ta up to now ? ” asked the Swiper, who
knew Jim’s moods.
Jim smoked on in silence for a minute, then re-
marked seriously: “ That Austrian has at least
three hundredweight of guin all well scraped. It
would sell in Auckland at 58s. a hundred. It’s a
burning shame that a foreigner should come into
this country and take what belongs to us. We
found this country; we settled it; we opened
it up.”
“ We hed to feight the Maoris,” put in Bill.
“We suffered all the hardships and dangers of
pioneering, made roads, built towns. We turned
the wilderness into a—into a ”
“ Go it, Jim ! ” murmured Bill approvingly.
“ And these Austrians, these foreigners who
never found a country in their lives, come in and
reap the reward of our labors. ”
And they never drink, and do nowt but work,”
added Bill.
“The Government of Maoriland has already
held a commission on this question of intruding
Austrians, and its report— ; —”
“Was ‘noa damned good,’” put in Bill.
“ I’ve been thinking, Bill, that as true colonials,
as pioneers and settlers, it is not right our
pikaus should be empty, that Shylock should
refuse us credit at liis store -”
“ And Mother Coggin stop our beer,” chorused
Bill, feelingly.
“Isay, BiU.”
“Well.”
“ That Austrian is going to take his gum down
in Symonds’ boat, and I think that if we told
Symonds that we were going to take our gum
down at the same time, he would give us full
charge of the boat; he is a bit scared of tackling
the harbor, and we could take the Austrian down,
Bill.”
Jim uttered the last sentence with a delicate
irony that was utterly lost on Bill. „
“ But we haven’t any gum to take down,
remarked Bill. ... , .
“We have sacks, though, said Jim with dark
meaning. “ And, Bill, I think if we took the
boat by the big channel we might run on to some-
thing and capsize. We could put some dead scrub
there at low water and mark it with a stick or
two.” . . T .
There was an interview with Symonds. dim
and Bill were to have the boat on condition that
they too' with them the Austrian and his gum.
* * * *
They rowed down the great sea river between
the mangrove swamps, Bill pulling strong with the
ebb tide, and Jim steering. Jim was charming
the Austrian with “ wonderful stories,” when sud-
denly there was a fearful crash. ‘ ‘ The Oyster
Rock ! ” shrieked Jim.
“ We’ll be drowned ! ” yelled Bill.
The boat heeled over. Jim and Bill fell on the
gunwale ; and in a second the boat filled, and the
three men were pitched into the water.
“ Stick to the Austrian —he can’t swim ! roared
Jim, gallantly ; and Bill, in his eagerness, seized
the poor foreigner so awkwardly that the man s
head went under water and he swallowed some
quarts of muddy brine before he came to the sur-
face. Then Jim held him on one side and Bill on
the other and they swam with him towards the
mangroves. They reached the very edge of the
thicket when Jim screamed “ A shark ! ” and sank
out of sight. .
“Help me!” cried Bill, as if something was
dragging him backward. But the foreigner had
seized the branch of a mangrove, and, in deadly
terror, scrambled as far out of the water as he
could, and there he clung until he saw that the
water was quite shallow, when, in spite of muddy
bottom, he waded ashore, and had to tramp
through miles of manuka scrub before he reached
his hut.
• * * *
Bill and Jim landed on a little island, hung up
their clothes to dry, and rolled baresark in
ecstasies of laughter. They laughed until the
tide went out, and then they waded to where the
boat lay snugly in the mud. The sacks of gum,
being stowed under the thwarts, were still there,
so they baled out the boat, shoved her off into the
channel, and drifted down with the last of the
ebb to the long spit, where they picked up the
oars and went with the flood to Roper’s store,
sold the gum for eight pounds sterling, and had a
glorious spree at Nolantown.
When next they saw the Austrian, Bill cursed
him for a coward, and threatened to smash him
unless he paid them ten shillings for recovering
the boat. The Austrian paid.
M.L.
F. ROLLETT.
Inasmuch as the tick is slowly but surely
travelling southwards, it may be well (writes a
N.Q. correspondent to The Bulletin) to utter a
word of warning to Southerners. Firstly, beware
of dips ! The writer knows of expensive concrete
dips costing from three to four hundred pounds—
used for a couple of months and then abandoned.
Cattle are sometimes more injured by the bruising
in the dip than by all the ticks south of the
equator. Secondly, beware of tick antidotes.
Some months ago a Rockhampton dairyman
treated a number of heifers with a special tick-
mixture forwarded bji Govt. Next morning there
wasn’t a tick left alive on the beasts. Half the
heifers were dead also !
Reginald Ah Cow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hue cmematographe-man in quest of local color
couldn t do better than visit Coogee some
afternoon; he’ll find colot, atd tarihfiS
shades; ebony and cinnamon—especially chX
mon ; and your tawny, silk-coated Jap. stalking
hither, stalking thither, jingling cash. Las?
Sunday the gilded horror rolled up precisely at xl
a shapely girl of 18, lissom of body, alert ami
damned with a fair face and skin. At the first
glance she appeared alone, but from the tad of
her eye she was watching the crawlsome Thine in
her wake—an undersized Chow, very undersized
almost lacking arm-power to carry his own nastv
infant. Araminta evinced no shame at the ob
vious relationship : she had kept ahead because
the blood of meat ran in her veins, and she could
not help out-distancing this slant-eyed product of
a cabbage—her husband.
Suddenly she swung round, arms akimbo and
threatening : “ Don’t b y well fall down with
that precious kid! Hurry, you swine—hurry i»
Parts of him looked young, but the salient skull
was older than Yorick’s. He spurted obediently
and nearly fainted ; he wasn’t a healthy Chow
Some climax came along the beach—haif-a-
dozen Ah Goons out for the Seventh. Araminta
snickered over her ribboned shoulder, naming them
fluently in a guggling half-Chow lingo ; how thev
squirmed and wriggled, these old flames of hers ! ’
A soft curse from a ginger-whiskered man in the
shade. Up stroll some girl-friends of Araminta’s
They are unfeignedly glad to see her, and greet
Ah Cow with cheerful blasphemy, and Cow
wrung to his parental depths, introduces baby-a
beady-eyed little squeaker. “He was christened
this morning at the Army,” said Araminta, with
simple pride ; “ we are calling him Reggy.”’
Cow blinked feebly in the sun—Cow, the father
of Reginald. (God ha’ mercy, gentlemen!)
Pitty ickle sing. Kisses one, two, three—twice
round ; kisses on his Mongol lips, kisses on his
little flipper. Yai ious narro w-girthed ladies hover
round, attracted, interested to the sympathy-
point.
Mesdames, get thee to a Chinkery !
ALBA D.
“ The Church of England, with its painted
windows, old women, and young curates, fast
crumbles into dust.”— Froude.
Testimony from a Sydney divorce-case
In 1893 she heard he was working amongst, the unem-
ployed in Centennial Park. She went and saw him, and
again asked him whether he would provide her with a
home. She said it was about time he provided for her-
self and his little boy, but he only laughed, and said he
had enough to do to keep himself.
Sandshifters were supposed to be able to earn
six threepenny-meal tickets a week, and yet this
callous monster, upon being requested to furnish a
home for wife and child on such an income, only
laughed !
A Record for a Sovereign.—Hordern’s
in Pitt-street sovereign blankets break a record
for sterling value, and the fact that they are for-
warded without extra cost to any town in New
South Wales should induce residents in the
country districts of New South Wales to send for
a pair. Hordern Brothers, Government Con-
tractors, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (only)
Sydney. Telegraphic address simply : “ Hordern
Brothers.”


It is an old, and to some extent true, saying that M every man has bis price." Most of ufi
CLAIM
that we are above being bribed, but when sufficient inducement is put forward we have a
propensity for seeing a tempting proposal in a favorable or flattering light. It is not always
for monetary considerations that we bend our principles—desire
FOR
fame, glory, and popularity ; eagerness for revenge ; jealousy and dislike may get the better
of our higher prudence and cause us to ignore the scruples of conscience and take the oppor-
tunity offered. But greed of wealth is the greatest factor in blinding our
MORAL
sense; not only, sometimes, closing our eyes to duty and self-respect, but too frequently
causing us to neglect our vital and physical well-being. For, after all, what is wealth without
health ? While we join in the rush and bustle of this busy world, over-taxing our energies
AND
racking our systems, many of us are morally culpable of reckless disregard of bodily strength
and fitness. Then, perhaps, the health breaks down, and we seem doomed to long periods
of pain and depression. Our very moral and
INTELLECTUAL
natures are under a cloud. Our whole life is darkened. Yet there is a remedy at hand.
Hundreds of thousands of ailing men and women have found that B E ECH AM ’S PI L.LS
verily “make life worth living." . They purify the blood, set right the disordered stomach,
arouse the sluggish liver, dispel sick headaches, build up the nervous system, and repair the
DAMAGE
caused by overwork and brain worry. Their genuine worth and never-failing efficacy have
been fully proved during a period of upwards of fifty years, and they are still recognised as
the best safeguard against all bilious and nervous attacks. The most satisfactory evidence
of the universal esteem in which BE EC HA M’S PILLS are held is found in the fact
that the number of boxes sold annually now' exceeds
6,000,000.
The
Mighty HeaUr.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
“A few weeks ago I caught a severe cold, whioh affected my breath so that
l oould not lay down in bed. A relative told me of your Tonic. One bottle
completely cured me. Several bottles of medicine from local doctor did me
1,0 ff°od." S. LEVY, Holloway Head, Birmingham.
fM)ridge’s
V/jjanglSnic.
‘‘Your was recommended to me some years ago, and I have used
it with the most satisfactory results ever since. I keep it in the house, and
upon the first symptoms of a cold or cough, commenoe taking it, and invari-
ably find they disappear.”—A. J. SMITH, 29 Calderon Road. Levtonstone.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W.T. OWBRtDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX.
9*
%
A DROP TOO MUCH.
W
Vf»„
-e.
-'’ZCv ■ '
rJO'I&V'StoJL 1
Boodles : “Bah Jove 1 that's a charming girl. When I return 111-
T
Va
m
N
Co
Drop in !
IMEick Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES. ,
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND —
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
43T Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HATMARKET, SYDNEY.


* Dubes’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Ps
“DGbcc”
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
—THE--'
Ballet <airf,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free X/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
IVtADAM E PANZA,
Box 013, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
MADAME S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.”
PEICE I*. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) POnjpiog Eggii)€ Co,
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
WORTHINGTON
32 Glarenee-st.,
7
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Welch, Perrin & Co., Moray-street, South C
Melbourne. I
QUEENSLAND : McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts., j
Brisbane. I
t g'encies:
ASMANIA: T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-sW
LaviTi^eston.
I s * EA\ ZEALAND : E. Porter & Co., Dueen-st-. Anoklani
J. Anderson, Canterbury Foundry, Christchurch
1
"W*ortliingrton I* umps
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOR
IRRIGATION,
SINKING,
MINING,
CREAMERIES,
GARDEN SUPPLIES,
WOOL-SCOURING,
WOOL-DUMPING,
WATER-SUPPLIES,
SEWERAGE,
MARINE,
TANK-FILLING,
BOILER-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application*
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
*»■ £1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
fSPT A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Hollow avs fills and ointment.
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these erand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, 0?~ Par-
ch as vs should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
p
E
P
S
s
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
C
o
Q
o
A
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILE TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sytlsoy wi»k
Mi’k. Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, ‘Poultry, Pastry, eto,
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King* Street and 23 Royal •-
AFTERNOON TEA. f
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private FnrMrn.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 26 HARB jUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agepte Bve.-ywLe,-c. H. PATESON, Manj
PARKE & LACY COMPANY, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MmiSTO MA.OHIKI BR.Y, STEAM 3ES3XTC3HIW3E3S -*• -or^-r T
& BOILERS.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and dottier*.
Coarse Crushing Roßs.
Blast Furna :es.
Triumph Concentrators.
Crushing M!F),cliinery.
Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers. Sample Grinders
Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls. Krom Rolls.
Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers. HENDY’S CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
Anaalgairiating MaoHliiery.
Clean-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators.
ECeater.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Roasting and Cliloriclizing Fui-naces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Cone sn trati >i - Machinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Frue Vanners.
Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Ma.cliin.ery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
ECoi3tin.gr Machinery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Pumping Machinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunder Pimm*
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents. g ' P "
Compressor anct Roclt ID rill Plants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &e., &c.
Blowers
Root’s Patent, and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffak. Blowers and Exhaust Eans. Sturteva.it and Huyett & Smith's Fans
Water Wheels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS
Bullock Diamond Drills. Huson’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery Hall’s Hvrlm <a+ OQ ‘ um * , „
Caldwell's Sectional Boilers. Simmons’ Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Bobers. Wood aS Li^teSg MSnew”^SuimliT^
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
The
Vibrator.
The Oscillator.
All SIN Sewing MaoMuea.
The Chain Stitch.
All SIKTGBn Sewing Machines.
Batho’s
®f*L"3 Powder.
Scale o f Advertising
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year „
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 6 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
6s. per inoh per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used.
As Safe as it is Certain.
W L INFLUEN7A L T KIND f S V COLGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
Throat BrcmchiHs t;^ 88 f ° n Voice ’ »ore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
’ r ° nchl,lS ’ LIC1 P lent Consumption, and all similar complaints
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
