

MoE WAN’S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
■> therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
Mining
G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent stireot, Syd.ney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
DRYSDALE
& CO.,
BRISCOE.
56 and 91 YORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers & Iron & Metal Merchants,
Have a complete Stock of Shelf Goods, and every other description of Hardware.
Our Kindred Houses are —BRISCOE and CO., Melbourne ; ARTHUR BRISCOE and CO., Dunedin, T A
BRISCOE, MACNLIL and CO., Wellington; and WILLIAM BIUSCOE and SONS, London.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
A
70
V
rj
4t
>
&
o
O
o
<RA c \A«oCK>
4-
O
o
f 1
o
o
?r
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Go., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4a. and 2s. per Bottle.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, quarts 10s, pints ss.
GLENLIVET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart ss. 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE EOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE and MARKET STS.,
SYDNEY.
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
Before visiting the City write to the Manager for
Cara of Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRISBA-MTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Propribtor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE
(aros^oorHotel,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDIffEY.
For TEEMS, please address the Manager.
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
lOd., ZLIcSL., Is.
Large Stocks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
Nj.
J C. Lndowici & Son, Ltd.,
tanners,
162 Clarence Sti'eet <Only>, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
EdigwanV
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TBS ESM a im
United Electric Light
Co. ; Ltd.
Australasian Branch—l 6 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Poverty l»oin.ters!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUT
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract f
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmania* Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Yoi 18.— jNo. 914. j
[Saturday, August 21, 1897.
I ep'stered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robi-rtson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S 'TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin : price. Is. 6d. ; posted. Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new.series, from The
Bulletin), by Price Waning ; price, 25.: post-free
2s. 6d.
MOSIYN STAYNE, by Roderio Quinn; price, 2s. 6d. •
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
\ G. STEPHENS^
J ITERARY AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
THE RED PAGE.
Recent Verses.
RONDEAU.
Is my love less, because my lady’s face
Mirrors her soul—that in her form I trace
Th beauty that the sculptors dreamed, of Old?
Think you my love were purer, did it hold
The image of her soul, and give no place
To loveliness ? Call you my passion base,
Or less than best, because my heart finds space
To glory in her beauty ? When all’s told,
Is my love less?
Nay, I am man, and human with my race,
And she I love is woman. Is our case
Worse, that we both were cast in human mould?
Think you I have not weighed her heart’s pure gold ?
That she is Beauty’s self, and very Grace,
Ismy love less?
Edward W. Bryant.
LORD VYBT.
What, must my lord be gone ?
Command his horse and call
The servants, one and all.
"Nay, nay, I go alone.”
My Lord, I shall unfold
Thy cloak of sables rare
To shield thee from the airs
“ Nay, nay, I must be cold.”
At least thy leech I’ll tell
Some drowsy draught to make,
Lest thou should toss awake.
“ Nay, nay, I shall sleep well,”
My lady keeps her bower:
I hear the lute delight
The dark and frozen night,
High up within the tower.
Wilt thou that she descend ?
Thy son is in ihe hall,
Tossing his gnh-e < ball.
Shall he my lord attend ?
“Nay, sirs, unbar the door.
The broken lute shall fall ;
My son will leave his hall
To tarnish on the flior.’’
Yon bell to triumph rings 1
To greet thee, monarchs wait
Beside their palace gate.
“ Yes, I shall sic p with kii gs.”
My lord will soon alight
With some rich prince, his friend.
Who shall his ease all n '.
“I shall lodge low to night.”
My lord hath lodging nigh ?
“ Yes, yes, I go not far, —
And yet the furthest star
la not so far as I.”
Arthur Christo t her Benton.
AT THE PLAY.
I saw thee at the play last night,
And when the Moor, Othello, cried
‘ Death to the traitras who hath slain nay soul,*
And Desdemona died,
I saw the oolor from thy check lake flight,
And from thy pitying eyes two tear-drops roll.
And seeing, 1 forgot the play.
Forgot the gentle lady's fate—
Thought but of thee, and how forsworn thou art,
And all thy Jove turned hate
Yea, tho’ I may not, like Olh -110, slay,
Like Desdemona, thou hast slain my heart.
Printed by • Johna-Dreamt,' as from the Spanish of
Campoamor.
SONG OF SUMMER.
Dis is gospel weathah sho’—
Hills is sawt o' hazy.
Meddahs level ez a flo'
Callin’ to de lazy.
Sky all white wif streaks o’ blue,
Sunshine softly gleamin’,
I>' iin’t no wuk hit’s right to do,
Nothin’’s right but dreamin’.
Squir’l a-tippin’ oil bis toes,
80s to hide an’ view you ;
Whole flocks o’ cainp-meetin’ crows
S i utin’ hallelujah.
Peekahwood erpon de tree
T-ippin’ lak a hamtnah ;
Jaybird chattin’ wif a bee,
TVyin’ to teach him grammah.
Bre> ze is biowin’ wif perfume,
Jes’ enough to tease you ;
Hollyhocks is all in bloom,
Sruellin’ fu’ to please you.
Go 'way, folks, an’ let me ’lone,
Times is gettin’ dearah—
Sutumah’s settin’ on de th’one,
An’ I’m a-layin’ neah huh 1
Paul Laurence Dunbar.
Habitue: • Melb. Public Library is without any of
fhiers, in French, a legible Petrarch, a third of the cur-
rent Balzac, and that his latter part.’
Veneering .
EMERSON says of Montaigne’s work, ‘Cut
these sentences, and they bleed’—they were
so charged with the quality of living, breathing
man. This, I take it, is always the first success
in writing—to give this concrete, flesh-and-blood
reality to your ideas, to bring them out of the
limbo of the vague, the featureless, the vapory,
and give them form, reality, identity. One would
have his reader always feel that he is walking
upon real ground, dealing with real ideas and
distinctions, and not with mere words.
To give the impression of substance, to make
the thought as tangible to the mind as outward
objects to the senses, to give weight, form,
solidity to your periods,—that is the great art.
Only such writing begets any heat and desire
m the reader. This sense of reality, and power
to impart it, distinguishes the master from the
tyro. How many books one looks into that are
only words, words ; only simulated ideas and dis-
tinctions. Thoreau said he would not, in his life,
be as one who drove a nail into mere lath and
plaster. Neither would one be so in his writing;
he would feel for and reach the solid timber. But
probably four-fifths of the writing of any given
time is a mere driving of nails into the shallow
lath and plaster; the beams and studding of reality
are never touched. Every writer, I fancy, has to
guard against these hollow places in his work. If
after many days, when he takes it up, he can say
to himself, ‘This is real; I have struck solid
timber here,’ he is happy. But if it offers no re-
sistance to the mind, if it is a mere veneer of fine
words, if he is wise how surely he cuts it out.
If the poet’s passion is real, if the cry is from
his heart, how quickly we know it. And if it is
all a mere feigning, if it is all a trick of his art,
and if he has sought to invoke the feeling by the
mere use of words and tropes, how quickly we
know that. The feeling must come first; it must
seek the words, and not the reverse. But in
a time like ours, passion lags; art leads ; the
poets are more in love with poetry than with
things ; the heat and the desire which should be
spontaneous, and from within, are sought to be
developed by the mere friction of words and
fancies from without. In fact, the great trouble
with our young poets is that they want to write
poetry. Their prayer is, ‘O Lord, what shall I
do to be a poet ? * When their prayer is, ‘ G Lord,
give me deeper religiousness and a more fervent
love of Thy works,’ them will be some hope for
them. The muse is not partial to those whoso
industriously woo her, but to those who think
some noble thought or experience some noble
emotion. She cannot be run down or cornered.
She comes to those whose eye is single and
who love disinterestedly. She followed Burns
at his plough because Burns loved the daisy and
the moils' before he loved her. She takes up
her abode with lowly and lon.-ly Johanna
Ambrqsins because hers is the same heart, that
gives itself freely and joyously to all things.
Love is the great secret. Renan diagnosed the
literary disease— the disease of which we all have
a touch in this bookish age. We have this disease
when we value things only for the literary or artis-
tic effects which may he wrought out of them, or
when we read life and nature through the spec-
tacles of books. Now, it, is safe to say that no
real poetry or real literature was ever the work of
men who loved literature more than they loved
reality, or who valued things chiefly for the
literary effects that could be produced from them.
Probably the country was never before so full of
young men and women who want to be writers, or
who want to get into literature. Be somebody
fitst, love something, think something, feel some-
thing,—that is the ground to start from. If the
well is dry, priming the pump will not help mat-
ters. Turn your back upon literature in your
enthusiasm for some worthy reality, and the first
inexorable conditions are already fulfilled.
Seekiug inspiration from books is a kind of
intermarriage of thought, an intellectual breed-
ing-in-and-in process that surely leads to a falling
off in freshness and power.
* * * *
There is no objection to art for arc’s sake—if a
great, potent, quickening spirit is revealed or
brought to bear upon our spirit, as in Shake-
speare. But usually the thing revealed is art, or
artifice, craftsmanship, as in Swinburne. Poe
almost justifies himself in ‘The Raven.’ Itmeans
nothing ; it is simply a conjuring with words and
rhythmic effects, but there are glimpses of a strong
spirit back of it. The poet need not have a lesson
or a message for us, but he must, at least, lay
a quickening finger upon us and break new
grounds in our minds and spirits. Shake-
speare has no message for us but Shake-
speare. Whitman, no message but Whitman. The
lesser poets have no message for us but art—
the pleasure of nice verbal effects. Power—what
do we need or crave so much as power? Art or
no art, style or no style, so that we only get
power. People write novels with a purpose
because they have not pure power to give us.
The purpose is the substitute for the personality,
1 heir individual subjectivity is slight, so they
exhibit a theme or moral. They cannot bring
down the sun or moon with their shafts, so they
set up a mark. Of course the highest order of
genius works as nature does, sings for the joy of
singing, creates for the joy of creating. It is
sufficient unto itself, and does not need to draw
upon an artificial reservoir. Any one might write
a novel with a purpose, but to write a great
novel without a purpose, to roam free and at
ease in all Helds, to take the whole of life for your
province and draw out and interpret the universal
—that is another matter.
A man like Poe is of the true poet type, un-
doubtedly, but his contribution is unimportant,
because there was not enough of him ; he does not
cut deep. There is a mastery in him not in Loni
fellow, but Longfellow will outlive him because 1
was a winning, genial personality, and his work
are sweet and wholesome. Poe’s mastery is ove
the elements of verse, not over the elements of li
or spirit. He compels my admiration, but doe
not command my love, ile is strong as a craft
man, but not a great creator. Shelley, Swii
burne, Rossetti, and all of that ilk, do not fail
artists, but as men. They are more like venee
than solid stuff.
Literary veneering—how much there is of it i
the world, that looks like the thing it is not
religions veneering, also. How it pulls off whe
you put a little strain upon it. It will not stanc
use at all. It is for Sunday and good clothes.
Stevenson had a creat talent; a finer literar
equipment than Scott, and yet Scott is the moun
tain, Stevenson is the grassy fell. Scott was
great nature ; Stevenson, a fine nature. Are th
men of the large type all gone- the race of giant
ended? All the new men are ‘light-weights
wonderful.craftsmen, but not great natures. Tl
last of our giants, such as they were, died wit
Holmes. Ruskin and Spencer still hold out i
England, but are not the new men over there, a
here, all of a smaller, finer type ? Watson’s poem
are fine, but are they great?
* • » *
The other day I asked a man, who had been fo
over thirty years a professor in one of our larg
colleges for women, if he noticed any marked o
nameable difference in the character ol the girls to
day, who came under his influence, from those o
twenty or more years ago. He reluctantly con
fessed that there was an appreciable difference, —
difference in earnestness ; the girls of to-day wer
less serious and earnest than those of a decade o
more ago. More of them were sent to college
fewer of them sent themselves. The diploma wa
more the end and aim, than an education,
think this is what one might expect. It is pro
babjy the same in men’s colleges. The leisur
classes are increasing in this country; their son
and daughters make a larger and larger percentag
of college students ; and how can the children ol
idleness and ennui have any seriousness or force o
ohsranter? The po.-t,’s declaration that ‘ life i
real, life is earnest.,’ does not apply with mud
force to the wealthy class in this country. Ii
earlier and more primitive communities, the
wealthier class led in war and politics. On them
the heaviest burdens fell, and there was little
deterioration in their offspring.
It is no doubt true, that, as a rule, the increase
of numbers is not favorable to the production o
grear men. Because an increase in numbers mean
an increase in wealth, in leisure, in the comforts
and conveniences of life. It means less noble
struggle and hardship,—less self-denial and sini
plicity of the middle classes on the one hand, anc
more killing, ignoble poverty for the lower classes
on the other. The production of great men, ii
seems, requires a certain heroic filler iri a com-
munity, a certain degree of plain living, and if not
of high thinking, then of serious and worthy as-
piration. The chances of a great man being born
in this country were probably vastly greater fifty
or seventy-five years ago than at present, notwith-
standing so many more children are brought int<
the world. Poverty is a better parent than
riches ; the initial impulse which it gives is so
much greater. Families run down and run out
unless they are kept wound up by serious effort
and purpose. The farther we get from primitive
and pioneer conditions, from the direct struggle
with elemental forces, the less, it seems, are our
chances to produce a great character. A certain
isolation, a throwing back of men upon them-
selves, a deepening and strengthening of the basic
human qualities, seems necessary. The country
produces more remarkable characters than the
city, because life is more serious and simple
there. The struggle is not so sharp, but it is
worthier ;it is more a struggle with nature. The
curse of the city is over-stimulation; it is spirit
compared with matter. It depletes and exhausts ;
it fascinates while it kills. The city will get more
out of a man than the country ; it stimulates him,
and kills him sooner. Our Civil War ought in
time to bear fruit in character, but | r bably it
will not be till the second generation following,
and the results ought to be greater in the South
than in the North. The sons of the sons of the
Revolution were not remarkable, but out of their
sons came our band of notable men. —John
Burroughs, in ‘ The Chapbook ’ (Chicago .
♦
The above article is the wor a of a man 60 years of age,
for John Burroughs was born at Roxbury, N.Y., in 1837.
His father was a farmer, and John combined farming with
literature. As hobbies, only ; for he drew prudent bread-
and-butter from a Govt, billet. His essays, much in the
manner of Thoreau, charmingly show his love of the
country. Walt. Whitman is his ideal of a manly poet,
and a substantial volume recently issued in praise of the
ideal was the fruit of lifelong devotion. Burroughs is the
pithiest of living American essayists. Others make
saucier kickshaws; but from his solid joint of vital
thought you can cut and come again. Perhaps he is a
little obtuse to the highest and most delicate effects of
imagination, as suggested by his admeasurement of Poe;
he wants literature too closely moulded to his own pet
pattern ; but he has a strong man’s grip and grit, and is
well worth pondering.
Recent Paragraphs.
Crayon : ‘ Paperknife ’ recently said that Shakespeare-
makes no mention of the beauties of architecture. What
about this from ‘ Maobeth,’ act i., scene vi.:—
Banquo : This guest of summer,
The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
By his lov’d mansionry, that the heaven’s breath
Smells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze,
Buttress, nor coigne of vantage, but this bird
Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle . .
A.L.T. : ‘Gordon and Gotch publish an illustrated
serial called “ Broader Britain.” On page 79 therein
there is a picture titled “Red Bluff.” The letterpress
explains that Bed Bluff overlooks the Norman River, on
which Normanton is situated, and that the river runs into
the south-east corner of the Gulf of Carpentaria, &c. The
picture really shows Red Bluff on the Cairns railway ; the
river in the foreground is the Barron where Stoney
Creek joins it.’
Since there is less profit in a short Btory than in a long
story, fcr which the public pay as much as for half-a-
dozen short stories, S ephen Crane has written a long
story. That is, he has written a short slory, and padded
it to make it long—losing much of the force and possibly
little of the charm. The result, 'The Third Violet,’ gives
a feebler impression of his powers than the strenuous
short-story of 'The Open Boat’ in ‘Scribner’s Magazine ’
for June.
* Sea Foam and Passion Flowers ’ is the title of a booklet
of worthless verse-echoes- mostly nonsense—printed at
Gulgong, N.S. W. Some excellent photographs embellish
the trash, which is not embellished by a portrait of the
author —with his hair romantically disordered and his
handkerchief peeping forth cnquettishly —in the-
manner of the conventional poet. Next to tire portrait,
the worst features of the booklet are two amazingly im-
pudent parodies—one of Drayton’s ‘Since there’s no
hope’ sonnet, and the other of ‘Boake’s ‘Where the
Dead Men Lie.’
* Australian Idylls and Bush Rhymes ’ is an amiable
sacrifice to the manes of ‘ the late Horn Ernest G. Henty,
member of the Legislative Council of Western Australia,’
and ‘ the eldest son of Richmond Henty—well known in
Australia as being the first white native horn in the
colony of Victoria, when the pioneers (the H ntye) settled
there.’ The alleged idylls and doubtful rl)3in s were
partly written-by the deceased M.L.C. and partly by
another hand ; and the titular slander of Ausi r • lia makes
it necessary to regret there is no means of distinguishing
which set is the worst. Apparently both sets are the
wors'.
The English excitement about Flora Annie Steel’s ‘On
the Face of the Waters’ is beginning to simmer down
There are some subjects—such as the Indian mutiny,
Napoleon, Nelson—regarding which the English mind is
peculiarly prone to < xeit ment; and any literary work on
these subjects is view e l through a mist of rational bias
w hiob distorts E glish ori.flrM-m into i c* mpetence. Mrs.
Steel’s story contains some vivid d< s ripti ms of phases
of the mutiny, but her romanc • is clumsily interwoven ;
and the book is ephemeral. Few such merely objective
pictures outlast their day s sunshine.
The English mind is only spasmodically interested in
such aspects of British rule in India as the July ‘Cosmo-
politan ’ poi trays—setting side by side a picture of the
Empress of India’s Bombay statue and a photograph of
some of that Empress’s Indian subjects dying of famine
—skeletons starved out of almost all semblance of
humanity. And * the great and good Viet, ria ’ pouches
her £400,000 per annum ; hoards her accumulated fortune
of 20 millions sterling ; acquit so.B in the expenditure of
many other millhns on her empty jubilee celebration;
and piously congratulates God on his good sense in
giving loyal subjects such a paragon of womanly sym-
pathy to reign over them.
F.J.Y.: ‘ The following is a sample of the antiquated
nonsense giveit to the pupils of a N.S.W. Public-school
as home-lessons :
O wist rue into Latin,
1. Britannia is the queen of islands.
2. Britain is the native land of sailors.
3. Italy is the native land of poets.
4. The inhabitants of Britain are sailors.
5. The inhabitants of Sicily are sailors.
6. The inhabitants of Gaul are husbandmen.
7. Britain is the native land of glory.
8. Friendship is the crown of life,
9. The battle is the cause of glory.
10. The enmity of the sailors is the cause of battle.
Is it not possible, while teaching Latin, to impart up-to-
date, useful information ?


Medical*
DR. FREEMAN.
*?S9 <
1 '
—3
THAT THIS NOTED SPECIALIST
-<tands pre-eminently at the head of the medical
irofession is no longer a question of doubt. That
be has investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than his quite worthy hut less successful associates,
is now acknowledged by all. His experience is
lifelong, and his record right here in gy If F 4 SC V
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst-sts.,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
I’here are thousands upon thousands iu this land
to-day who are pra'sing his name, because he lias -
made their lives happy and brought sunshine into
tlieir homes.
9
if you are troubled with
vital losses, exhaust-
ing complaints, pimples,
!>aslifulues«, aversion to society, stupid ness, des-
pondency, loss of energy, ambition and self-confid-
mce, which deprive you of your manhood and
bsolutely unfit you for study, business, or
carriage—if you are thus afflicted you know the
■ause. Get well and be a man.
UMLI-lill s OLD HDD,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, and other unmistakable
signs' of nervous debility and premature decay
Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the cause.
The most obstinate cases of this character treated
with unfailing success.
PRIINTE
Diseases Inflammations, Stric-
tures, Weakness of Organs, Hy-
drocele, Varicocele and kindred
troubled quickly cured without pain and detention
from business.
m.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away
from the city and unable to come to his
office. Treatment, in this manner always satisfactory.
Write for Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise, NER-
VOUS AND PRIVATE DISEASES, post free on ap-
plication. A perusal of it might save much mental
and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life. Send £1 by post, and you will receive treat-
ment by return mail.
DR- FREEMAN,
Comer Elisabeth & liathurst-sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’S invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than .£1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
JL PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
“•’of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
“MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
“ABorij PbySiciao.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
burgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Dug.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical,
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight, and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
Aljlj consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
er MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-scj:.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHN DUNAMTi
iH
k Mtt4fefterßo&.
FULL DIRECTION
ENCLOSED!^
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
rpo LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Sydney, May 19th, 1897.—1 hasten to thank you and tell
you what a splendid treatment I have found it; am now
quite well. Three months ago I tried it as a last resource,
dreading- an operation, which I have avoided.—M.J.R.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Red fern Street,
REDFERN.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In oases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
Agents for Australasia —Parry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
rHF DRUM
'N POSITION
Pcaffyess
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relieved
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String-.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp’eted his New and Crntrallv-si United
Electrical <t* Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabetli-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOKTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—h requent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
si,m diseases may be quickly and permanently
COKED, without loss of time and money. This
hook will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out)
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
! will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very pure-t
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
met between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed-
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical,
PUT niIOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
TyEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
'' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond_ human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the winters
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
£Sg(S.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being- well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to 'say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
/f
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whafr
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming' a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also ine for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ha FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
7«Jiuwao.


ONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
IIAWKESBURY H. Sept. 4.
23,000 Su'bscri'bera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Gubscritoera at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Name
Addi •cs's
£ s :
shares in the above.
DEMONSTRATION II
Oct. 4.
25,000 Su.b3critaera at 5.
Address
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the ah >ve.
N aine !
Address
£ :> :
MELBOURNE C
November 2
100,000 Subscribers a-t 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Su.l>acrit>era at 5 S
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Addi ■ess '
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE—
Millbank Estate, Junee, BT.S.W.
116,000 Shares at £1 Each List Closes 25th September. 116,000 Scares at £1 Each
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead,
Cash equivalent, of £10,005. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF —
City aod SCibGrbao
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss* Each*
Ist Prize. - Terrace Houses, Glen more
lload, and large Dwelling-House, Value
Woollahra... ... ... ... £8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Obher Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars appli/ for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto.;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. _ Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
flnthony Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ORLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
p in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
? ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes ... 10/- and 12 6 Each.
KKAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8/6, and 10 6 „
KROPP BRAND 6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 6/-, 6/-, 7/6,10/6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 6/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW ATGEE, Hairdresser, &c„
6 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OB DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality.
PCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
I*6 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Publcatlons.
C3-©o. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Roods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photograph .» of English A Colonial Celebrities
“ I'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
to anj r partof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. (!«1.
Sole Agents:
&
The Result
Craig & Aitken. 680-632 Gjorge-st., Sydney
Positively the Best Dressing
V.
K
W,
10k]
Q
m
s
a
y
ft
S 3
%•
FOR
PRESERVING Si BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
li< ard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Son. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/C and (triple 2/6 size) 4/0 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions.'At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained! wherever
Tinned Fruit is soid.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria,, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality :
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from £?> 3s. each.
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
3MCELBOXTRKTE.
Every V ariety of
TEA !
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Ateherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Plum
HE p
Plum
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use foi
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p • f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
*■' r,ce \ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle s ' in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of Ulc Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY,
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d>, 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. • Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given art
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New SotUh Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
Bards of the Backbtocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE WESTERN SIGN
I had met him in the city, and I thought I knew
his face;
He walked with slouching movements, a rakish
bush-bred grace;
I puzzled o’er his sun-browned face, but I couldn't
tell by that
Till I glanced above his features at the crape
around his hat,
And then I knew where he was bred—on a far-
back western plain
Where the earth is never troubled with a blessed
drop of rain,
Where the grass it never changes from a greyish
dusty mat —
I knew him for a Western man by the crape around
his hat
And then I thought his troubles o’er as I drifted
down the street—
How death had gathered in his friends with slow,
untiring feet;
How Jack, his brother, broke his neck while
breaking in a horse.
He wore the crape for Jack until his mother went
her course.
And when that band was rusty brown Jack
Mitchell next fell ill—
He died, and Mitchell’s band of crape it is he’s
wearing still.
But some old mate will miss the track out in the
dusty West,
And a new crape band will mourn him as the
old ones did the rest.
You can meet him in the city, you can meet him
on the track,
You can swear he is a Westerner, when you see
the piece of black ;
He would take you for a greenhorn if you asked
him who was dead,
If you asked was it a brother he would slowly
shake his head ;
He would ponder o’er the changes since his brother
Jack was killed,
Of the many yards of crispy crape for which he
has been billed ;
He will think about his comrades, while you size
him as a flat,
Of the next whose luck ’twill be to change the
crape around his hat.
N.S.W.
E. J. REYARD.
THE MINE AND THE MILL.
In the stopes above the levels, in the winzes sunk
below,
In the drives and in the rises, by the light the
candles throw,
The hardy miners at their work with tools of tem-
pered steel
Are breaking out the golden stone to make the
mill a meal.
From the mine the trucker takes the broken ore
to roast until
It is ‘done’enough to make its final journey to
the mill—
To be pounded at the mill,
To be danced upon until
It is fine enough for treatment by the cy’nide at
the mill.
The stopes are simply stifling, for there isn’t any
draught,
The fellows there would swelter even if they didn’t
graft;
And the air is hot and sick’ning in the faces and
the rise
For the ’fracteur smoke hangs thickly and we
breathe it till it dies.
The result’s a splitting headache, and at night,
distressed and ill,
We will lie awake and listen to the thunder of the
mill—
To the drumming of the mill —
Through a seeming age until
We are lulled at length to slumber by the rumble
of the mill.
Our work is not the safest, bilt by sounding roof
and walls,
When they’re winded, we can guard against the
danger of the falls.
But sometimes the shots will smoulder while we
prudently adjourn,
And explode in fiendish malice when one ventures
to return.
Then the miner, blinded, broken and beyond the
doctor’s skill
By his silent mates is carried down the tramway
by the mill —
By the loud unceasing mill —
But the poor chap lying still
Never more will hear the clamour of the big,
remorseless mill.
When we leave the black recesses where there’s
barely room to move,
Oh ! it’s good to feel the fresh air and to see blue
sky above—
Good to view the lofty ranges, clad in verdure,
cool and clean,
And the laughing river racing through the moun-
tain-walled ravine—
Hear the mad, delighted stampers, day and night
they’re never still:
How they revel in the long-continued banquet at
the mill!
At the ever-feasting mill,
Yet it never gets its fill,
That monster with the forty teeth —the rock-
devouring mill.
Mining pays when one’s the owner of a gold-pro-
ducing claim,
But for contract work and wages there is nothing
in the game ;
For the goldfields have been over-run by “ un-
employed ” from town,
And brainless competition’s cut the contract prices
down.
And the miner, running risks and grafting hard
with strength and skill,
Gets for pay a paltry pittance from the output of
the mill.
But the owners of the mill,
Looking on and sitting still,
They’re the ones who get the lion’s share of bullion
from the mill.
REEFER.


Australia!) j^titGal
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
TOWPW Th f P ‘ A SP OTT ’ K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.;
. x - VVADBEK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
f ll . 0 ®} 11 ® _ ••• Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
e ASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 8 V PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mi
'
'tuimtlllUluUuufliill
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereayh-street, Sydney,
PEM€MBERI . , ,
The Record Watch of tlie
Record Reign
IS THE RELIABLE
. . Wat?rb(iry Watch-
12,0-A.3D
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Hiulage.
STE iM
Cultivating
Machinery.
*l?32'*y ,
i'-r
%
’ <
"sS>r
,U3l
i'-l
r.i-
-£
,v>
\/
£\
A.
Xvi
M
.<r*>
.;•••;
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
engines
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po: table Railway
JLo co m o fives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & 0 ., & 0 .
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HK AD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
WALTER M. NOAKES. M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Loi}doo ai)d HclboCiroc Tailoriog Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WIN TER, GARMENTS at
Suits 455. to 90s. Trousers —from 12s 6d To 25s
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed.
All Goods delivered free of charge
S. M. BAUMARSHE, Manager.
to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. fid.
SULKIES,from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
ill 17s. fid.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; -DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best.quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. fid.
H. N2LLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Sc Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Sc Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to thn
System, 1 ha-r decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT L AID-DOWN COST IN SYDNFV P l yi J ,en S
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in so 6 f
Lovers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money. ‘ ’ oes e and Retail
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FJtOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
fpHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates. !">/ means of Jiridf/emorJc.
Gold and Other St pin s. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased ee and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTEIA _l .uNLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
90 King-st., SvdLney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
fe-godalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
'RocLalla Esa,c on.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
|—godalla. Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
239 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
w
(Srinjc &£n?itf>,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 5/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCUTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH:LDREN’S SWEET)
jllk Lancet
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
£3° INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making <£97,1763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
THE—<
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors :
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller. -
Funds exceed U 2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,070,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Bmp. Laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager lor Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
go YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. ißLDiEainDa-iEj & co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y OIL It STREET, SYDNI3Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Toi)S njor* In)ported Leaf
tl>ao all tl>e other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Tog€tber
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yankee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
CbanipioQ.
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CogqG?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
CcQtcQQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Moiiopo’e
Rothschilds.
Bonanza — 4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 914.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 21, 1897.
Prick, (}d.
Hf—P
Uf % fifiT i
' Cl K\l ? ri M ct £‘ k r
/ j/^fucLp t Can i )
gt* (lake y’l
— fteatL 7 . t I
// iW TnjKrntk 1
/ Pu,CDfi er r L off one moftf
l a i 1 ... i
T/cfOY/Cfc foes Joeeq O (pur-
Q'ctfWg, J?£?=l UJt /ft A^-Shf
-L-j?
%
►/, „ %
i 1[ r sy
»lj§j|a ' Scclcljy f fic/dy'ic/) /t s
f)dcCsop and arr uf- Ao/fom sf/fy"
"fi/ery fatty-&*'*“*.
t/ery A/fle Tfiuty is &u>Y<rf
arjc l /fits ?re forty T/N'ITFK -
Tok TifST/CJT / S Hire HJZ /
WwPi/sy* EE^
—' //A7 fOf 6 / 7~ .1 never
worked so hard in my life. 1 was going
out either to breakfast’ or
l would have to be
at luncheon with someone.
Taj Tf/?]//£ /v" 7*/-j>/r?/e A /(jKA/ i= f
LONDON, Sunday.—Owing to a judicial
deadlock in Newfoundland Sir William Win-
deyer has accepted a temporary judgeship,
in the island, his duties to commence in
October.
TTicXcCe yiv
'lY'/nc(eyc?r <°
//*■ /^Chj&uricfZ&r^s^
72/‘Un &£/■ 77i<? Saone/- 72e/a.
/z&.ck fo /cik<3> oiser /Tis fye
o glass TF? >6<?77e> / " 1
fj? Tfmmi of a//y/c off*#
LONDON, Monday. - The dtiel between
prince Henry of Orleans and the Codfit of
Tnjiu whs fought In the Bois Vancresson,
St,. Cloud, a town near Paris. The encounter
was fihsjrp and determined, and occupied -!G
minutes.
At the fourth assault Prince Henry s sword
was bent through coming in contact with
his opponent's upper trouser button, and a
fresh weapon yas supplied to him.
/ Lef us fay? ffiata/ibfypr trouser juflcf
' /y& s Su/o/oZiPcf 7*5 /%? otyf'sy?/ a //w /
K message Jins been dispatched by the
'Emperor tVilliain of Germany, congratulat-
ing the Count of Turin upon his success.
The Sydney Presbytery was concerned 'last
night over what was described as “the most se-
rious matter that had ever engaged its attention.”
A petition was presented from the Rev. J. Benvie,
Presbyterian minister of West Maitland, directing
attention to certain published statements of the
Rev. L. M. Isitt, the temperance lecturer, wjiich, i
it was contended, gravely reflected on a minister J
nt the Presbyterian Church. /g y\
, .^vA\
”4 <f%' 7. 4'
A °« *
-r «*’ "6. o_
Vv.it.V. f
s-*; A *
|s§\ ySX% %
'r.J‘ .% <p\%y "0
V % ■ v\ tf.
Steinfiß/VvT/Wv <« ./%•*«
wJ/////M\ , <'* V2l
WmvZy/lwwHh <1 /y
IB'//////r/a//\lmM/\ 4 '
W////////Jf//NBVYk Vt/V
y7trtZ> y° a/ -
t- & a/% ~7~£-/? <r A /v r<y
ff/-
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance,, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Costal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Art ides,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing icith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential ..
Tiif. Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in JilacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. 'l'he conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
ifc Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscriber’s in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland•
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. fid. added .for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this ride.
To Subscribers in Queensland,.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
2S? j fyrzlZeZztfi.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 21, 1897.
The N.S.W. Assembly’s Federal Bill
Amendments.
At time of writing, only one House of one
Australian Legislature—the N.S.W. Assem-
bly—had got through the Federation Bill
and completed its list of proposed amend-
ments. It is a very long list, and if by any
chance the proposals thus advanced are
adopted, there will be so very little Federa-
tion left that even The Bulletin —which
regards almost any kind of Federation as
better than none at all —would hardly regard
the remains of the movement as worth carry-
ing any further at present. The general
tendency of the Adelaide Convention was to
entrust the Commonwealth Government with
as few powers as possible, and leave as many
as possible to the provincial administrations.
When it was finished with the Draft Bill,
that document embodied just about the
smallest amount of real Federation that was
worth having ; and if the amendments sub-
mitted by the N.S.W. Assembly are accepted
—supposing such a thing to be possible—
almost all the scanty authority which the
Draft Bill left to the Federal Government
will be obliterated also. The majority of
the New South Wales politicians certainly
call themselves ardent Federationists, but
almost everyone of them emphatically repu-
diates the idea of giving the Common-
wealth any dignity or influence what-
ever. As each separate item came up
for consideration the consensus of opinion
seemed to be that it was “ monstrous ” that
New South Wales should not do as it darned
well pleased with its own finances, its own
debt, its own railways, rivers, banking sys-
tem, and nearly everything else. The
opinion that it was “ monstrous ” for the
Federal Government to control anything at
all in New South Wales—barring the posts
and telegraphs—was so unanimous that the
reason why the Cornstalk Assembly pro-
fesses to want Federation at all is past under-
standing.
* * * *
The principal decisions arrived at are as
follows : The Commonwealth, in the opinion
of New South Wales Assembly, should not
control the public debt either now or here-
after ; the power to take over the debts is
repudiated, and so the great interest-saving
to be made by consolidation into one Federal
stock disappears over the political horizon.
The railways are not to be taken over, nor is
the Commonwealth to have power to take
them over at any future period, so the war of
the gauges will continue with unabated vigor.
The Inter-State Commission, which was to re-
gulate rates on the provincial railways—as the
next best thing to Federal control- -and ex-
tinguish the ruinous war of tar ids. is also
thrown overboard, so the miserable con-
flict of rates on the various borders
is to progress just the same. There
is to be no interprovincial Freetrade ; the
border customs tariff will disappear
certainly, but in the absence of any Federal
railway control the same or equally onerous
duties can be levied and called differential
railway charges instead. Where goods come
in by road the duties can presumably be
levied just the same and described as tolls.
State banking and the issue of State paper-
money are likewise to remain in the hands of
the provincial Parliaments. Also the Federal
authority is to have no control over rivers,
even those running through two or three
separate States. These proposals leave such
a very few rags of authority to the Federal
Legislature that it will have practically no-
thing to do except sit and dream about its
own greatness and collect Customs and excise
revenues.
■* * * •
In addition to this the financial part of the
scheme has been reduced to chaos, mainly
in the interests of Foreign-trade. The
financial proposals were the great stumbling-
block from the beginning, and they seem
likely to remain so to the end. The one
matter on which the Federation party was
practically unanimous was that there must
be uniform Customs and excise duties, and
that, in order to secure uniformity, these
duties must be fixed and collected by the
Federal authority. This was agreed to with
reluctance, as it involved leaving some sem-
blance of power with the Commonwealth,
but there was practically no help for it.
The natural result is that the six provinces,
should they all come in, will surrender to
the Federal Government about £7,000,000 of
revenue, or rather they will give up their
right to collect that amount of customs and
excise, and the Federal Government may
collect it or any other sum it thinks fit.
Having surrendered their right to collect
this customs and excise, they must either be
relieved by the Federal Government of a cor-
responding amount of expenditure, or the
Federal Government must agree to raise
about as much revenue as will equal the
customs and excise surrendered and to
hand back the surplus, or the provinces
must find some new sources of re-
venue, or five of them must go insolvent.
The sixth, New South Wales, having the
biggest land revenue on the continent—its
revenue from this source nearly equals that
which Victoria derives from land and cus-
toms duties combined—could pull through
with a struggle, or at least its insolvency
would be a more gradual affair than that of
its neighbors.
.* •> * •
The first idea, and by far the best, was
naturally to hand over the £7,000,000 of
customs and excise revenue, and with it
£7.000,000 of obligations, and let the
Federal work the matter out.
This system would not have committed the
Commonwealth Government either to Free-
trade, Protection, Revenue Tariffism, or any
special variety of fiscal faith. It cotild have
raised the needful £7,000,000 a .year by
high or low duties, income-tax, land-tax, or
any other form of taxation, as the majority
thought best. But the scheme fell through,
partly because it was highly probable that
the majority would keep on raising the re-
quired revenue by duties and thus perpetuate
a Protective system which the Shoddy party
in New South Wales abhorred ; partly
because provincial jealousies made it impos-
sible to decide which liabilities should be
handed over. The idea of transferring the
public debts was rejected because each pro
vince had a dark suspicion that its credit
would help to bolster up that of its neighbor,
and the idea of doing good to its neighbor,
even by accident and at no cost to itself, was
abhorrent to all the provinces alike. The
proposal to hand over the railways and the
railway deficits was rejected because each
province saw in it a scheme whereby its
neighbor wanted to steal away its traffic.
The proposal that the Public Instruction
system should be transferred was rejected
for no reason in particular, and chaos again
supervened.
* * * *
The next alternative was to obtain a guar-
antee that the Federal Government—seeing
that the provinces wouldn’t trust it with
either their debts, their railways, their school
system, or anything else of importance—
would collect so much revenue that it could
afford to hand back to the provinces about
as much as they now receive in customs and
excise duties. This idea was adopted for a
time with bitter reluctance. Each province
started with the assumption that all the
others were in league to swindle it out of its
fair share of the surplus, and that the great
object of the Commonwealth Parliament
would be to assist the “other provinces” in
robbing “our province,” and enormously
elaborate designs were constructed to pre-
vent any province losing from Id. up to
in the division of the surplus. But it was a
miserably unsatisfactory arrangement, and
nobody was satisfied with it, and the latest
proposed amendment by the New South
Wales Assembly calls for its abolition also.
* * * *
The way it is now proposed to fix things is
that the provinces shall keep practically all
their liabilities—public debts, railway de-
ficits, and the rest. Also, that they shall
surrender to the Federal Government the
right to collect customs and excise duties,
thus depriving themselves of £7,000,000 of
annual revenue, with no conditions what-
ever. The Federal Government is not to be
pledged to return any surplus whatever.
This, will place it in a position to establish
that system of almost absolute Freetrade
which the party just now dominant in New
South Wales specially aims at, arid the ob-
ject of the Cornstalk delegates will presum-
ably be to induce it to abolish all
Customs duties, except the small amount,
probably about £1,000,000, required for the
expenses of the Federal Government itself.
New South Wales, with its huge land re-
venue as a sheet-anchor, would probably
manage to get through under these condi-
tions ; the other provinces would g-'broke.
Victoria, for example, would sacrifice
£2,000,000 of revenue and be relieved of
less than £200,000 of expenditure, therefore
it would have a gap of £1,800,000 to be filled
by direct taxation. As a land-tax of about
10s. in the £ would be required to do this,
the utter hopelessness of the situation is
sufficiently obvious, and yet the position of
Westralia, Tasmania, and Queensland would
be even worse than that of Victoria. The
New South Wales Assembly, in fact, asks its
neighbors that, in order to give special facili-
ties for the introduction of the Freetrade
system of which New South Wales is the
only adherent, they shall place themselves
in such a position that every one of them ex-
cept New South Wales may be reduced to
insolvency.
* * * *
While repudiating more emphatically than
ever the proposal that the New South Wales
railways-—the second-best paying system in
Australia—should be amalgamated with the
others under Federal control, the New
South Wales Assembly still adheres to
the Convention scheme of Federal post and
telegraph management. As the New South
Wales posts and telegraphs show by far the
largest annual loss in the Seven Provinces,
the readiness displayed to go in for brotherly
union on this one point—almost the only
one on which the brotherly instinct was
developed—is all the more remarkable. But
while displaying complete willingness to
throw in New South Wales’ large postal
deficit with South Australia’s handsome sur-
plus, the proposal that the latter, and the
. other small provinces, should have equal re-
presentation in the Federal Senate was
rejected with scorn. Altogether, despite one
or two commendable amendments, the
general tenor of the proposals is to make
Federation hopeless in the first place, pos-
sibly ruinous in the second, and to make the
Federal Parliament such an utterly impotent
shadow that it would be hardly worth having
in any case. If the other Parliaments, when
they have finished with their share of the
work, produce equally bad results, the pros-
pects of the Commonwealth will be an inter-
esting study,.
The Remarkable Mr Gould.
The recent developments of the notorious Suf-
FIELD ease have a very curious aspect; and the
inference is that the remarkable Mr, Gould,
N.S. W. Minister for Alleged Justice, has be-
come convinced that an enquiry cannot be much
longer delayed unless he has a new plea to fall
back upon—-such as the plea that “Suffield
has petitioned (or has announced his intention
of petitioning) for a remission of his sentence ;
and the Minister is prepared to favorably con-
sider the petition. As, therefore, he will” be at
liberty in a few weeks, there is no necessity
to incur the enormous expense [‘enormous
expense ’ will be good] of an enquiry.”
In other words—“ the man is practically out of
gaol ; why bother further ? ” And the average
M.L.A., only too glad of .an excuse to be
friends with the Govt, that dispenses loaves
and fishes, will be only too ready to accept the
excuse for keeping quiet. But if one or two do
protest further there is another possible answer:
“ Innocent men do not petition to be released ;
they petition for an enquiry.” And, notwith-
standing that this answer is essentially fal-
lacious, and that Suffield has grown grey in
petitioning for an enquiry, many people will
swallow the claptrap. Anything (as in the
Mount Rennie case) to avoid the judicial scan-
dal, the light on the dark places of Alleged
Justice that an enquiry might bring. The
Bulletin, of course, does not say that even
the remarkable Mr. Gould argues like this.
* * • *
But some Ministers might. Look at the
facts : —At the beginning of August the re-
markable Mr. Gould caused Suffield to
be informed that his petition for release
at the end of the year would be favour-
ably considered. Now, Suffield has all
along declined to petition for release. “ I
don’t want any special remission of sen-
tence,” he says ; “ I am an innocent man, and
I want Justice— l want an enquiry into my
case.” And he was true to himself still. So
he replied that he would not petition for
release— which, when you come to think that
the man has been six and a-half years in gaol,
with “ the System ” of Botany Bay grinding
ihe spirit out of h-m, argues some pluck.'
Maybe it also argues some innocence ?
would a consciously guilty man keep up the
fight so long, and refuse liberty when it was
offered him? But that is by the way. Any-
how, Suffield refused to petition ; and, of
course, the matter dropped. The Minister
justly remarked : “ Well, I’ve offered to do him
a good turn ; if be likes to be surly, that’s his
own look-out.” No; that is what the aver-
age Minister iconld say ; the remarkable
Mr. Gould did not say anything of the
kind; and the matter did not drop. The
Department wrote again ! ! “If Suffikld
liked to change bis mind at the end of the year,
the remarkable Mr. Gould would still be
pleased to favorably consider a petition for
release !! ! ” Curious, very ! Looks as if tho
Minister were begging a favor from Suffield,
not Suffield from the Minister. I)o Ministers,
then, beg favors from guilty prisoners?—from
men whom they think are guilty?—from men
But that is by the way.
* * • •
Anyhow, Suffield must have read the com-
munication with mixed feelings—astonishment
doubtless the chief. And he did not reply.
Probably he considered that one word was as
good as a thousand, and bis silence was a
dignified rebuke. So this alleged villain, hav-
ing refused two offers of liberty—because he
did not want liberty, but justice—-resolutely set
himself to work out his sentence. And the
matter dropped in earnest. Did it ? No fear !
The remarkable Mr. Gould having twice
as good as offered this guilty felon liberty
if he would petition, and the offer having
been ' received once with a negative, and
once with a silence as significant as a nega-
tive—the Department tried a third, time to get
Suffield to petition for release 111 What is a
Department of Justice, that it should go out
of its way to release abominable prisoners like
Suffield before they have served their regular
sentence? prisoners who, as Judge Win-
deyer said at Suffield’s trial, “ escaped the
capital charge ” because the jury gave him
“ the benefit of the doubt which existed
as to whether or not he had succeeded
in his foul design on the girl who, unfor-
tunately, had been rendered unconscious by the
brutal treatment”—“ miscreants ” from w hom
“ the strong arm of the law should be held
out to protect innocent girls”? What is a
Department of Justice, that it should try time
after time, make effort after effort, to let
such men petition for release? and why
does it do it? —against the prisoner’s wish.
Suffield has himself stated the position very
clearly. “ There are but two issues in my
case,” he says; “if I am guilty of outraging
that girl, then I deserve that my sentence should
be served to the very last day ; if I am innocent,
then I deserve the fullest reparation for the
wrong done me by destroying the best years of
my life ; —there is no room for a mitigation, no
room for a petition for release.”—But that is
by the way.
♦ * + *
Enter Mr. Griffith, M.L.A.—to Suffield in
gaol on August 2. Mr. Griffith is the Labor-
member who was returned to Parliament
largely because he promised the Lambton voters
to get an inquiry into Suffikld’s case-and not
long ago he moved the adjournment of the
Assembly to discuss the matter—and it was
discussed —and Mr. Griffith left the matter
to the right-feeling of the Govt.—and there the
matter ended, till the Department permitted
Mr. Griffith to have a special inlerview with
Suffield. And to wdiat end? To this, ap-
parently : that Mr. Griffith should break down
Suffield’s refusal to petition ! Was ever such a
thing heard of before? Once—the Department
had been refused ; twice—it had been ignored;
the third time—well, what could be done by
word of mouth? by Suffikld’s parliamentary
representative? by the man who had advocated
his cause? Did it strike Suffield that this
was queer—this anxiety that he should petition
for release on the part of the Department
which had persistently ‘refused his petitions
for enquiry ? Suffield is an educated man—
did he remember the injunction to distrust
Grecian gifts ? One does not know ; but
Mr. Griffith shook him, and the harassed
wretch, unutterably weary- of imprisonment,
was for a moment led from his high ground of
principle into a consideration of his personal
sufferings. He promised—to consider, and give
an answer in a week ; and Mr. Griffith de-
parted—to make his report to the remarkable
“Justice ” Department ? The week has passed
—what was Suffield’s answer ?
♦ * * *
The Bulletin does not know; but it sin-
cerely trusts that Suffield has not yielded—if
he can stand gaol a little longer—if his health
and brain will last out. And now The Bul-
letin asks again for an enquiry into his case.
Is Suffield guilty or innocent? The Bulle-
tin does not know ; but it holds that there is
an immense body of evidence to show that he
has been condemned wrongly. If he be guilty,
enquiry will surely set the matter at rest, and
convince thousands who now believe in his
innocence. And if he be innocent . . . who
will repay him for the loss of his good name, the
loss of his liberty, the loss of so much of his
life? The Bulletin still hopes that there
exists in New South W ales Parliament some
Man wdio will take hold of Suffield’s case for
enquiry and press it to a conclusion—in defiance
of pious Pharisees and ice-blooded selfseekers,
and in despite of the curious proceedings of
the remarkable Mr. Gould,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Quibbler Again.
The Bulletin lately alluded to the advisable-
ness of conferring on workmen,' who are in-
tended to be benefited by the minimum-wage
clauses of Govt, contracts, the right of appear-
ing as parties in the courts to enforce those pro-
visions themselves. Additional point has since
been given to these remarks by the proceedings
on an order to review in the Victorian courts,
by which it is being sought to deny the personal
right of factory operatives or shop employes to
sue for the wages, &c., provided for under the
Factories Act. The case is not fully settled
yet, but a glance at the Act shows that, what-


ever may have been the real intention of Par-
liament, it has not succeeded in over-riding any
contracts made between employer and work-
man at lower rates than the minimum wage. It
imposes a penalty on the employer if lie pays
less, but it does not give a right to the work-
man to sue for his due. There is a
famous case in the English law-reports,
which says that a provision in a statute,
compelling ship-owners, under a penalty, to
provide medicines for the sailors, gives a sailor
an action for damages if t he provision is not
complied with. This would probably cover the
Factories Act cases, but it has been so studiously
“blown upon” by so many competent blowflies
of the law that it can no longer be considered
sweet smelling law. The singular thing about
the Factories Act cases is that the draftsman
can hardly be blamed in the matter. All fac-
tory legislation has been enforced merely by
penalties for disobedience to their provisions,
there being scarcely an instance of a right of
action being given to the adversely
affected. Here then, if the legal quibble holds
water, as it almost certainly will, should be the
starting-point for a new departure, and almost
necessary one, in factory legislation. Every
enactment should contain a simple and express
statement of the right of the
to the privilege granted by the Act.
The statement of the right will give
him an action on the statute for the wages un-
derpaid, or for damages in the event of his
being detained beyond the proper number of
hours, or for injuries received from neglect of
precautions prescribed with reference to
machinery or accommodation. To clench the
legislative nail, an express provision should be
inserted in every Act denying the power to con-
tract oneself out of the Act. To be effectual
and to carry out the real intentions of the
framers of the Acts* these provisions should be
in, for at present the Acts only create offences
against the people, punishable at the whim of
an inspector, instead of also creating private
rights enforceable at law, and capable of en-
forcement, too, at periods when the fear of
dismissal for complaining will have ceased to
operate.
The Federal Cold Tea Problem.
Onk of the many parochial-souled amendments
on the Federation Bill proposed by N.S.W.
Assembly is that each State shall be at liberty
to piohiiiit grog within its own borders. The
Bulletin badly wants to know why national
option, by which liquor would either be pro-
hibited throughout all Australia or not at all,
would not answer the purpose quite as well with-
out dislocating the revenue. The liquor revenue
will be one of the main sources of Federal
income, and if any one province went in sepa-
rately for Prohibition the result would be that
it would cut off the biggest part of its contri-
bution to the Federal treasury, and leave the
drinking provinces to pay its share of the bill.
Supposing Victoria adopted Prohibition, and
thereby cut down its payment to the Federal
Treasury by two-thirds, and it was necessary
in consequence to levy about =£1,200,000 of
new taxation, of which ,£400,000 would fall on
N.S. W., and the latter province found itself pay-
ing about ,£2,400,000 per annum while Victoria
paid only £1,000,000 or so, the full beauty of
the situation would presently dawn on the
Cornstalk citizen. If the teetotal cause would
gain anything by making Prohibition a pro-
vincial instead of a national affair, there would
be something to show oil the other side of the
case, but it is just as likely to lose as to gain.
Take the following as a perfectly possible case :
Adult Population. Teetotal Vote,
say say
N.S.W 720,000 460,000
Victoria ... ... 700,000 340,000
Queensland ... 270,000 110,000
S A . ... 230,000 100,000
W.A 100,000 48,000
Tasmania .. ... 110,000 50,000
2,130,000 1,108,000
In such a case, the Cold-Tea crowd, if Prohi-
bition were made a national question, would be
able to secure the abolition of drink all over
Australia and Tasmania ; yet, if it were made a
purelv provincial matter, the same crowd could
only carry Prohibition in one province, and
leave drink to rage in the other five. Of course,
it is quite possible to imagine another set of
circumstances in which it would be possible to
carry Prohibition separately in as many as five
provinces, and yet national Prohibition be
impossible. But one set of conditions is
about as probable as the other, and the
chance of getting national Prohibition is
very nearly as good as that of securing the
provincial article. And there are three solid
reasons against the latter : (1) It isn t worth
having except in the isolated province of Tas-
mania; in the mainland states smuggling would
be incessant, and Prohibition at the best would
only mean a slab of Cold Tea in the centre with
a thick streak of drunkenness and snakes all
round the borders; (2) Prohibition by instal-
ments would reduce the Federal finances to
utter disorder ; (3) the tendency is already to
leave everything, even the common drunk, to
the Provincial Parliaments and nothing to the
Federal Legislature, and it is impossible to
make Australia a nation if it has no national
interests and everything is split up into separate
provincial considerations. Gold lea may not
be much of an affair to make a national interest
out of, but even it is better than nothing.
The “Ministering Angel.”
Dear Bulletin,— The recent New South
Wales legislative flare-up upon the hospital-
nurse question is but further evidence of
the increasing prominence amongst us, as an
institution, of the attractively - uniformed
young person in whose demure good-looks it
isn’t easy to discover any results of the sup-
posed “ sweating ” about which her prancing
Parliamentary champions have been so furiously
raging together. The “ bloom of health,” as
was pointed out by one of the unmanly ruffians
upon the other side, is always on the hospital
houri’s cheek : and if, as the unpleasantly un-
romantic Dr. Graham further alleged, her lot
“borders,in many respects, upon the luxurious,”
The Bulletin, for one, is glad to learn that
there is so much solid pu.hl.ng behind the
empty praise which so freely follows the cap
and pinny. And, in any case—be the sacrifice
involved in donning these coquettish insignia
big or little—the fact that there are always
hosts of young women eager to make it lends
color to this abandoned paper’s frequently-ex-
pressed suspicion that the nursing vocation
owes its present extraordinary vogue, not so
much to the woman who wants to be a nurse, as
to her who wauls to be called one—less to her
who, in the service of the sick or suffering,
simply supplies a need of her nature than to
the damsel who hankers more after the reputa-
tion and the “ rig ” than after the duties of the
“ministering angel.” Also, there is probably
a good deal in an ex-nurse’s assertion to
The Bulletin that “one great cause of
the nurse-trouble is that the profession is
now eagerly snatched at, as an alternative
to domestic service, by girls who are
afterwards disgusted to find, not only that
they have to give fair value for their wages,
but also that they have more unpleasant
duties to perform than would fall to their
lot even in the much-despised ‘service.’” On
the other hand, however, it is to be remembered
that the dear little creature who is consumed
with a desire to convert the live Chinaman, in
preference to the European pagan, is abun-
dantly paralleled by the young woman who
would sooner, as a “ nurse,” perform the ablu-
tions of a defunct Chinkey than do the same
office, as a “ servant,” upon the wholesome
little living carcase of a white man’s child. The
probationers’ duties, also, to which Mr. Cope-
land referred as “ such as no decent girl ought
to be required to perform,” are only such as
have been performed, in her probationary term,
by every full-blown nurse. And, finally, it
would be interesting to know whether the
chivalric enthusiasm .of M’s.P. on behalf of
oppressed womanhood extends to the labor-
hours of their own domestic-servants, or
whether it stops abruptly short at a stage in
which personal interest would account for a
good lot of the milk in this particular Parlia-
mentary cocoa-nut. —Z.Z.
4.
The Suffield Case.—An Appeal.
The goddess of Justice is traditionally blind.
In N.S.W. she is frequently deaf, dumb, and
paralysed as well. 'l’lie commentary-on-evidence
published in The Bulletin must have con-
vinced every intelligent person that the Suf-
field case is emphatically a case for enquiry.
N.S.W. Justice is not infallible. She has made
mistakes before; she may make them again.
And Suffield was tried by Judge Windeyer.
According to Judge and jury, Buttner was
rightly convicted on sufficient evidence, and he
was within an ace of being hanged when it was
proved that he was absolutely innocent. Ac-
cording to Judge and jury, Mrs. Butler was a
dishonored woman, vet it was afterw'ards shown
that she was the victim of wicked and sys-
tematic perjury. Spasmodic efforts have been
made on Suffield’s behalf ; but the public soon
forgets. The Bulletin wants to make the
public remember. Suffield’s case has been
spasmodically talked about in Parliament; but
most members of Parliament are timid tirne-
serversquakingfor t heir seats—with the courage
to beard a Minister only wdien the local road-and-
bridge vote pushes them. The Bulletin wants
to g?ve them pluck enough to drag Suffield’s
case right out of its pigeon-hole into the light
of day. To these ends it is necessary that the
facts be laid before the public and Parliament
as forcibly as print and speech can do it—
which means money ; and that an organised and
continuous effort be made to get Suffield fair
play at an open enquiry—which means more
money. The Bulletin starts a subscription ;
and will be glad to acknowledge further sums
from men who can put themselves in Suffield’s
place after six and a-half years of prison, and
realise how they would feel had they been
victims, as he may be a victim, of what at pre-
sent looks like a grave and cruel miscarriage of
justice.
Lavr’-n’-Order.
Item from Sydney Teleokaph of 13th Aug. re
the Lucknow mining strike :
Of course there are times when they are led away in
spite of their better judgment; for instance, the man
who has been arrested on suspicion of throwing a stone at
the groom named Pkarse is a reputably connected mar-
ried” man, with several youngsters, and bears a good
character. He was brought up before the P.M., Mr.
J. L. Kino, at the Orange Court this morning, and for-
mally remanded for eight days. The matter of allowing
bail is to be arranged to-morrow morning. In the mean-
time the suspect is in custody. [Bail was ultimately re-
fused.]
The Bulletin has no objection to make, so far
as this incident is concerned. It recognises
that the law should be enforced at all times;
the trouble is that the way it is enforced when
labor troubles are on and the shameful way it
isn’t enforced at other times are so conspicu-
ously different. On any ordinary occasion, if a
man of low character throws a stone at another
out of pure ruffianism and a mere brutal desire
to put out his or anybody else’s eye, he would,
in most cases, only be fined 2s. 6d. and
discharged on the spot. But in this case,
it appears, if the thing was done at all,
the accused didn’t do it out of mere brutal
devilment, and he isn’t a person who is
liable to heave stones at any time ; instead,
he is supposed to have been led aw’ay by
excitement arising from the fact that the
miners object to have their - wages reduced.
Under these circumstances, he is remanded in
custody, and has already done a longer sentence
while awaiting bail than the ordinary larrikin
would do altogether, and yet his real sentence,
if the case is proved, hasn’t begun yet. Pro-
bably, if the case is proved, he will deserve all
he gets, but the difference between the man
who deserves what he gets and the one who
never gets what he deserves is very striking.
The rowdy who heaves stones simply because
he is a murderous brute by habit, and likes to
bash other people at all times, and who hasn’t
the excuse that he was led away by popular
excitement and a more or less definite sense of
wrong, almost always receives a nominal sen-
tence. He is let off lightly, apparently
because the average beak regards brutal
devilment as an extenuating circumstance.
Whenever a strike begins the law spreads itself
manfully to suppress “ intimidation,” and The
Bulletin wouldn’t object in the least if it would
be equally severe on “ intimidation a :|
other times. When the great Broken Hill
strike was on, Sleatii and Ferguson got long
terms of imprisonment apiece for intimidating
certain Barrier residents just once in the course
of their lifetimes. The “ push,” without any
such excuse, intimidates the inhabitants ot
half-a-dozen Sydney suburbs every day of the
year, and it doesn’t get one-tenth of the
sentence which Sleath and Ferguson re-
ceived. Apparently, the unwritten law ot
Australia reads something to the effect that
threats of violence, if done as an indirect means
of preventing a reduction of wages, are a truly
awful crime. But threats of violence, and
actual violence, which have no decent motive
behind them, and are only actuated by a desire
to kick somebody’s head in on general princi-
ples of butchery, are a very small offence indeed.
That may not be the latv’s precept, but it is the
law’s example, anyhow.
John’s Amendment.
Ebenezer Ward, M.L.C., has a bill before
S.A. Parliament authorising it to alter or reject
the final draft of the Federal Constitution Bill,
and to refuse to let it go to the popular vote, or
to let the people vote upon it only in such form
as Parliament pleases. John Haynes has in-
troduced a very similar measure in N.S. W.
John’s bill provides that, when the second
Federal Convention has sat and has finished Us
draft Constitution, the N.S.W. Parliament may
refuse to submit it to the people as it stands.
Instead, the Legislature is to alter it in any
way and to any extent it pleases, and the people
are to have the right to vote on the altered
(John calls it the “amended”) bill, and no
other. As for the scheme which is drawn up.
by the ten delegates whom the nation, by an
overwhelming vote, expressly entrusted with
the work of Constitution-making, the people
are not to be even allowed to consider it unless
Parliament feels so inclined. In each case
there is exhibited a fine old Tory contempt for
anything so low and stupid and commonplace as
the mere masses. Both the Parliaments con-
sist largely of men who applied to the nation for
billets as Federal Constitution-makers, and were
emphatically rejected as not good enough for
the work. These individuals nowpropose to seize
the job without asking the nation’s permission
and to refuse the nation any further voice in
the matter except at their pleasure ! 1 he
obvious idea is to make Federation impossible,
whether the people desire it or not. It is only
possible if the provinces all accept exactly the
same constitution; if two provincial Parlia-
ments make alterations of their own, however
small, in the Bill before it goes to the people
then, even if it is accepted all round, three
different constitutions will be accepted, and
things will be back where they were at the
beginning. If it was proposed to let the Con-
vention Bill in its entirety, and the Convention
Bill as altered by Parliament, go to the people
together, so that they could accept which they
pleased or reject both, there would be some
semblance of Democratic principle about the
scheme. As it is, the spectacle of John Haynes
proposing to deprive the people of their voice in
the matter, and to let them vote only on the
sort of Bill which John and Co. choose to
submit to them, is a fine slab of Toryism. Also,
it puts Haynes, as a Democrat and an advocate
of the Referendum, in quite a new light. Ward,
of S. A., goes one better than Haynes by openly
demanding the right to prevent the people
voting on any Federation scheme at all, but the
difference is only a matter of form after all.
The result is the same either way.
The British Foreigner Shows his Teetn.
The silken bonds have threads of iron in them,
and “ daughter in her mother’s house, but mis-
tress in her own ” rather pleases the ear than
suits the facts. The references in the British
Commons to the Maoriland Seamen’s Act for-
cibly remind us that we are in many things a
very subject, not to say abject, community out
this way. English shipowners have been com-
plaining that this Act compelled them to pay
the local wages to their men while in M.L.
waters. Chamberlain stated, with an ultra
vires sneer, that the Imperial Govt, had been
advised that the Act provided for the
manning of vessels on a scale inconsistent
with the Mercantile Shipping Act (English),
and that its operation affected vessels not
engaged in the coastal trade. Jhere is. of
course, a threat behind this, and a threat
that unfortunately, in spite of “ Responsible
Government ” cant, can be legally enforced.
Isn’t there pressing need, under the circum-
stances, that the power in the Federal Bill re-
lating to “ navigation and shipping ” should be
so framed that Australia shall (like America)
have full power to apply all its laws to any
shipping in its waters in face of the Merchant
Shipping Act, or any other foreign, non-repre-
sentative legislation ? Apropos , this Merchant
Act is much more carefully worded than the
S.A. Act relating to employers’ liability, the
latter of which is, with reference to its pro-
visions for the protection of seamen, almost
certainly ultra vires.
How Much. Further ?
The belligerent methods of nations—involving
originally the liability to military service of all
able-bodied, non-hieratic males, and modified,
as commerce grew and manufactures multiplied,
into the erection of a separate fighting profes-
sion—are fast being forced back, by simple
stress of armamental competition, to the system
that makes every man a soldier more or less
completely trained. Whether or not extremes
will in this respect come together—whether the
rest of the European peoples will be compelled
to return to first principles by making soldier-
ship as compulsory as it already is with the
most powerful of them—will depend simply
upon the time which has yet to elapse before
that inevitable culmination of this insolent and
intolerable militarism which will take place in
one of two ways. Either some one powerfully-
armed State —wiser than the rest, or foolisher !
—will set that daring example of disarmament
which nations less able to carry their burdens of
steel will be only too glad to follow; or a collision
between any pair of peoples will —through the
ever-increasingcomplicationof national interests
—precipitate a tremendous general encounter
a Titanic hell-grapple in which the mail-butcher-
ing contrivances of modern murder-science will
for the first time receive fair trial, with such
inconceivably hideous results as to force at last
upon our still semi-barbarous intelligences the
magnificent conception of a State of States. In
an all-comprehending community, of which each
nation should be hut an individual, no one State
could attack another without being amenable to
those omninational laws which would have duly
provided other remedy for wrong, and which,
for the preservation of the omninational peace,
would have at command the regulated physical
force of the whole. And it will be a cruel satire
on Christianity that this state of things—as
near to its fabled millennium as human nature
can hope to get —will have been brought about,
not by any evangelisation of mankind, but by
the final explosion of those wholesale murder-
forces which are to-day accumulating so rapidly
under the shadow of the Religion of Peace and
Good Will upon Earth !
“ Hkrmes ” to The Bulletin :
An interesting' return would be that of the number of
hours worked bv the servants kept by those N.S. Wales
M'sP. who made such a splash during the recent debate
on the working hours of nurses. The most sensible
remarks during the debate were made by Mr. Crick, who
said that “the working hours of nil females, young or
old, should be regulated in conformity with the eight-
hour clause of the Factories Act.” Hospital nurses nre
over-worked, and do run considerable danger of contract-
ing infectious diseases from patients under their care;
but then hospital nurses are surrounded with every safe-
guard that science can supply ; and, as a general thing,
their work is confined to one ward, and they are not con-
tinually racing up and down stairs like girls employed in
most other places. In the city and suburbs of Sydney
there are thousands of women and girls working longer
hours and doing harder work than any hospital nurses,
and in badly-ventilated rooms and surrounded by every
condition and circumstance that can increase their risk.
And the fearful effects can be seen in the crowds of
played-out-looking creatures who drag themselves along
the streets every night and morning ; the hospital nurse,
on the contrary, looks extremely healthy on the average.
The “ white slavery ” of the hospitals is sweet comfort,
compared to that of domestic service. And Crick seems
to he the only man in N.S.W. Assembly who recognises
the fact.
However desirable or necessary it may be that
rules against the imputation of motives'and
dishonorable conduct against members of
deliberative assemblies should be carried out,
there is something to be said in support of
actions like Prendergast’s in the Vic.
Assembly. It is this : Members can get up
and say what they like about anybody else in
the community without fear of being shut up
by a libel-action or by a partisan Speaker. And
it is essential in the public interests that they
should be allowed to do so. Many a corrup-
tion would grow hoary otherwise. But when
M’sP. themselves are guilty, or probably guilty,
or reasonably suspected of being guilty of cor-
rupt actions, although from their positions
their power of doing harm is all the greater
and even dangerously great, they are protected
from exposure outside the House by the law of
criminal libel, and inside the House by the rules
relating to the imputation of motives, &c.
Boldness of a kind regrettably lacking in Aus-
tralian Assemblies is requisite for meeting such
cases, and public opinion will visit, as in this
case, the breaker of what is, in normal circum-
stances, a very good rule, with a very mild
kind of opprobrium when he breaks it in the
essential interests of the public themselves.
+
Manager Williamson made a good point in
his evidence before the Vic. Old Age Jtension
Committee when he showed how little the pro-
posed tax -on theatre tickets would really
amount to. Quite a lot of ignorant witnesses
had talked of this as a possible mine of wealth,
and Williamson’s practical knowledge flat-
tened them out badly. Then he cheerfully
Offered his solution of the money difficulty,
which was that the Pension Fund should be
provided by appropriating half of the drink
revenue for the purpose. Apart from the fact
that the =£500,000 a year which this would
amount to would be wholly insufficient, the
trouble is that the Treasurer can just make
ends meet with the whole of the drink revenue
at his command. If ,£500,000 a year of his
ordinary receipts are taken from him to create
a Pension Fund, then he must find new sources
of income to fill the gap; therefore Mr.
Williamson didn’t suggest any way of provid-
ing the funds after all; he merely proposed
that the Treasurer should find out a way. Yet
the bulk of the witnesses were just like manager
Williamson. Nine-tenths of them came for-
ward proudly with a great, original scheme
whereby the Pension Fund was to be provided
by annexing for the purpose some existing source
of revenue. And hardly-one of them seemed
able to realise that that solution left things just
as they were because the Government must
find some way of making good the lost revenue.
Few persons over six feet high ever had any
brains worth mentioning. But it is quite com-
mon for persons over six feet high, in virtue of
their size, and their bull necks, and their big
voices, and their physical energy, to impress
five-sixths of the public with a belief that
their mental qualities are on a par with their
physical. The average unthinking sft. fiin.
person, with a stomach-capacity proportioned
to his size, is apt to believe—always wrongly—
that the 6ft. Sin. person who thinks nothing of
wolfing a roast turkey and four bottles of beer
at a sitting must have an intellect on a par
with his appetite; and he reveres and shouts
for the 6ft. 3in. person accordingly, and is
rather proud when that long slab condescends
to damn his eyes and civic rights in a bluff and
jovial or a pompous and dignified fashion.
This explains why in N.S.W.
—a large person with the mental calibre of a
police-court attorney ; , a ditto
ditto police-court constable ; —, a
ditto ditto police-court barrister ; and
1 a ditto ditto police-court magistrate,
should have succeeded so astoundingly in public
life. It is impossible for the average small
man to avoid thinking that the large one who
looks able to eat him without salt must be a
mighty fine fellow. Consequently, the large
man is a mighty fine fellow to all intents and
purposes; and his physical bigness cloaks
his mental meanness so effectually that he
almost invariably gets a public funeral.


CALLAGHAN
BOOTS!
STITCHES THAT STAY,
SOLES THAT WEAR,
FINISH THAT PLEASES.
Feel and See the Fit of a Pair yourself
If the Boots don’t persuade you to buy, we won’t.
Ladies’ Glace Kid Shoes, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, 16s 6d
Ladies Glace Kid Loots, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s. '
Gent’s Calf Lace Boots, 15s 6d, 17s 6d
Gent’s Calf Lace Shoes, 19s 6d, 26s 6d.’
22s 6d, 28s 6d.
Callagbai) 8, Soo,
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT :
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084.
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy, issued by this Company :
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a <m a r-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income; ’
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary ;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life ■
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager, at the
«»*
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
lm Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 King William Street, Adelaide, S A
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Trapper writes from Grenfell, enquir-
mg’ the name of the Vic. hare-and-rabbit exporter
who has lately started to operate in N.S. Wales.
Gan any Bulletin reader oblige ?
Extract from S. M. Herald’s latest London
letter :
ar y aC -fl ent and the Budden lnarch of events in
South Africa it his come to pass that since the Ministry
was formed the Colonial Office has had centred upon it
the attention of the Empire and of the universe. P
Chamberlain the Empire, and the Universe. All
the same, the Universe ”is good.
At the Churqji of England, Bodmin, Corn-
wa on 27th June 1897, two sisters and two
brothers of one family were married in a batch to
two brothers and two sisters of another family.
I his is probably the most unanimous agreement
to love on record outside Mormondom.
. Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
talking machine, costing only £l2, will soon be
house m the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.* y
pernjarjerjt
portraits
perfect posing
popular pr/ceg
Jfo Extrag
Jfo Stairs
jYo Elevator.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits "N
with Beautifully Finished KnlaJeO
T er, y a "="t Bromide or f
Opah Any style or pose. No extras)
7/6
JheJdectl portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs!
• PPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS. t<
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majbstt’b “The Gay Parisienne.”
i ,VOl ' l Rickards’ Variety Co.
The Biograph.
“The Brand of Cain.”
Criterion Professor Bristol’s Edu-
„ cated Horses and Mules.
a own Hall Hatnbourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
I! “ The si ? n of the Cross.”
HiKm “ Lights o’ London.”
\f»v A USE Rickards’ Variety Co.
Brand of Cain,'’ which is busily
unrolling its gory length at Sydney Royal,
is unlike its name for several reasons. In
the first place, Abel isn’t in the bill at all:
lie is dead before the drama opens, and the
curtain rises on act 1 to show a bill stuck on the
wall or a public-house, in which document a large
reward is offered for Cain’s arrest. Cain himself
is reading it and drinking. Another point is that
there is no visible brand on Cain. Otherwise the
tlrarna is an honest and industrious attempt at
murder conspiracy, robbery, sudden death, per-
jury, theft, lying, fraud, assault and battery,
arson, unforeseen explosion, strangling, and other
lefreshinent. It opens with a chasm in Spain
find a cave wherein lurk John Smith and John
Doe, two energetic British murderers ; and in one
enthusiastic scene they heave about half the com-
pany into the bottomless abyss. Finally, John
omith throws John Doe down with the rest, and
ret i r ?‘\ W1 o h * h , e P lunder - Thereafter John Doe
and John Smith, and an old family servant (who
had recovered from being thrown into the gulf),
and the baronet and the cockney valet (who just
escaped being thrown in) lead a kaleidoscopic exis-
tence in England. The hero of the story, John
Doe s twin brother, is constantly being arrested in
mistake, owing to their fatal resemblance. His
daughter rounds on him because he gets so
mixed up with the butcher relative that the
wTL Ca r n i b ® sorted . He is gaoled,
while John Doe— assisted by John Smith
—collects his money; and when John Doe
tries to strangle the baronet the good brother
naturally gets the credit of it. And, finally, John
Doe gets his persecuted relative and daughter
locked up in a shed, and incites John Smith to put
dynamite under it; and as John Doe treacherously
locks John Smith in along with the dynamite and
the fuse, that person is naturally blown up also.
?ut by a miscalculation the tons of ruins and the
fire-blasted body of John Smith all fall on John
lloe who hasn t got away in time, while the good
brother escapes unharmed. It is a great, roaring,
ho -W catastrophe, and the flames and the riot
and the dead bodies of John Doe and John Smith
bring things to a sudden and incoherent end amid
much smoke.
♦
The only person of any importance in the
tragedy of John Doe and John Smith is H. R
Roberts, who plays the two brothers, and is about
three-fourths of the cast himself. Now and then
he is relieved for a moment by another man who
personates Doe asleep or lying down or dead, so
that the two brothers can appear simultaneously,
but otherwise Roberts is both parties. He keeps
the illusion going perfectly.. A dozen times or
more there is only a second or two between the
escape of the brother who is Doe and the inrush of
the one who looks as if he was Doe but isn’t, yet
the two are always kept distinct, and at last the
burnt remains of John Smith fly between them
and separate them definitely. John Smith, done
by D. B. Russell, also deserves much commenda-
tion. Misses Maggie Moore and Fitzmaurice
Lriil, and a number of other people in 11 other
characters have very little to do and don't
amount to a respectable row of beans all put
TrJm <l^-fL J mi n 1)06 u and his *? or y accomplice,
John Smith, fill so much space that there is little
room for anybody else. The latest news at the
rumor, wafted across the cinder of
John Simth, that the 00. will shortly abandon
melodrama and go back into the old track of musi-
m Pursuance of which arrange-
ment the Trilby burlesque, with Roberts as
Svengali and Walter Rivers in his former part of
vjrecko, will be revived shortly.
** * *
agam fi , xi , n S a pynical eye on the
Day Rarisienne, this paper decides to stick by
when °thTi- en^ atory n r t marks thafc ffave way to
when that show first appeared on the horizon.
The 1 ansienne is all, in the way of briskness
and vigor and stocking and vim and underskirt
necteiT K n an -T burlesque could be ex-
pected to be. The co., which is a very strong one
is, probably, more responsible for this than the
DP e ri qUe f-/ ; a burlesque, like a bike, always
falls down if it stops, and as long as it is kept at
racing speed almost any kind of burlesque or bike
will go unless the rim comes right off and the
F?n r fa? th ®, sp « kes imbedded in his constitution.
Ernest Shand s Frenchman is more than enough
to compensate twice over for a certain large,
dreary female who, having judiciously departed
need not be further particularised, and Miss
Willoughby is the same dream of loveliness as
previously mentioned. In fact, regarded as a
dream, Miss Willoughby is the best thing that
Britain has exported in this direction for quite a
long while.
* * *
Frank Lincoln, an Amurrikun comedian,
who, even after ten years of absence, hasn’t en-
tirely faded from memory, opens for a short
season at Sydney Centenary Hall on Saturday.
Last time Lincoln was a one-man show, but on
this occasion he will be supported by Mr. Bert
Levy, the well-known artist, who will cast lime-
light illustrations on Lincoln’s spectral cocktail,
and shed a halo upon the toothless aunt who insists
on giving reminiscences. Frank Lincoln was the
best solo entertainment who ever visited this
country in the last two decades, and, unless he
has been grievously impaired by age or fat or
prosperity, he should be a success of great mag-
nitude.
** * *
Sydney Palace, which has been closed so
long that the public hardly remembers such a
place, makes a fresh start on Monday (23rd). The
Biograph, and a new English co. which Rickards
has just imported, are the materials for the new
venture. The Biograph is understood to be a
variation of our old friend, the “ Cin.,” with im-
grovements, and great things are expected of it.
lean while, Rickards intends running the Tivoli
with even more than his usual vigor to keep it
from being eclipsed by the new show. Albert
Athas, acrobatic comedian, the three Hayters,
and Lizzie Collins, sister to Lottie of the same
name, are the principal attractions at present.
Lizzie shines partly by her own radiance and
partly in the reflected glory of Lottie, and is a
very respectable success in every respect.
** * *
The horse and mule exhibition at Sydney
Cri. j*till _ keeps going. The management
now advertises it as “a performance without a
parallel in the past or present age,” and, though
this paper is accustomed to steep assertions, and
has- made some of them itself, the above state-
ment is just a trifle precipitous.
* * * *-
N.S.W. grog-secretary Bevill, who in his
time has played so many parts, now blossoms
forth as a hypnotist. He gave a semi-public ex-
hibitio’n of his powers in Sydney the other after-
noon, when he succeeded in making a number of
young women, apparently “ under the influence,”
do more or less foolish things. One convincing
fact was that a girl who dropped her bracelet
while in the act of obeying an order of the hypno-
tist, went right on without stopping to pick the
ornament up. That looked pretty genuine, any-
how.
** * *
For the first time these many years there
was a hissing sound at Melb. Royal, on Saturday
night, when the “Flying Jordans” management
introduced a couple of trumpery new “turns.”
One of the novelties was an infant female, who
couldn’t dance nearly as well as the average Melb.
amateur kiddie dances at a bazaar, but she was
an unaggressive imposition, and the audience took
her crude gambols in fairly good part. The other
novelty was the much-advertised appearance of
rp, Ch «', r y Sisters—Europe’s latest Sensation.”
ihe hive Cherries showed no claim to the title of
song and dance artists.” They simply aired
their incompetence in slop-made cotton gowns, and
when the audience at last decided that it was by
no means likely that they had been imported
from a distant land to perpetrate their offence,
but were nothing more than a reckless device for
filling the house on the final Saturday of a frost-
bitten season, the “ gods ” mingled a few hisses
with the general expression of contempt. This
was Melbourne’s first experience of ’Murkan
smartness in travelling-show business, and the
victims felt annoyed.
*# * *
George Rignold returns to the Royal on
Saturday (21st) with a revival of “Lights o’ Lon-
f -1 he season must be a short one, anyway,
and the Lights ” has an absence of six years to
recommend it to the rising generation. It will
introduce G.R/s dive into the famous tank ; also
the company will include Miss Hughes, Sweeney,
Stirling Whyte, and lots of other people who
know every inch of the ground they have travelled
so many times and oft. Therefore, if George can
make Melbourne understand that the Jordans’
gymnastic entertainmeut is about to give place to
a melodrama which was first played by Wilson
Barrett, and if the said Wilson Barrett’s name be
linked with “The Sign of the Cross,” in the
advts., so that “The Lights” may shine with
moral effulgence, the revival ought to do good
business, with an accent on the “good.”
#* * #
“The Sign of the Cross ” has got into a
seventh week at the Princess’s, and the end is not
yet announced. To-night (Thursday), the 100th
Australian conversion of Marcus will'be celebrated
by a souvenir distribution.
** * *
“ Charley’s Aunt ” is terminating her long
run at the Bijou, a week or two sooner than was
expected. The perennial snuffle of “ The Private
Secretary ” falls due once more on Saturday (21st)
nettioZT Who Wants t 0 see Thorn tonin
petticoats, previous to meeting him again in a
ft ue,,z “' wm ” eed 10 h " r > r »p
HHc -fa
Latest items at Melb. Opera House are the
wrvffZv 086 ! vert ' cal P° les performance is not
Tnlui ’i ai ),^, an aw hil resuscitation of
ZnhA T,° yalty by means of th e einemato-
frnin ilio Tv. n6W pict . m ’ PS are chiefly extracts
• V Hb 1 ,1 « e Procession, not more dangerous
public health than the ordinary vision of troops
marching down a street. Nor is there any grave
political objection to a rapid birds-eye view of
rernier Reid and Turner in a gorgeous kerridge,
with Australian mounted warriors in attendance.
D„! o larry • K'ckards has been guilty of placing
Our Sovereign Lady upon the sheet, and the effect
is painful to speak about. Although nobody can
swear to the royal chariot, the eight cream-colored
pomes are accepted as evidence that one of the
iur i y'ures bobbing from under a sunshade is the
old lady who has reigned sixty years, and the
chariot gets a tremendous encore. Also, a section
ot the audience sing the Hanthem with insane
ardour, but this, perhaps, is only certain to hap-
pen on Saturday nights, when people, as a rule
nave been drinking pretty freely.
** * *
J. 0. Williamson, giving evidence last week
before the Melb. Commission on Old-Ago Pen-
sions, took all the wind out of the proposed penny
charity ” tax on theatre tickets. The extra
penny in J.C.’s opinion, would tend to lessen the
attendance in a general way, seeing that the pub-
lic think twice before spending a penny on amuse-
ment, and would certainly feel the inconvenience
of having to provide themselves with a copper, or
of having to wait for small change at the ticket-
boxes. And if special arrangements were made
lor trie supply of small change to intending ticket
purchasers, the cost of extra theatre hands would
be an unfair tax on the management. The
proposal, if put into effect, would soon re-
sult in a withdrawal of the extra penny
charge, which would then come out of the
managers profits, and the profit nowadays doesn't
amount to a penny per ticket. This last piece of
information is, by the way, a fair cough-drop for
people whose primitive idea of a “reasonable”
amusements tax has been a penny on every shil-
ling rather than on every ticket. Manager Wil-
liamson confined himself to a statement of his own
case. He might have quoted the case of theatres
like the Alexandra, where the most prosperous
section of the house is the sixpenny gallery. A
l(>j per cent, tax on the gallery-boy, or the busi-
ness which largely depends upon him, is an absurd
suggestion.
* * * »
The Firm’s experience of the show-trade
in Australia has changed from bright to gloomy
within the past 1G years. “ The public here is a
generous but a spoilt public. Managers cannot
afford to experiment witli it by bringing out in-
ferior entertainments, for they can lose more on
one failure than they make by two successes.
Competition has already reduced prices in some
theatres to 35., 25., and Is. They could not be in-
creased for the sake of the charities."’ Another
point made by J.C. W. was in the remark
that he “ knows very few theatrical managers who
have retired on a competency.” Even the biggest
showmen, possessing a considerable capital in coin
and theatrical belongings, are poor compared with
the prosperous softgoods person or wholesale
grocer, who runs a smaller risk and doesn’t employ
any more labor than a theatrical manager employs.
J. C. Williamson, no doubt, would be glad to ex-
change financial positions and prospects with
several of the traders in the Vic. Parliament—
Sargood, for instance, or holy Bob Harper.
* * * *
But against the penny tax proposal (as
regards indoor shows) there is one argument that
overshadows all the others. The theatres (espe-
cially the tirm’s theatres) have been running
their own charity for years past. They support a
few people in the homes at Northcote, and they
distribute, through the medium of an honorary
see. (Tom Kennedy), assistance to needy mum-
mers, or their widows, at the rate of nearly £lOOO
a year. Also, the theatres obtain money for out-
side charities by entertainments. “At the
Princess’s alone,” said manager Williamson,
“ .£BB4 was raised for hospitals, &c., during the
first six months of this year.’’ A penny tax would
put an end to benefit shows, and the charities
would lose more money one way than they gained
in the other.
** * *
At 42, after 16 years of “ one man a whole
show ’’ the world over, Frank Lincoln still retains
his priestly face, his American accent, and his
capacity for enjoying humor. His humor is not
the outcome of constitutional defect, but is mostly
the exuberance of a happy nature, combined with
born mimicry and business common-sense. “ Syd-
ney audiences,” he says, “are intelligent— they
appreciate my alleged jokes. By the way, see
that poor dog? Why does so intelligent a com-
munity have so many scurvy, starving dogs wan-
dering about the city? And yet the Mayor, I
understand, is aiming at knighthood. Is there
no law to mercifully remove those dogs? They
come on to the verandah and fill us with flea«
make us scratch so much that we can’t
But about my stock-in-trade, jokes
10-day’s sorrow is to-morrow’s joke—if you stand
on velvet to-morrow. The best jokes are born of
tears. My best things come from society, street-
life, everyday-life. What occurs under my own
observation is as new as I can get it. The worst
jokes are the English sort with an escutcheon on
‘'•'em people are always sending me these terrible
old-tm'ers. The Irish are the brightest and most
thin-skinned people in the world. In America
they prosper—in newspapers, on cabs, at bars,
and at the bar, in gaol, on the beat. When the
-r reneh colonise they leave their virtues
at home and bring out their vices. In
America, the Scotch are mostly accountants.
lam not a spread-eagle American. I admire the
Englishman, he is so methodioal—never puts his
foot in the butter. American journalism is over-
done, especially the Sunday paper. It is Sunday
morning in 'Frisco; a stranger calls—“ Lincoln,
for the love of Heaven, come and have a brandy-
and-soda”- the stranger has been taking a Sun-
day paper • #ith breakfast. A life-sized head of a
murdered man, with throat cut, does not go well
with ham and-egg nor does “ the only life-sized
FRANK LINCOLN.
Photo., W. Kurtz, New Pork.
portrait of a newly-born baby (nude) ever printed in
a newspaper.” You suffer from the American most
while travelling over the ground coursed’ by Mark
1 wains ‘lnnocents Abroad.’ You are standing
in front of an aromatic mummy, with that feeling
of deep worship which arises from the thought of
his having been dead so long, and from the idea
that his fingers, so beautifully embalmed, would
smoke better than the choicest cigar. Suddenly a
fool of an American stumbles in and interjects
Oh, say ! do you know what Mark Twain said
about this dog-gone mummy ? ’ The unintelligent
among Australians must have blueness in every joke
—there is no blueness in mine. The severest criti-
cisms on me aren’t those printed in the papers.
An American farmer came to me : ‘ Say ! my son
would help you a lot in your show, he is the big-
gest fool in the country—perfect natural born
too Mr. Lincoln opens at Sydney Centenary
xiall on Saturday for a one-week’s season.


CYANIDE
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
OP POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
SYDNEY—63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“ tittle giant ”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crasher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST-, SYDNEY.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
SIB JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
Aus. I PHILIPS & PIKE,
Reps. \ Equitable Buildings, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
179 William *t. , Mkt,koit«nb ; 14 Otirriist , A nut, Aina.
CARRY A TON?
No. Half a ton easily ; more than
three times its own weight. For
Strength, Lightness and Comfort there
is nothing within coo-ee of a
Simpson jjuckboard.
FACTORY :
King Street, Newtown, Sydney.
Perth —Robt. Wolfe.
Geraldton— A. Meadowcroft.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A..
THE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double Bedrooms.
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From 4n. to S*. per Ttau.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
For the year ended 30th June, 1897, the N.S.W.
railways, according to the Commissioners’ report, yielded
£1,413,524 over working expenses, which is £144,995 better
than the return (also according to the Commissioners’
report) for the year ended 30th June, 1896. This, it is
claimed, not only covers all interest but leaves a balance
of £33,479, so that the Cornstalk railway system is not
only self-supporting but returns a clear profit. Unluckily,
however, the Auditor-General, who is the final court of
appeal in financial matters, has a bad habit of upsetting
the beautiful dream of the Commissioners’ report. Ac-
cording to his figures the Commissioners arrive at their
results by neglecting to take into account quite a number
of small items of expense. For the year ended June,
1896, the balance of revenue over working outlay, as
reported in the State statistics, was £1,268,529, equal to
£3 Bs. 9d. per cent, on money expended. The Auditor-
General reported that the balance was only £1,154,703,
equal to £3 2s. 7d. per cent., which is a great and
lamentable difference.
The present situation seems to be as follows :
In 1896 the N.S.W. railway deficit (Auditor-General’s
report, page 208) was £321,690. This year the balance of
revenue over working expenses, as shown in the Com-
missioners’ report, is £144,995 better than it was last year,
therefore the deficit should be down to £177,000 or there-
abouts. Considering, however, that the 1896 shortage
reached £321,690, and that the improvement claimed
doesn’t cover nearly half that amount, the assertion that
there is a surplus of any kind this year is glaringly ridi-
culous. The habit of presenting a glowing railway re-
port, which is demolished by the Auditor-General after-
wards, is characteristic of Cornstalk financial methods, as
well as of the methods of various other provinces ; the
worst part of the unreliableness of Australasian statistics
arises out of local jealousies and the constant desire to
make our province look better than the one next door.
N.S.W. has 20 non-paying lines this year against 19 last
year, the Junee-Hay railway, which made a profit in 1896,
having relapsed into its old state; though the loss on
these lines is only £375,000 against last year’s £369,000.
On the whole N.S.W. can boast that it has the second-
best paying railway system in the seven provinces, that
the annual deficit is much smaller than it was, and that
in a few years more, if nothing goes wrong, it should be
making a real profit. But there is nothing to be gained
by disguising the fact that the railway deficit is still a
pretty large affair and comes along as regularly as sunset.
• • * •
The £60,000 probate duty collected from Thomas
Elder’s estate enabled Treasurer Holder to pull through
last year with £12,189 paper surplus. But for
Elder’s death S.A. would have had £48,000 shortage,
and as that obliging millionaire can’t die over again next
year, this unexpected increase of revenue can’t be re
garded as a permanent improvement. Nevertheless,
Treasurer Holder proposes, on the strength of it, to again
raise the income-tax exemption —this time from £156 to
£26o—which will involve a serious loss of revenue ; to
raise civil service salaries, increase the prospecting vote,
&c., and he calculates on crowding through next year
with a surplus of £5464. Holder’s situation is as follows :
The expenditure last year was £26,013 more than his esti-
mate. The revenue, but for the judicious pegging-out of
Elder (and as Treasurer Holder didn’t go round and
secretly assassinate the old man that was pure windfall)
would have been £15,000 below the estimate. Even the
estimated miserably small margin for next year—a margin
not near large enough to cover the inevitablecontingencies
—is arrived at by assuming that, despite the income-tax
reduction and the absence of the Elder windfall, the
revenue will be £3OOO more than this year. The Northern
Territory annual deficit isn’t provided for ; it is simply
to go on accumulating. The huge accumulated deficit of
S.A., a great part of which has just been quietly con-
verted into permanent debt, is to stand over as usual.
Under anything like an honest system of finance Holder
should see his way to a surplus of at least £100,060 in
order to do something towards wiping up the awful over-
draft, but Australian Treasurers are not built that way.
The talk about the amazing wealth of this great country
goes on as usual, but the idea of this great rich country
being rich enough to pay its way, as so many poor
countries contrive to do, never enters into the calculation.
* * ♦ •
South Australia is so proud of its £12,189 surplus
for the financial year just ended that it is almost cruel to
point out that it, and nearly every other S.A. surplus,
is utterly unreliable. The Govt, runs two separate pro-
vinces, S.A. proper and the Northern Territory. S.A.
sometimes, though not often, has a surplus; the Territory
always has a large deficit. As the Territory doesn't for-
mally belong to S.A., however, but is supposed to be
merely administered by it, the two are kept separate;
S.A. takes credit for its £12,600 surplus, and the
£60,000 or so Territory deficit is added to the
accumulated shortage of the Lost Province up
North. The Territory is now’ supposed to owe S.A.
something between £5OO 000 and £900,000 in one way
and another, and this is gravely put down as an asset
which is alleged to be recoverable from somebody—the
Lord knows who. The only way it seems likely to be re-
covered is by handing the Territory back to Britain ; hut
as S.A. doesn’t want to part with it this seems imprac-
ticable, and in any case Britain might refuse to take it,
and would probably refuse to recognise the accumulated
deficit if it did take it. The most probable end to the
present state of things will be the definite and formal
annexation of the Territory as a part of S.A., and
then the latter province will find that it owes
the Territory deficit to itself, and has nothing to
pay itself w’ith. Anyhow, as there is nobody from
whom the Territory deficit can be collected just
now, S.A. should face the situation, and decide to find
enough revenue in the meantime to keep the accounts of
both provinces square. When one-half the country has
£12,960 surplus and the other half has £66,000 deficit, the
net result is wholly lamentable. It is good enough to
keep a separate account of the Territory shortage, so that
the bill can be presented to Britain, if it ever demands
the province back again, on the off-chance of getting the
money. But the other half of the province should have a
corresponding accumulated surplus, so that, if it has to
keep the white elephant permanently, which is more than
Erobable, the one will extinguish the other, and there will
eno immense mass of arrears to face. At present, S.A.
is in the position of a man whose head is just solvent on
paper, because his feet owe it a large sum of money which
they can’t pay —and which can only be recovered by
cutting them off and selling them, and who has further
to face the fact that he doesn’t want to sell the feet and
that nobody wants to buy them.
* * » •
At the meeting of that great absentee land-
grabbing corporation, the Otago and Southland Invest-
ment Co., in London, shareholder Abraham exploded as
follows : “ The real incubus that hampers the co. is the
outrageous taxation to which it has to submit in N.Z.
That taxation is scandalous and outrageous. It is mon-
strous that such a Govt, as the Seddon Ministry, to which
we are indebted for this monstrous tax, should be toler-
ated. It is a still more outrageous scandal that this man
Seddon, who is visiting England, should be made such a
tremendous fuss over and have so much honor and adula-
tion bestowed upon him. For my part, I should have
liked to shy mud at him as he passed.” Judging by this
wild shriek of a strong Jew in his agony, the Maoriland
absentee-tax and graduated land-tax are doing good
work. They were meant to make the absentee and the
big land-grabber sit up, and Abraham is sitting up right
enough.
* * * *
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co., one of
the few Victorian beer concerns which keep above water,
has a year’s profit of £4735 compared w'ith £4655 and
£4690 for two previous years. Dividend 10 per cent.
(£4000) leaves £735 to carry forward. This concern
escaped the yearning to write itself up in the boom days
into a £240,000 co. with £lOO,OOO debentures ; hence its
good fortune.
* * * *
Balmain New I Co. reports a iiair-year’s net
profit of £Bl6 as compared with £1223 and £1029 for two
previous half-years. AlO percent, div. is said to absorb
£678, and a loss of £238 through collision leaves the co. a
little worse off than it was. The accounts are a trifle con-
fused, the div. declared at Dec., ’96, being £678, whereas
it appears in the balance-sheet as £646 ; and, whereas the
amount carried forward was said to be £1284, it pans out,
owing to certain circumstances, as £1278. Still, the
general intention appears to be good, even though the
way in which it is expressed is a great deal more muddled
than it might be.
* • » •
Item from the Cape Register (Cape Town,
South Africa): “Local fire-offices are going one by one,
being absorbed by the large English co.’s.” This same
process has been going on for many years in Australia,
yet, strange to say, no Protectionist Government has
realised up to date that the local fire-insurance industry
is worth protecting.
* * « •
The London committee of debenture-holders is
saying ugly things about M'Cracken’s City Brewery,
Limited, Melbourne. In 1889 that beer-factory bloated
itself out to such a stupendous extent that it contrived to
raise £500,000 on 4J per cent, debentures in England. It
, had a paid-up capital of £500,000. Of this £250,000 is
admittedly lost, and the concern has slumped in such an
appalling fashion that last year, after paying debenture
interest (£22,500) the loss was i 35,874. It was then pro-
posed to ask the debenture-holders for a reduction of
interest, but these persons naturally reply that even if
they reduced the interest permanently to nothing there
would still be such a loss that their chance of ever get-
ting back the principal appears to be worth hardly any-
thing. M’Cracken’s concern was in trouble as far back as
1892, and seems to be getting rapidly worse. The deben-
ture-holders allege that it was a delusion from the be-
ginning, and threaten legal proceedings against the
directors, and talk of putting the great, hopeless beer-
enterprise into liquidation, which is the best place for it.
Also, they make no secret of the fact that, thev would
gladly put it in a much worse place if the thing could be
managed.
* » * »
Queensland Mutual Insurance Co.—a rather
small affair with £15,582 capital, which tackles fire,
marine, fidelity, plate-glass, accident, and emplovers*
liability—reports a profit of £1942 for the year elided
30th June, pays an 8 per cent, dividend, which accounts
for £1238, and has £704 over. Last year the profit was
£3350, and in 1895 it was £4380. Losses are £791 more
than they were last year ; interest on investments has
fallen off £57 ; about £lOOO seems to have been spent on
the questionable experiment of opening a branch in Mel-
bourne, where the local co’s can hardly make a decent
crust; so, despite £llOO increase in premiums, the result
is a very bad falling-off. Still the results are quite good
enough. The Q.M. has been nine years in business, and
has accumulated £6600 of reserves, ami has £2949 at pro-
fit and loss—a very solid position, all things considered.
* » * *
Queensland National Bank shares (,£.3 paid up)
had buyers last week at 2s. Even this is a great improve-
ment and shows that the last reconstruction has inspired
a certain amount of confidence. For months before it
was effected it would have been necessary’ to pay a man
to take Q.N B shares off your pre’ v ” cs.
* * * *
The late Joseph Clarke, u.o=uoi' of Baronet
Clarke, left behind him, it now appears, £1,000,006 of
debts and only £350,000 of assets. So one section of the
original “Big Clarke’s” fortune has already resolved
itself into its original elements. The moral "in brother
Joe’s case is chiefly that champagne injures a man’s judg-
ment. It takes a very big fortune indeed to stand setting
up nice little widows (three or four at a time) in toney
little pubs.
Ed. Bulletin,—Re par. as to Aus. Star fire.
The Star was, as you say, a very fair risk, but we don’t
retain for own account heavy lines on any risks, and in
this case the loss will not be serious to ourselves or our
twelve reinsuring co’s. It was not “ too much reinsured,”
but just enough.—Yours, Robert Kerr, Manager City
Mutual Fire Insurance Co., Limited.
* * * *
Silver has now dropped so low in price that the
newspaper cable-code has had to be reconstructed. More
than one daily recently announced a sudden jump of 6d.,
whereas the code had been altered by that amount, and
the price was really a little lower than before. The
papers were only informed next day of the new arrange-
ment.
• * • *
Prospector : A Sydney patent expert replies to
.your query: In the closing hour of last session N.S.W.
Parliament passed the Bill providing for amendment of
patent specifications. On Ist March, ’97, the Australian
Gold Recovery Co. filed a request for leave to amend the
specification of the cyanide patent (453 of 1888) by re-
stricting it to weak solutions and disclaiming strong solu-
tions. They could not go into court and sue for infringe-
ment on the specification as it stands, because it claims
old subject-matter, and is therefore bad. The request is
being opposed by the Crown, by a committee represent-
ing mining interests, and by other persons. Evidence for
the opponents has been filed. The “hearing” of the
request by the Examiner of Patents will not take place
till the end of the year. The Examiner’s decision
may be appealed against by either side to the Minister of
Justice, and the Minister’s decision may be appealed by
the opponents -to the Equity and Appellate Courts ; blit
the patentees cannot appeal if the Minister decides
against them. In Victoria, recently, the Commissioner
of Patents refused leave to amend on the second request
which the patentees had presented, the earlier one having
been refused by the previous Commissioner. In Maori-
land, Judge Edwards, reversing the decision of the
Registrar of Patents, granted leave to amend. The
Government—the other opponents having withdrawn—
is, however, going to appeal this judgment to the Full
Court.
* * * •
Few men are gifted to conduct a miners’ strike
decently. Up to date, men and masters, and their par-
tisans, have made asses of themselves in the Lucknow
strike. Newman, M.P. (as reported in the daily
press), 6aid the gold-stealing was all a myth and
a blind, and that he wished they could steal
lOOoz. a day from his mine. Also that when he was
manager the men could take it away by the cwt., but
there was no stealing ; the mines were now managed by
men whom ordinary truckers could teach ; there was no
thieving, because there was little gold to steal; and a lot
more similar bosh, of which Newman ought to be ashamed.
More gold was produced by these mines in a few months
after he left than in all the years he managed. The fact
that the only man convicted at Lucknow pleaded guilty
to gold-stealing proves how difficult it is to obtain a con-
viction save in most exceptional cases. That is the reason
there is so much thieving in most rich mines, and has
undoubtedly been going on for years at Lucknow.
Manager Lock’s avowal that he is reducing wages to
avenge gold-stealing is a most irrational utterance.
• » * *
Another rich strike has been made in the Young
Australian mine, Cobar. Two years ago it worked a rich
chute in the general ore-bod.v some 60ft. long to a depth
of about 100 ft. where it was lost, being cut off by a slide.
The writer is told that recently what seems to be the
same chute has been picked up below the slide which
threw it considerably out of its course. Although the
streak is thin—not over 20in.—it is marvellously rich-
much richer than anything before seen in the mine, if not
in the whole district, the first ton broken containing
something like 200 oz. gold. Which is an evidence of the
potentialities of Cobar when the mother lode is worked
on a scale commensurate with its size. It will probably
turn out more gold than any other single lode in N.S.W.,
and that it will some day hold the record for copper may be
regarded as a certainty. For saying this the writer expects
to be set down as a Cobar boomster ; the chances are it
will take the camp a long time to prove him otherwise.
* • * *
N.S.W. Justice Minister Gould, one of the
lucky Cobar copper-mine tributors, has answered chair-
man Kelly on the row between them, and, like himself in
most things, Gould’s yarn is very weak. He tries to make
out that the co.’s gold and silver output has been
materially increased by ores bought from mines iif the
district on which the tributors have to pay royalty. But
somehow he omits to state the quantity. Also, he implies
that the tributors were not anxious for an extension of
the tribute in view of the added responsibilities. Mr.
Gould has made the worst of a good case.
* » * *
The English co. working copper, nickel, and
silver-lead mines in New Caledonia, has decided to erect
smelting-works on the island as well as at Newcastle,
N.S.W. A party of mining-engineers, including Lord
Dunmore, an authority on copper-mining, recently went
through the mines of the place, and, according to Higgin-
son, the commercial boss of the island, were greatly im-
pressed with its gold possibilities. Another good thing
for Newcastle. Coal goes everywhere, and everything, it
seems, goes to coal. Not a word said of the attraction of
cheap convict-labor.
* * * *
The Bulletin is told that some queer things in
the way of neglect of labor-conditions are tolerated on at
least one valuable mine in the Coramba country.
• » • *
“The Pambula Gold Mines Co. has obtained
three months’ suspension of the labor conditions.” An
English co., which, probably, hasn’t much more to
put up. It had a brilliant prospectus, but a chequered
career. Plenty of gold on paper, but little in the mine.
It is almost pitiable to see how Bull is taken down with
Australian mines; and he will continue to be while his
friend, the London boomster, buys them cheap and sells
and works them dear. In this way he can only get a
good mine by accident.
•"• * •
Andrew Johnstone, manager of the Prince of
Wales mine, Gundagai, owned by Howell’s Consolidated
G.M. Co., was killed last Saturday night; he fell 240 ft.
through the breaking of the steel rope of a cage and was
smashed to pieces. Mr. Johnstone hailed from Broken
Hill, and was a very popular man.
* * * •
Golden Gate, Hanging Rock, N.S.W. : 5320 z.
gold from about 100 tons of stone, and some rich ore left —
which is a big consideration in that part of the province.
Owner, John Moor, the liveliest fat man in Australia.
Moor weighs 20st., and the writer wants to hack him to
run, jump, or dance any man his weight. Moor has had
10 years’ run of steady bad luck, but such a crushing will
just about put him in condition to get away with the
money in a running-match.
* » * *
Another attempt is being made by a Grafton
{N.S.W.) paper to promote a new rush to Ugilbar, which
is calmly described as having the “ richest reefs in the
world.” One of the world’s richest reefs, one reads
further on, is for sale at the very moderate price of £6OOO.
The means taken to boost this storekeepers’ rush to what,
up to date, has been a tin-pot pocket-inining locality are
beneath contempt.
* * * *
The Beacon (Upper Bucca, N.S.W.) manager is
putting through a trial-crushing from a new find (now
under offer to his co.), known as the Mt. Brown, located
four miles and a half S. W. of the Beacon, on the Coramba-
Coff’s Harbor road. Should the result reach expectation,
the new thing—a dyke of enormous size—may prove the
biggest mine in the district.
» * * »
The price of silver has been hovering between
2s. Id. and 2s. 3d. per oz. This is for standard metal—
metal, that is, in which there are 75 parts of alloy in 1000.
The silver from the Broken Hill refinery is practically
“ fine,” averaging, when the last statement on the subject
was made, 997 ; it commands at present about per
oz. more than the standard, which is the quality always
quoted. A calculation was made on the figures in the
B.H. Proprietary’s last report that, putting the whole
value of the lead, copper, and gold to expenses, it still re-
quired that silver should bring Is. 6>4d. per oz. (Is. sd.
standard) to make up costs. Other mines cannot show
anything like that result. Still, these figures are not to be
accepted without qualification. Though the average pro-
fit on an ounce of silver may be 10d., there are tens of
thousands of ounces which do not give a profit of more
than a penny or so ; and this recent fall puts the ore con-
taining this silver outside the pay limit, and increases the
drain upon the richer ores. In the B.H. Prop, this is not
of so much importance, because there are so many work-
ing faces. But in most of the other mines the working
faces are strictly limited ; so that if a few of them become
unprofitable it means a reduction of output so long as
the low silver price continues, or further hurried prospect-
ing for new’ bodies.
For once, too, the mining tout is powerless;
the best mining-expert can form no better idea of the
future of the all-controlling silver-market than any other
person. B.H. Prop, directors, whose information ought to
be as good as anybody’s, own themselves fogged. At the
best, a couple of days’ forecast only can be issued of the
course of the market. The only really comforting re-
flection is that American and German profits have, on the
w’hole, been far less than Australian, with the inference
that we can produce now at a lower rate, and that the
lower the fall the more producers will be squeezed out.
It was estimated by le'ading New York authorities that of
the 65 million ounces produced in the U.S. in 1892 one-
half was produced probably at an average cost of 65 cents,
and one-half at 90 cents., giving an average of 77‘5 cents. ;
and the cost of production thereafter rose on the deple-
tion of many of the richest “ bonanzas.”
* • * »
Ross, Ross & Co. financiers, 352 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, notify that money at very low interest is now
available on C.P. or Freehold Land. Owners writing to
this firm can always rely on prompt and straightforward
business.*
* • * *
The B.H. managers are, however, casting
around in all directions to reduce costs. Under the con-
tract system the labor bill can be pared down without any
of those formal notices which, under day-work, so often
mean a strike. The railways have already been success-
fully dealt with. The w’ater bill is still burdensome.
For concentrating the sulphides and other purposes, an
average of nearly ten million gallons is drawn monthly
from the B.H. Water Supply reservoir, at a cost of only a
mere trifle under the 6s. per 1000 gallons which is charged
to the smaller town consumers. In addition, many
millions are pumped from nearer sources; the average
cost of these latter supplies is about 4s. per 1000 gallons,
whichislikewiseburdensome. Thecompaniesthreatennow,
unless the Water Supply Co.'s prices are reduced, to form
a trust and carry through another scheme ; Mr. Wood-
head (managing director of the British) and Mr. Stewart
(general manager of the B.H. Prop.) seem to be taking
the most interest in the movement. The Water Supply
people answer “ Bluff ! ” The Water directors are Drys-
dale, Bowes Kelly (also a B.H. Prop, and Block 10
director), Alex. Campbell (Block 10 and Block 14
director), W. P. MacGregor (B.H. Prop, ex-chairman)
and Geo. Swinburne. So an amicable arrangement is
more than likely.
* * * *
The British, in common with other B.H. mines,
feels the necessity for having a greater number of ore-
faces exposed, and exploration is to be begun on the
northern section of the property. A start was made to
search this area long ago, but the work was abandoned ;
now the prospects have been affected by the Junction
developments, and the demand for ore of above fair grade
directs attention thitherwards again.
* * » *
The Junction North had a little “ creep ” the
other day—just enough to remind the management that
to spare the timber means ruin.
* » * »
A fillip was given by the sulphide-process
developments to prospecting on the outskirts of the
Barrier ; but almost every claim is now abandoned again.
Tiik Bulletin remembers wiih satisfaction that it warned
investors and speculators off a field which, at the best,
allowed nothing for the fall in silver, and even then the
fall was probable. In the Apollyon Valley only a solitary-
prospector remains!
* * • *
Mt. Bischoff paid .£3OOO more in dividends thin
year than for the corresponding period of ’96.
• * * *
Tas. Julydivs. : Mt. Lyell 45., =£44,220; Mt.
Bischoff 7s. fid., £4500; New Golden Gate 25., £3200; Tas
mania Is., £2910 15s. ; Western 3d., £750; Brothers’ Home
Extended 10s., £2OO. Total, £55,780 15s.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell turned out mineral in July worth
£22,419—£4500 more than all other west-coast mines put
together.
• * • •
Calculations are being made as to -what the
profits from Mt. Lyell mine should be when 10 furnaces
are running. One paper, allowing a big margin for un-
foreseen contingencies, works it out at £665,437 a year.
But it is all guess-work, anyhow. The profits will In
regulated by the price of copper, and copper is and
always has been a moveable metal. Its present price has
been brought about by the inventions of recent year.-,
and who can tell that the inventions of even this or next
year will not bring about its downfall ? And a fall of £lO
would give the great and glowing estimate a rude shock.
Nothing—by which the writer means the press—and no-
body—meaning the public—ever anticipate a drop in
anything, much less a fall in metals. But how they do
fall now and then ! Silver, for instance.
• • • *
A Coolgardie paper on the proposed mining
exhibition “We are not strong enough to sustain such
a scheme. In boom times we may entertain boom ideas ;
in slump periods we must consider economic condition-,
and cut the suit according to the cloth at our disposal.
At present we are in a financial slough of despond, and to
raise £5OOO is out of the question. We may pipe ever so
cleverly, but the financial magnates will not dance to our
music. When stiff cheques and protested paper are tiie
order of the day, solid cash is not within our command,
and although enthusiasm may talk glibly about thousands
cold reason is dubious as to the possibility of raising hun-
dreds.” Common-sense and truth go out with the boom,
but come back with the slump.
* • • *
The machinery for one mine at Kalgoorlie is
reported “to be coming forward at the rate of 30 tons
daily.” Number of months it will take to deliver the lot
at that rate not mentioned. Thirty days would mean
900 tons, which should be enough for a 200-head stamp
mill and a big winding plant. “ For humor, read our
mining column,” would make a good and truthful ad\ t.
for most of the big Australian dailies.
• • • •
General Gordon, W. A.: More indignation meet-
ings in Adelaide, Melbourne and Inverell, the latter place
passing a resolution to maintain the agitation. Now, the
Coolgardie directors say they have no objection to the
removal of the co.’s office to "Adelaide. Another shilling
call made and received in Coolgardie “ with a howl of
indignation.” Also the professor whose reports were so
“ satisfactory,” is about “ severing his connection.” And,
as usual under such circumstances, the boom-tipstr rs
continue silent.
* • * •
In the future, with the exception of golden
Kalgoorlie and some isolated mines elsewhere, the Cool-
gardie goldfields will be remembered as the land of ex-
perts, assays, exemptions and vain expectations.
» * * *
Eighteen months ago at the Coolgardie Warden’s
court applications were incessant for exemptions—pica:
want of labor. Now, the labor is carrying its swag
through that semi-desert, but on 19 leases out of 20 all
that the labor can see is an abandoned shaft, a notice of
exemption on the nearest tree to it, and a heap of empty
meat and other tins.
* • * *
Charters Towers items : —The Towers during
July produced 19,9200 z. gold from 17,375 tons crushed :
85SSOZ. got from 21,181 tons tailings eyanided, and 7370 z.
from 543 tons chlorinated. Total, 29,2450 z. from 39,099
tons. The plucky prospectors in Brilliant Deep Levels
reported to have struck about a foot, of mineral stone in
a crosscut from western level. A decent fortune has been
spent by less than half-a-dozen Towers men in this, the
deepest Q. mine. The finding of a payable reef would,
however, mean a fortune a-pieee to them, and a century’
added to the life of the field. Perhaps they’ll strike it;
perhaps they won’t—one of the most glorious uncer-
tainties of mining.——Much local attention is directed
Mount Success-wards. Hunter and Craven are first in the
field with a battery and approved appliances for their
recently-acquired Hope to Prosper mine Towers calls
for July, £4033 odd ; divs., £14,163 13s. 4d. (latter not
including amounts dit ided by cyanide syndicates. As
here anticipated recently, Brilliant Block has again
entered div.-list, paying 6d., the first divide since Dec.,
’95. Co. crushed on 4th inst. 882 tons for 771ez.
Fortnightly haulage, about 950 tons. ——Queen Cons,
cleaned up Aug. 2nd, 5580 z. from 328 tons. A 6d. div.
resulted ; others to follow. The Towers mining co 's
paid nearly £12,000 in dividend duty last year. Vic-
toria fortnightly clean-up August 2nd, 4530z5. from 2 .5
tons. Victoria and Queen ore bodies and output increas-
ing appreciably.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing'
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUG-HLT
shruhe;.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suitable for
BUSINESS -- RIDING. '
OFFICE - BUSH -
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and I inish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
David Jones & Company,
(OPPOSITE G. P. 0.)
GEORGE AND. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOB VCCO - Gd. Each.
DclT’ See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations,
B. CXJSEUIER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
BRAND?.
The PUREST BRANDY known, being distilled SOLELY from picked brandy
grapes, and each bottle analysed by the French Government Chief Expert. All
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES. ‘ '
Price No Hit/her than Other Leadiufj Brands.
SOCIETY
The Jubilee banalities have given fresh
life to the nauseous fhinkeyism that pants to label
everything after “exalted ” insignificance. The
degradation of “ Mount Owen Stanley ” to
“ Mount Victoria ” is being paralleled everywhere
in less conspicuous directions. In one Sydney
suburb, for instance, “ Eliza-street ” has blossomed
sqddenly into “ Victoria Avenue.” Wow, “Great
Eliza ” was a queen worth naming things after ;
whereas, &c. It is not generally known, by the
way, that so-called N.S.W. “Mount Victoria”
was really christened “ Vittoria,” after the Penin-
sular battle.
* - * * •
The N.S.W. Evangelical Alliance deputa-
tion to Sunday Brunker urged, according to Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph, that if the Sunday-trading
snake couldn’t be killed outright it could at least
be Scotched. If that big “S” was of malice
aforethought, The Bulletin takes off its hat to
the Telegraph.
* * * *
Gov. Buxton will not attend the Eight
Hours’ demonstration in Adelaide. He pleads “a
prior engagement,” which is very thin considering
that the function is an annual fixture to which the
Governor is always invited. Lord Kintore invari-
ably attended and was always heartily welcomed.
* * * *
Melb. unemployed had a variation in the
addresses delivered to them when an indignant
Russian arose on the gin-case which acts as Forum
and announced an original scheme. Scenting
dynamite, the plain-clothes police drew closer to
the ragged Muscovite. “You fellers,” he said in
badly-broken English, “ und me. Ve vill go down
AND WHAT ELSE IS EDEN FOR?
SKY PILOT : “ Ah, my poor man, but what would you do if ca led away suddenly to another
world? ”
SUNDOWNER (stretching himself out) : “ Nothing, if I could help it !”
Collins-street. Ye vill mek no noise, no breaks,
no hits, no steals. Ve vill lie one, two, three on
my backs on ze pavement, und ze non-projuicers
vill valk over him. Dere vos tree ’unded of ur
’ore. Dere vos vant two policemen to tek all one
of him to prison, he vill ’get ze vork, my vriends.,’
But the mass of the unemployed had not the spirit
to follow out the scheme of the intrepid Russ,
who offered to be the first to stretch himself out
on the Block, and so the police were saved from a
most difficult situation.
* * * *
Those Jubilee presentations to the British
poor may seriously damage the English repute of
Australian meat, because Bull is so saturated with
sordid commercialism that where there’s no “con-
sideration ” he doesn’t think there can be much
value.. “Gratis,” for him, means “worthless,”
because he thinks everybody else’s creed is like his
own—“ Nothing for nothing; and d d little for
a halfpenny ! ”
* * * *
Phil. Fargher, the Yic. crack shot and
member of the “ Bisley Team,” writes to Melb.
Advance Australia, the A.N.A. organ, re the
alleged cleanliness of J. Bull:
We took a turn round Piccadilly Circus and Regent
Street for half-an-hour after the play, and then put up at
the Crown Tavern for the night.
In the morning, we discovered that there was no bath
in the house, and even the water-jugs in our bedrooms
were but scantily supplied. This came as a great shock
to us, as we had always been led to believe that a daily
batli was an absolute necessity to an Englishman. On
enquiry, we found that this state of affairs is quite the
usual thing in London, and that where a bath is obtain-
able a special charge is made for it.
The English morning-tub myth dies hard. It
may even last so long as to cease to be a myth
and become a fact.
By the way, Advance Australia (!) has been
grievously upset by the “disloyalty” of two Bal-
larat members. At one of the awful meetings of
the, local branch the National Anathema was
added to the prevailing gloom, and two tired per-
sons remained sitting during the proceedings. The
press agonised about the “ unfortunate incident,”
and all Ballarat trembled. At next meeting of
the branch, in the presence of a special squad of
reporters, a loyal member named Walker moved
“ that this meeting expresses its disapproval of
the action of the members concerned.” Then a
frightful thing happened. The meeting refused
to express, &c. The motion was thrown out on
its head. Advance Australia (!) speaks in awed
whispers of the terrible event and wants to “pro-
tect the bulk of the members from the results of
the reported action of a small minority.”
* * » •
The Yarney Parkes notion that Hyde
Park, Sydney, should be preserved for a Parlia-
ment House site is another foolery. What the
Park Defence Committee has got to paste in its
hat is simply that when the “God-fearing” gag
shall have died, deeply unregretted, and the com-
munity shall have shaken from its shoulders the
last shred of a rotten Calvinistic cloak, Sydney
will want Hyde Park for its “ godless continental
Sunday ” of rational relaxation—and then the day,
full of music and red umbrellas, shall be a stand-
ing insult to sour-visaged snuffledom.
♦ * m
The young man wounded by the unhappy
girl who afterwards suicided at Auburn, the other
day, is a cool hand. He had given deceased no
cause for her action, he said at the inquest;
though, upon consideration, he admitted that the
trifling circumstance of his having seduced and
refused to tnarry her might possibly have had
something to do with the matter. How lucky for
some people that a woman can never shoot straight
—except at herself !
* * * *
The funeral contractor of a big out-West
hospital has been getting into trouble for gallop-
ing the bodies of the destitute off to the cemetery
in butchers’-cart-rattle-his-bones style. The hos-
pital committee has indignantly considered the
matter. The contrac tor gets 17s. fid. a body for
burial ; pays 10s. to the sexton, and finds a rough
coffin and conveyance for the other three half-
crowns !
Broken Hill Coun-
cil meetings are the
great amusement of
miners “off shift.” Re-
cently, the meeting
hour was altered from
7.30 to 2.30, and in re-
venge the Labor repre-
sentatives (numbering
two) do all in their
power to block busi-
ness. On the principle
of “one down, t’other
come up,” they speak
at length at every con-
ceivable and inconceiv-
able opportunity, the
result being the collec-
tion of huge “ arrears
of business,” which
may never be dealt
with.
• *
Three assorted
samples of W.A. just
tice. 1. Two men get
drunk, procure fire-
arms, “goon a tear,”
and kill a woman. In
spite of what reads
like most convincing
evidence they go scot
free. 2. Publican tries
to kick a man out after
he has made him
drunk ; man naturally
resistsandcurses. Am-
ateur magistrate
awards him three
months without the
option. 3. Through the
negligence of Freman-
tle Gaol officials two
prisoners escape. “The
love of liberty is the
noblest instinct of
man.” They used no
violence whatever.
They were recaptured,
and, in spite of public
protest, they received
36 lashes each and a
month in heavy irons.
Dr. Carruthers, when lecturing before the
Sydney Ladies’ Sanitary Association, the other
day, passed round a clinical thermometer for in-
spection. A woman present put it in her inouth
and solemnly took her own temperature on the
spot! It recalled Welland Strong.
• * * »
At a recent Sydney wedding, the bride-
groom knelt at the foot of the altar steps, and,
during the ceremony, he convulsed the whole
church, and supplied a text for his first curtain-
lecture, by going up them on his knees to reach
the same level as his bride, who was kneeling on
the’ top one.
* * * »
“ And was your sister seduced according
to this arrangement ? ” inquired a barrister of a
girl witness, in a recent “ under 16 ” Vic. prosecu-
tion. “Oh, no,” responded the damsel, shaking
her golden curls. “ She was not going to be
seduced until Queen’s Birthday—so that she could
remember the date.” And yet a boy, only 1.8
months the senior of this artless little innocent,
stood in the dock available for 10 years’ gaol and
copious floggings, according to the liver of the
jury and judge.
♦ * * *
Dr. Muskett’s suggested new apple-atioh
for N.S. W. labors under the disadvantage of being
already the highly inappropriate designation of a
small, cold, hungry island, supposed to lie some-
where to the north of Scotland. Also, “ Pomona ”
wouldn’t be any more distinctive of N.S.W. than
of Victoria or Tasmania. The Bulletin sug-
gests that we should take the bull by the horns
and call the province “ Transportia. ” Then we’d
know the worst, anyhow !
* * * ♦
Cut from a N.Y. paper by a travelling
Maorilander, who sends it to The Bulletin :
New York, July 2.—Lena Blumenshire, a pretty sales-
girl in a dry-goods store, was married yesterday to Tom
Tone, a Chinese laundryman, at the home of her mother,
No. 305 West One Hundred and Twenty-seventh-street.
Lena is a Sunday-school teacher at the Presbyterian
Mission, Fifty-fifth-street and Lexington avenue, and
there she met Tone, who is the proprietor of several
laundries. Many Chinamen were present at the wedding.
It was said at the house that Lena’s sister Bertha is also
engaged to a Chinaman who attends the mission.
Any man who lets his sister teach Chinamen
deserves to have a Chinese brother-in-law.
» * » *
“ Snakejuice sends The Bulletin a
Chinese version of a celebrated miracle :
Dear Bulletin, —While I was sheltering from the rairi
in Ah Cow’s humpy the other day, some ladies of
the W.C.E S. entered. As the ladies came in at the front,
Ah Cow escaped by the back. I asked him why he had
“cleared,” and this is what he said : “S pose um ladee
buy um vegetable, welly good ; sixpenny Tooseda.v, six-
penny Thursday, sixpenny Sat-dav—welly good. No
buy um wegetable, aliee talkee Jese Cli no good. Misse
Blank she come here ail talkee Jese Cli : she say, s’pose
twenty tousand people go on ship to China. They all
welly hurndy. By’me by they come to China. Then all
welly u-elly hungly. They all say, send for Jese- Cli.
Jese Cli he come. They sav, Jese Cli, we all weliv hunglv.
Jese Cli he go and get the'iofee biead, the lit tee fishe'e,
Jese Ci he bleak um up and give them to people. They
no more hungly.” With a grin as broad as Martin-place
he finished up with, “ Me blene it plully lie.”
QUITE CIVILISED, YOU KNOW.
UNCLE: “ Veil, mine prent, vot vas I do vor you now? ”
PADDY BROWN: “ Fleet mag Urate bin Jin'im me five pound—baal mine got
it; you gib it something alonga tschirt?”
Oh, wherefore, Sandy, is the gun?
Hoot, mon—the Scottish Rifles.
And why, dear Patsy, is the gun?
Begor—the Irish Rifles.
And why, oh, Johnny, is the gun ?
Beware—the English Rifles.
And why, young Corny, is the gun ?
I think—Australian Rifles.
Eh, Sandy, mon, I ken your game ;
For here the Scotty rifles.
But, Patsv, why not howl “ Home Rule”?
Here you, as others, rifle.
Ho, Johnny ! ever on the job—
St. George’s legal rifler ;
But, Corny, lad, throw down your gun,
The Australian's only rifled .
i>. ii.
* * * *
Bits of the old, old story, from the evidence
in a Melbourne alleged criminal assault case
“The complainant was a prepossessing girl, aged
15 years and 11 months, . , . Accused was a
teacher in the Brighton Presbyterian Sunday-
school, They first met there, as she was a scholar
itt his class. . . , They were iiriproperly inti-
mate in a paddock, ahd he theti left her, saying he
had a mission-service to attend at the church, : n 1
expected to see her there. , , . She admitted
that a letter produced, in which a number of im-
proper questions and answers appear* d, v as
written by her to the accused. She got the ques-
tions from another girl, at a Band of Hope limit-
ing.”
* * * *
In a recent Vic. “ under-16 ” police-court
prosecution, prisoner and prosecutrix met at Sun-
day-school, where accused was teacher, but out of
school-hours he taught other things than the
gospel, and that the young lady proved a ready
learner was shown by the production of her love-
letters, postscripted with slabs of indecent verse.
Yet the young man was committed for trial at the
criminal court, and, if found guilty, maybe tent
to do three years with such hardened ruffians as
garrotters. Also, the mother of the prosecutrix
stated in court that she considered her daughter
quite moral “ as girls go nowadays.”
A cheerful Melb. female drunk :—“These
policemen say I was drunk last night in Elizabeth-
street. In reality, last night is the only night I
was ever sober in Elizabeth-street.”
“MEN ARK SO DENSE."
My dear, you must not say “ my ” horse ;
Nor “ mine,” and “ I,” and “ me,” my dear.
As I'm your wife, we’re two, of course ;
So say “ ours,” “us,” and “ we,” my dear.
Now practise it : “ our ” horse, “ our ” cow ;
“ We ” set “ our ” hen to-day, my pet;
The drought will not affect “ us ” now ;
“Our” children are at play, my pet.
“ Our ” ! !! pants are busted at the knee,
And soniewheres else ! that’s wuss, sweet love ;
It’s awful cold there now, ah, “me ” —
That is to say—ah, us ! ! ! sweet love.
ALONE.


tARRWTON & C ov
f OiiTfJJTERS
RING:g f
-
3!i
tfff/fai / buy from**
(loiriDlete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
FXPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
■ l)se of Dark Rooms—FßEE.
CaleclonianLiqueurWhisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
R
OSE’S CELEBRATED
LOTI OH
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
atioiis, &e. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. 11. A. ItOSIi, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
The recent looting of £15,000 from a
British steamer, with murder of most of the
crew, fcy a small party of Achinese, showed all the
dash and energy which differentiate this remark-
able people from all other Malay races. Behind
them they have a “ big ” history, too ; their ruler
having teen important enough in the 16th century
to receive letters of State from Queen Elizabeth.
Later on, they all but drove the Portuguese out of
the Malay Peninsula, and it wasn’t till ’74, and
after being badly licked several times, that the
Dutch were able finally to make them knock
under. They have (of course !) been called ‘ the
English of Sumatra,” and it looks as if they were
beginning to live up to the “grab” part of the
character!
* * * *
The explanation of the murder of certain
Austrians in the Solomons last year may lie in a
curious custom : When a chief of any importance
dies (and one did die about the time mentioned)
the tribe is taboo until a certain number of heads
has been procured. To induce neighboring tribes
to procure these a certain quantity of yams,
bananas, and tai'o is .set on one side as an induce-
ment. It is supposed that a desire for this spoil
impelled the offending tribe to deeds of slaughter.
The parliamentary defenders of the Du
Faur bust transaction showed great skill in not
seeing that the real question at issue is—not of
Mr. Du Faur’s personal worthiness to be sculped,
or of any particular person’s ability to sculp him
but simply of the taste of the N.S.W. National
Gallery trustees in persuading their president to
do violence thus to his native unobtrusiveness, or
of'Mr. I)u Faur’s judgment in allowing it to be sup-
posed that he considers himself of sufficient public
importance to be done into marble during his life:
time, at State expense. The point isn t whether
'Mr:-,Du Faur deserves a bust, but whether the
Art'Gallery deserves a bust of Mr. Du Faur!
From the Standpoint of good taste, the trustees
position is simply impossible. Just, as impossible,
in fact, as the continuance in office as a Gallery
trustee of Mr. Julian Ashton, a local practising
artist, some of whose own pictures have been sold
to the trust since he became a trustee, and part of
whose olficial functions is to pass judgment on
the works of rival artists.
The thumb-impression test was made use
of in the Narrabri (N.S.W.) mail-robbery inquiry
POSSILIFERGUS.
B[?]NED (from Dirty Creek, impatiently): “Say, mate, yer
a bloomin’ long time, can’t yer find it?"
CORN-SPECIALIST (deliberately): “Mein frendt, I’m not a
GEOLOGIST—but if you vill give me time I vill try to
trace it.”
with the view apparently of implicating a pro-
minent witness as having re-sealed the violated
mail-bag. f The test is conclusive : the skin ot no
two human thumbs is marked alike.
* * * *
Brisbane now boasts a Kanaka club.
Hither Tommy Tanna and Billy of Malioolo
betake themselves and revive dainty recollections
of fricasseed missionary in the distant past, and
curse, in choicest Polynesian, the gilded minion
who brings along the menu.
The want of employment in
Melbourne has created a new “ pro-
fession.” Those who sit on the
coroner’s jury get 4s. a day. Con-
sequently, there is as big a rush for
a billet at the deadhouse as there is
at a city warehouse where applica-
tions are called for a man at boy’s
wages. The just-deceased Coroner
Youl called the game “morgueing.”
* * *
A ghost that has been haunt-
ing a Yic. western district township
came to an untimely end one even-
ing recently. He had come out of
a clump of saplings near the road,
and was flapping his drapery, and
wailing dismalling for the benefit
of some people in a buggy, when
suddenly the luminous apparition
was seen to pitch forward on its
inhuman head with a dull thud.
Then the ghost went out, and hollow
moans were heard issuing from
amongst the wreckage. Two heroes
investigated the shattered spook
with a carriage-lamp, and found a
battered and broken boy lying in
the trench, and a martial ram stand-
ing guard over him. The local ghost
had been so violently butted in the
midst of his incantations that his
leg was broken and his head lace-
rated. No intelligent spectre would
incarnate himself in the vicinity o'
a butting ram of nine horse-power,
and this one is considered no loss to
the district.
In praise of cabmen. The*Rev. Spooner,
of Brisbane, relates how he, by mistake, gave a
cabby of the above city one night two sovereigns
in mistake for two shillings. On repairing to the
office of the Metropolitan Transit Commission, the
rev. gentleman discovered that the cabby had
already been there himself and had duly reported
the matter. . . . And Rev. Spooner didn’t
even know cabby’s name or number. This beats
fish-yarns hollow !
* * * *
Women who adopt fashion’s latest trick of
sticking ornamental combs in their hair should
be careful in their choice. At the Hambourg
premiere, in Sydney, a languid blonde with a big
white swan nestling among her locks obviously
suggested Leda.
* » * *
A “detective” was “done badly” not
long ago. He got on the trail of what he believed
to be an abortion case, and pounced upon the
house of the doctor suspected. In a house next
door to the doctor’s a woman had just >e< neon-
fined. The “case” the doctor had in hand at
the time of the d.’s visit was passed through a
fence, off which some palings had been removed,
and the other woman was carried in. Then the
tec was admitted by the smirking housemaid.
He came to the conclusion that the “ infainashan
received,” and on which he had worked, was un-
reliable. But the story about.
Journalist: “Wrixon, at
Melb. University Council 1 oard,
has just asked whether professors
are allowed to make £3OO or £lOO
a year in journalism, especially
writing political articles. The re-
ply was equivocal. The Chancellor
does not think they ought to make
so much as this, but he would not
debar them from writing at all.
Here is one way (not the Chancel-
lor's) of looking at it. A professor
must put his best into < he news-
paper articles, or they will not be
accepted. Even a clever protes
sional journalist cannot, on the
average, do more than a couple of
really first-class leaders a week,
apart from magazine-padded pot-
boilers, just as a clergyman can
only do one tip top sermon. The
prof., skimming his brain for the
leaders, revenges himself by slum-
ming the lectures, where his big
money is safe, and this is the com-
plaint. ” t „
Several years ago, Vic. Chief
Justice Madden made a public
laughing-stock of himself by de-
claring that certain marred mar-
riages that came, before him for
cancellation were the result of the
Shiels Divorce Act, and that it
was a fool of an act, anyhow, or
words to that effect. Thereupon,
scoffers pointed out that all the
marriages referred to-had been com-
mitted long before the Shiels Di-
vorce Act was thought of. Last
week, the C. J. practically admitted
the error of his ways. The cafe be-
fore him, he said, “showed the ex-
istence of a blot on an otherwise
excellent act of Parliament. . . .
The husband had played pranks that the Court
regretted it could not punish, or prevent the re-
petition of. 11 Which shows that even the Madden
family lives and learns.
» * * *
A few years ago there was, somewhere in
Australasia, a clever Judge, a “ jolly good fellow,”
who was head-over-ears in debt. He became con-
cerned in a questionable mining transaction, out
of which he made .£BOO. After some months his
victims threatened to show him up unless he com-
promised with them. This he eouldnt do. He
died suddenly—according to the papers. There
was no inquest. No one was allowed to see the
body. He was insured for £4OOO. Everybody
said he committed suicide to escape disgrace. He
had a big funeral. A citizen who knew him well
avers that he saw the deceased Judge in America
a few months ago.
DULL TIMES.—A sketch in Georg e-street, Sydney
Says Kalgoorlie Miner :
Sister Veronica, who has a private hospital at the
Boulder, drew the attention of a Miner reporter on Sun-
day to the necessity for a public sup-
plied to the police in Kalgoorlie, When a <lcad bod.y liad
to be removed from Sister Veronica s hospital a few weeks
ago it was taken away in an ordinary vegetable cart-.. ine
police are not to blame in this matter, and Sister Veronica
bears tribute [the Miner’s English is rather rocky] to the
delicacy which they habitually display in dealing with
matters of this kind. So much, however, cannot be said
for the man who took the body away. He is reported to
have brutally called out, “ Briny out the meat.
Scene, Shylock-square, ’Frisco. Colien-
berger : “ Vat you dink, Schvindlestein ! Rbs' n-
baum liaf shoost toldt me dare vos anoder grade
murder gommitted in Sydney, undt de murderer
haf es heaped on a ship again ! ” Schvindlestein :
“Sufferin’ Solomon ! I hope she landts him here.
Dot last veller, Putler, vos nearly so goot as two
fires undt von insolvency. Dis ole-clo’ abbraisin’
peeznes is goin’ to pe a pig thing, I dell you. Of
dot murder graze keeps on, so hell up ma grashus,
I calls mineselluf a Rothschild soon ! ”
* * * *
The lady who lately challenged with her
undraped charms the criticism of a Melbourne
tribunal goes a lot further back than to France for
her prototype, inasmuch as she did exactly what
Pliryne did before the judges at Eleusis. P-hryne
“ knocked ” her lot of baldheads all right, though !
* * * *
Item from the report of Wellington
(M.L.) Typographical Society regarding the lino-
type :
As the effect will be to displace only a certain amount
of female labor, it is not received with any great alarm.
Only a certain amount of female labor, so the male
compositor doesn’t care a hang. He might feel
that way, but it was mighty poor policy to say so.
* * * *
Ghoulish intimation from Sydney D.T. :
\\ AVERLEY Cemetery.—No. 501 (unused), 12ft. x
6, between Sir Fred. Darley and Professor
Smith’s. Box 878, G.P.O.
Splendid chance for a really “Naice ” corpse !
» * * *
Auckland Star on the funeral of the Tas-
mania victims : —.
The procession was headed by the city band, followed
by three hearses and three expresses, bearing tasteful
coffins, which, &c.
A tasteful coffin ! A graceful hanging. A pic-
turesque post-mortem.
Advt. from Sydney D.T.: —
-\V ANTED, YOUNG WOMAN, Stenographer .and
W Typewriter. Salary to start, Ten Shillings per
week. Apply T.G.1., Daily Telkgeapii Office.
And yet the pessimist holds up his hands in holy
horror at the prospect of female employment in
the future, and the persistency with which it
undercuts male labor. A girl lias only to have a
good education, be fair at arithmetic, smart at
composition, faultless in spelling, with a smatter-
ing of commercial terms and foreign quotations,
possess a complete knowledge of the mechanism of
the typewriter, and the ability to travel its key-
board at a smart pace, to which must be added a
knowledge of shorthand with a speed of at least
100 words a minute, and she will earn half-a-
sovereign a week!
» * * *
Talk of queer coincidences ! Auckland
(M.L.) Herald advt.
TJl 7 'ANTED, a couple ot smart lads. Apply at once.
» ’ So-and-So, oyster merchant.
Next day’s issue:
Yesterday, the wife of So-and-So, oyster merchant, of
twins (boys). All doing well.
Mr. So-and-So says he will never again advertise
for two boys.
*** * ,
Alleged journalist, to reporter, who has
just conveyed the news of the fire at. Sydney Star
nffice: “ A dashed good job, too, a miserable lot
of- ” Suddenly strikes his forehead :“ 1 re-
mises comp’etely gutted, you say? ' h, Hades,
they’ve got an article of mine, on ‘Furbishmgs
from Foreigners,’ under consideration. Scoots
frantically in the direction of Castlereagh-street.
* * * *
At Collingwood (Melb.) police court, last
week, two men were charged with "fighting in a
public place, the casus belli being a young woman.
The Mayor, remarking that the belligerents luid
doubtless agreed, by this time, as to who should
have the girl, offered to let them put 55.. apiece jn
the poor-box and go their ways. One man paid
his five “ bob ” thankfully, but the other said he
was not prepared to accept the terms, whereupon
he was fined dBl, or three days. r lhe girl, presum-
ably,, gave her heart to the man who had the price
of liberty in his pocket, and was able to resume
his “ mash ” without further delay. All the good
things in this world fall to the bloated capitalist.
* * * *
The Salvationists plucked another brand
from the burning, at a small Maori land sea port,
the other day. He was a sailor off a Union boat,
and he lurched on to the platform to ‘ testify.
After giving a hiccupy account of many trans-
gressions, he said that he had “ found the (hie)
Lord at a Shalvation meeting in that identical
hall four years ago.” “Three years ago inter-
rupted the major in charge ; “we have only been
here three years.” “You’re, a blanky bar,
retorted the briny one ; “ I shay four year.
by the time they got the “brand ’ out of the
building the major had a lovely black eye and a
nose as big as a policeman’s foot.
* * * *
S.A. Judges, the humane Bundey espe-
cially, have earned the reputation of - imposing
moderate sentences ; but Acting Judge Russell,
who presided over the Criminal Court for the first
time the other day, fairly astonished the legal
profession by his gall. Among other things, he
gave seven years for the theft of a pair of trousers .
IN “PUSH" SOCIETY .
CHUCKIE HOGAN : “ Ain’t yer got no more con-
sideration fer Red Bill then ter go darnin'
with him like y’ do?”
THE DONA: “ Oh! there ain't no fear o’ me breakin’
HIS bloomin’ ’eart.
CHUCKIE: “No; but I’ve just bin an’ broke his
blanky jore!”
One reason why women hanker after a title
may be that they know it will make them
beautiful for ever in most other women’s eyes.
A Sydney D.T. woman-correspondent describes
all the titled ladies at the Queen’s garden-party as
“lovely,” “quite beautiful,” “a lovely pair of
sisters,” &c. While in another place Premier
Reid, who ought to know a little about feminine
good’looks, is reported as speaking cautiously of
the same affair as an “ overwhelming display of
dress, rank, and style, if not always of beauty.
The difference : to a woman, style is beauty.
• * » *
An enthusiastically loyal M.L. newspaper
proprietor celebrated the Jubilee by sending up
ten balloons, each containing a cheque for =£l.
The cheques were all recovered and cashed. This
was probably the most original Jubilee idea bar
one—the one which took the bun for fresh and un-
sophisticated grovel being that of the man who
proposed that in future the year should consist of
13 months, the thirteenth one being named Vic-
toria. ,
The American brigantine, Percy Edward,
in which the “ United Brotherhood of the Pacific”
voyaged to Fiji, has just been sold at Noumea to
three Frenchmen for employment in the island
recruiting trade. From the regeneration of man-
kind to blackbirding is indeed a hideous declen-
sion !
* * * *
The Australian Legion of Horrors. Comp,
error.
EVOLUTION.
(At 20.)
His eye was bright, his heart was light,
His tnind was practical.
“ I'll eyolutionise the world,” he said,
“ I will—I must, and shall.”
And yet the sad, bad, mad old world,
In spite of what he’d say,
Went reeling in its orbit drunk
In just the same old way.
(At 50.)
“ It isn’t such a bad old world ;
It’s good enough for me
His figure was like figure 8 ;
He was a C.M.G.
A MEET CONCLUSION.
“ Bring out the meat! ” A callous cry,
And yet, forsooth ! a stern reminder
That mortals, when they lifeless lie,
Are satirised by.comments kinder.
A form, whose pulse no more shall beat,
Is neither more, nor less, than meat.
“ Deceased ” sounds nicer than “ remains,”
Though not so nice as “ dear departed ”;
But flesh is flesh, which nothing gains
From compliments whilst being carted.
The dead man grins at vain deceit—
Bring out the meat! bring out the meat!
Erect a tombstone if you will
Upon the ground, when Smith is planted,
In token that your spirit still
Is by the loved one’s shadow' haunted.
Bi t do not deem the grave-plot sweet
That holds the box of rotting meat.
“ All flesh is grass,” the parson groans ;
“ The oven ” is its destination.
But O ! in cold, sepulchral tones
The holy man condemns cremation.
“ All flesh is grass,” his lips repeat;
The honest carter calls for Meat.
Bring out the meat; no - let the term
Seem hateful to your Christian culture ;
A carcase, buried, breeds the worm,
A lost explorer feeds the vulture.
The carter, grumbling on his seat,
Did rightly roar, “ Bring out the meat ”
A clammy corpse, poor tainted mass,
Like graveyard sentiment smells sicT’y,
Arid since the parson dubs it “grass '—
Well, put it in the oven quickly.
Anon the cleansing furnace heat
Will leave but ashes from the meat.


If
)
\s\nn
SR/UffiftE'ir
, ( Food L
J^iK^yood
eh
ft , ®
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales in the City or Country, conducted by
___ Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved ‘ Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Walter Bra ole v & Co., 324 George-st.
Women that should Marry.
HAPPY MARRIAGES THE RESULT OF HEALTH.
It is not uncommon for men to bewail the fact
that marriage so seldom seems a real companion-
snip that man and wife are separated bv differ-
ences of taste, of mental outlook, of general in-
terest in life. It is, perhaps, even more common
to hear women blamed for what is called breach of
contract in the marriage relation. If the wife be
delicate, run down, nervous, and irritable, if her
smile and her spirits have taken flight, it worries
her husband as well as herself. Even worse symp-
toms may follow-the woman suffers from sleep-
lessness and fainting spells, her head is in a whirl
her back aches, and she has that awful crowding
down feeling. It depends on the woman whethe?
she wdl penmt these troubles to continue day by
day, leading to a life of misery.
A healthy woman is always interesting ; she
passes for beauty because she is happy, and her
good spirits are contagious. Good nature goes
S h nei ealth ’ lmtablhty and with
Those who suffer from the derangements dis-
thftGmdd A ?aS T of . th T e . sex >J?hould remember
that Gould s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are Very mild
in action, and are just the thing for weak suffer
mg women They clear the system of all waste
matter, make the stomach, kidneys, and liver do
their work properly. Food is properly digested
good blood manufactured, the skin becomes clear
the face brightens, and all pimples and sores dis-
appear. Gould’s Tiny Tonic Pills were Sed a
number of years as a prescription, but now thev
are put m small tiny pills. Medicine is mS
easier to take in that form.* mucn
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ Sydney, August 17, 1897.
Mt Dear Mtke —
Sydney society, rejoicing in the fact that a
brace of lions was set up to be gushed and gabbled
over, made a brilliant night at the first Hambourg
concert. A few male persons were wedged in
among the display of shoulder-blades and frizzed
heads in the front seats, but these few belonged
chiefly to the musical profession themselves, and
watched Mark curiously all the evening—appar-
ently struggling- to discover how the young man
does the trick, and what there is about his lank
forelock, awkward bob, and white, upturned eye-
ball that makes presumably sane women seethe
and surge with excitement. The professional
musician knows well enough that it is not merely
Mark s wonderful music-making faculty which
stirs them up, for a casual glance at fashionable
faces on Saturday night, while the pianist was
disentangling the harmonies in the lengthy first
item, showed that most of them were absorbed in
the contemplation of a fearful and wonderful hat
in the front row, sported with a rather insolent air
by a bejewelled cUcolletee. Mark and his art
appear to have aged considerably since last visit,
it the gifted youth is still 18 he looks at least two
years older, and several long years of experience-
seem to have been crammed into his music.
.Brother Jakoff stands up to his work like a little
man, a very little one, and has evidently made up
nis mind to score off his own bat, as it were, and
not merely to shine in his big brother’s cast-off
radiance.
• hat has made its annual appearance
m the shop windows, and crowds of interested
women daily push and jostle each other to see the
new millinery. Some of it is very pretty, but I
don t understand it, unless enterprising drapers
are offering the head-gear as a prize competition,
and giving away a bicycle to the woman making
the nearest guess to which is the front and which
is the back. The tilt of yester-year was over the
back hair, but this season it is sprung on us in the
front, and there are no old, familiar landmarks to
indicate the place where pins may stab through
Hordern Bros.’ window has a hat like the helmet
of the winged Mercury, the crown covered with a
whole flock of bird’s wings, also hats with vast
brims, overshadowed with white ostrich-plumes.
Ihe picture of Her Gracious, sitting in church
with a wreath of roses under her bonnet, which
went the rounds of the illustrated papers, is re-
sponsible for much of the trimming bill; a black
bonnet with wide pink strings and pink rose-gar-
modelled on the same. Bonnets are bright
little bundles of gauze and flowers, mostly purple
poppies, which are an epidemic. Hats of gaudy
straw support an aspiring, many-ended ribbon
bow which is built up on one side of the crown,
and the ends flutter like flags among the rigging.
Little Renee Lees, one of the “ only genuine ”
of Sydney s numerous prodigies, gave a piano re-
cital in the vestibule of the Town Hall on Thurs-
day evening, whereat, with baby hands and
masculine strength, she for two solid hours pounded
a Bley el. In appearance Renee is a sweet, dolly-
ooking little creature with golden-brown curls
and an infantile sash and tucker, and when she
sets to work on a programme, every item on which
indicates six months’ hard in early morning before
normal little girls are out of bed, one feels con-
vinced that the youngster is merely toying with
the keys, and a six-horse-power orchestrion, hidden
somewhere in the background, is dealing out the
clangor. Renee’s marvellous execution and pro-
digious Anger and wrist-strength are as wonderful
in their way as the boneless boy’s performance,
but as a feast of music the entertainment was
something of a failure. It takes a world-weary
man or woman with a background of broken heart
and miscellaneous experiences to make the great
tone-masters underhanded of the people, and to
expect a. baby in a white frock, with “ four-and-a-
quarter' hands, to unravel the darksome music-
mysteries a.nd string them together with a cord
ot human significance, is simple foolishness.
A little story anent a certain fashionable wed-
d‘ng , long ago has just leaked out. One
of the bridesmaids was the daughter of a—well
of a high and economic Southern potentate. The
young lady was courteously given a free railway
pass to Sydney, and subsequently, on application
being made, a point was stretched in considera-
tion of the occasion, and the same favor extended
to her maid. Recently, N.S.W. Railway Dept
received an application from the lady for a refund
of 12s. 6d., for a sleeper for the maid ! And she
got it, too !
The Anglican order of nuns called Kilburn
bisters had some of the high-toned church folk of
Wayerley last week assisting them in a fund-
raismg flutter for their orphanage at Chats wood.
I his order is perhaps the most popular, as well as.
the most exclusive, of all Anglican-made conven-
tual bodies Unless you’re a real “lydy,” you
can t be a Kilburn Sister, and their anachronism
runs strongly to severe “ vows ” of poverty and
self-denial. But there is always a touch of the
amateur about the English nun. She may get a
century or two in arrear of modern ideas by
shutting herself up in a convent, but she doesn’t
turn the key on herself irrevocably. You can tell
in th . e str eet by her extra-large cross and a
self-conscious air of when a man passes.
Ihe Sister of Charity wears a smaller cross and
a.n utterly remote look. She never, apparently
sees a man-the Anglican nun, I have noticed!
always does—if he s nice enough.
aH l m Shi u nablechurche , s ’- trying toget as near Rome
as may be, are now cultivating the study of Gro-
gonan music A class meets for practice once a
veek m St. James s, as the Rev. Carr-Smith is an
mithusia&t on the subject of the antique choral.
~ 13 dismal wails which issue from the sacred edi-
tice every Saturday evening are now explained.
Novices wrestling with an old-world system with
an incomplete octave, and breathing a spirit of
devotion into the office hymns treated antiphon-
ally imply an old, holy remoteness which is Greek
to the ordinary sinner. A lecture on the theme was
recently given in the Temperance Hall, and met
with an enthusiastic hearing from the hearers, all
apparently plain-song experts. The unmusical
person to whom one hymn-tune is like an-
other hymn - tune finds the ancient method
rather dreary; but the Gregorian enthusiast
asks for the rigor of the game, like Mrs.
Battle at whist, and protests against the growing
frivolity of modern sacred music. Gregorian
tones are petrified worship, as a Gothic cathedral is
petrified religion.
Yvonne Leverrier, the gifted and thunderous
girl pianist, of Sydney, has arrived in Vienna, and
has justified the enthusiastic send-off which her
admirers gave her before she left this city by being
approved and accepted as a pupil by the famous
Leschetitzky. As 56 applicants for instruction
have recently been rej'ected by the unpronounce-
able person aforesaid, the talent of Miss Leverrier
in passing his test in one try is the more con-
spicuous. After the exam., the girl-student was
temporarily placed under Herr Voss, an under-
professor, for tuition, the maestro himself going
into the country for his annual holiday.
Two forthcoming events are arranged to swell
the fund in aid of the Consumptive Hospital: a
gymkhana, including sports and a tug-of-war, and
a garden bazaar at Mrs. Neville Cohen’s place at
Llizabeth Bay. The very latest notion in prize
competitions—a men’s hat-trimming contest—is
to be one of the features of the show, and an ener-
getic lady is now getting entries for this exciting
u Ven ,, c °mpetitors will have given them a
bundle of fancy hat-trimmings and a shape each,
and the prize falls to him who most quickly
evolves a weird but wearable head-covering out of
the chaos.
The girls who sold photos, and souvenir pro-
grammes at the Elsie Adair benefit demanded
and obtained fancy prices for their wares. Juliet
Wray to the most persistent saleswoman, and
handed in the largest bag. It was a sassiety
benefit, and sassiety worked the thing well. The
little dancer, though pretty and smart, is almost
entirely a stranger to the public here. Other
bens, got up on behalf of tried favorites have been
less successful because less cleverly engineered.
Among the special prizes offered for school-
essays by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
bociety, are rewards by the Govt. House ladies
for answering, “ Does civilisation depend on the
possession of certain animals?” Probably the
ways of the brace of kangaroos and the pedigree
pug puppy have been thoughtfully studied since
the acquisition of those live wedding-gifts
* n a Sydne y suburb went in for a
little dressing up the other day, and one giddv
creature inserted herself into the pyjamas of a
visitor-man staying in the house, but then absent.
After much fun she put the pyjamas back, and
quite forgot to take out of the pocket a pretty
little cambric handkerchief which she had stuck
there Next morning at breakfast mamma looked
thunder when the visitor-man quietly said :
Miss Belinda, please let me remind vou that you
forgot to take your pockethandk.qrchief out of my
pyjamas. Just think how awkw&rd it would have
been had I gone home to my wifq, without disco-
vering it.
Talking of the cruelty of parents towards chil-
dren, a year or so ago a nice-looking young lady
went up to receive, on University Commemoration
day, a certificate for some exam. You could hear
the chancellors voice quiver as he read out the
Christian names bestowed by thoughtless
parents on the unhappy girl, “Cassandra Zenobia
—Boggs. Another girl, the same day, was
publicly announced by the name “Blandina”
ft Tm- a,nf V l mßtanc e is that of a girl called
Albma Tryphena, ’ and her surname is, of all
names, Smith. ’
“Women have begun to assume Christian names
hitherto regarded as the sole property of the
sterner sex, ’ says a male correspondent of mine
m one column of a daily paper last week I
observed these three names: ‘ Miss Harrie Ire-
land, Miss I ltzmaunce Gill,’ ‘Miss Edward
Ueane. As there is an abundance of female
names to select from, I can only regard this new-
fangled practice as an aggressive encroachment
upon the rights of man. Shall women be allowed
to filch away from us our very names ? It needs
no prophet to predict that when the irresistible
new woman has completely won this glorious vic-
tory she will boldly turn round and scorn the idea
of changing her maiden name after marriage !
u ” Hn „^ lss White marries Mr. John Black
she will remain as White as ever she was before.
As to the children of the Black-and-White couple
some equitable compromise will be established by
the mixed Legislature of the iuture—perhaps the
Grey 7” * Whlte and the boys Elack > or both
How I envy the light, delicate touch of the
country.social reporter, as exemplified in the
Clunes (Vic.) paper of 30th July : “ An important
ceremony in which considerable interest is being
shown, will be performed in the course of a few
weeks when a young, gentleman, well-known
but who recently took up his abode at
Malmsbury, will lead to the hymeneal altar a
young lady of Roborough, a member of a family
tamed by a connection with the Clydesdale horse ”
The cordiality of one of the Australian ladies
m the Jubilee procession does not seem to have
been everywhere appreciated. The reporter of
Edinburgh Evening Despatch stood next to a
lydy who commented : “ Hugh ! look ! Easy
seen she am t been used to no aristocracy. Look
ohSTawffiJ." “ dS ' BitBh " w “ * W «°'
At the League of Wheelmen’s races at the
SfeS° Und ’ 0n ? aturday ’ th «re were some
wintry-clad groups of women on the stand who
seemed absorbed in the proceedings. One rider
was a week-old bridegroom, and his bride—the ex-
doth 0 er W C tC B d E h, ,T fr ° m tl u Stand in her new
ciotnes. O. B. Kellow was there, but his cele-
brated hat was not, and he seemed lonesome with-
out the well-known cabbage-tree, although his
ffram f dorn ? d Wlth a gold mono-
i T I spring costume on the stand also
had a lonely and too-previous air about it, and so
did the one sensation hat of gaudy pink.
“A perfect Australian day that had been
brought over by one of the J übilatmg Premiers as
a weather sample escaped from its cage a few days
previous to the never-to-be-remembered 22/6/’97
and spread itself like a radiant, glistening, silken
filament over London,” writes a gorgeouslv-elo-
quent London correspondent of mine ‘GJ’er
slimy wharves and dirty domes it shed its equal
lt shone on the Hotel Cecil. He-the
weather-drummer—-ha,d tried to shut it in, but it
would leak out, and did—hence the trouble. The
fair daughter of Austral and of a Privy Courcillor
inhaled it and bathed in it in
where the string band—who want robe badly—
played so loud the after-diners could not hear
their absorbed eight courses’ internal dissensions
Sho was happy and must -really sh« know sho
“owned pTl hlng ‘ ■ Fl 7 e mantes later in the
ya carna ge, behind the flaring,
h a *}** assum ed an air of hauteur,
Strand n t J e f, r ‘ and s P ed through the
stormed h q f Ma]1 > and -street, and
buv their e -H n ’ where queens
coats nnrl *u lltS and princesses their small-
coats> an d they <, harge Hke wounded buffa .
cinitateW f nageS *.u of , niere ducl iesses fled pre-
red Sr va f K° m J*? k< ‘ rl t )Sldft > and a caisson of
or i t r °“! th ? doorway and flowed
the p a /h \ nt ° fche firutterway. Inside,
sho P' V; *lk«rocracy whispered
and y hSirl .ui the ? smded td] fcheir faw 's cracked,
and bowed till their watch chains frilled their
knees as she entered. It was a proud day for
bv the flani.-” T®’ ’""r off ?P rin & bore it. Palsied
y the flanking lines of grinning flunkeys and the
cleTre a d nf eSS ,° f the d eP a rtment? y hurrtdly
caned d in f X dlnary Polloi fur her option, she
the lirfw' 1 1" 38 ? 1 !.” 1 self-confidence that is
° f , her ,P <J ->ple, and, inwardly
occas n’ m’ 2* I l ® ea . rth , does sometimes, to the
andbm'toW® her ,«mi? le purchase, ordered it
state f be forwarded, and left in a crystallised
box lJdn Cal ™- The , Purchase arrived in a
dox lJpn. x 4in.- it was a fringe veil.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
. A lady friend mentions that ‘ the eulogistic
was mnch of a re cently-departed public officer who
was much given to preaching morality to his
bfe lon S , Uff - ftr ® rS, Tt haVe i ed t 0 the baring of his own
scandafin tb after 9 a refully studying this
Son P lU,de ’ T 18 , tem Pted to stick up
Jjishop Coe, or some other learned authority, for
an answer to the conundrum ‘ What is sin ? ,y The
tr^ d^: ra f’ Bays ru {\ lor > varied the mono-
nart Of M family life in one
iIS r'™ by Pa r ng rcg'dar visit ito a
eether Wtb W® - WaS comf ‘>rtably supporting, to-
otoh JA, l u r '!i r ° per • brood > in another part
of the city. He had remained faithful to his left-
handed spouse for 10 years, and was always
down at t°he h ? r b n T lle "I a t,ab > which Put him
W th ; back gate. A man who utters excel-
band P fn?b PtS ’ a,l i d < play , B , tf ? e P art of a kind hus-
nd, father, and uncle in two places without
osing anybody s good opinion, may be said to
tb P , r ° P f° r Ti! f ° r hls wife ' bimself, and the
thud party. Shelley, and a few other famous
Clove Sf? h “ Ve be “ »
nlio,I h b blue-blooded section of the local churchy
t.i f , laS ta ken Julius Knight unreservedly to its
select bosom. Smooth-faced society apostles extol
his ‘Sign of the Cross * performance as ‘a sacred
mission, and declare that more noble even than
the regeneration of audiences is the great work-
nightly being fulfilled in the actor’s own spirit.
Ihe well-built evangel, so his clerical admirers
positively assert, thinks seriously of entering holy
orders and hiding his lovely legs under a surplice.
Surprised worldlings surmise that in his unwilling-
ness to discard those becoming togas and tunics
tor the prosaic pants of secular wear, the shapely
con vert inclines to clerical petticoats as a sort of
half-way house. Or, he may look forward to
speedy promotion and episcopal gaiters. The
latter really would make effective wear for anyone
with a decent foot and ankle. Strange to say, the
upper-crust unco gmd ’ extend no favor to Chris-
tian Mercia, Superbus Knight’s colleague -mis-
sioner. Indeed, they commiserate their hero for
not having a creature of kindred refinement to co-
operate with, and in their plans for his alleged
nSfbfhl ° are f ’ ummuate, pagan Berenis as the
probable partner of his ecclesiastical labors.
“ Local Pharisees, on the strength of the ‘ Sign
blob a M ’ I' ave l r n patting actor-folk on the
back and condescending to them, as not so very
much worse than other culprits. Certainly these
good men wil gasp for breath if they chance upon
bv n'X’h'U!"V "'“ i ***’ contributed
by Caleb Porter (‘ Nero ’) to Alma Mater (Melb
Varsit y magazine). The writer cheerfully assumes
that the actors are the saints of the earth and the
parsons the sinners, and, after many expert utter-
ances on the subject of Christianity, winds up bv
solemnly warning the Church that already is
written on her wall the ominous sentence ‘ Mene ’
divided ‘ Tekel, ’ &c. —and given
unto the Medes and Persians. ana given
,> *', Fro . r P tbe Bijou dress-circle, the other night,
the liveliest part of the show was supplied by a
hairy bush man who sat and enjoyed himself ‘on
eho ™ d‘ i T 16 back blocker’s immediate neighbors
chanced to be sundry unescorted couples of lone
orn females relicts, perhaps, of the ‘male
tion to the West. Small wonder that these tender-
lings shuddered visibly at the demeanor of Bul-
ocky Jim Whenever Charley’s Aunt said any-
£^ g „ Ullladyl^? ’ h i e waved hls lon g arms, smacked
his legs resoundingly and bowing his shaggy head
to his knees, doubled himself up in contortions of
voiceless laughter, while spectators looked uneasily
siiap page* nar ' y ex I j ecting some serious internal
, ,‘‘ one w , ould suppose that actor Thornton, in
his guise of a Brazilian widow, was the last person
in the world from whom to pick up dress-notions.
But, bcripture notwithstanding, some people really
do manage to gather figs from thistles. The other
evening, when the pretended ‘ Donna What’s-her-
name angrily peeled off her skirts and shed them
on the boards an elderly mourner in the audience
conscious of the drawbacks of weepful attire, was
heard commending the half-way-down white lining
of the stage-impostor s shabby black petticoat
I he flimsy calico strip in question took her fancy
sfnffftnV 111 T W en f th l proneness sad-colored
stuffs to transfer their dyes to adjacent raiment.
The prettiest garment worn by the adopted
nieces of Charley’s Aunt’ is Bessie Rignold’s
heliotrope and green evening frock with pink roses,
and not the new sleeve The latter phase of arm-
gear stiffens the wearer s deportment into that of
a trussed hen. Unlike the huge, bygone ‘ bishop’
and butterfly’shapes, it adds no semblance of
frill or fu»s to the outlines of a skimp woman, nor
does it show the curves of a shapely member, as
did the small, tight coat-sleeves affected by our
mothers. The present style is neither one -thing
nor the other The heavy top-dressing, by con-
trast, makes the rest of the arm look stick-like
and meagre.
, j tke , Australian Premiers and their wives
-r\- een ,^ f <)r themselves socially at
the Diamond Jubilee, instead of being lionised en
wiasse, the W.A. Forrests would have fared better
than most. Lady Forrest was a Miss Hammers-
ley, daughter of one of the 4 six families ; her
uncle, head of the Hammersley elan, is leading
magnate in an exclusive English county.
. Apart from descent-advantages, the sister pro
vince has always been a lovely place for getting
to know Naice people from ’Ome. In olden times
delicate younger sons and frisky nephews were
constantly being sent out there to fill light mili-
tary or penal appointments. And whenever any-
one vv J t * l a pedigree did arrive in the province,
each of the ‘six families,’ punctilious to a degree,
made a point of paying a ceremonious call on the
new-comer, though sometimes it meant travelling
much at 70 miles in a spring-cart or bullock-
“ The t’otlmrside Premier himself, who is still
spoken of bv W. A. patriarch ; as ‘a rising young
n,an > l was born outside the pale which enclosed
the original half-dozen.’ However, on the
strength of his political success, his marriage con-
nections have long ceased to gri< v ■ over the fact
that he began life in business at 4 The Vasse.’
‘‘ Talking of babies left on doorsteps, the house-
holder who receives a surprise-party of this kind
generally has insult added to injury by the ill-
concealed suspicions of acquaintances, and finds
himself answering mysterious questions on the
names, ages, and _ circumstances of his sisters,
cousins, aunts, maid-servants, and she-strangers
within his gates. There are, however, people
amiable enough to regard as a Heavenly visita-
tion the advent of an unvouched - for little
foreigner. l)r. Be van, for instance, adopted the
baby girl found in his Sunday school a while back,
and publicly baptised her ‘midst the sponsorial
enthusiasm of his grown-up sons and daughters.
Which recalls a case that came under the notice
of a Melb. parson some time ago. An impoverished
crone, applying to him for a charity ticket, told
him that the sharpest thorn of her poverty was
the callousness of tier wealthy married daughter,
whose well-known name and address shesupplied.
1 he cleric wrote to the alleged ingiate for con-
firmation, and shortly received an answer stating
that the pauper referred to was, the writer re-
gretted to confess, her lawful mother, who had
abandoned her on a mansion-doorstep when she
was a few weeks old. The infant waif had been
adopted by the owners of the house, and brought
up and educated as their own, until she grew up
and made an important match. Nothing had ever
been known of the foundlings family connec-
tions until her marriage, when her unnatural
parent appeared upon the scene and proved
her relationship to the bride. The writer con-
cluded by offering to supply the old woman with
the bare necessaries of life for the remainder of
her days, on condition that she made no further
attempt to communicate with her offspring
directly or indirectly.
“ The maddest man in Australia just now is a
resident of Albert Park. He was a clerk, and en-
gaged to a girl whom he considered ‘ one of the
best. In an unhappy hour he introduced her to
the family of his employer, with whom he was on
good terms. Some time after, to his great sur-
prise he was dismissed. A week later he found
that his girl had got his billet, and that same even-
lng she informed him that all was over between
them. She could not think of marrying him now
he was out of work, she said.
“ A Melb. professional man, who some years
back married the daughter of an Irish millionaire
now ) deceased, was lately overhauling the old’
man s will, and claims to have discovered a flaw
which invalidates the document. He intends to
back his opinion in the law-courts. Tf he is right
the whole of the property, now divided among
many children, will go—per previous will-to his
wife.
To the uninitiated eye, guardians of law and
order give the impression of living up to a high
gastronomic standard, and this idea is borne out
by the testimony of proprietresses of boarding-
houses and restaurants frequented by the force.
INo matter how high the remuneration,’say these
experts, it pays better to feed a policeman for a
week than a month ’; and an outsider, if he has
any dealings with the constabulary at all, soon
finds out for himself that 4 they likes their vittles
regular. A Melb. resident lately visited two
police-stations in one day to enquire about an
art'cle of stolen jewellery. At the first centre, the
officials telephoned to the suburbs on the matter,
but got no amswer because, as they surmised, the
staff was having its dinner. Later on, the bereaved
owner arrived at the suburban station in person, and
•?iA e u eph °v e W , as set t 0 work to communicate
with the police of another shire. Again there was
no response, and again also the inquirers took the
silence calmly, good-humoredly reminding the
visitor, as an excuse for the inaction of their
brethren, that it was ‘ getting towards tea-time.’
“At last, after several futile efforts to spread the
gospel which Gov. Hopetoun preached to Mel-
bourne society of yore, golf bids fair to catch on.
Giubs are being formed all over the place ; the
Koyal has pegged out its links on the savoury
Yarra Banks. A golf-club dinner is the outcome
eluded’ feVer ~ tlckets five shillings, wines in-
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
. Pbotograpbk Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING 7IEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM fob 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
p«
/,//
n in
$
m
tuv
111' 1 !'
i'ftlilllllij'i
v>
sz
9J
ILiti
u.l
4V»<
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF' —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
--- LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agknt, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Purves, Q.C., will be 54 on August 23.
“Wales” calls a premier a “premier,”
and Chamberlain calls one a “ premyah.”
How “Higher Power” Brunker backs down
every time he is properly collared! Brunker
rhymes with funker.
On the day preceding the recent execution
of a certain cold-blooded murderer, his 16-year-old
daughter was married to a Streaky Bay kanga-
rooer.
Arthur Streeton, with some fine sketches
of Cairo and Naples, is fixed up in Russell square,
London, and talks of giving an exhibition in the
autumn.
GIVE A DOG A BAD NAME.
THE DOCTOR : “ Thos'e symptoms ,' madam, are
caused by dyspepsia.”
THE LODGE PATIENT: “ Dyspepsia! Shure, sir,
I ain’t tasted a drop of anything except gin,
and mebbe a drop of beer, in me loife !”
E. J. Eyre, one of the earliest of S.A. and
Westralian explorers, was 82 on Aug. 15. Eyre,
afterwards Governor of Jamaica, still lives in
England.
Died the other day at Hobart, in his 77th
year, James Crawford Nicholson, one of the
ancient Tasmanian colonists who helped the
Hentys to annex Victoria.
The day Gov. Hampden set foot in Sydney
he was appropriated as an advt. hoarding by a
ready-witted bicycle establishment. Now he
threatens to be made sandwich-man for a certain
fashionable Sydney dough-puncher.
At the very time when the N.S.W. God
fearing Ministers were initiating proceedings
against shopkeepers for Sunday-trading, the Aus-
tralian Premiers devoted part of a Sunday to con-
ferring as to Chamberlain’s proposals.
The oldest Australian native is Mrs. Mary
Ann Search, born at Cornwallis, Windsor, N.S.W.,
and now in her 98th year. Her father, Sirno.i
Freebody, was 103 when he died, and the old lady
has a married daughter 60 years of age.
Cabled that, to oblige Chamberlain, N.S.
Wales ex-Justice Windeyer has accepted a tem-
porary judgeship in—Newfoundland. A journey-
man Judge ! “ Stopping a hole to keep the Wind
away 1 The lion reduced to mouse-catching.
Sydney papers, in hope of brightening up
Monday’s issues, have been long looking for a
parson whom they could safely advertise. Hence
the rush for the Rev. G. D. Buchanan, the Ameri-
can ex-lawyer, who has taken over Chalmers’
Ciinrch.
A Canadian journalist, on calling at the
High Commissioner’s office in London with his
credentials the other day, was plainly told that
his slouch head-gear would not do, and that he
need not come again without the Silk Hat of Res-
pectability.
At a recent Chinese banquet in Sydney,
the church, the law, medicine and the press all
had Mongolian representation in the respective
persons of Rev. David Shing, Otto Kong Sing
(solicitor), Dr. On Lee, and Siin Johnson, of the
Kwong Yick Wah 80.
A reputedly-wealthy Sydney man, who
has been taking things quietly the last couple of
years, says that a prominent mention of his name
in the press has invariably been followed by an
immediate marked increase in the number of
applicants for assistance from his purse.
Louis Becke, says a man who met him in
London, is rounder, facially, than of yore. He
was at Irving’s reception of the Premiers looking
as if he had been born with a “ pot ” hat, like the
orthodox Britisher, and had never drunk kava or
“ square face ” in broad daylight and pyjamas.
N.S.W. Just-ice Minister Ghould gener-
ously gives school - children a prize for the best
answer to “ What Divine Law enjoins humanity to
animals?” Which incites The Bulletin to offer
a prize for the best answer to another question :
“ What Divine Law justifies gagging in gaols ? ”
Dear Bulletin, — I have waited for the
very fag-end of the Jubilee news from ’Ome,
’oping against ’ope that the late-lamented John
Brown’s memory would have figured somewhere
in the frivolities. But, alas! our great nation
evidently grows most ungratefully forgetful. —
Britishah.
A big, powerful man named Shaw, sum-
moned at Richmond (Vic.) police-court for neglect-
ing to contribute to the support of his children,
swore that he was working on a night-cart for Is.
a night only, hence his default.
An Australian brave, who with others was
Jubilee-patronised by ex-Gov. Carington, describes
an edifice bearing the inscription, “The founda-
tion-stone was laid by Myee Carrington after his
return from Australia. ” Miss Myee was born in
Sydney. The noble Bob enjoys the blunder, and
declines to have it altered.
A Sydney University professor lately
delivered a lecture on “geology” in a N.S.W.
township. In the course thereof he mentioned
that the inhabitants were living on Silurian slate.
The local publican, who occupied a front seat,
fully concurred : “ That’s so. They’re living on
the slate right enough ! I know that! ”
K.C.M.G.’s are becoming quite as common
in Australia as C.M.G.’s. Until the demise of
Pat. Jennings there were five of the larger fry in
N.S.W. and only seven of their “little brothers ” :
C. J. Roberts (ex-P.M.G.), Govt. Astronomer
Russell, Critchett Walker, F. W. Webb, and
Cols. Roberts, Spalding and Holborow.
The British newspapers haven’t given the
Australian Premiers too much of a show. Where-
ever they have been to functions, the speeches of
f imminent Britishers have been given at full
ength, and then “Mr. Reid Said a few words,”
“ Sir George Turner also replied,” or “ after a few
remarks from Mr. R. Seddon, the noble Duke of
Slobbershire said,” &c., a full report of Slobber-
shire’s speech, punctuated with “cheers” and
“laughter,” follows.
South Australia feels sad re the little stir
which Kingston made in England. They wish
the suave Dr. Cockburn could have gone in
his place to say sweet things to the Bri-
tishers. Also, they feel that it would have
been quite safe to send him, for no one expects
him to redeem the many promises which he sows
round broadcast. Kingston is different, for it
always costs him a pang to break his word, and
that, perhaps, is why he has said so little.
Once a week the passages of the Vic. pub-
lic offices resound with a steady thump, thump,
like unto that of a quartz-battery. This noise is
caused by a one idea’d individual with a huge
walking-stick who is expecting a draft of three or
four million pounds from the British Govt., and
calls up regularly to collect it. He always gets
the same answer, “ Not reached us yet, will pro-
bably be out by next boat, call round next week.”
To this he smiles a sad, far-off smile and walks
pensively away. He has never been known to ex-
press annoyance at the delay.
Ed. Bulletin, —As illustrating how a
narrow mind stews in its own venOrn, take the
recent remarks of George Collins LeVey, London
correspondent of Melbourne Age. Writes this
would-be authority :
I am amongst those who consider the Australian
idolatry of their novelist overdone. His one book is a
good novel in a way, no doubt. With such material to
his hand it was bound to be. The fact is, of course,
Marcus Clarke struck a patch of extraordinary richness
in those old Tasmanian records. That he turned them to
account as Kipling >r Boothby (!!!!) or even “ Bold re-
wood” would have done, his most arder.t supporter
dare not assert.
Now comes the point. When Levey was editor of
the Age and Marcus its most brilliant contributor
they never “ hit it,” as Clarke did not conceal the
fact that, he thought thejonuer was vei-y “ : so so”
in literary ability; and this opinion was, in
Marcus’ own curious way, emphasised by his play-
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER, &c.
NEW SCHOOL-TEACHER: “Several words placed together
are called a sentence. Give me an instance of a
short one."
DUFFING BILL'S SON : “ Dad says six months is a short
one for cattle-lifting , but it’s a bloomin’ long 'un
for shakin’ a bridle! ”
fully addressing the self-contained panjandrum as
Levi, and, when remonstrated with, saying Levey
was Levi anglicised, and would, in due course,
develope into de Levey and de Levera—the actual
name of the Hebrew he was depicting in his un-
finished novel, “Felix and Felieitas.” — Mac.
Ex - policeman Crowe, who lately in-
flicted two or three issues of a weekly rag (the
Alert) upon the Melbourne people, is the same
Crowe who helped to kill the Ant with an absurd
libel-action, a few years back. The Alert didn’t
need any killing from outside sources. It com-
mitted suicide.
At latest, George Coats, the Melb. travel-
ling-art-scholarship winner, had settled down in
Paris with David Davies, also of Melbourne,
there to fulfil the terms of his scholarship. Con-
dor, of Sydney, was in London, working by fits
and starts; B. E. Minns had let his house in
Chelsea, and was working in the country ; Spong
was on the Thames with his family.
There is a fearful commotion in Sydney
evangelical circles re a Presbyterian minister whom
a Wesleyan minister says he found drunk in a
gutter after the General Assembly. “He was a
country minister, down for the sittings,” says the
man from the opposition shop, “and I acted the
good Samaritan to him’’-and blabbed it out!
Yet, after all, the delinquent was simply knock-
ing down his cheque in tne good old bush fashion ;
and no doubt he is now repentantly whipping the
collection-plate for threepennies to replace those
which went in that glorious razzle.
The recent exploits of a family of five
children, in one Northern family, should furnish
study for the Criminological Society. Father and
mother are a hard-working couple, and the children
received a fair education. Within the last year,
the eldest girl has been “up ” for concealment of
birth ; the next, a girl, stands convicted of shop-
lifting. The eldest male is in gaol for his second
serious assault on a little girl (the second boy was
charged with aiding and abetting, but found not
guilty), and the youngest, a boy of 10, took a
neighbor’s dog, covered it with kerosene, and,
after chaining it up, set fire to the animal.
The Lord-High Bebaubler, or whoever
distributes “ honors ” to Australasian big-wigs,
gave the whole business away badly when he
awarded a Companionship of the Bath to such an
old-standing K.C.M.G. as “Papua” M‘Gregor.
This just about shows the relative value of these
titles in the eyes of British Court flunkeys. A
simple C.B. is a much bigger person than the most
swagger colonial title-holder, but if colonial states-
men are very loyal indeed they may some day
actually reach the companionship of an order
distributed with lavish hand amongst English
civil servants and very moderately-distinguished
“ swaddies ” and naval men.
In St. John’s churchyard, at Campbell-
town, N.S. W., is to be seen the following quaint
epitaph on James Ruse, the first Australian
farmer:—
I.H.S.
Gloria in Excblsis.
Secred
To THE MkMRREY
op Jamel Ruse who
Departed this life
Sept. 5, in the Yeare op
Houre Lord 1837, Natkf
of Cornwell and arrived
In this Colknby by tub
Forst Fleet. Aged 77.
My Mother Ceread me tenderley
With me she took muche paines
And when I arrived in this Colony
I sowed the forst grain arid now
With my Heavenly Father I hope
Forever to remain.
A well-known Australian poet—
a real poet—lately “ altercated ” with
an utter stranger in a suburban pub.
Both had looked upon the wine when
it was red. A “ willing ” round even-
tuated, in the course of which the poet
delivered a terrific swipe at his adver-
sary’s ear and, just grazing that organ,
fell in the mud with the impetus.
Now, it happened that the bard’s last
blow knocked off the other’s wig, and
the beer-stained singer rose to his feet
to find himself confronted by an egg-
bald person whom he failed to identify.
“Nevermind,” he cried, lashing out
vigorously at the empty air, “ I don’t
care if there’s twenty of you —l’ll fight
the whole blessed lot.”
Miss Muriel Johnston, of the An-
nandale Johnstons, was lately presented
to Queen Victoria, on which occasion she
carried Australian flowers in her bou-
quet. This is the first time Australian
flowers were so carried to Court. The
Johnstons, by the way, were much
given to “ first ” performances. Col.
Johnston was the “first” British
officer to set foot on Australian land,
and Capt. Johnston, Miss Muriel’s
grandfather, was the “ first ” Aus-
tralian native to enter the British
navy as an officer. Moreover, the
head of the house arrived in the
“First Fleet,” was the “first” to
order the deposition of Gov. Bligh,
and was the “ first ” Australian Gover-
nor censured by the British Govt.
One of the brightest of Aus-
tralian country papers is the Orange
Leader, run by F. Goodge. Goodge
is editor, reporter, canvasser, and half-
a-dozen other things, yet he finds time
to grind out every week some of the
neatest topical verse locally printed.
Another excellent provincial paper is
the Cairns (N.Q.) Post —also little
more than a one-man show ; and that
man for 11 months has been lying in
bed crippled with rheumatism, and
at last advices was about to have his legs set in
plaster of Paris —preparatory to being hung up
and heavily weighted at the feet to pull his knee
and hip joints apart. The chap who keeps a
cheerful paper in these circs, is no slouch of a
journalist.
Bacteriologist Pound tells how he tried to
mollify the fears of a Western squatter, who wa*
terrified at the possibility of Pound’s bacteria
attacking him. . . . After vainly trying to
soothe Merino’s troubled breast, Pound hit upon
a brilliant idea mixed infected blood with pol-
lard, fed two rabbits with one-half of the mixture
and ate the other half himself. . . . The rat>-
bits died two days after. And Pound? Well,
it is presumed the bacteria died of starvation
rather than tackle him.
Attorney-General Isaacs lately had a sin-
glet “shaken” from the clothes-line behind hi*
residence in St. Kilda-road, Melb. A miscreant,
named Smith, caught sight of the under-garment,
and, not perceiving that it was more august than
singlets in general, put it into his swag. Then thr
THE SIGN OF THE “CROSS."
police force received orders to sheet the blaß
phemous crime home to the perpetrator, and
Smith soon suffered for his ignorance. There wai
pathos in the marauder’s enquiry “ ’Ow was hetc
know whose blanky shirt he nad took ? ”
In Adelaide, recently, an enterprising
burglar, during one week, robbed the houses of
Sheriff Booth by and Judge Boucaut; and a
brother criminal forged the signature of Police
Commissioner Madley.
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s estimate of
the size of the public gullet may be gauged by the
gorgeous epistle, re the Dora Dora blacks, which
it has the front to present as the production of a
half-caste aboriginal. The relative of King Billy
who commands such an effective journalistic style
oughtn’t to be allowed thus to hide his light
under a bushel. The Bulletin would hope some
day to make the acquaintance of a “ colored
gemman” who can prate so eonsumedly of “ Chad-
bandism,” "‘local incidence” and the “Stone
Age,” but for a dreadful suspicion that he belongs
to the great Mikki-Mikki tribe, and that the
bones of his fathers are to be found somewhere in
the neighborhood of Cork or Ballinasloe.
“The peculiarity of the tides in the
Norman river, Queensland,” writes “ Cum
Curra,”“is a subject I’ve not seen discussed in
print, nor have I ever elicited a satisfactory ex-
planation of it, even from the masters of tender*
and lighters who have been years on the rivet.
The tide rises and falls only or.ce in 24 hour*.
Flood and neap tides occur during alternate
weeks. At Normanton, 65 miles from the Gulf,
the flood-tide rises and falls about sft., while at
the same place the neap-tide registers a rise and
fall of only 2ft. Occasionally a double tide (that
is two in 24 hours) occurs in the Gulf, when the
river at Normanton remains dead low during
24 hours.”
“ The royal coachmen placed at the dis-
posal of the Colonial Premiers,” writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent,” are praying day
by day fervently for the immediate deportation of
their temporary masters back to the wattle-
and-dab huts and naked savages whence they
come. At all hours of the day and night the
horses are dragged out of the mangers they have
fallen asleep in, and the carriage, still creaking
from the previous peramble, bears forth the right
honorable restless bulb of quicksilver to Lady
Braided-Coat’s deception, or Mr. Chamberlain**
staircase-struggle. Recently, an enquirer at the
colonial wing of the Hotel Cecil for Kingston wa*
hurried down the heavily-carpeted passage to the
regions of the cellar and informed in a fearful
whisper, ‘He’s asleep; and for God’s sake don’t
wake him ; he’s the worst of them all.’ It was
the appeal of men doing penal servitude in barbed
irons, and it was acceded to.”
A pathetic story of marriage in a casual
sort of way with no visible assets behind it was
related last week in Melbourne Divorce-court.
The wedding took place in ’B6, the bride being 18
and the bridegroom 28, and their dream of blis*
lasted just about 12 hours. The first trouble wa*
that they couldn’t go to Ballarat for the honey-
moon as arranged, because the arrogant official at
Spencer-street station refused to take a cheque for
the tickets : so they stayed at a hotel for the night.
Next morning the husband admitted that he was
stone-broke, and had pawned his other pair of
boots to pay for the cab which took them to the
church to be married, and that the only home he
had to offer her was a seat on the edge of the
pavement. He followed this up by disappearing,
and during the ensuing six years he continued to
disappear at intervals, till finally the habit got too
strong for him and his evanishment became per-
manent. Therefore, a careworn little woman,
whose married life began with a dubious cheque
and a pawn-ticket for a pair of boots, and whose
existence had been mostly pawn-ticket and hustle
ever since, asked for the usual relief, which wa*
duly granted.


FRANZ JOSEF .
FILSEKTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Champion Cyclist of Australasia,
“Ken” Lewis, Advises the Use of Wakneb’s
Safe Cdee.
Ken Lewis is truly one of Australia’s pheno-
menal riders in professional ranks. He is the
winner of the mile championship of N.S.W. ; 1
mile blue ribbon derby (on Melbourne cricket-
ground) ; 50 mile championship of New Zealand;
100 mile championship of New Zealand ; 12 hour
contest of New Zealand ; winner of all champion-
ships of New Zealand ; also medals for inter-club
championships; and despite the enormous amount
of work he has gone through, he is. doubtless
ready to again meet all comers. He has made
cycling a study, and his advice to racing men, to
wheelmen, and athletes in general, is worthy
serious thought.
He writes :
Robert Lascelles & Co., Little Collins-st.,
Melboubne, July 6, 1897.
To Warner’s Safe Cure Co.
Gentlemen, —For the benefit of all cyclists, path or
road racers—and the cycling public generally—l desire to
bear testimony to the splendid hygienic aid Warner’s
“Safe” Cure is to all who use the wheel. Probably 1
have fought as many stubborn contests in cyclintr compe-
tition as most cyclists, and have achieved a large measure
of success.
■I can truthfully state that some of my victories would
have been turned into defeat had it not been for the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure whilst training. I can confidently
recommend it to any cyclist, and trust you will publish
this for their benefit.
KEN LEWIS.
His experience is similar to that of thousands of
others. As the bicycle season opens, many a
young person, and hundreds of older people who
have taken up cycling for its hygienic value, find
themselves lacking “ staying power.” They have
the inclination, but their bodily condition pre-
vents trying exercise. They are run down by a
winter of indoor life and work. To make a suo*
cess of cycling the heart and liver must be sound.
An inactive, torpid -liver means shortness of breath.
To be “ long-winded ” one’s liver must be in the
best of condition.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidnet Disease.*
A boriginalities .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Kanowna (W.A.) butcher:—“Three
Chows will buy a shilling’s-worth of steak per
week. Four Afghans will eat a similar quantity
of mutton. Six Japs consume, as much meat as
three Chinamen, but 50 Italians will surround a
cart and hold a corrobboree for 20 minutes, as if
they were going to buy the turn-out and goodwill
of the business. Then an interpreter comes
forward and offers you a shilling for a large
quantity of cat’s-meat.”
* * * *
At a Levuka store, the other day, a hungry -
looking native squatted on the floor and solemnly
devoured a loaf of new bread (they won’t eat stale
at any time). The storekeeper, who was of the
cheerful, good-natuced sort, offered him a loaf to
take home if he could get through a second. The
hungry one accepted, and with great difficulty
and much evident discomfort got through the
second loaf. A stranger in the store, who evi-
dently wanted to see the nigger burst, offered him
a second loaf to take home if he could eat a third,
but this feat the nig. seriously declined attempting.
Next day, however, the two-loaf-eater brought a
mate with him to the store —a huge specimen of
empty niggerhood, and calmly informed the store-
keeper that “ this man could eat three if you
would give him one to take home.”
* * * »
Ed. Bulletin, — A. Meston’s crow-yarn
(3/7/’97) would lead the reader to think that the
hazel-eyed crow only inhabits the Gulf of Carpen-
taria. The hazel-eyed crow (corvus coronoides)
and the white-eyed crow (c. Australis) are
“ common ”in N.S.W. I have taken the eggs of
both in county Cumberland. Both kinds are
meat-eaters, and also, I believe, fruit-eaters. The
manager of Dr. M'Kay’s vineyard, “ Minchin-
bury, at St. Mary’s, told me that he had shot
both in the vines, and that they were the worst
feathered robbers he had to deal with. Perhaps
the loveable-boomerang-circular-Meston crow is a
new variety.— Leslie M. Oakes, Parramatta.
• • • *
Dear Bulletin, —“ The Sacred Ibis ” not-
withstanding, . there is something to be said for
the white-eyed crow. This devilish bird is of
use to the grazier, for many a bale of sheep-
skins has swelled the Sydney market that
would have rotted on the ground had not the
raucous cry of the gent in sable proclaimed to the
man with the skinning-knife that there was
carrion toward. Alsc, per medium of that same
cry, he is a base betrayer of his blood brother, the
dingo, and many a red-’un has met his death
through the noisy interest in his providoring
efforts displayed by the crow. I have myself this
year dropped on to two dingoes through their
attendant mobs of crows loudly protesting against
the dingo lingering too long at his kill.— Treble B.
WESTRALIA.
NEW-CHUM: “Ah! Mr. Mate , is this beastly country famous for anything besides gold!"
TOTHERSIDER : “ My oath, sonny!”
NEW-CHUM : "Ah! What?”
TOTHERSIDER: “Principally sun, sand, sin, sorrow, sore-eyes, six families, and John
Forrest !”
A pig story from Hawke’s Bay (M.L.).
During the recent floods a mother pig, then in an
interesting condition, was washed away down a
roaring river, and battled with the waves for
days before she came ashore. She was found in a
dying condition on the beach, but bv artificial re-
spiration and the application of hot'bricks to her
feet she was brought round, and gave birth to 16
little pigs, and at latest advices the whole family
was doing well.
» • * *
A North Pine (Q.) man bought a pig in
Brisbane, t’other day, slung it loose into his dog-
cart and started homewards. Now, the pig was
higher than the seat of the cart, and, in prospect-
ing around, the grunter got his back under the
seat, straightened his limbs and sent seat and man
flying overboard. Luckily, the moke in the shafts
stopped at his master’s “ Way, woa ! ” Then an
infuriated pig-buyer climbed into the cart, and
apostrophised his purchase: “So I’m to be flung
outer me own ve-hay-cle by a dam pig, am I?
You decline to let me drive me own horse, do yez?
Then, by the powers ! yez shall drive him, and
I’ll nose around on the flure and have the fun!”
Saying which, he double-twisted and knotted the
reins round the pig’s neck, strapped him under the
forearms to the guard-iron, and, with a “ Get up,
Charlie,” began belting him with the seat that had
been capsized. The marvel is that the pig drove
the man home safely.
• * * *
Twenty years ago there lived near 800-
rowa, the land of Nagle-Ryan, one (say) Mick
M'Dermody. Mick’s wife died, and her loving
husband drove in to town to bring back the coffin.
Mick didn’t often go to town, and while there he
took the opportunity of securing a nice lump of
a sucking-pig, which he brought home alive in the
“ casket.” Not much poetry in the land of Nagle-
Ryan.
* * * •
Dear B.—The mystery of the Divining
Rod was explained to me by Mr. James Mac-
Williams, late of Mortlake, now of the Riverina.
A diviner had him as (lillie or caddie putting in
pegs at the ind ieated points for water. On coming
over the ground again he fixed on one as by far
the best spot on which to sink. But as Jimmy
had shifted all the pegs the mystery still remains
—the mystery, I say, as to how anyone is ass
enough to pay a fraud for a palpable swindle, and
such is the opinion of Scotus, alias Scotty the
Wrinkler.
* • * *
Copy of a letter which appeared in a recent
issue of a N.S.W. country paper :
Having read a few remarks in one of the columns ol
your paper purporting to be written by one who signs
himself as one who has no filial recollection of a father or
mother, an orphan, a son without maternal affections, and
to himself born in obscurity, and for some reason has
omitted his name from his publication. This individual,
who I am at a loss to know, and whose name is still a
mystery to me as to whether it was worth putting in
print, and if it was it should be boldly fixed to what a
man believes to be the truth. However, whatever calcu-
lation my friend has made on the littleness of my soul, I
am still determined to throw off all restraint as to sub-
mitting myself by joining in with political or religious
professors, who I believe to be nothing more than men on
the look-out for their own aggrandisement. —Yours, &c.,
T.D.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin, — I had been travelling all
day, dodging the sun, fighting the flies, looking
for a water-hole, and wondering where my next
feed was coming from. This, combined with an
eye to snakes, and anxiety of mind as to whether
I was on the right track or any track at all, made
up a pretty hard day’s work for “no wages and
find your own tucker.” On hearing the sound of
an axe through the timber I made in that direc-
tion, and, after walking about two miles, came in
sight of two bark huts, the better of which con-
tained a buggy and the worse a cocky and his
family. On arriving at the place I was greeted
by the dog and the cocky. Th« latter had been
belting away at a curly log of yellow box. “ Good
evening, boss ; I’m travelling—rather pushed ; any
chance of a feed ? ” “ Phat ! Where’d ye think
I'm to get tucker from to feed the country ?
You’re the ninth that’s been here to-day.” “ Well,
they must have walked on the tops bf the trees.
I’ve come 20 miles to-day, and mine is the
only boot-print on the track.” “ Are ye looking
for worruk?” “Yes, if you think carrying this
bundle is picnicking. Well, I want a, malm.
D’ye see that house over there ? ” pointing to a
mud-and-slab humpy through the trees. “ Sehultze
lives there. Now, Sehultze gives his min two
shillings-and-sixpence a week, but show me the
man who can say that Branigan ever paid his
n 'in less than three shillings. Schultze works his
min seventeen hours a day, but where’s the man
can say Branigan ever worked his mm more than
sixteen?” “I see you’re a staunch unionist,” I
said- “Av coorse, eight hours before dinner and
eight after ; and, as I don’t like to see men idling
their time away, yez can mend bags or shell corn
in the shed for a few hours after supper.” Look-
ing round to see what products were grown by
the “farmer” or “land-spoiler,” I observed a
cultivation paddock enclosed by a primitive fence
°f and branches, and carrying a single barbed
wire - Inside this enclosure was a scattered crop
young maize hiding behind a number of ragged
s ?l l .T,P' s as ashamed of the surroundings,
‘ What about lodgings, boss ? ” “Well, over at
Schultze s place the pigs slape wid the min ; but
at my place the min slape wid the pigs.” I tra-
veiled. Of course, a man like me “deserves to
starve. On the Track.
* * * *
One woman in W.A., who keeps fowls,
goes round and gathers up all the “ boxer ” hats
discarded by newchums. She says they make
fine nests, and the hens want a lot of coaxing to
lay in that climate.
* * * *
In some W.A. back-country towns, when
a man gets one or two months’ “ hard,” he doesn’t
always do the “hard.” Prisoners, where there’s
no gaol, aro allowed to walk about with pipes in
their mouths, or, if they prefer a “chew,” they
A LIMITED EXPRESS.
PIRTER : “ This is not your train, mum.”
TROUBLESOME PARTY (who has made all sorts of inquiries): “ You
said —‘ stopping at all stations,’ young man !”
PORTER : “ Not at all stations in New South Wales, mum !”
can have it. One is appointed providore, goes
down town in ordinary garb, and does the shopping.
In summer, they are chained up to a tree at night,
every man to his post. In winter, they are allowed
in a tent, and if they like to try and escape they
can ; but, considering the miles of dry desert to
cross, and plenty of trackers at hand, they don’t
attempt it. So long as they don’t come home
drunk, nothing is said ; and this is how a term of
hard labor is done in some parts of W.A.
• * • *
Public-house finance. A certain rum-
seller has a yardman, who drinks all his wages
before he receives them. When the first of the
month conies, the publican writes out a cheque for
the amount of wages due to the man, and shows
it to him, saying : “ Here’s your cheque, but as
you have drunk it all, I now tear it up. That
makes us square. You can thank your stars that
you start with a clean sheet.”
* « « •
Swaggie breasted the bar of the “Blue
Cow,” and, presenting a £5O cheque, called for a
drink. The publican went to the bank and got it
cashed, handing back the change to Swaggie, who
pocketed it and went over to the next pub. for
“ another.” Publican Grabbem mused to him-
self : “ I must have that money—but how ? ” That
was the question. “Plug him, plug him,” he
half-whispered, half-thought to himself. Round
came Swaggie at dusk. The girl served him,
while Grabbem waited outside. Swaggie emerged,
and was instantly “ plugged ” by the publican and
felled to the ground. “ Upon mV word, in the
dark I thought you were Dubbo Dick. I most
humbly apologise. How can I recompense you?”
exclaimed Grabbem. “We must have a bottle of
wine.” One bottle followed another. “Plenty
spare beds here,” said Grabbem, “ and if you stay
I’ll guarantee I’ll make you as comfortable as any
publican in Blanktown.” Swaggie. stayed. . . .
Three days later Swaggie left with his drum up, a
lemonade-bottle of alleged whisky, and an empty
pocket.
• » * *
“6 x 8” discourses on saw-mill accidents :
Some years ago I witnessed a rare bit of mind-presence
at a big Gippsland red-gum mill. A “ green hand ”of the
“ seen-better-days ” type, instead of shoving a flitch back
to the bench-man clear of the saw, tried (with best inten-
tions, no doubt) a novel experiment—viz., sawing both
ways ! Lord ! how did that piece of timber (about 9x7
x 4) whizz up through the iron roof when it touched the
back of the circular ! Greased lightning ! L wasn’t in
it! Bar “ greeny,” who calmly stood his ground, every-
body was under cover in a jiffy ! Experienced mill-hands
can “ get ”on such occasions ! “ Why didn’t you, dodge ?”
he was asked when the flitch had reached ground 30yds. off.
“ Couldn’t see any occasion,” coolly said chummie, “ and
you fellows made me smile! Didn’t you see that the
wood went up at an angle of 48 degrees ? Ho.w could it
come down at 90 degrees ? It’s a mathematical impossi-
bility 1 ” He was right; nevertheless, the boss promptly
Invited him to speedily make himself scarce at whatever
angle he liked.
Many saw-mill accidents are due to ignorance and
Inefficiency : most are the results of cocksureness
and rushing. Some mill - owners openly encourage
the latter by giving their henchmen, besides wages,
an extra bonus for every 1000 ft. put through. This is
absolutely a crime in a trade surrounded bv so much
danger, and is responsible for many cripples and pre-
mature corpses! If the henchman rushes, which, en-
couraged by the bonus, he naturally does, everybody in
the mill, from filer to dustwheeler, must follow suit to
keep him going in timber ! Refusal would, in many cases,
mean sack. The manner in which some henchmen and
“ taileis-out” rush round circular saws and fling about
timber is a gruesome spectacle to behold. But, like
soldiers in their scars, some inill-hands actually glory in
their lost fingers and broken bones. 1 knew a henchman
—a graduate, by the way, of Bullarook-Forest, the
“ ’varsity’ of saw-millers,” near Ballarat, Vic. —who used
to take out and knock-in the packing of the saw while she
was in full motion 1 When cutting small stuff—4 x 3’s and
3 x 2’s, he’d always “ double-bank,” i.e., have two flitches
on the bench at the time, one coming and one going. To
try the setting of a circular he’d hold his thumb close
up to her while she was at full speed and click, click,
click, let every tooth nick the point of his nail! The
same man always shifted the gauges behind a steam pave-
ment-block cutter —a small circular which revolves and
swiftly dips up and down, cutting a block every dip—
without taking the belt off ! To do it he had to make a
quick snatch at the gauge and pull his hand hack as
smart, while the saw was up ! The least mistake or
delay’ and his fingers would have been off ! But, Lord, I
don’t suppose he’s got many fingers to lose by now, if his
whole frame hasn’t long since been out up into 3x2
battens.
* * * »
Verbatim letter by N.Q. boundary-rider’s
wife to boss’s ditto
please Mrs. Smith the last day that Mr. Smith was
mustron the sheep in his paddick next to Mr.- davis
tryangle paddick george lost some linseed meale in his
paddick next to Mr. davis and if any one pickes it up any
time they will no ough it belongs to annie hed is just
middlen but I had et trubble yoh with it this last to days
E lease Mrs. smith have you got A cat that you can let me
ave as the place is full of mice and I will be thankfull to
you the Linseed meale is in A calico hag
your truly
Mrs.
please Mrs. smith have you got one bottle of sweet oil
the same as wat I got off you before in big bottles and I
will get Mr. to settle with you for it please tell
how much is it I ham very thankfull to you for the close
for the children.
Editor Bulletin,-
Re that shearing tally
done last year by L. Pul-
ley. Christie Gretz, a
very modest man, who
has be“n dead some time,
was known to have shorn
35,000 odd sheep within
a year. Pulley made a
grand tally last season,
and must have cleared
.£3OO in the 12 months,
and as this has been
widely advertised, many
will now conclude that
the average man must
make close on .£2OO a
year at the game. One
never hears anything
about the men who only
get a “cut” now and
again, and others who get
oue and are “battling”
about from year’s end to
year’s end. The greater
number of men get about
two sheds per year, and
when lucky they may get
three. These three sheds
would have to be the
cream of the country for
a man to clear .£110; and
he would have to be above
the average to earn that
amount. Then a few
men are greatly favored,
and get away from one
place before it is “ cut
out ” to go straight to
another which is just
starting. Then some
shearers rush and tear
most disgustingly. At
Logan Downs one year a “ penner-up ” fainted.
One of the “ wool-hawks ” rushed over him for a
sheep and dragged it out, taking no notice of the
man stretched out on the gratings. Another more
manly operator lifted the exhausted shearer up in
his arms and carried him to the water-tank.
Rather than lose a single sheep the hawk would
let a fellow-man lie and be trampled upon.—A
Battler.
* • • »
As to the struggle to get shearing. At a
Barcoo sheep-station a man answered the name of
another shearer at roll-call. “Come up here,”
said the manager. “ and let me see you. Why,
you are not the man at all! I called this name
by mistake—the man died in Tambo hospital a
week ago.” “I know he did,” said the imper-
sonator ; “I was with him when he died, and his
last words to me were—‘You take my stand at
Pinkem Downs, Jack.” He took it.
• * * «
N.S.W. strangers visiting a certain station
are astonished to find themselves among a peculiar
breed of tailless horses. Fact is that the owner—
a regular old-timer, who can still cut out a
bullock, or run a brunibie, in a fashion that is the
envy of many younger stockmen —uses his horses’
tails almost as much as their legs. If, when
patrolling the fences, he finds a panel wanting,
it is drawn to the required spot by means of
the hairy appendage, in which less original minds
can see only a mere ornament. Or a weak bullock,
bogged in a tank, is hauled out in like manner.
And as to refractory canines—but no matter.
Harness is an unknown quantity on that station.
* * * *
The manager of a W.A. mine had occasion,
through scarcity of experienced miners, to employ
a few new-chums. Two of these (runaway sailors)
were set to work in the straight shaft, then down
60ft. They made a hole and duly fired it, with
the result that, when one went down to investi-
gate, he flopped into about 3ft. of water. The
manager, in going his rounds, noticed the two
men sitting on the tip-head, looking very discon-
solate, and at once asked why they were not at
work. “Not at work!” came the answer. “I
should think not. We’ve scuttled the blessed
thing.”
* * * *
“A hair of the dog that bit him.” In
W.A. the other day a Chinese hawker was bitten
on the leg by a dog. The Chow, after letting go
some lingo, enquired of the dog-owner if she had
any sweet oil. “Yes,” said she. “Have you
gottem scis ? ” enquired Jo'nn. The lady nodded.
‘ Well cuttem some hair off dog then,” said the
yellow man. His request was granted, and John,
picking up a piece of tin, placed the hair on it and
held it over a fire till the hair was charred ; then,
mixing some oil, made an ointment of the ashes,
and rubbed it well into the bite. “S’pose me die,
me summons you,” said John.


The Goldsmiths and Silversmiths Alliance
advertisement of their “ Wild-Boar Tusk Brooches
and Links,” which are something quite new and
novel, appears in this issue.*
“Phytoline, a new vegetable remedy for
corpulency, is advertised in this issue. This
remedy has quite a reputation in America for re-
ducing stout people to a reasonable size, and
ladies and gentlemen who are overburdened with
an excess of adipose tissue are invited to unload
under its gentle but persuasive influence.*
W. Jno. Baker, of 3 Hunter-st., Sydney,
has a splendid stock of up-to-date cutlery. Every
household should have Baker’s illustrated cata-
logue to realise what conveniences now exist in
cutlery and its accessories ; a post-card will bring
the catalogue by return post. The boundary-
riders’ kit is a model—a knife, a steel, a fork and
spoon, all in a sheath to carry on belt or saddle.
The wire key knife outs or repairs a fence.
Scissors, butchers’ and cooks’ knives are also plen-
teously stocked. W. Jno. Baker sends parcels
post free throughout Australasia.*
Melb. Age advfc. :
r\BITUARY Verses, speeches for all occasions, Ad-
vertisements, Foreign Correspondence, Is. B.A.
Box 152, P. 0., Adelaide.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection —
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs, Greenfield and Barraclough.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage, to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors, that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
mm
*
CVc
rV
tCJSTt**:
M &*
'Zi/iDE
Sfe
* a ‘f/<r*
c, a-es
1897
AN €XC€PTIONAL OPPORTONiTY
of purchasing a Eirst-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give ”up the Agency for “Raleigh” Cycles, we are
offering our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
at the following
REDUCED PRICES.
All fitted with Dunlop Tyres, Martin Silent Toolbag, Pump and
Spanner. All Ladies’ Machines have Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Raleigh Co.’s] Post Free -
The Justral Cycle Agency [td.,
RALEIGH
Depot, 393 George-St., Sydoey.
Branches At :
Melbourne —229 Elizabeth-st.
Adelaide—33 Rundle-st.
Perth—Hay-st.
Brisbane—Adelai de-sb.
Charters Towers—Gill-sb.
Warrnambool— Kepler-sb.
GOULBURN
Christchurch — Lichfield -sfc.
Dunedin— l 23 George-st.
Hobart, &o.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
M. D. Kintore (W.A.): Quite plain you don’t
know much about windlasses yourself, and certainly can
never have seen a wild cat in its native lair. This paper
allows Hop. to draw thing's just as he darn pleases. And
if he had drawn the windlass in the bottom of the mine
and the bucket in the air the editor would have put it in.
Such petty trifles as “struts” must give way to an
Griental imagination ; and when j r ou say that the “ tie-
piece ” is always above the “barrel” Hop. says that he
can’t help thinking you know more about barrels than
you do about tie-pieces. Also, you are strangely silent
about the cat .... Subscriber : A and B have an argument
about weight. A says, “ I will bet you lam list. 61b.
B says, “ I will bet that you are not list. 61b.” A weighs,
and he is list. 121 b. Who wins, A or B? If they play
fair, A wins. If they play “ all they know” B wins
Emerald: Not skill enough No. 13: Perhaps
Wiltha: To get opinion, mix nine improper expletives
with a Borneo earthquake and heat for half-an-hour in
Hades P.H. : Verse flat Sprat: Can’t find Alf.’s
humor A.J.B. : Mere doggerel .... Percy A. : Original
opinion stands F.F.K. : Yes, get native words if you
can J.L.C. (W.A.): Noisiest poem for a week—“ roar-
ing,” “rushing,” “howling,” “dashing,” “dropping,” &c.
H.W.H : Noted . ..W.H.P. : Far too long ter merit
Fernshaw : Quite useless W.J.L. (Tas.): “Nell” too
placid and domesticated for Bulletin. Tell us—why
didn’t that girl hunt insects, or bottle snakes, or paint in
watercolors ? Nearly everybody in Raspberryland bottles
snakes or paints in watercolors 8.0. : The sobriquet of
“John,” so generally applied to Chinamen, is said to be
traceable to its phonetic similarity to “ Chong,” a very
common Chinkie surname. In the same way, it is often
found that Chinese with the surname of Cha Lee get it
Anglicised into “Charlie.” A.W. (Itedfern): Study
drawing for a couple of years, and then talk of becoming
an artist—if you dare D. : Ten shillings a week ! Type-
writing and shorthand now look to be about the most
shocking example on record of a “genteel” profession
ruined by cheap girls, who could earn a much larger crust
by staving at home and darning the family socks
Abo : When was there a ship which didn’t carry a seaman
named Olsen? W.G.B. : A hoary one. It was old in
Queensland 20 years ago J.L. : Dead-woman story a
chestnut Blackjack: Good . Gestor : One of your
suggestions, possibly. (2) Re patent, please call
W.R.J. (M.L.) : Ballad should have been born in Chevy
Chase days The Slave : Well, if it’s your own eomposi-'
tion, you deserve to be .... Subscriber : Very true. Pre-
fer things very new .... J.A. : “ Federated Australia ’
home of the big gum tree !” is a good line to lose out
schnapper-fishing .... No. 12 : No good M.B. : Thanks;
but save ’em till next winter—we’ve knocked off fires now.
R.M.C. : Cheerful incompetence Uloola : Better ;
will consider Tindog : “ Turn-off ” not up C.A.J. :
Possibly No. 2 Owen : Childish or senile—or botli
Ishmaelite : As crude sentiment it does you credit; as
verse it would hang you in any properly-constituted court
of poetry Kobar : He was an honest publican. Good
epitaph—poor story F.F.C. : Your enthusiasm over
the bit of maiden-hair is about as romantio as a red-
headed Scotchman snoring with his mouth open to catch
his freckles in case they should run away Blank:
The diabolus is just as objectionable as the deus ex
machina—and rather staler W.H.R. : “ Some soft,
creamy, clinging material . . . dark, liquid, melting
eyes .* . . the crowning glory was in the smile.”
Sorry, old man, but lots of Bulletin readers don’t average
two notes a week, and the money won’t run it Saint
Chance : It is easy enough for a beginner who knows his
wav about to get a chance with a travelling co. It is
generally very hard to collect the salary though, and the
co. often dissolves on the farthest end of nowhere, and
the hotel-keeper keeps your togs for the unpaid bill, and
it is 1000 miles to walk back—mostly over loose sand
uphill J.C. : You want to know “Tiie Bulletin’s
views of Christianity?” What do you mean by Chns-
, ianity, and we will tell you what our views are upon it.....
.1. T. McC. : Proposal to re-christen N.S.W. “ Johnstone
duly noted O.J.R. : Dismally commonplace Steel:
Illegible. Looks as if you stood three yards off and com-
posed the tale with a hoe D. (Coonamble) : Thanks
The Bandicoot : A bald statement that Bill and Fred and
Joe went out looking for cattle and shot an old bull.
Just as interesting as if Jim shot a cow ... D.G.M. : Not
up Thomas Stone :It seems to you that Thb Bulle-
tin’s complaint is “all rot.” How exciting D.B.F. :
Australasia pays £130,000 a year towards the Auxiliary
Squadron, but has no control over it. You can find most
of the information in the Statesman’s Year Book
Soleil: Excellent. Letter posted to Grafton .... D.J.B. :
Nearly all daily-paper matter, quite unsuited to Bulletin.
Just imagine this paper solemnly reporting a “church
anniversary and social ” ! Mensor :If Hooley isn’t a
Hebrew, his appearance much belies him. In the pic-
tures, he’s as Jewish-looking as B. J. Fink T.P. : Awk-
ward. 1 Vai, in Maori, means water, and wnc means legs—
and there is only a subtle distinction between the pro-
nunciation of the two .... J.P.C. : Mr. Lyne, leader of
N.S.W. Opposition, was never a policeman F. : Part
for use; but that triolet was quoted with others only a
few months ago F.F.K. : Notes acceptable Corn-
stalk : Will try and use “ Jones.” Wiremu : (1) Thanks.
(2) Don’t remember it H.A.H.N.: Too trivial ...
Admirer of Female Anatomy: Not much interested in
the relative scragginess of the ladies Tim : Old Dad
and the tank and the marquis who turned out to be T
Smith are hereby rejected J.J.W. : Bill and Jim both
killed by lightning, thank God !. C.E.V. : Marcus
Superbus's legs set to three columns of bad verse
D. : Declined... P. : Joke all lies in the fact that
new-chum didn’t know how many teeth a sheep should
have. How many Australians do know? B.M.J. : The
“ Dingo from Dandarragon ” and the dog story and the
doggerel all doggedly declined . Fosterville : Many
thanks . . ..Looni : Plain cuss and nothing more
A.H.I. : Bush Vale ; floor gave way , girl’s leg bruised.
That’s all, and you straggle over 1J columns W.G.P. :
Painfully mixed narrative about next to nothing
Geei: Received Industrial Assurance: Will hunt up
information. It may take some weeks Narkin : You
state a case, and say, because it doesn’t agree with the
case we stated, that our case is wrong. Then you
acknowledge that you are probably talking about quite a
different case .. Logikos : Pale-blue scrawl duly received
and cursed J.R. : Haven’t seen it so far A.P.M.
(Melb.): One at least will serve as suggestion. Having
brains, you should study drawing J.B. (Q.): If you
visit Sydney we will recommend you to an honest expert.
....Boola : Not quite up Ambrose : Now you’ve spoilt
it altogether .... N.W.: Probably Mini : Always send
verificatory clippings. When it’s a case of unknown cor-
respondent v. chance of £lOOO libel-suit, the corr.
generally gets left J.W.R. : Possibly use Steve :
Your only point is an atrocious pun M. Blaas : Send
address E.V.E. : You attack the Muse as if you were
trying to leg-rope a micky 0.0. : Out ’em shorter
E. : “Aged 13”—and already helping to widen an
editor’s bald patch.
“Poppy.”
The subjoined is from an alleged Australian tale
running as a serial in a Southern weekly. A pack
of (presumably) ordinary station dogs are after a
suspeoted murderer. One old canine (Poppy) has
given the others the slip, and comes on a hut
wherein a man lies asleep :
He smelled the man’s muddy boots, drawing deep and
silent respirations, and sniffed along his entire person
until he reached his head, and here he breathed with
much greater caution. The man was in his shirt sleeves,
and his large strong neck presented a tempting field for
attack. But the dog was old and his fangs were worn with
many battles. He regarded the exposed neck so eagerly,
and his whole frame was so rigid that it seemed he was
on the point of taking a desperate step. Had the man
lain with his throat uppermost perhaps the dog would
not have hesitated. As it was, while he was regarding
the bait that tempted him, he suddenly pricked up his
ears again and listened attentively. He heard the yelping
of the hounds as they emerged from the scrub. Stepping
cautiously backward he disappeared through the hole,
slunk into a corner, and lay down.
The hounds crossed the fence, noisy, furious, and blood-
thirsty. They tore wildly through the patch of bushes,
and their noise awaksnecl the man. He listened, and
then sprang to his feet. In a moment he realised his
terrible position, and his first feeling was one of over-
powering terror. He trembled in every joint, and his
teeth chattered with fear. He looked about him wildly
and despairingly, and discovered a loose joist above his
head. He seized it, and wrenching it from its holdings,
awaited the coming of the dogs.
They rushed blindly into the hut foaming and yelping
eagerly. He swung the bludgeon and sent one beast
rolling. The others were thunderstruck, but not dis-
mayed. Spot, the foremost dog, sprang forward and
fastened his fangs in the man’s heel. A blow on the
shoulder tore him off, and the man now wanned to his
work. He felt that he must finish the fight within half-
an-hour or he would be captured. Only three dogs—-ah 1
they were afraid ! For when he raised the bludgeon to
strike they backed out of the doorway.
He reflected that if he suddenly followed them up he
might succeed in perhaps worsting them. So he rushed
at them into the field and they backed away. But for a
moment it was, for they were on him again. A heavy
swinging blow, followed by a yell from the dog, told its
effect. Ah see 1 his bludgeon snapped off like a carrot,
leaving him sparcely a foot of the joist in hand.
Three furious dogs confronted him, and two eyes
that he did not see blinked at him from under
the hut. But the vigor of his blows had somewhat
disconcerted the dogs, and they ran around him at a safe
distance, their teeth glistening, their tails whisking, their
bent to the ground, the froth dripping from their
protruding tongues.
The man knew that action was required, and that im-
mediately. He dashed forward to seize the broken joist,
and as he did so a young active dog with teeth as sharp
as knives sprang upon his shoulders and fastened his
fangs in the back of the man’s neck. The other dogs,
emboldened by the success of their companion, made a
furious attack from behind. Miller faced about with the
fangs of the hound still embedded in his neck and his back
ripped and lacerated with the sharp claws of the suspended
dog, and fought wildly and furiously. The dog gnawed
at his neck and imbedded his fangs still deeper in the
flesh, causing the blood to pour down the man’s neck and
breast. At this moment, when the man was paralysed
with pain and frantic at the loss of his weapon, the two
dogs still confronting him sprang upon him, buried their
teeth in him and bore him to the ground. He sank upon
his knees, threw off the dogs with a mighty effort, and
defended his throat with all the desperation and strength
that roused his every energy and sustained his failing
hopes. They snapped at his hands and tore them, and
completely stripped the shirt from his body. They
ploughed his skin with their claws, and the blood rushed
from a hundred wounds. One of the dogs allowed the
strong hands of the man to close upon his throat, and
then he was flung stunned to the ground. Catching an
idea from this manoeuvre the man allowed the other
hound to seize his arm, then took him by the leg and
dashed him against the house.
As he staggered to his feet he grasped the hind-legs of
the dog that clung so tenaciously to his neck, snapped
the leg-3 as though they were reeds, and jerked him from
his hold, tearing the flesh horribly.
The two hounds which he had succeeded in throwing
off rallied their strength, and returned to the attack
cooler and wiser, but none the less terrible. The man
backed against the wall, and met the charge by knocking
down a dog with the one which he held in his hands.
Then he suddenly advanced and knocked down the other
dog. The blows, heavy as they were, did not disable his
two antagonists. Every time that he swung down his
living bludgeon it became weaker and its struggles more
faint. He struck rapidly and carefully, husbanding his
strength, yet eve*y now and then missing his object as it
would adroitly evade the blow, and bringing down his
heavy club with a dull thud against the ground, crushing
its bones and dislocating its vertebra. In a short time it
was but a lifeless mass of broken bones and bruised flesh.
The man felt himself growing weak and faint, and he
recognised the necessity of bringing the fight to a close
and capturing his enemies by strategy. He threw aside
his weapon, but the dogs simply glared at him. If he
could only get them in his clutches he would be saved,
but experience had made them cunning. So he suddenly
threw up his hands and fell as they sprang for his throat.
Quickly he seized a throat in each'hand and turned them
over upon the ground, with great difficulty planted his
knees upon their breasts, and crushing their ribs with his
remaining strength, choked them until their eyes almost
burst from their sockets, until their tongues swelled and
hung from their mouths, and until life was extinct.
The terrible fight was over. He staggered to his feet
and looked around. Not a soul w r as in sight. He drew
a deep breath and his naked bloody chest swelled with
triumph. But the loss of blood and the extreme pain of
his wounds had so exhausted him that he felt the ground
rising to strike him in the face, and with a heavy lunge he
lay upon the earth.
Two glittering eyes, followed by the neck and shoulder
of a hound, emerged from under the cabin. Poppy crept
forward softly, but darted back as the man with a despe-
rate effort rose to his hands and knees. He battled bravely
with unconsciousness, but was dying with thirst. He
crawled painfully along a disused path leading to a spring,
while his blood streamed upon the ground. On reaching
the stream he drank greedily and bathed his face and
head. The blood poured from his wounds and changed
to the color of wine the little stream that flowed from the
spring. The dog had followed him unseen, and was
crouching behind a thick clump of shrubbery. The man,
refreshed by the water, again struggled to his feet, but
the trees swam before his eyes and he fell unconscious to
the ground. The old dog approached cautiously, and
when within a few feet of his prey sprang forward and
closed his powerful jaws upon the throat of the fainting
man.
What price “ Poppy ”? And what price the night-
mare ? And this is “to be continued ” ! Wo must
all be “ there.”


OLD nqE PEALS/OA/S
JC. Wfi/Sctjn son
* e^ aUef ~ /s «
JZf&Kn ecess
' o)d Trial 1 -, j
Incanc'iskTent.,
J
"’pit
iTK r \ -
\,{'A
Joocerfj
rtf* 0 # 9 '* a /
Some anxiety is being felt in political
circles as to the whereabouts of Mr. Duffy
who some months ago left the colony to’
represent Victoria'at the Washington postal
conference. The conference has long sinc-> /
completed its labors, but Mr. Duffy is etil /
"on tour" in foreign parts. i
r\?*
?rM¥f *?*£'&* /
rf'Jt,
'\-the) - /f§
i e a^" 7 f s /yjlll
' A{r.~Freric?et'G'Ci.st.
lArtx s a.{lo zircot 7S~ f~es~vt in elf
/4/s Sea.lT LArvtA ou,t~/? /-/?/<F777i||
'(] 'i { llfejjfjSSlLtfaky |
.£> T£3 m e
■ Sv/T
SACK —|
T3OOR •_
f'M
"V Vy
fu Weevil"
Dhocw
Can <~?’?Sl , gr A et, “"'«i a. "l I*°’’t * r
*H anm f- i/iat i' ‘ t,h°
(ove h*
Uf
* C/
X--' £4 • u*.
• Cx
X *< <*/
. Xx>-' XX * ■ (X
/> X *;
x*> J! xx.
x- x.
°XX’5
x.r -xxxX> Xx
7br?/ve /? ~7?s. to &/vs a .
Isaacs. ZBu. f~ J say~ ; feo/-Oe. }
UsAe/e are 7?C.cme/
c<-nc(. ~7XC . L . £K7icZ «''
M n 1
/ uoner- S ire syof
rn ?!4e '
tA
A
■V
.
# rt 0*
/ 4 x /•'
<t A/*/
M * V/
VV A \
& A? -A
(V S V
MELBOURNIANA.


REPAIRS NEATLY EXECUTED.
BRONKER: "It's a bungling job altogether, but they’ll do to go to the country with!"


Packets
Of
S
*1
/ £5 7
'
10 GMBKj Pifß'E
£/ Wild t
rylanufactored by^k
PAY£RN£
Is.
Soft Sbirts
, Madk to Measure.
Post free SO - pel 1 J4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE JiItOTHE 11$
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk
*
Of what religion is a shark 1 Says Rev. W.
G. Taylor, in the Primitive Methodist of N. S. W.:
—“ A traveller had recently said that in Australia
and America they had found the Methodists the
pioneers of religion everywhere, and when he was
going to Australia a shark was caught, and in it
they found a ticket of Methodist membership.”
Colonel Ingersoll, according to Professor
Harper, commended one church for being fond of
water, and another for its common-sense, but
hadn’t a single good word for the Presbyterians.
“And that,” added the playful Harper, “is a
testimonial which I hope we shall always deserve ! ’
WAHOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
A FARMER AT BLAYNEY CURED.
Blaynby, N.S.W., 26th June, 1897.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
Dear Sir, —I suffered terribly from Indigestion and
Chronic Constipation. I had no appetite, and if I
forced myself to eat the consequences were fearful.
I lost weight rapidly until reduced to 8 stone. Doc-
tors could do nothing for me, and patent-medicines
failed to relieve. I tried Loasby’s “ Wahoo,” and the
effect was magical. It acted on the bowels imme-
diately, and then my other troubles gradually dis-
appeared. Since taking the first dose of “Wahoo”
my weight has increased to 10 stone. I can’t speak
too highly of Loasby’s “ Wahoo.”— Yours truly,
GEO. SEYMOUR.
WAHOO!
Price 2,6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
. Loasby's " Wahoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A wandering juggler, from Maoriland, found
his way into Warwick (Q.), the other day, and started
cheap-jacking with “stain eradicator,” every tin of which
purported to contain a ticket entitling purchaser to a
prize of some or no value. The police promptlv sum-
moned him under the Q. Gambling Act. “Game o’
chance! yer Worsh’p.” “Do you know,” said his W.,
that you are liable to a fine of i'loo or six months?”
‘ No, your Worship. I’m from Maoriland, and have my
l’ll promise not to sell another tin of the
stub, if that’s the law ; and I’ll say good-bye to this
country.” The beak advised him to go back to his own
unenlightened country, and let him off with a fine of £l,
plus 10s. 4d. costs, or seven days. . . . Now, if selling
“prize tins” of “eradicator” make a gambling trans-
action, what about “ prize packets ”of lollies—sold openly
wv, a hundred places in Brisbane and other Q. centres?
What about, certain brands of sohnapps and whisky,
which are traditionally believed to have a £l-note in
every 500? These are pure “chances.” There was no
absolute “ chance” with the juggler, for every packet had
some sort of " prize.”
* * • •
Federation illustrated. N.S.W. notes are taken
in payment of wagers on Vic. oourses, and are similarly
paid away, and nobody grumbles about exohange. “State
rights are dead in this aot.
• • • •
The sons of starter Geo. Watson, Y.R.0., are
hunting Nimrods, like unto himself. Bob is one, named
after Justice Robert Molesworth. Thirty years ago
George was summoned as a juror before grim Moles-
wortli, with the prospect of missing a magnificent day’s
hunting. Molesworth let him go. On returning home
he found a boy babe was born, and insisted on naming it
after the Judge.
* » « *
Wherever there is an amateur sporting coterie,
there will you find an Ikey jeweller in the midst of it I
The “silver trophy valued at ten guineas” is too fre-
quency a piece of iniquitous shent-per-shentism. Let the
silver trophies of the future be solid ingot of metal with
assay and weight stamped on it. It will make an orna-
ment during the years of plenty, and when poverty comes
it is convertible at the mint for face value, more or less.
THE GREAT SAUSAGE QUESTION.
OPPICIAL DAIRY-INSPECTOR (at Butter-Cocky's) : “Any lumpy-jaw
amongst your cows? ”
COCKY'S WIFE : “Arrah! bedad, no-as soon as that makes its apipear-
ance we send them straight off to the butcher!”
A Sydney money-lender—one of the “ I never
refuse ” variety—keeps up his end of the social log
by enthusiasm in boat-sailing. He was delighted to ex-
plain the excellencies of his new craft to a “ damned
good-natured friend.” “ It’s a centre-board, you know,”
he said with unction. “That’s right 1” was the friend’s
comment, “never have a cent-per-centre board 1” And
now they don’t wear blazers in the same tub.
* • « *
“Do you know,” said a Sydney publican to a
Bulletin man the other day, “my wife runs a tote ? I’m
the only client. Every Saturday I write down the name
of my ‘ fancy ’ for the big race of the day, and give it to
her along with five bob. In the evening I get one of
Sterling’s result-cards, and if my prad’s got home she pays
me just what the outside tote pays. But, by Jingo, it
must be a great business 1 We’ve been doing this for
eight or nine months, and the missus is £4 ss. ahead of
me. But don’t she just bite when I land a div. 1 She
bargees just the same as if she was a real tote.”
* * * *
The Sydney police admit the existence of
49 Chinese gambling shops in the area embraced by
Liverpool, George, Campbell, Wexford, and Macquarie
streets South, Sydney, but aver that it is impossible to
get legally-sufficient evidence. Only forty-nine I —not
fifty. How exact 1
* * * •
Hava cyclists a sense of humor ? This from a
cycling-reporter makes it doubtful—" Down on the creek
here there are ideal spots for picnicing, and highly suc-
cessful billy runs, which ladies could attend with pleasure
and comfort, could be organised from Hornsby, having in
view this place as a terminal base for billy operations.”
Yes—Nanny and Billy.
* * * •
The police report tabled in N.S.W. Assembly
by papa Brunker in connection with certain Sydney
suburban racecourses, giving merely the length- and
width of the tracks, was of absolutely no assistance
in determining the condition of the running grounds. A
half-mile course 40ft. wide, with well laid-out, banked
turns, is infinitely safer than a track a mile long and
100yds. wide with bad turns. The reason for bunching
Canterbury course with the soup-plates was only too
patent to those who have read their Sunday papers, but
it merely acted as a good advt. for the Canterbury people,
as it enabled them to show the immunity of their course
from fatal accidents. The fact of the club always having
a sawbones on hand, presumably to “ lay out” the corpse,
would not bear much on the safety or otherwise of a race-
course except from a policeman’s point of view.
» • * »
When the recently-deceased Jack Burke, “ the
Irish lad,” arrived in Sydney he was “ carted around” by
the late Jimmy Allison, then Geo. Rignold’s partner in
the management of Her Majesty’s Theatre. Every one
remarked that Jimmy looked the beau ideal of the bat-
tered pug, while Jack’s appearance was that of the flash
theatrical manager or advance-agent. It is said that
before one of Jack Burke’s many draws was declared he
was heard to say to a certain pugilistic idol: “ Three-
fourths of the gate, or out you go in the next round 1 ”
Result, a draw.
The announcement of Burke’s death recalls
more than one good story. Questioned in the Commons
about a prize-fight at Ascot, Home Secretary Harcourt
described it as a rough turn-up between two coster-
mongers. His police-informants were very much at fault.
The costermongers were Charley Mitchell and Jack Burke,
then at their very best, and the “turn-up” was a fierce
and most scientific battle.
• • • •
After standing over 34 years, Deerfoot’s foot-
racing record of 11 miles 970 yards has been beaten by
Bacon, ex-amateur, who, a few weeks ago, travelled 273
yards further in the time. The fact that the figures have
stood so long would indicate that the runners of this
record-breaking age are not superior to those of the past.
The tracks nowadays are more conducive to fast time.
Then many of the old hands could not, owing to “ gaffer”
influence, show what they really were capable of. For
instance, when Richards and Lang accomplished their
dead-heat record, which lasted until the Cummings and
George contest, a generation later, Mclnstrey, the
Scotchman, who finished third, could at any stage of the
race have run away from them. His “ gaffer,” however,
was “ on ” one of the dead-heaters, and expected him to
win. In one of his matches Jack White showed himself
apparently equal to running twelve miles within the hour,
but did not finish because he had beaten off all opposition
at a much earlier stage.
• • • •
Fitzsimmons, it is announced, is about to revisit
Australia. But, if wise, he’ll keep away. For boxers,
Australia was a cold country when he left, and, even with
hia honors thick on him, he’d find it much colder now.
When amateurs run
the English papers call it
“ athletics,” when pros, and
dogs run it is put down as
pedestrianism. Dog-racing is
a popular sport in the Mid-
lands and North. The dis-
tances are short. One man
stands on the mark holding
the dog by the tail with one
hand, and by the scruff of the
neck with the other, while
the owner, or someone to
whom the animal is attached,
runs along to the tape and
waves a handkerchief. When
all are “ set,” the pistol
cracks, the man on the
mark pitches the dog forward
as far as he can, and there
is a fourfooted scramble to
the tape, after which the
dog seizes and hangs on for
a long time to the handker-
chief which the two-handed
one has been waving. The
yells and noise of men and
dogs cannot be conceived
until heard.
* * *
In England all cricket
peijuries are now described
as happening “up country
in Australia.” Such stale
yarns as Hodge’s declaration,
“I’ll be doomed if I’ll give
in to th’ oompire,” now finds
a local habitation in the
backblocks.
* * *
To Australian turfites,
the times recorded in America
seem impossible. It must,
however, be remembered
that the Yankee traoks are
prepared. Do our own
pedestrians make their best
records on grass courses ?
Certainly not. Even the best
grass-track is not conducive
to records.
There is a possibility of trouble arising between
Vic. League and Melb. Bicycle Club in connection with
next Austral meeting. The League lately passed a ruli
proscribing certain tracks as unsafe, and the Melb. Cricket
Ground is one of them. The M.B.C. has always held thi
Austral on the M.C.C. ground, and is much averse to
changing. To the outsider it seems strange that the
Cricket Ground, with its thousands of deadheads and un-
banked grass track, should be preferred to the new
Friendly Societies’ track, with its asphalt surface and up-
to-date banking. The cricket authorities are to be asked
v ® olnet, hing” to improve the track, although what
can be done at this late hour no one seems to know.
The action of the League in refusing to sanction
race-meetings on unsafe tracks is widely approved. Some
Vio. tracks, notably Bendigo, and in a lesser degree the
Melb. Exhibition, are veritable death-traps ; one particu-
larly dangerous turn of the latter being popularly known
amongst competitors as “ Morgue Alley.”
The new Friendly Society’s track, when finished,
will undoubtedly be the safest track in Victoria, the only
other metropolitan course with any chance against it
being St. Kilda. There are indications that a fierce
rivalry will ensue between the two next season both for
race-meeting and training-fees. It is noticeable that both
bodies have offered their grounds gratis for the League’s
opening charity meeting on 2nd Oct.
* * • •
Vic. A.N.A. promises nearly £6OO in prizes for
bicycle sports next 26th Jan.
* • • •
Dear 8.,—-Life assurance fiends are always
active in bad times. They troubled me much till a week
ago, when it occurred to me to describe myself as a pro-
fessional road-racer. Judging by the suddenness of their
departure, they are not taking any.— Bell.
* * * *
With the new hill-climber bicycle the rider
rises from the seat and walks on the pedals.
* • * *
w fi s P T ot fc he Vic. farrier-sergeant Hawker, but
Mr. R. M. Hawker, of Adelaide, who won the big pigeon-
shooting prize at Ostend.
* * • »
Hon. S. H. Hyam has been elected patron of
Balmain Rowing Club. Mr. Hyam was, in his day, the
James White of aquatics, and his shed was simply invinci-
"le; Mr. H. gave orders to both Reynolds and Donnelly
to build him a 19ft. dingy and a 22ft. skiff, to test the
relative merits of Reynolds’ old-style narrow tucks and
Donnelly s then new creation, the broad tuck. The result
showed that, in boats as in horses, they “ run in all
shapes. Donnelly’s skiff proved a freak, for she not
only ran rings' round Reynolds’ skiff, but no 24ft. in the
harbor could look at her. As regards the dingys, there
was nothing between them, one winning one day and the
other another.
• The crack boat-sailers of those days were Geo.
Montgomery, Geo. Fletcher, Geo. Ellis, and Tom Cole-
broo.i. They all sailed for Mr. Hyam. Montgomery is
dead, but the others are still in commission, and it seems
f 3 lf hoat-sailing is the one sport where the old saw of
Youth will be served ” does not apply ; the trio are still
without superiors as open-boat sailers in Port Jackson.
( Sporting Notions ” continued on page %4-)
At Poverty Point .
(Con tinned from page 8).
Haresfoot: “A Melb. printer amuses himself with
issuing little handbills, ‘ Memories of the Past,’ and thus
gives details about G. V. Brooke. His voyage to Melb.,
per steamer Pacific, lasted 85 days. Opened as Othello,
Melb. Queen’s, Monday, Feb. 25th, 1855. Iaeo, R. Younge:
Cassio, Burford ; Brabantio, Rogers ; Roderigo, Hydes •
Duke, Hooper ; Desdemona, Miss Oathcart; Emilia, Mrs.’
C. Young. Boxes, 12s. 6d.; pit, 7s. 6d.; gallerv, 5s.
Brooke s wife, who accompanied him, was a Miss Bray, of
Birmingham. This leaflet says Brooke’s sister, who
shipped with him in the fatal London, died of shock before
foundering. Is this evidenced ? ”
Two celebrated performers died recently in Paris—Vic-
tor Franconi, circus-director, and Marseille, the wrestler.
It was under Franconi’s supervision that Napoleon III.’s
horses and stables were managed, the control of which no
doubt inspired his well-known book on equitation—-
The Ohevaher and his Horse.” The popular Fillis made
his debut at Franconi’s, where the exponents of scientific
and humane methods (as opposed to those of starvation
and floggings) in educating “trick-horses” evolved some
of the most famous equestrians and animals of the cen-
tury. Marseille, in appearance, was the direct antithesis
of a wrestler. An insignificant skeleton, with a pointed
beard, he resembled a bantam-cock confronting a bustard
when pitted in the ring against the ordinary wrestling
champion. The secret of his success lay in his abnor-
mally long wind and excellence of training. He could
struggle for an hour without turning a hair, while his ad-
versary would be bathed in perspiration after the first
fifteen minutes.
Gyro : “ On the flying trapeze, apropos the Jordans and
Walter Silbon, the hanger, or catcher, is more important
than the flyer. When the elder Silbon died Walter did
the catch, and got another man to do the fly.’’
Melb. : “ When Bishop Moorhouse blessed Jennie Lee’s
Jo, at the old wooden Princess’s, he did not much benefit
the serious show, but he gave a great lift to ‘ La Peri-
chole, which was Emelie Melville’s counter attraction at
the Opera House. And now we find parsonic puffs for
Sign of the Cross ’ wafting pious patronage to ‘ Charley’s
Aunt.'”
S. : “ You ask in a recent issue of Thk Bulletin, 1 What
do the early Christians in “ The Sign of the Cross ” do for
a living?’ That’s an easy one. Like the folk who took
in each other’s washing, they earn a humble but honest
livelihood by preaching the Gospel to each other.”
Dear Bulletin,— Your correspondent, “ T.,” says that
“Marcus’s offer of marriage to Mercia in ‘The Sign of
the Cross’ isn’t funny; also, the lady doesn’t make a
gratuitous confession that she loved Marcus ‘ from the
first moment that she saw bis leg's.* ** Now, in the first
place, The Bulletin notice didn’t say that Marcus’s offer
was funny. It said that the damsel’s glad surprise and
gushing reply, “ Your wife ! ” suggested instances of Mrs.
Bland Holt falling upon B.H.’s chest and inviting him to
“ say it again ! ” “ T." prevaricates further when he
denies the “ legs” statement. Mercia says to Marcus .
“ I am not ashamed to admit that I have loved you from
the first day I saw you,” or words to exactly the same
effect. She couldn’t see him on that occasion without
observing his legs—they were so boldly in evidence. And
women do take note of men’s limbs. The same human
nature which governs the modern girl at a bicycle meet-
ing doubtless prompted Mercia to admire the silken-hosed
legs of the Roman Prefect. “ T.” preaches from a dis-
torted text, anyway. Then he chooses to regard Mercia’s
love as quite reasonable in a “highly-strung woman,”
under the circumstances. But he doesn’t review all the
circumstances and analyse them. Mercia is a modest
girl, suffering from religion on the brain. Before meeting
Marcus that first time, she has heard of him as a
ruthless destroyer of female modesty, and from the first
she knows he has a designing eye upon her. Would that
knowledge be likely to beget love in the heart of the
simple.little purist? Marcus presently captures the girl
and tries to induce her to go astray. She shrinks from
him more than ever. Presently she gets her one and
only insight into Marcus’s home life. The baffled
Lothario allows a mob of half-drunken girls to bait Mercia
in his sitting-room, after which he attempts his famous
outrage upon the modest Christian. Is this policy cal-
culated to endear him to the maiden? The next time
they meet she stands in an exalted frame of mind on the
verge of martyrdom. All her friends and fellow prisoners
are in course of being slaughtered in the arena. She
thinks of their shocking fate, one supposes, and has prac-
FEMININE AMENITIES.
How did you get along with your western friends? ”
“Oh, splendidly; they asked me to stay for six months.”
How nice of them do you think they knew your railway-ticket was only good for three
weeks?"
b°P e9 an f. ““bitions-If
spiritual moment Marcus offefof
marriage. He proposes to make her—the girl who was
always afraid of him—mistress in the house where his
friends had grossly insulted her, and she seems over-
joyed at the thought of such a match ! “To the person
who recognises Mercia as a highly-strung visionary the
situation is perfectly natural,” says T. I’m sorry for T.—
Melb. theatres, in the order of opening : Pavilion,
Queen’B, Varieties (at the Criterion Hotel), Astley’s (after-
wards Royal Amphitheatre and Princess’s), Royal, Olym-
pic, American Hippodrome (afterwards Prince of Wales
and Lyceum), Pantheon (at Cremorne Gardens), Hay-
market., Opera House, New Royal, Bijou, Alexandra, New
ll „
Theological Prof. Rentoul, on the “ Sign of the Cross
controversy, says that even though the play be worth
seeing from the religious point of view, he would not go
to a theatre managed by the same firm that has produced
improper burlesques, and very-much-undraped living-
pictures. Similarly, one may infer, the Prof, would not
buy his theological books (though, as a matter of fact, he
does) from a firm that sells Zola’s “ Dbbacle ” and
Boccaccio’s “ Decameron.”
The Brough co. got a splendid welcome from crowded
honsps at Dunedin F welcome irom crowaea
Haresfoot: “Re Noah’s Ark for a show. Kiralfy ran
throughout the U.S. a magnificent open-air spectacular
play called ‘The Deluge,’ and another called ‘Paradise
Lost,’ replete with all the ladies and gentlemen, angels
and demons, of Scripture; and luscious ballets.”
To a recent French collection of pictures of the notori-
ous Barrisson sisters the compiler attaches this legend
“ Whence do they come ? There are a thousand legends
about them. Over in America they walked the streets
modestly, with downcast eyes. M. Flferon, an impresario
Ss.uru°s;/«ir ln i?.'r2a 5
brought hw wife and his four sisters-in-law to conquer the
old world. And of the five Barrisson sisters, which is the
least virtuous ? God alone knows . . . and M. Flferon ! ”
Recorded that Her Gracious once sang- in a trio with
ruibim and Lablache. The “ Xing of Tenors,” the “ Em-
peror of Basses,” and the Queen of Adulation. Not
generally known, by the way, that Lablache—who was
Victoria s singing-master—was Irish by the mot her’s side,
though born in Naples to a French father.
M. ; schoolfellow of mine has a popularity as a
thespian which would satisfy most people, but lias all
Macready’s feeling of ‘My YVretched Profession.’ Just
when he would be usefully maturing experience in another
business, he is vexatiously reminded, by pleasant little
pin-prickles in the press, that he approaches the verge of
the sere and yellow. It has been a life-long self-denial to
keep his wife from returning to the profession, and vet
two of his offspring take to the stage, like ducks to water,
as he ruefully says.”
When that grinning sky-pilot, Talinnge, was last in
England, he was engaged by a British religious body to
orate at its hall for a £'so fee. Almost immediately after-
wards he received a £lOO offer for a “ night out ” at Bir-
mingham on the same date. He wrote to the Bristol
Brethren regretting, &c. But the B. B.’s were wide awake :
on getting his letter accepting the £5O lecture they had
it stamped, making it a legal contract. And the ’Murkan
parson had to keep it, too 1
An attempt, by the executors of Sirgustus Harris, to
sell the 40 years’ lease together with “costumes, pro.
perties, scenery, fixtures and effects” of Drury Lane
Theatre for £86,000, reads very like a joke. The theatre,
fixtures, properties, etc., are valued as a going concern at
£66,000, and the odd £19,000 is asked for “goodwill,”
seemingly. Also, the vendor reserves to himself the free
and exclusive use of eight seats in the house.
Bracy's opera co. raked in many dollars in N. Queens-
land, after which Newcastle was accepted. Bracy goes
to W.A., where he is assured that a pile awaits sterling
companies.
“ Why, Edwin, do you wear those high collars? ” “To
rest my chin, Angelina, after craning to look over the
ladies’ hats at the theatre.”
Sydney Grundy is the most economical of society
dramatists as regards material for the story. His latest
play, “ Marriage it la Mode,” requires only seven per-
formers and one scene.
N. : “Melb. paper, in Jubilee maunderings, says Brooke
was a star of the old wooden Prinoess’s. Never acted
there.’*
Acting with Phelps and Macready was a Patience Blax-
land Rignold. Two sons of hers are George Ilenry V. and
Brother Bill. Now the limelight shines on the third
generation in Bessie.
“ The 80 years between us seem graves.”— Wife.
Theorbo : “ John Stuart Mill, who was intensely musi-
cal, had a queer terror that all the possible combinations
would be exhausted. Maybe they are ; but what. Alps,
what Niagaras of music are forgotten, left to be hashed
up 1 Here is the rippling pellucid golden sherry of a light
opera, ‘The Hermit’s Bell,’ by Aiin6 Maillart, given, the
other day, in Melb., by amateurs, a jewel locked up these
20 years, and perhaps never to be heard again, lime.
Simonsen, who played ‘The Bell’ through Maoriland in
her younger days, used to rave over it as something to
place within me surable distance of ‘Faust.’”
Virginia Aragon is German.
Henry Irving stands 6ft. llin. high, is 38in. round the
chest, and 33in. only round the waist. Yet, with the aid
of cotton-wool padding, he was transformed into an appa-
rently short and squat figure of Buonaparte.
Whisky is more in the kirk’s line than eithei
water or common-sense ! In fact, the only display
of common-sense made by the kirk relates t<
whisky. The kirk believes in the municipalisaticn
of the grog-traffic.


“Life is not to live , but to live well.
Wliat
Galvanism
(Nature’s Chief Restorer of Impaired
Vital Energy)
HAS DONE
AND
is DOING!
A NEW BOOKLET, issued by
Pulvermacher Galvanic Institute,
Regent Street, LONDON,
Which should be Read by Everyone
SENT- post free anywhere.
Is is a treatise that thoroughly describes the treat-
ment of disease by electricity.
Enumerates the diseases amenable to its powers.
Records the opinions of the leading medical men
of the world in its curative effects, ana
Brings under notice the most simple, sensible and
rational method of applying the current one-
self to any part of the body, namely, by
Tbs P(ik€rti)acb«r
Galvanic Appliances-
They are the best in the world, and, we think, are
the only genuine ones.
The current is mild but powerful, and occasions
no inconvenience nor interference with the
ordinary occupation.
Tl)€ POlVcrnjacbsr
(SalVaQic AppliaoccS
Are prescribed and recommenced by the leading
medical men, including Three Physicians to
Her Majesty the Queen.
t\R 0. HANDFIELD JONES, Physician, ST. MARY’S
±J HOSPITAL.
J)R. GOLDING BIRD, Physician, GUY’S HOSPITAL.
DR JONATHAN PEREIRA, Physician, LONDON
HOSPITAL.
jjr t. W. NUNN, Surgeon, MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL.
TAR R M. LAWRENCE, Physician, GREAT NORTH-
D ' ERN hospital.
tar J RUSSELL REYNOLDS, Physician, UNIVER-
V ■ ' SITY HOSPITAL.
jjR e. QUAIN, Physician, BROMPTON HOSPITAL.
J}R. H. A. ALLBUTT, Physician, LEEDS HOSPITAL.
TAR JAMES WILSON, Physician, WORCESTER IN-
XJ FIRMARY.
CJIR CHAS. LOCOCK, Bart., Physician to HER
O MAJESTY.
QIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Bart., Physician to HER
ij MAJESTY.
OIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., Physician to HER
MAJESTY.
OIR E H. SIEVEKING, M.D., Physician to H.R.H.
O THE PRINCE OF WALES.
DR j. OPPOLZER, Physician to H.I.M. THE EM-
PEROR OF AUSTRIA.
TAR ONIMUS, of the ACADEMY OF MEDICINE OF
XJ PARIS.
TAR VALENTINE MOTT, of the ACADEMY OF MEDI-
-L r CINE OF NEW YORK.
And many others.
Tbe P(il'/ern)acb^ r
(SakaQic AppliapCSS
Are a Speedy and Effectual Cure for
Neuralgia
Rheumatism
Asthma
Sciatica
Epilepsy
Indigestion
Paralysis
Lumbago
Nervousness
Liver Complaints
And those Infirmities resulting from Impaired
Vital Energy consequent on various excesses.
Tl)€ PGlVernjacbsr
6alVan’iC Appliances
As a remedial agent in the above and other
complaints, have received testimonials from
hundreds and thousands of sufferers in every
station of life, who have either been cured or
immensely relieved.
Tbe P(ilv«rn)acb«r
(Saiv'an'iC Appliances
A i-.' the Best, the. Only Genuine ones, and we
earnestly recommend them to the notice of all
sufferers.
OSBORN & J€RPAN
(Late FROST & SHI PH AM),
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
4.98 Georye Street, Sydney.
(Opposite Lassetter’s.)
“Made in Germany” again. German
port-wine is no longer made from the juice. of the
erape (sav European pharmaceutical papers), but
K 3ed barley Th«
introduced into the mead, and, fecundating there
incontinently, turns it from im “ a^ ire be e r mto
the richest port-wine. Next we 11 be having wine
from coal-tar products, even as vaseline andl many
of the cod-liver oil substitutes are made from the
waste of petroleum factories.
VEft 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1 1896 by the manufactures of
o
<SR€VILL€
bicyclcs.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality Dunlop Tires, Steel. Rims, 4gin.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded feadcHes are
features of the New .£l5 Mens an ,uJ‘, nos t
Models. A post-card will bring y°u the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
6r<tfille TCirocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
Tlie A-CME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
615 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
XTSE
Spoolers.
iROMNAVYDREMC
FOR
111: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS St SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECI lONS FOR USE
MANUFACTURERS OF . •
En>brocatioo, '
Universal Cream,
Maori Gloss,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Black Oil,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED 1883. TELEPHONE 19M. d
Th<»e about toSEMOT. 810
‘Pbiz’ HfijCyd€s-
N °^Sn h 7mr o Uf^“' 1 ' h “” I ‘ hB " bl 6
« j’hiz ” at £22 10s.
Bicycles, Tricycles, and Tandems
BUILT TO OBDEK.
wldeSe ev^offeAolSworld of wheels.
every bicycle guaranteed..
_ _ the new - -
Herald BicycU-
For LADIES and GENTS.
-EMBODIES elegance, grace and,s the
Hi fitted with a chain which can be re P a,l ®“ ■> Th
rider in a few minutes without the use o exclude
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price,*
The lotcrcbaogcable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
curable, price £24=.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers. iivnrvwhere
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
20d * [Mention The Bulletin.]
Pubishers’ Notices.
H
ENKY FARMER'S Operatio Selections for VIOLIN
J- and PIANO. “ Martha,” Robert le ,
‘•Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia, Trova
roil “ Faust ”“ Un Ballo in Maschera, H Trova
*„ lt iimnipnfttfl ” Is 6d. each. Albo arranged
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
-T T 11 SONG by S. Mel-
Friends no Longer* bourn, jun.
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3cl. each, >
from the Publishers.
I-axito** & Go., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE.
B'rownino & Shakespeare. Love Lyrics. Music
Arthur Chanter, Mus. Bac. Paling s, all Music-sellers.
GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
A
Good N*w& for CorpGUot People. . . •
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the new Vegetable
Anti-Fat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLINE
registered.
it „ t„. o„ lr „„
““ “ to, the marvellous power o. di«,lvi»p and re-.toorbing the ..tty tl«ue., m.h.ng the
movements of stout people easy and light.
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entirely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
PHYTOLINE
phytoline
phytoline
„ tm» freierence on account ox its
18 UUi Ovality, Delicious Taste.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DEUCIOIS SAUCE ITS THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES .N ONE
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
beware of substitutions.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i -, and 2- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL LEEDS, ENG,
tiu ,„ ck & CO. KET?? ana ...V. REOOE STREETS, SVDSEI.
RELIEF
from
COUGH
hayman
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cores Cough.
orwfnt Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
P Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
prepared only by A. HAYMAN & London. Price Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
buy from us and
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
' £1 Saved ia equivalent
to £6 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
David graham & C -
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
<a«otlsn>so’S
SUITABLE
FOR
WiQtcr StiitiQgS
JUST OPENED !
Imposters of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BMHAI & GO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
7 5 King St., Sydney.
XD HEUMATISM, SCIATJOA LUM-
H BAGO, &0., CAN be CO.'a-
PLETEY CURED
Bv Mr. C. F. PARKER,
145 MEL
EXTRACTS from SWORN AFFIDAVITS DE-
CLARED before a Justice of Peace.
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Titzroy-
streot near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced incur-
able faflinl to obtain any relief from others was
completely cured by me 15 months ago, and has
rsTSn.r-.tteet, Ktzroy, ™
cured by me over two years ago of rheumatic
gout, and has been in better health «nce
B Mrs Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson ana
Victoria Streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint Tailing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
Dear Sir,-I wish to testify ,to the cure you
have effected of my son, Hugh, in June R after
i suffering from a severe attack ot
Rheumatic Gout. Your remedy gave him prompt
relief from pain, and completely cured him in a
couple of months. lam thankful to say th a£
splendid health since.—William Shed-
del, grlcer. Corner of Nicholson and Macpher-
son streets North Carlton, 3rd September, 18J6.
Dear Sir,-I wish to testify to the cure you
have done. I was a sufferer from lumbago and
sciatica, having experienced the ra ° T
nain for some considerable tune. lam thanktu
to say that from the first week I went under your
remedy I obtained relief, and am now completly
cured.-Yours very gratefully, Walter S. Smith,
High-street, Ararat, sth January, 1897.
Dear Sir,-I wish to testify to the cure you
hVe mie. Having had a severe .took of rhe».
matic gout last April, with swellings of the 3°’“**;
and suffering great pain, I was cured by you after
tom weeks’ treatment, and am pleased to say that
I have been keeping well since. Samuel 1.
Wiber, 72 Hotham-street, Collingwood. loth
A Sear ] Sir 7 ,-Having suffered from severe attacks
r Ivilinn ’ess (two or three tunes a week), also
° f biliousness , several remedieS) without
reltef I consulted you, and got relief with the first
supply and was cured in eight weeks treatment.
I consider your remedy a real genuine one, and
will recommend it to all I k-w-Yours grate-
fully, A. Campbell, miner. Mount Clear, l>ai
la Dear 6 Sir,—I 6 wish 7 to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer, from
severe attacks of lumbago and double sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all.work at
during the past three years. I tried doctors, elec
?ric baths, patent medicines, fee., without deriving
anv benefit therefrom. In August, 1890, 1 was
very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I con-
lulted you, and obtained relief from the first sup-
ply antidote, and am thankful to say,
after supplies, I was cured, I have kept well,
ft being now over six months since I saw you last.
—HeleOt Exstrom, City Brewery,
Smith Melbourne. 26tn July, IoJ/.
Dear Sir-In grateful testimony to you for
curing me of a very severe attacAc of Sciatica. In
Tune 1896 I was very bad, suffering great pain,
which prevented me from doing any work I con-
sulted you, and after 10 weeks treatment I \\ as
cured Y Being 52 years of age, I think that the
cure was wonderful, especially after I bad tnej
other remedies previously, without any effect. It
is now 12 months ago since I was cured, and I feel
very W grateful to" you,-William Wintle, 111
Holden-street, North Fitzroy, 28th July, 18. 1.
John Moreland, 1 Lithgow-street, Collingwood,
aged 59 years, rheumatic fever, rheumatic gout,
ll d rheumatism, 14 months in hospital, 5 years on
crutches, helpless, pronounced incurable, appln
cant for Austin Hospital for Incurable. After 3
m“nth, me of antidote all jo,ntc -omrietelyougl ;
can work now, and is in perfect health. Miss
Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-street, West
Brunswick : Rheumatism 10 years ; years on
crutches and for two years had not walked at all,
all joints contracted, stiffened and P erf use-
less • life made miserable ; case pronounced hope-
less bv leading Melbourne doctors ; tried every-
body Ind everything without relief. Under my
Remedy, Contractions come out, can walk without
aid of crutch or stick ; can visit her friends, and
18 ThKurefy ffbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true, antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Neuralgia, &c.). It cured the above cases
and'many hundred others m this colony, a •
relievo in a short period, and completely cure the
moat obstinate c&ae with r. fair trial. 1n« &
it with the most successful results over i 3 yc
| the East, and in Victoria. This secret
not known to anyone else m tbe O
sultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to any
oolonv. £l.*


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is known too well,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
YOU GET IT.
Granuma beats all other meals for Porridge.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
OUR CHIEF,”
. . THE
finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
from America.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The safe man (for N.S.W. Ministerial con-
fidences)—Griffith, M.P,
The attitude of politicians towards Federa-
tion is another proof that the universal favorite
has few genuine friends.
m q can didates for Yass at next
N.b.W general election will, it is said, be Colonel
Waddell and barrister Moriarty.
Ex-Speaker ex-parson Bird is the only
Tas. M.P. who has raised his voice to protest
against the “ recognition of God ” in the Federal
Constitution.
Dan O’Connor, In N.S.W. Council, makes
a phrase : “I implore hon. members not to blow
the tin-whistle of provincialism and parochialism,
but to sound the clarion note of national life.”
Trenwith, the other night, described him-
Vic. Assembly as one who has given proofs
of earnest and unHinching patriotism and disre-
gard for consequences hundreds of times.” What
a Past to live up to !
Queensland politics this session are fear-
fully dull. People seem to have lost heart.
.Distrusting the Government and having lost much
of their confidence in the Labor-party thev seem
inclined to let matters “rip.”
Solomon, M.P., charges the S. A. press with
being “ criminally silent ’’ on the Federation
question. The newspapers, he says, have no space
except for Hospital disputes and tea-meetings,
and all speeches on Federation are charged at
double rates.
Item from Q. Estimates: “Record Reign
travelling allowances .£1000.” Exactly. It was
here predicted long ago that the amounts would
be lumped to prevent the world from knowing
whether or not the pushing and uninvited Tomjoe
Byrnes went junketing on the cheap.
The S.A. Parliament has been getting
through the Commonwealth Bill in the presence
of very thin houses. The struggle to maintain a
quorum, or something resembling one, was inces-
sant. In this respect all the provinces are alike •
every politician professes to take a deep interest
in ederation —and stays away.
THE NEW SYDNEY ’BUS.
What we may expect in the near future!
Both S.A. and Victoria demand that the
Federal Parliament shall be elected on the prin-
ciple of one adult one vote ; and N.S.W. and
A. agree that both Houses of the Federal Par-
nament should be subject to the same power of
dissolution. These are almost the only points, so
far, on which any two provinces are agreed.
The Queensland Acting Treasurer proposes
to raise the wind by a threepenny excise on beer
Let him beware ! The brewer and the vendor of
long-beers have been the faithful allies of the
present Bananaland Govt. On this rock a British
Govt, went to wreck, and it helped to shatter
the bark of Morehead and Co. in the year 1890.
Rev. Dixon, of Brisbane, lecturing on
Japan and the Japanese lately, couldn’t under-
stand why Australia should object to the immi-
gration of such an admirable race. He remarked
that Australian Democrats wouldn’t admit Jesus
Christ to their country, inasmuch as He was an
Asiatic. By the way, how is it the clergy are so
partial to the Asiatic ?
Hobart Benevolent Society the week
before last week relieved 1125 persons. Many of
the hard-ups are able-bodied men who think them-
selves in luck’s way if they strike an occasional
job worth 10s. per week. Treas. Fysh assures
the country that “ the clouds of depression are
passing away,” yet one person in every 20 of the
population is only kept from starvation by
charity.
Chatting about proposed amendments in
N.S.W. libel law, a combative and well-to-do
member of Assembly said that he has at home,
and will bring to the House when the discussion
of the new bill comes up, three letters received
by him during the past two years, written by
speculative solicitors, who enclosed cuttings from
newspapers and requested permission on his be-
half to institute proceedings for libel.
Imperial bait has been laid promiscuously
for the colonial Premyahs (writes a Bulletin man
from London) during the Jubilee, and their selling-
price has gone up. Common knighthoods are
scorned, and K.C.M.G.-ships are a drug in the
market. Privy Couneillorships will soon be as
common and as despised as C.M.G.-ships are now.
It will have to come to peerages, and Australia
will yet have its Duke of Woolloomooloo.
To this effect, Seventh-Day-Adventist
Daniells : “Since the recognition of God is an
act of faith, any Constitutional statement of that
recognition would be equivalent to a declaration
• •j. ky die State ; and, besides being the first
insidious step towards a State church, would be
an invasion of the rights and consciences of those
citizens who do not profess Christianity.” The
S.D.A. people are evidently “mad only nor-nor-
west.
F. : “ Don’t agree that dr-rink must stay
because it brings in revenue. Don’t believe in
taxes on consumption, whether it is tea, beer,
tobacco, or rice. Taxes on luxuries are a relic of
the time when the working classes were not
allowed to wear silks. Nationalise the drink
traffic—but not to make enormous profits out of it.
Nationalise it to give the people absolutely first-
class liquor at the price they now pay for noxious
drugs.”
Next time there is a Sovereign celebration
in England— say when Queen Victoria completes
her seventieth year on the throne—the Chamber-
lain of the'day will no doubt invite the whole
colonial legislatures to England. He evidently is
impressed with the uselessness of only nobbling
one man from each province, even if that man
happens to be Premier, for so-called leaders in
Australia rather follow than lead the majority of
their party.
P.M.Gr. Duffy is to be blown out of Vic.
Ministerial life with gusts of ridicule, see ningly.
In the Assembly, last week, the following ques-
tions were “ disallowed ” on account of their
satirical tone : “ Has the acting-Premier received
any tidings of the Postmaster-General during the
last few months ? At what part of the planet was
he when last signalled ? Has lie anyintention of
touching at these shores in time for the next
general elections ? ”
The longest-lived Vic. Ministry up to date
is M'Culloch’s, which lasted 4 years 11 months.
Duncan Gillies, with a continuous record of 3 years
9 months, comes second. Turner is just completing
his three years, and seems to have a decent chance
of breaking M'Culloch’s record. The shortest-
hved Vm. Ministry was O’Shanassy’s first attempt,
which lasted just 49 days, and Berry’s first Govern-
ment, which pegged put in 74 days, comes next in
the matter of precariousness.
Melb. Trades Hall talks loudly at its
weekly meeting about helping the unemployed
yet, when a conference of the unemployed com-
mittee and delegates from the various unions was
held, only four representatives out of about 50
took enough interest in the men to attend. The
trades Hall had better be careful; seven years
they practically told the unemployed to go and shift
for themselves, and, consequently, when the big
strike came, the men out of work were pleased
to snap the billets of the unionists—combining
profit and revenge. b
The great M'Sharry (N.S.W.) arbitration
case has now been booming along for well over a
year, and the cost, while the business is actually
in progress, is about 10s. per minute—.£3o an hour.
Ihe only thing which is dearer and slower than
law is arbitration The one brilliant success in
that line was the Maonland Midland railway ease.
Arbitrator Blako put it through in a few days
• ™ fc ,v ast one le ff a l light, who had taken a house
m Wellington for six months certain, with the
firm conviction that the proceedings would drag
along for a year or two, was badly left.
The dreary humbug of N.S.W. Actincr.
Premier Brunker’s zig-zag Sunday-closing morality
is being illustrated on a larger scale by the naked
desire of the New Hebridean Britons to be let
down forthwith to the ungodly level of the de-
graded foreigner who cheerfully vends firewater
and firearms to the niggers. The British traders
like Brunker s protesting tobacconists—have
found that they can only afford to be holy on a
strict business footing, and that the “superior
national conscience ” isn’t equal, after all, to the
shekels 0 * Seemg the other fellow rak ing in the
N.S.W. and Vic. Assemblies both decided
to recognise God ”in the Federal Constitution
Lyne s amendment makes the clause read that the
Commonwealth, acknowledging Almighty God
as the Supreme Ruler of the Universe,” will now
proceed to hustle in the usual way Isaacs’
amendment states that the Commonwealth “in
reliance upon the blessings of Almighty God ”
will get to work and fake the public accounts as
is customary, or words to that effect. The two
provinces couldn’t even agree to recognise God in
the same way. Also, Isaacs wasn’t thinking of
e^ who is quite a
Had Australia been federated in time for
the Jubilee, one representative of the Common-
wealth, as one of the Canadian Dominion, would
have been regarded by Downing-street as ample
for the ceremonial show in London. Bull would
then have saved five-sixths of his Hotel Cecil ac-
count, five-sixths of his P.C. gauds, and five-
sixths of all his Australasian output. In that
way Federation would be to Bull’s advantage.
THE GRIEF OF JOY.
She seems to take her husband’s illness very much
to heart. ”
“ Yes ; the doctor told her this morning that he
would probably recover — isn’t it sad? ”
On the Australian side, however, the lesson of
the Jubilee is that the cork-headed politicians and
social magnates who yearn for titles and hospi-
table bric-a-brac at Bull’s expense should oppose
Federation, as while Australia.is as it is they have
six chances to one of winning their bauble.
According to Ben Tillett, the Maoriland
worker has nothing to boast of, as he is only
better off in degree than the worker in Britain.
Well, what else would he want to be better off in ?
Hell is only hotter in degree than the South Pole,
yet it is surely as hot as anybody wants. The
richest man in this world is only more comfort-
able in degree than the poorest. If the Maori-
land worker was better off than the British one,
and wasn’t better off in degree (degree being appa-
rently a matter to be viewed with contempt), is
there any other thing that he could be better
off in ?
F. : Time is coining to the assistance ot
my .proposition, that the only satisfactory Federa-
tion must be compacted betweeen N.S.W. and
Vic., with the other states coming in on N.S.W.
Vic. terms. For all practical purposes, N.S.W.
and Vic. together arc Australia. Then why not,
like the Lord High Executioner, say so? There
is only one bogey in the way—the stock-tax-and,
rave as the Age may, the people of Vic. will
exorcise this demon the minute they realise that
it is in the way of federal union with N.S.W.
Why should Vic. and N.S.W. submit themselves
to a constitution dictated by Forrest of W.A. and
Dobson of Tas. ? Let N. S. W. and Vic. agree
and the cithers will come on their bellies, if neces-
sary, for admission into the Commonwealth.
According to the Federal Draft Constitu-
tion, the river Murray, from the point where it
first forms the boundary of N.S.W. and Victoria
to the sea, was to be under Federal control. New
South Wales Assembly promptly struck this out
on the general ground that N.S.W. claims to own
the Murray will see the Federal Parliament
blazing first. S.A. Assembly altered the clause
to read that the whole Murray system, including
the Darling, Lachlan, Murrumbidgee,
Namoi, &c., &c., should be Federal property, its
attitude being that N.S.W. is a hog by instinct
and wants to grab the whole earth. Victoria, so
far, stands by the original agreement, because it
extinguishes N.S.W.’s claim to own the Murray
bodily. So the brotherly spirit comes out strongly
in all three directions.
Salomons, Q. C., in N.S.W. Leg. Council :
If we are to have this Federal Constitution with its
Court of Appeal in lieu of the Privy Council, then let us
have the courage of our convictions and refuse to bring
out from England peers or commoners to drive the politi-
cai cnanot.
And Salomons is actually supposed to be an edu-
cated lawyer and an acute reasoner ! Put it the
other way: If Salomons claims the right to take
cases to the British courts under certain restricted
conditions, why doesn’t he have the courage of his
blessed convictions and demand that all cases be
carried to the British courts? Besides, the im-
ported Governor doesn’t drive any political chariot.
Also, no sane individual, whatever his convictions,
asks for everything at once; the man whose motto
is all or nothing ” generally gets nothing.
Dear Bulletin,—Deakin has evidently
hstened to commercial arguments since he preached
At Eh n T ny w at ,l m v. the da y s of hi «
HU* j ow £ Hall, the other night, he talked
like one who had been in business, and taken
practica l observation of the game. “Protec-
tion, he said, was only one instrument in the
armoury of politics, and-it might be abused by
excess, or by deficiency, or by blundering mis-
application, but it was a powerful means in the
hands of a strong people, guided by wise states-
men to maintain the dignity, power and wealth
of the community.” Which is a reasonable state-
ment of the case The Trades Hall has lost a lot
o ground in Melbourne by hanging on to the
delusion that a Protectionist policy couldn’t pos-
sibly be abused in practice, or misapplied by
vapouring theorists.— H.B. *
“The solidity and grandeur of the Legislative Council. *
Robert Reid, M.L.C., at Melb. Mayoral Banquet.
Very solid, very grand,
Are these Magnates of the Land •
And a Hog, in his degree,
Very solid, too, is he—
And surveys the earth and sky
From the standpoint of his sty ;
And, in fashion gross and dim,
Thinks the world was made for him ;
And that all the fruits thereof
Simply grow to fill his trough.
Soon there comes an end to that,
And he’s fried in his own fat.
Is the day not drawing nigh
When these hog-like incubi
In their own fat, too, will fry ?
Vic Minister Best proposes the establish-
a “ free P OI- t ” somewhere in the vicinity
of Melbourne, and if Federation doesn’t come off
the experiment will probably be attempted. The
free port is a very old Herman idea, mainly
devised to save book-keeping and drawbacks.
A dock and a few acres of ground for ware-
houses constitute the port. Within it, goods
ke landed and stored absolutely free of auty •
if they pass over the limits of the free port they
pay duty in the usual way, but if they are intended
for re-export they can be stored, unpacked, and
re-shipped without any formality whatever. The
present custom is to collect the duty on all goods,
and then refund it if they are re-shipped, and the
needless ink, stationery, clerical labor, time,
worry, and swindle involved is something con-
siderable.
KANAKALAND’S WAY.
“Ifan opportunity offers before the Federal OonTen-
tionjs ended some means will be taken to send delegates
thither. Philp, M.L.A., in Q. Assembly recently.
There came to the wharf in the dead of night,
When the tired-out city was fast asleep,
A vessel that showed not a gleam of light,
As she moved through the water in silence deep.
Her screw was muffled and made no sound
That would even a dreaming flathead scare ;
Like the ghost of a ship she turned around
As her crew of dumb phantoms moored her there.
Then up there stole from the hold below,
From the dim, dark hold where the cable lies
And sailormen ballast and lumber throw,
Some nefarious figures in weird disguise.
“ Now who be ye ? ” cried the Customs man,
“That come creeping here in the midnight black?
Stand forth and speak ! Is this here a plan
The good city to seize, and burn, and sack ?”
“ The Lord forbid ! We’re in mournful straits,”
They replied, “ but guiltless of such a plot.
“We’re the Queensland Federal Delegates—
Oh, if you have a mother, betray us not I"
A CERTAINTY .
THE GENTLE SHEPHERD : “ You don't need to
much beer, my good man. I myself haven’t
touched it for twenty years.”
THE GOOD MAN: “ Well, it’s a blanky cert, you
don’t get none of this, mister!"
Says S.M. Herald: “As a policy to
stand in competition with the frank and unre-
stricted opening of the ports of this colony to the
traffic of the world the Best scheme will probably
share the fate of all-half-hearted courses.” The
“ frank and unrestricted opening of the ports of
this colony ” is especially good. New South
Wales collects about £1,300,000 a year in Customs
even now, and the amount is on the increase. It
collects about three-fourths the amount raised by
Customs in Victoria, so the difference between the
two is hardly enough to be worth mentioning. It
raises three times as much by Customs as it does
by the boasted landaninkum tax ; Premier Reid
had a “ mandate ” to establish Freetrade and
direct taxation, and he got just this far on the
road. The “ frank and unrestricted opening of
the ports of N.5.W.,” under these conditions is,
indeed, a beautiful wheeze.


ad
Object of
Adn)iratioi)
is a Pretty Foot encased in a Pretty Shoe. No other cover
is worthy of such Association. Here is a Shoe that fulfils all
a woman’s heart or her husband’s pocket-book can desire.
Glace Kid Shoe, Pat. Cap and
Facing. American Forms.
ss. 6d.
My Shoes are made to fit, I do not make the Foot
Shoe. Try one pair, and it will be followed by
the same kind. You will be satisfied, I know it.
JOHN HUNTER,
to fit the
many of
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS,
84 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
wommm
VioIiQS-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
APto Harps.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
tyotitb NarrpopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordcops & CopccrtipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
CaPitarS & tyapdolipes-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStoQS & PolypbooS-
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Bai)d of all kiods
By the best makers —Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS.
'•
MM/rEt*
ESTABLISHED /q S3
338 George-street, Sydney.
Why 1
do J
PuNiap Tyres
satisfaction ?
B€Qa6&3 they are made of specially selected materials suitable
for the Australian roads and climate.
they are manufactured by skilled workmeij.
BcqaOse they are easily detached and p#inanently repaired.
B€Ca£>S3 they are guaranteed for 12 mom
Branches'
Tattersall’s Lane, Melbourne.
Franklin-st., Adelaide.
Kinp-st., Perth.
-Litchfield-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. Ltd.
480 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Jubilee night in Dublin panned-out to 220
oases of scalp-wound treated at hospital and -£BOO
worth of smashed-window. And yet the bhoys
had sworn they wouldn’t celebrate !
The gorgeous, if somewhat garish, J übilee
rtumber of the Illustrated London News hit
the public right in the eye. Published at half-a-
crown, its price in Australia at once ran up to half-
a-sovereign, and in Sydney the last copies available
brought up to a pound.
S.M. Herald cable re the English Board
of Trade’s finding in the Aden (P. and O.) case: —
The board highly commended the Lascar crew for allow-
ing the Europeans on board to leave the vessel first.
How very English ! To make way for Mr. Bull —
that is the Heaven-ordained proper caper.
The Bulletin, in referring last week to
one of its items which had, via London Even-
ing News, reached Sydney Sunday Times, had
no intention of reflecting on the latter paper,
which is always scrupulous in its acknowledg-
ments. The term “ story ” was applied to the
item in question merely in the sense of “aneo-
dote. ”
Surgeon Penrose, of Philadelphia, reports
in the American Journal of Obstetrics the
record ovarian tumor. After having been removed
and totally drained of blood, the mass still weighed
871 b., i.e., a stone over two-thirds of a hundred-
weight. It was safely removed, but the patient
died later of heart-failure due to simple bodily
weakness.
At Chamberlain’s reception to the colonial
Premiers (writes a Bulletin correspondent),
“Tummy’’Wales came to the door, but sent in
word that he could not get through the crush, and
went off, presumably to the Alhambra, the Em-
pire, or some other more congenial place. The
Premiers and the remaining royalties went into
the inner room to dine, when the doors were un-
ceremoniously slammed on the political “ ding-
bats ” and others invited, who were fed in a cellar.
This is gospel truth.
Ex-Speaker Bent announced some weeks ago that he
would be a candidate for Brighton at the forthcoming
Vic. elections. But he has preserved a clam-like silence
lince then. How is this ?
Who has a record pure
In Parliament,
As safe, as sound, as sure
* As Thomas Bent ?
High-minded, virtuous, wise—
A loaded bomb
■Of Worth—his country cries
For “ Honest Tom.”
About to be constructed at Belfast a
40,000-ton steamship, 1000 ft. long by 100 ft. beam,
with 90,000 h.p. engines, 30 boilers, and 240 fur-
naces using daily 1500 tons of coal. She will
carry 3500 passengers across the Atlantic (at 30
knots=34 miles per hour) in 93 hours, is expected
to earn, on double trip, .£40,090 in first-class fares
alone, and will carry her own pilots and customs
and quarantine officials. She will take three years
to build, but it is intended that two such stupen
dous craft shall be running by the time of Paris
1900 Exhibition.
About the saddest thing going in the way
of a Gentleman One was hauled before the Vie.
courts the other day to be suspended for sticking
to .£6 18s. of his client’s money. His defence was
that he had no business worth speaking of, his
wife was ill, the furniture and effects had been
seized by bailiffs, they had run out of victuals,
and he had to sleep on the office floor with a news-
paper over him. Then a client—a thing that was
about as rare as a blue dromedary with a bell-
topper on —came along and left £6 18s. in his
hands for a specific purpose, and the famished
solicitor apparently rushed out and bought
victuals with it. He prob ibly reckoned that the
worst thing which could happen was suspension,
and a square meal was worth it. The court let
him down easy by ordering him, in default of
payment, not to practise for three months, and
probably his next client won’t be due till about
then in any case.
During the height of the tick-scare in a
certain infested country, along came a cute
Yankee drummer selling a certain lubricating oil.
The bright idea struck him that he might place a
line with the authorities if he could only persuade
them that his “ile” would make good “dip.” He
elocuted—and got an order for an even hundred
“ barls.” When the order reached headquarters
the boss stood aghast, and at once wired the
traveller asking him if he was drunk or crazy.
“ Neither,” briefly replied the cute one. “You
fill that order.” It was filled. When the com-
mercial reached home the boss asked : “ What the
devil are those people going to do with all that
oil?” “Going to dip cattle in it to kill ticks.”
“But, my good man, it won’t kill ticks.” “ I
know that,” replied the Yank., as he calmly bit a
chunk off a “plug,” “but what the devil does
that concern you if you get paid for the ile? Be-
sides, there is really no certainty that it won’t kill
’em. You never tried it. Anyway, it will drown
them if the cattle only stay in long enough. It
seems to me you’re a lot too hard to please.”
“A moment later, and the dead man him-
self put in an appearance. . . . He walked
erect, and took his place on the drop. ” Hutler s
execution report in N.S. W. country paper.
N. : Apropos Premier Turner’s Edinburgh
remark that “the Sootch do wonderfully well in
the colonies.” Who was it said that the Scotch
get all the land, the Irish all the billets,
the Jews all the money —and the English get
nothing ? ”
A United States court lately granted a new
trial on the ground of “ incompetence of counsel.”
Which is about the most solid reason on record
why quite a number of new trials should be
granted. “Incompetence of judge” would be
another good reason.
Bungo : “I passed a Salvation open-air
preacher the other day. He was saying: ‘And
when the Lord saw that young toff, He looked him
square in the eye and said, “ You must sell your
selections, you must sell your warehouses, and you
must join the Salvation Army.”’ Later on he
had twice referred to the boa-constructor, and the
audience’s laughter made him suspect there was
something wrong. So next time he said ‘ That
thear insic.’”
Dr. Muskett, of Sydney, declares roundly
that an Australian annually eats as much meat as
two Englishmen, three Canadians, four Germans,
or ten Italians ; hence, he says, the general notice-
able drop in average health in Australia. The
alleged “general noticeable drop” in average
health is proved by the fact that the Australian
birth-rate is one of the highest in the world, and
the Australian death-rate is about the lowest in
the world statistically recorded. The ill-health
which makes the average Australian live con-
siderably longer than the average Britisher, or
Frenchman, or German, is a remarkable circum-
stance.
A noble illustration of England’s “ virtual
republicanism ” was the slamming of Buckingham
Palace doors in the face of the whole House of .
Commons by the gilded flunkeys who “ ’adn’t re- |
ceived no borders.” And, since the Commons |
have a constitutional right to free access to the
Sovereign in any case, it’s hard to see what
“ characteristic graciousness ” there was about the ,
subsequent awkward attempt to plaster the blunder
over with an invitation of the House to Windsor
Castle.
Botany Bay justice in 1838. Extract from
Sydney Herald, May 24 •
John Merchant was convicted of carnally knowing an
infant under the aye of 10 years. Mr. Justice Burton
said that as there was some doubt in his mind whether
the prisoner had actually committed the offence, the un-
fortunate victim of his lust not being able to speak posi-
tively, and the medical gentleman rather wavering in his
evidence, he had been induced to spare his life, but as a
jury had found him guilty, he must send him to spend
the remainder of his days at Norfolk Island with a recom-
mendation that he never be allowed to return.
Some N.S. w. Public School “ langwidge ”
heard on the spot —doubtless the sort that offended
the delicate ears of Salomons, Q.C.
Sentence to be read : “ Let him get a wet rag.”
Scholar : “ Lat” ——
Teacher : “ Let —1-e-t, let.”
Scholar : “ Let ’im.”
T. : “ HMm.”
S. : “ HhMm.”
T. (s otto voce) : “All right. They will make up for
some you’ve missed.”
S. : “ Lat him.”
T. : No, let him.”
S. : “ Let him git.”
T. : “No, no, get, g-e-t, get, l-e-t, let."
S. : “ Git.”
T. : “ No, I said get— get."
S. (With a great effort): “ Get."
T. : “ Say it three times.”
S. : “ Get, get, git.”
T. : “ Come out here. Now, try again."
S. (After long pause) : “ Get."
T. : “ feo on.”
S. : “A-a-a.”
T. : “No. A.”
S. : “A wet rag.”
T. : “ Now, read it again. Let him get a wet rag.”
S. (In a hurry, before he forgets): “ Lat ’im git a wet
rajr.”
T. : “ No. That will not do. Listen. Let him get a
wet rag.”
S. : “ Let hhm—”
T. : “ Him.”
S. : “Hhim. Let hhim— ”
T. : “ Now, irind.”
S. : (With a heartrending effort and emphasis): “ Get a
wet rag.”
T. : “Overagain.”
S. : “ Let ’im gat a wet rag.”
T. : “ Sit down.” (To herself) : “ I’m paid £46 a year for
dialogue was punctuated with “ Hold your book
from your face.” “ Stand straight.” “ Take your hand
out of your pocket.” “Use your handkerchief,” and so
on. Moreover, the teacher was supposed also to be
superintending another class at a writing-lesson.
GREEN.
A station on the Riverine,
They said ’twas ever bright and green:
I bought her.
I’ve been a year on Riverine,
And, after observation keen,
There’s only one thing always green—
The water !


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
money to Lend.
FURTHER Iti:»I!CED KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Addkess:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
(id. per month for every «£1 to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Ad vances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,950,211 ss.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Hmiry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors ; Win. Turner, John M'Nall, It. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD RANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutoheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jli.shopsr/ate Street tVithin
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 27 « GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuoliar..
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability ..
1.919.500 0 0
1,191,934 0 0
1.949.500 0 0
Total 5,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
- James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
Imnliin Office Old Itroud Street.
(Vith Branches in all the Austra inn Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Ag 'ncies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United Slat s, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The 'tank a lows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of oilier banks; is-ues drafts,'circular-notes
and letters of en dit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues CirculaTNotes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe aird'America,
or in India and tbs East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879,
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER,BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH STS,
SYDMEY.
©9• 9 • •
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
•99 © 9 0
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE^
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
'< ralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent— B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London, E.C.
rMALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Wurung. Is. 3d
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
us, <t in the Cnmpanv's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and nieuts, 31st Dee. inliei. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith. Es ~ C.M.G., M.L. A..,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E-q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barlie Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker m charge.
JAME« BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK/A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourn,e.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Limited.
Incoipoiated under the “Companies' Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. . . .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,700.426 15 11
Preferei < e Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 49,573 4 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 760,000 0 0
2.805,781
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Ui ioe, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C.. Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Cliiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide', with Branches
throughoui South -Australia. Local Director: John
Bugol, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. Nkw
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Lnd Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.LA. Manager:
George Turnlmll. Western Australia (Perth), with
Braoclifj ihroughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. 11.
Amherst, M. L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bisliopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office- Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—Til K,—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £800,009 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors; William Bufeoek, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ; G. C.
Horstuianli, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents J
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper: makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest,.thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : G 4 PITT STREET.
Four-pet cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z alnrnl Government ’ .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital pay aide by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3 000.000
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Mptnllnro'lQ+Q Office—43h Collms-stk ,
m »bdii ui gib ib, mblbo urne.
Tcst niJ & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South M3lbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of' Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
TbiA Con>papy Zrt&S&Sat
rh ° United Australian
Mutual Vive Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee, I Authorised Capital .£500,000 0 0
Plate Glass, Fire, & i Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Accident Insurance. | Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and ,4os Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney. :
Cable Address —I Gems eil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
OleLirisze & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member .Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies,
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN it- WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
(Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Shave Brokers ,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS^
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Assayers,
Melbourne Ore
Works:
Howden & Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at <>% per
annum by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELoNG
POR lAVD
WA URN AM BOOL
Leura, Siturda.v, August 21, 2 p.m.
Hulilme >, Xues., August 24, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUOUSTA
POUT PIRIE
Bay
Huliltuek, Tues., August 24, 5 p.m.
Ti tian, Saturday, August 2-, 2 p.m.
ALBANY
KHKMANTLB
GER M,L>TUi\
Hubl uok, Tues., August 24, 5 p.m.
Nii '1 raii'liipinent.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine,- Saturday, Atijr. 21, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Aug. 24, 5 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Aug.. 24, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 21, 2 p.m.
Bunabool, Tuesday, Aug. 24, 5 p.m
Leura, Saturday, August 28, 2 p.m
Cargo tor all Porta received Daily
LOWEST 4IUUEM TAKES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices— Mutual L'fe Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
England via amerioa
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their iourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide hooks allowing
ail other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
Will lie dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, ±25 to ±7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and parsing their luggage through the Customs,
etc,, and als > acorn > nv iliem to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, I-IRST - CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particul rs apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, SvdneV.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
no
go • ••
i
m
SPECIAL J
FREE— albert s
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s (id,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s (id per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s ; Autoharps, 12s fid, 21s ; Aecordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 4 Is, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s ;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s; Zither Banjos, 75s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s fid, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang-
Mouth Organs, 2s fid ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is fid.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching’ at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling, at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & Go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND' PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Sates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
f Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street. '
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE AND PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
•Via Suez Canal.
The above steamers are built at the highest class iat
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION. .
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON'& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS <*, CO..
Grenfell-streec, Adelaide. Agent!
FOETH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMEBS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON (London)
ANTWERP, - BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday, August 21
S.S. Innaniincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, August 28.
ALBANY, -
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA.
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday.
August 21.
S.S. Innamincka(from Melb )
Saturday, August 28.
ESPERANCE BAY |
S.S. Rob Roy (from Adelaide) about
August 26.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
,S.S. Adelaide, Tuesday
August 24.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., r.TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY


Build up tlie Blood and Tone the System with
Dr. WILLIAMS
PDTCHUS
FOR
PALE PEOPLE
.. the GREAT MODERN CURE for
o o
INFLUENZA, RHEUMATISM, ANA.MIA, LOCOMOTOR
ATAXIA, PARTIAL PARALYSIS, etc.
Accounts of Cures that have been effected in our m
Bead the following Netvspaper
A Miracle in Sydney,
riAtsif investigated by a score of
0 PEOPLE AND VOUCHED FOR BY t A
PROMINENT MEMBER OF PARLIA-
MENT.
LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA LONG CON-
SIDERED INCURABLE BY IHE
FIRST PHYSICIANS OF THE WORLD
HAS AT LAST BEEN CONQUERED.
A GREAT VICTORY FOR DR. WIL-
LIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
v From the Australian Workman.)
On Thursday afternoon our representative made
his way to the humble home of Mr. Thomas
Jarvis, 45 Crown-lane, Ultimo He was dis-
covered nursing a two-year-old baby, and his face
declared him to be one of the happiest men in
Sydney. He was up and about and able to answer
the knock at the door. Although pale and bear-
ing still the marks of a critical illness and a period
of pain, it was very clear that he was an invalid
on the rapid road to convalescence.
In reply to the preliminary questions, he said :
“You want to know all about my case? WeH, 1
am glad of an opportunity to tell you. Ihe tacts
may be of value to those who are stricken as I
was.” „
“How long were you suffering !
“Well twelve months ago l got so bad that 1
had to leave off work, and I have done nothing
since then. About five years ago, next Christmas
I met with an accident; I was badly scalded while
taking a bath in Pitt-street Sydney Since the
accident I have been m failing health, and after
four years’ of gradual development of thcmafady,
I was forced to give up my billet at the Glebe
Island.” ,
“ What were the symptoms '
“ Simply indescribable. The pains were some-
thing terrible. They were just about as much as
I could bear. They were for all the world like as
if a saw were cutting my bones in two m every
part of me. I had no control over my bowels or
bladder, and was a nuisance to myself and every-
one else. I was incessantly shivering and snaking
and could neither eat nor sleep. On the 23rd of
March last I saw a well-known doctor, and he
told me that my case was utterly hopeless. How-
ever, he gave me an order to the Director of
Charitable Institutions.”
“ Did you make use of the order.
Sl
A
m
AN'
“ No • I came home and went to bed, and have
>een pretty well in bed ever since. Five weeks
so T could not walk across the floor m fact, 1
•ould not get out of bed. I felt then that it was
ill over with me, and only a question of nays
vhen I would give up the ghost. My doctor was
intending me, and did all he could, by opium and
norphia pills, to ease, the agony I was in. i was
inder him for five or six weeks. He came to the
ion elusion that I was suffering from Locomotor
Ataxia, or Progressive locomotor ataxy, a disease
if the spinal cord, characterised by peculiar dis-
Lbaneesof gait and difficulty in co-ordinating
voluntary movements. He told me that I might
last for ten years, and that I might never get the
use of my legs. (Just then the patient kicked his
legs about with energy to showthat medical opinion
is not infallible.) Well, just as a drowning man
will grasp at a straw, I grasped at an idea con-
veyed by the advertisement describing the cure
effected in the case of another boiler-maker in
England, which I read in the Australian Work-
man, by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale 1 eople.
I read in the advertisement of a case which seemed
to fit my own. I determined to give the i ink
Pills a trial anyway, and sent for a box. ine
effect was as marvellous as it was magical. 1 was
able to eat and sleep as though nothing was the
matter with me. It was the first appetite and
rest I had for many a day. It was incredible. 1
immediately left the bed and was able tci move
about. I have taken f<>ur boxes of Pink 1 ills dur-
ing the past four weeks, and am now taking the
fifth box. I can walk about with the aid of a
stick, and am gradually, but surely, recovering
my former vigor and vitality. You see those
crutches there? They are perfectly new, and 1
have never used them. They were made for me
before I got the Pink Pills, but I was too weak to
use them, and now I don’t want them. All i
want is this stick, and I hope soon to do without
it. You see lam rapidly regaining my strength.
“He is 100 per cent, better,” said Mrs. Jarvis,
who had come in and taken the baby on her
knees. “ The Pink Pills have saved his life, and
made another man of him.” . ~ , .
A friend who called m at this point said that
Jarvis looked ten years younger that day than he
idid a fortnight previously. . ...
“I can now,” continued Jarvis, have a cold
bath, and all the feeling has come back m my legs.
If 1 keep on going the way I am, I hope to be able
to resume, work as a boiler-maker, and you know
I have to be in the very pink of health and strength
to work at that trade. lam better to-day than I
have been at any time during the past five years.
I ascribe all the change and benefit to these r ink
Pills. They have saved my life. lamm no pain
now, whatever, and feel like a new man. Un the
mantelpiece there is a box of opium and morphia
pills which the doctor gave me to deaden the ex-
cruciating pain. But they can stay where they
are for I no longer need them. Everybody who
knows me has hem amazed in the change in me.
They can hardly believe their eyes. My being
about again has caused quite a sensation out here.
Such is this remarkable history, and it confirms
what is said in all the chief newspapers of this
country of the astonishing cures wrought by Ur.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, 1 hey cure
locomotor ataxy, partial paralysis and spinal
disease, also the many disorders which arise from
an impoverished state of the blood, such as
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general
muscular weakness, indigestion, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, pains in the back, nervous
headache, etc. , . T
Mr. J. S. T. M Go wen, leader of the Laboi
party in the N.S.W. Assembly, was seen by our
reporter in connection with the remarkable case
of Thomas Jarvis. Mr. M'Gowen says he has
known Jarvis from infancy. He also knew that
he had to give up his work at Glebe island
abattoirs twelve months ago, owing to a malady
which he developed. He afterwards beard that
Jarvis was bed ridden, and that there was little
chance of his recovery. He understood -Jarvis
was refused admission to the Sydney Hospital, as
his case had been pronounced incurable. Mr.
M‘Gowen was, therefore, like everyone else who
knew the facts, astounded at the complete re-
covery of Jarvis.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the spring-time of youth
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow,
greenish complexion,. and a languidness of step
that bespeakes disease and an early death if pro-
per treatment is not promptly resorted to and p
sisted in until the impoverished blood G enriched
and the functions of life beconm regular. J po i
parents rests a great responsibility at the turn
their daughters are budding into womanhood, it
your daughter is pale, complains of weakness, s
“ tired out ” upon the slightest exertion ; if she a
troubled with headache or backache, pain in tl .
side ; if her temper is fitful and her appetite poor
she is in a condition of extreme peril, a.fit su
for the development of that most dreadful «» all
diseases —consumption. If you notice any of the
above symptoms, lose no time in procuring - •
Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the ...t.ent
to develop properly and regularly ; thev will much
the blood and restore health s roses to the phe^U,
bright eves and lightness of step will sure
their use, and all danger of consumption and
premature death will be averted..
prudent mothers will insist upon their daughters
taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills upon the approach
of the period of puberty, and thus avoid all chances
of disease or early decay.
A Victorian Pioneer Miner’s Cure.
I halted at the gate of a pretty bush residence,
which answered to the description supp led me,
and asked of the lady whom I found enthusiasti-
cally gardening “Does Mr 1. J. Thomas hve
here’” Receiving a very pleasant rep y, which
assured me that 1 had made no mistake, 1 was
conducted to the presence of Mrs. I homas.
Mrs. Thomas has lived with her husband, who is
a miner, in Heathcote and immediate vicinity for
41 years, and remarked, “ I would not like to leave
the district now.” . . , Tf
“It certainly is most beautifully situated, it
would seem that the locality suits your health
“ Appearances are misleading sometimes, and
though I am hale and hearty now, and am over 74
years of age, 1 have seen a great deal of trouble
and suffering. Why, until a short time ago I had
not known for 40 years what permanent relief from
ia “You have had more than your share of life’s
troubles then, Mrs. Thomas ? ” .
“Yes ; it was as near as I can remember m 6/
that I had my first attack of rheumatism, and
these have followed me up on and off for 40 years.
About nine years ago my troubles were added to
by enlargement of the liver, and this, in itself
more than sufficient to kill most people of my age,
was aggravated by inflammation of the kidneys.
As you may imagine I was in a very critical con-
dition for a long time, and when just about to pull
together again another severe attack of rheuma-
tism brought me down. This brings me to about
five years back, when I caught influenza for the
first time. But to shorten my story, 1 had further
attacks of rheumatism and influenza again the
following year, and though the influenza missed
me for the next two years rheumatism did not.
“Life under these conditions must have been
almost intolerable?” , , , ,
“11 was. But I had more to face yet, for about
a year and nine months ago I was laid up with a
third attack of influenza. I never seemed to be
able to throw this off as I had the others, and it
made me feel terribly low-spirited. My oldest
enemy, rheumatism, kept going at me, and it
seemed that between them they were going to get
the best of me.” A/ r
“ Of course, you took advice at this stage, M rs.
I 1 *!? Yes'l had four or five doctors ; but their ad-
vice and’ physic was not the least bit of good, and
I just felt I could not last much longer. Lhe pain
I suffered beats description. I could not lie down,
and the only position in which partial relief was
to be found was sitting, bearing to one side. 1
could not bear anything to touch my back. 1 don t
like to think of the torture through which I
have passed ; it was terrible. I lost all power in
mv legs. At this stage, when there appeared to
be no hope for me, my attention was attracted
to some of the published cures which had been
effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
l cople of'cases which had been pronounced by
doctors and ho-pitals as hopeless, and 1 deter-
mined to make a trial of them. Ihis was in the
early part of April, and I was feeling just about
a « bad as 1 had ever felt. By the time the third
box was taken a.marked improvement was notice-
able, and this happy alteration continued until I
was at the twelfth box quite enabled to discon-
tinue the treatment.’
“This wonderful change has, I suppose, occa-
sioned a deal of comment among your friends and
acquaintances ? ” ,
“They were astonished at my recovery, and
quite a number are taking the pills, and others
have expressed their determination to do so should
they ever feel in need of treatment.” j; ,
“'I believe you sometimes go-into town ?
“ (Mite true; and this means a walk of three
miles* with a rise or two to face—a very fair un-
dertaking for one on the wrong side of 74. ’
“And you are confident that Dr. Williams
Pink Pills for Pale People have been the means of
restoring you to health ?
“I am perfectly confident of this, and have no
hesitation in saying , so, and I shall recommend
your .wonderful remedy .whenever I have an oppor-
tunity.”
The Terrible Influenza.
The people of this country have good cause to
view with alarm an outbreak of influenza, as it
leaves behind it more shattered constitutions than
any other known disease. Mr. Edward Betting,
for ten years a Councillor of the united townships
of Bedford, Olden, and Palmerston, in Frontenac
County, is one who nearly fell a victim to this
scourge. To a Whig correspondent Mr. Bottmg
said •—“ About two years ago I had a bad attack
of influenza, and the after effects of that malig-
nant trouble brought me so low that my friends
despaired of my recovery. I was troubled with
severe and constant pains in the hack, sensations
of extreme dizziness, weakness, and was, in tact,
in a generally used-up condition. I had read
frequently of Dr. Williams Pink Pills, and
felt they must have some special virtues, else
they could not obtain such strong endorsations •
in all parts of the country. I determined to
try them, and I bless the day that I came to that
conclusion. Before the first box was finished I
felt benefited, and I continued their use until 1
was as strong as ever. I consider Dr Williams
Pink Pills the best medicine sold, and.! would not
be without them in the house if they cost me
jd Dr. a Williams’ Pink Pills have had marvellous
success in removing the after effects of influenza,
and restoring sufferers to their former vigor. Bo
other medicine can accomplish the results they
achieve, and those who have suffered with lm
fluenza should use them without delay.
An Important Case .
A CONCERT AND MEDICAL COMPANY
COME TO GRIEE.
In the Equity Court recently, before Mr. Justice
A H. Simpson, Mr. Knox and Mr. Scarvel (in-
structed bv Messrs. Johnson, Minter, Simpson
and Co.), appeared for George Taylor Eulford, of
New York, proprietor of Dr. Williams 1 ink 1 ills
for Pale People, and applied for an injunction
restraining L. R. Davis, P Davis, and G R.
Carey, of Glen Innes. from selling any imitations
of the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink 1 ills. Ihe
defendants were not represented. It was stated
that the defendants had been served w ith a state-
ment of claim, and affidavits were put in setting
out that the defendants were said to have sold
Pink Pills at Glen Innes and elsewhere. His
Honor made the order granting the unjunction
pending the hearing of a suit which had been
instituted to restrain the defendants selling th.e
P 1 paragraph, taken from the : legal
columns of the Sydney Telegraph, shows .the
care and pains the Dr. Williams. Medicine .Com-
pany takes to protect the public from- possible
imposition, and to preserve the reputation of their
famous Pink Pills. , ,
It is only a medicine that.possesses more, than
usual merit that is worth imitation. Ordinary
medicines are not subject to that kind of treat-
ment, as there is not sufficient demand for such
medicine worth while. , ,
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People have
achieved a reputation for sterling merit un-
paralleled ill the'history of medical science, in
every part of the Dominion the remarkable curep
wrought by the use of this great medicine have
given it a name and a fame which has made the
sale of Pink Pills simply wonderful.
It is because of this great merit, and the conse-
quent enormous demand for the medicine, that it
is being imitiated by unscrupulous persons in
various parts of the colony. The imitation is
cheap, usually worthless, and is only pushed be-
cause the imitator can make much more money by
its sale than he can by the sale of the genuine
Pink Pills. Hence the pains he takes to sell the
imitation.
2
If
in
S 3
a
E
Z»j
fm
1
Dr. Williams’ PinkPill s
for Pale People are not a
patent medicine, but are a
thoroughly scientific pre-
paration, the result of
years of careful study on
the part of an eminent
Edinburgh Universityphy,
sician, and they were suc-
cessfully used by him in
his everyday practice for
years before being offered
for general sale. They
positively cure Rhema-
tism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
and Neuralgia, and in-
fluenza’s evil after effects,
and are a specific for all
diseases of women, such as
ancemia, poor and watery
blood, female irregulari-
ties, nervous headache, and
hysteria. They are not a
purgative medicine, but
brace up and
strengthen the whole sys-
tem. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills are obtainable from all leading chemists, or
from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company,
Queen’s-place, Sydney, who will forward (post
paid), on receipt of stamps or post order, 1 box for
2s. 9d. or half-dozen for 14s. !)d.


.tTf f
o&°
RED BIRD.
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and I
Depots j
Everywhere.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
WHAT BLOOMERS ARE.
A pair of trousers very baggy at the knees, ahnor"
mally full at the pistol-pocket, and considerably full
where you strike the match. The garment is cut
decollete at the south end, and the bottoms tied
around the ankles or knees to keep the mice out.
You can t put it over your head like you do your
skl f nor around you like a corset, but you must sit
on the floor and pull it on just as you do your stock-
ings, one foot at a time in each compartment. You
can easily tell the right side to have in front by the
buttons on the neck-band.
Herf/s a motto for your life :
Ride a Red Bird ;
You will not get mixed in strife,
If on a Red Bird.
Learn this lesson in your teens,
It won’t go to smithereens ;
“ Enjoy life ” —to do that means
Ride a Red Bird.
When to buy your wheel you’ve come,
Choose the Red Bird ;
Though they talk you deaf and dumb,
Stick to Red Birds.
You can laugh, you bet your boots,
When your flash of reason shoots;
While they gabble harmless hoots,
Cling to Red Birds.
As n fr, Heaven as man ever gets on earth is to ride
the matchless Red Bird.
Cycling enjoyment depends upon the bicycle used.
A low-priced cycling make-shift can’t be expected to
give the comfort, security, and service to be had from
the highest quality. Red Bird cycles ensure everv
advantage and pleasure that cycling affords.
Be sure and examine the Red Bird before you buy.
Better invest in a Red Bird at once; it will make
life brighter.
There is no better test of refinement than the cycle
you ride. Better ride the Red Bird with the crimson
finish. It has the mark of high degree.
T , H .® ** Bird has a name t 0 its credit, and is a
credit to the name, as it is celebrated for its excellence
and never requires repairs.
The life-preserver of cycling is the Red Bird. When
all other cycles fail, try one, and see what it is to
enjoy life. u
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., LinjiM,
/»> York Xtrort, SYTtNKY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
Th e GLN. Steeplechase, at Caulfield, the fourth
ana last classic jt)u)pingf race of the season, trave Vic
punters some more gruelling Eight out of eleven
starters came to grief, and another baulked at the final
fence, leaving Britqmarte and Zouroff to fight it out, The
Tas. mare carried her light weight home four lengths in
cam ° f Z ° U !'°f’ Who h . ad this time fairly earned the
*2OO reward for running second. In three successive
• emUs two steeplechases and one go over the hur-
ales this respectable animal has covered 11 miles of
course without tnaking - a mistake.
Evidently the handicapped have been too rough
upon mediocre 11 form ” in dealing out Grand National
Weights this season. Nolle of the well-known performers
—bar Larrikin, perhaps—have proved themselves really
good ones, yet they were asked to give two or three stone
or more, to many of the runners, with the result that the
average winning weight in each of the four races was
consideiably less than Hist. Also, it is noticeable that the
kindly treated horses managed to escape destruction,
even if they didn t win, whilst the unkindly-treated ones
were breaking their necks. Next, winter, unless some
jumping cracks disclose themselves meanwhile, the
tot" to C lXst h 7lb better b ° restricted t 0 a 851 - range—from
~ was the lease fancied, bar one, of
the Steeplechase starters last Saturday, and Jkev Mo’s
joy, as the mare came cantering in, was very sad to see
A tote would probably have paid a 40 to T dividend op
more, over the Tasmanian outsider. Ikey offered
at the e price and “ BeVeral CaB6B didn>t have one CUSLOI "«'
Wait-a-Bit, the nominal favorite for the two
Oups, put in an appearance for the Malakoff Stakes at
Caulfield, last Saturday, and finished fifth. The Malua
horse was not too fat to be fancied by the public, and his
form, under the circumstances, will make punters
chary of backing him for the big spring prizes until they
ha\ e seen or heard something more encouraging.
One ofthe horses that fell at the last fence in
Caulfield Steeplechase was mounted by a flattite and
ridden home nto third place. If this be a lawful means
of securing place-money, how about the probability of
saj, two flattites riding, a ding-dong race for first prize’
W P o o nld h G, B p e h Wl l OSe P ro P or jockeys are unable to re-mount?
VVould the books pay wagers over a top-weighted favorite
that was landed first past the post by a 7st. bov a nospin
front of alight-weighted outsider whose emergency jockey
was three stone heavier ? b J J •>
* * * *
Recent accidents to prominent steeplechasers
bear out the sporting aphorism, “’Tis pace that kills ”
Horses which if allowed time, will clear anything, blunder
badly when bustled by a worse jumper but speedier
galloper. In Ireland, the flat courses have produced
more accidents than the old ones over terrible ences up
hill and down dale ever did p
* * • ,
Backers had a pretty good day at Caulfield on
Aug. 7, and anyone spotting the six winners - viz two
first favorites, two second favorites, and two comparative
outsiders would have netted £34 altogether by an in
vestment of £1 on each. Adelaide Racing Club held i
meeting same day, and there, as at Caulfield, the winners
mnH Uded . favorites,; two second favorites and two
»}pfpp UtB ' d m S v. A |)unter backing them all with the
tote would ha#e netted £73. There were 67 startern
in all at Caulfield artd 72 at Adelaide, the nurnbeTof
meeting. f ° r eaCh 6Vent bein ° about «*> each
And yet The Bulletin continues to receive lone
screeds from various persons in defence of Ikev Mo and
deprecation of the Tote. The latest “ unbiassed ’’cmrres
pondent describes himself as an Ikev of seven vears stand
mg He protests, warmly against the assertion ?ha
bookmakers are in the habit of finding employment of
one kind or other for a horde of ruffians, and that welsh-
ing is rather prevalent at Melb. suburban meetings Such
statements, says the indignant “ metallician, "ire wild
fabrications published on behalf of the Tote. Thev gHeve
machine although to my perverted intellig. nee"it bears
the same relationship to Ikey Mo that a gin trap does to f
cat. One kills quickly-the other trifles with one first!”
s „The Bulletin sympathises with the perverted
intelligence which would fain nreserm « <
the sudden-death dealings of the tote, witlHts long odds'
wUh rd i r tu a K th s Unha PW r creatures mav be "trifled
*» «•»“istefri
Saturday week-the journey beimT Ust
hurdles. Three days later he waf brought out tTL
jumpers’ flat race at Mentone, and ran a dead-heat with
Rosella. This being the last item on the programme His
Urace had to appear again, after an interval of half-an-
nour or so, for the deciding hsat, in which he was beaten
by a short head. The stake this time was 35sovs.
• • * •
Surcingle: “I saw the vet. dissecting Buzzi’s
head. Poor Buzzi ! It occurs to me that this continual
norse-slaughter will be providentially more effective than
mere jockey-killing, for where is the jock worth a thou-
sand guineas ? "
* * • *
.Nipper, the little jumper that lately broke a
blood-vessel when he was running well for the G. N.
Steeplechase, at Flemington, won the Handicap Steeple
at Geelong lust week. It was on the day when Nipper
broke his blood-vessel that Doctor, another little ’un, had
to make two journeys—of three miles and two miles—
over the big sticks. Doctor ran in Nipper’s race at
Geelong, and got killed. The above low-spirited remarks
are meant to convey an impression that the lot of the
jumping race’orse is not a ’appy one.
* * * *
.Lochiel, the handsome son of Prince Charlie, is
now the leading Australian sire. He is third on the list
to Newminster and Trenton, but the former owes his
place to Newhaven, no longer with us, and Trenton is now
doing duty in England. Abercorn’s place is a disappoint-
ment to his many admirers.
* • * »
Petronel (winner of Eng. 2000 Guineas), the
if- re P reB entative of Musket at ’Ome, has just died,
which event will draw more attention to Carbine.
* * * *
That sterling Carbine colt Amberite, now being
prepared at Randwick, has been nibbled at for both
Metrop. and Melb. Cup. A.J.C. Derby will probably fall
to his lot, and he should be also well-suited by distance
and weight in Caulfield Cup.
• • » •
There seems plenty of money for racing on the
jJL®ff ra ]’ an Sthifields. Kalgoorlie Club made a profit of
£7OO after disbursing over £lOOO in prizes. Kalgoorlie
Handicap, of £3OO, was won by that erstwhile good Queens-
land sprinter, Common.
* * * •
.. ™ handsome, but oft-deceiving, horse, Val-
liant, is looking and going so well at Randwick that he
really ought to be prominent in Epsom or Metrop. : the
latter race should just suit him.
* * * »
The shilling art-union is not the only gambling
«“*• ’ u lt u Which Melb - is afflicted. The most recent is
", consultation,” promoted bj’ various rowing-
clubs, &Ci t on Melb. &nd Caulfield Cups, and any other
event important enough to provide an excuse. A sample
ffl-OOOat Is. =£soo. Ist £l5O, 2nd £5O, 3rd
£25 , starters divide £3O, non-starters £5O. Total prize-
money, £305. Balance left for expenses and profit £195,
or exactly 39 per cent. And the same law which forbids
the totalisator and Tattersall’s sweeps—both 10 per cent
concerns—quietly ignores this extortionate swindle.
* * * *
Labor-member ’Ancock seems to hold a brief
for Ikey Mo. When Byron Moore put a good word for
the tote into his evidence before the Vic. “Charities
Enquiry Board ” last week, ’Ancock rushed in with the
question ‘Do you think if the totalisator were made a
legitimate thing at Flemington the authorities could
legally stop it at Collingwood?” When the friends of
Ikey (and every regular attendant at Melb. racecourses
knows that Ancock and Mr. Moses are not unfriendly)
find themselves reduced to this sort of bluff the day of
the tote must be close at hand. “ The burly democrat”
nngnt as well have asked whether the authorities can
legally suppress sly grog-shops after granting a liquor
license to Parliament House
* * ♦ •
The average of M 3 15s. 6d. for the 36 horses
i? ke P ,?<?? hy the N.S.Wi Mounted Rifles reads well,
the individual prices, however, clearly prove that weeds,
even if well bred, won’t suit the Britishers. It is signifi-
cant that not one horse was bought for military purposes.
Breeders had better realise at once that remounts for light
cavalry must be up to 17st.; for heavy cavalry, 20st. It
is doubtful if any one of the horses lately shipped was
equal to the lower st mdard. Still, in view of the fact
that the horses were landed in bad condition (all having
severe colds) and consequently could not have been at
them best when brought under the hammer, the result
should encourage our breeders to test the English re-
mount market with an even cargo of weight-carriers—
when they breed ’em.
* * • •
George Giffen blossoms into an author in a
month or two. For some time he has been compiling
cricket reminiscences, assisted by Clarence Moody, of
S.A. Register.
* * * *
Essex, says the cable, is leading in the English
county-championship tournament, and Lancashire is
second—yet Stoddart’s pick doesn’t include a player from
Lssex, and only one (Maclaren) from Lancashire.
The proof of Stoddart’s team will be in the
playing-, and nobody can feel anyway certain that Wain-
wnght, Hirst, and J T. Hearne will cut up better than
Brockwell, Lockwood and Ford, the three “ star ” failures
of the last English expedition. But on paper the 1897
selection promises to have a longer and less uncertain
backbone than the 95 crowd. lii the wicket-keepin*-
department the difference between the new visiting talent
and all previous ditto is very marked. Storer and Board
as compared with Phillipson and Gay, or M’Gregor and
Phillipson (who came with Lord Sheffield)! Last time
the Britishers had to play Phillipson, a second-rate
wicket-keeper and an inferior batsman, in their test-
matches, and now they will have, in either Storer or
•Board, a first-class man behind the sticks who may be
expected to make a liberal contribution to their score
They stand to gain “ a bit both ways” by the change.
Stoddart and Richardson probably are less valu-
5nM th M«fi7 but ® tlll l dan ?erous in their respective
Australian s “ ms .. to . have improved since his first
of the nrp,n- t- , Ean j ll »inhji-coinparinK him with one
Dlus h fhe nrnt, Kl 6 e J e « ~ BhOU - Id e ‘| Ual t 0 Albert Ward
wrilht ttiec? b d ? fi m en S y ,n Stoddart's value. Wain-
k ’ and *' T ’ Hearne are counted equal, for
the sake of argument, to Brockwell, Lockwood, and Ford.
is'a re«^om ay to little Brown, seeing that he
a test matoWn c^n^. e . bowler - but he isn’t likely to win
a test-match for his side, as Brown did. N. F. Druce a
not Chosen er ; r aywar f d> ai ? d one or tvvo other batsmen
B® S , at „ t "!’f ° f wr ?tmg, will do duty for Peel,
~n hmhf, Hi ! f 0 d Humphreys. Yes, the new team is
W w d I V Btronw S rba tting and fielding than Stodd v’a
new n?e'n 43 rei!ard l bowl| ng, who knows how far the
new men may succeed or fail on Australian wickets ?
* • *
“ English batsmen, especially on slow and diffi-
AnV^v ket v’ T raar H? dly ® u P eri or to the Australian ;
bowlln^. IS slightly better, and Australian field-
f d th ro "’i n !-'distinctly better than the English, the
L“ s ,t W P 'teins strong]ly emphasising the fine qualities ol
bat . Bmen - ba ch country has undoubtedly learned
something from the other.”—Encylopedia of Sport
* * » •
Lord Sheffield’s cricket - show was advertised
wjth one name only in large capitals upon the hoardings
'H- Orace. Not a liad idea to announce the next
f'f r , en a f Prince Ranjitsinhji and suite. The dark gentle-
man will be the draw in all the minor matches.
• * * *
ca ptain of the last English visiting team
said of its professional contingent that he cou dn’t wish
for three nicer comrades than Tom Richardson, Brock-
i e ll,, and Albert Ward. Which helps to explain why he
uidn t show a keen desire for the assistance of Peel,
oin n' Bn F s this journey. Thirsty Lockwood and
eldeily Humphreys were out of the question, of course.
He Kunjitsmhji’s qualification to play for All
England, nobody has answered the pertinent question as
to whether eleven Ranjis—including bowlers as well as
batsmen would pass for an A. E. combination. Mean-
. hue, Australia, which adopted Peter Jackson as a box-
ing champion, can’t very well sneer at the Indian-Hing-
lishinan s cricketing nationality.
* * • •
Harry Irott is more or less unlikely to change
a .fui, tbis Bea son, and play for another club than
South Melbourne.
* • • «
j.j e * le °f the Cross ” —Disqualification for
* • • *
E. Corney: It all amounts to this, that the
recent sad and untimely death of the cvclist in question
may do incalculable good, by convincing the cyelehoos
who tow women on trembling machines through “ Suicide
Alley, that Oxford-street, Sydney, is not a fit place for a
female on a bike.
* * • *
Melb. : “Just before a big football-match the
hat goes round for the players. Truly a noble game I ”
E. : “What foul microbe or pestilence is it
that attacks Melb. institutions? The mortgage-ridden
churches, the reconstructed banks, the money-grubbing
sports leagues all in the hands of boodlers and bummers.
Ihe churches and the banks have their own peculiar
Nemesis—but how can we sneer at them when bicycling
and football smell of disease? The Vic. Football League
is just the suppuration of boodle—a repulsive abscess.
It was foul at the beginning, and it has been discharging
uncleanness, and remaining unclean, ever since. The
clubs that formed it were traitors to the game to cotn-
mence with, the clubs respectively banned and blessed
are evidence of this. Now, there is not even honoramong
the traitors vide the conspiracy by which Geelong will
have to play all its matches in Melb. so as to keep the
gate-money, and the arrangement to rob the “ charity
match’ of its value as an entertainment, by making its
result of no account in the premiership result. And the
Vic. League of Wheelmen ! ”
* * * *
In the interprovincial football-match at Brisbane,
last Saturday, between the locals and N.S. Wales, the
latter won by 28 points to 8. The winners had evidently
learned from their recent Maoriland defeat, for they fol-
lowed up the ball and tackled in first-class style.
* * * *
Sydney Grammar School sports unearthed what
looks like a coming champion in A. Hay Stewart, who
w,® 11 , e J°oyds School Championship in 10 4-ssecs. ; the
440yds. School Championship in 54sec.; the 220yds. School
Championship in 24 l-ssec.; and the Broad Jump with the
magnificent performance, for a lad, of 20ft. 4in. Young
Stewart is the son of Mr. A. P. Stewart, chief inspector of
the A.J.S. Bank, who was himself no end of an athlete
and horseman in his day.
* * * *
Last Saturday s meet of Wheelmen’s
League was a cold, dead gathering on a cold, dead day,
and tends to show that that cantankerous and afflicted
body will soon be placed at rest within its coffin. It isn't
hard to realise that so few people should come nowadays
to the League’s sports, because the fewness of the people
is the most apparent circumstance of the event. Nor is
there cause for wonder why there should be such a fall-
mg-off since the day of Zimmerman, because the Sydney
public received such a sickening over the Zimmerman
fiasco that it has never been able to believe anything
favorable about cycling ever since. The noble game of
c ) r “ ln 6 knocked the public down and robbed it that day,
and the public has never recovered from the experience.
The Zimmerman business was repeated last
Saturday. The Payne-Green contest was boomed as a big
draw, and, of course, Green didn’t even come out to as
much as tell the 3000 people to go to the devil. Sport has
always had a bad smell in Sydney, and cycling promises
to make i t smell more. The League had better sell out,
while it has any realisable property and reputation left,
Haresfoot: “ Sonny Parlatto’s demise certainly puts
another nail in the cottin of Deacon Skinner, the ‘ Struck
Oil ’ man. The three other fatals of Melb. were Stuart
O’Brien, Sefton, and Redwood. Williamson once fur-
nished the press with a considerable number of Deacon
Skinners in the flesh, besides those who were ‘dead but
not forgotten.’ Sterling Whyte thereupon wrote to be
added, as one who was ‘forgotten, but not dead.’”
“ Will you come out to Australia?” said Premier King-
ston to Ellen Terry. “I am afraid lam too old,” said Miss
Terry. “ That’s a reason that can’t apply to you,” said
Kingston—“ a woman is only as old as she looks !"
“ With both eyes of a professional prima-donna fixed on
the undoubted prospect of a cheap, extensive, advance-
advertisement,” writes Tub Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “ Madame Albani gave a concert in Chelsea
Town Hall to the returning Australasian troops. An
audience of 700 heard the one-time great voice totter
along the familiar stepping-notes of those deary, weary
old songs, and were not lulled to sleep. One high-cheek-
boned, round-shouldered swash-buckler from the regions
where the guin-bark hangs loose and the men sit tight—
in the only pub—backed by the Great Australian Adjec-
tive, vowed he’d heard a girl With the Lynch Bellringers
sing ‘The Cows are in the Corn’ better’ll she could. But
Ada Crossley was there soothing and cheering her
countrymen with her rich, deep, church organ’s tones,
and their hearts were gladdened, and they shouted for
each other in the Intervals without recording ‘ whose
turn.’ Finally, when the Albani, in full view of all,
spread herself around the stately neck of their own bell-
bird, they cheered loudly—each feeling ‘ imitation would
be the sincerest and most satisfactory form of flattery’
on such an occasion.”
A venomous little letter. Dear Bulletin, —Re the
American music hall girl’s alleged lack of business and
dash, and all that goes to make a variety artist amusing,
how many have We had from England ? Heaps. And
how many of the latter have been anything more than a
Weariness of the flesh, capering mechanically oh the
boards, and singing in railcous tones ldathly sotigs about
boozed dudes? The American girl is “dainty, but tame.”
The English is rarely dainty, and often tame, and when
she is not tame her wildness suggests the debauchee sing-
ing next morning amongst the erupt} - glasses, the hair-
pins, and the reek of stale patchouli.—Boowi.
The profits of the Firm for last year were £6 13s. per
cent. Had a penny per ticket tax for old-age pensions
been levied, the profits would have been reduced to
£2 16s. per cent.
Re Shakespeare and dogs, “Haresfoot,” and “Paper-
knife.” “ Timon of Athens,” in act IV., scene 3, says—
“lam misanthropos, and hate mankind.
For thy part, 1 do wish thou wert a dog,
That I might love thee something.”
A"d, m “Two Gentlemen of Verona,” Launce says of his
1^T e! ? 9 —“ She has more qualities thah a water-spaniel,
Which is much in a bafe-Christian.— ft
M hen an actor’s dignity or convenience conflicts with a
treasurer’s -which is to give Way. The storv goes that a
promising artist dropped out of a Melb. Coinpany
the other day oil a question of personal dignity. In-
stead of calling for his weekly salary at the appointed
Saturday time and place he sent a myrmidon, later
on, with a request for the coin to be forwarded to
him in an envelope. Whereupon the treasurer told
the turbulent one to C< me along to the office and get paid
in a proper, business-like manner, and the actor, on the
Monday night, is said to have tried to carry his point by
refusing to play his part until his wages had been served
up to him on a salver, so to speak. Then another fellow
stepped into the billet.
Tl }® so-called “comedians” of ’Murkan variety co’s
would be better deserined as character talkers. Any busl-
nf,8 | S nlay introduce is mechanical, as a rule,
and their “ turn ” depends upon humorous dialogue for
its success. Wood and Horace Bent, the best ’Murkan
music-hall comedians that have ever boomed in Aus-
tralia, were talkers only, but. much more amusing in their
lan llarrv Connor, the boss comedian of the
nr ii n *j°o Vn ' who, though a shining success as
Welland Strong, failed to be funny in his subsequent
travestie of Napoleon Buonaparte. The British and Aus-
tralian idea of a music-hall comedian is an all-round
mummer. He must dance and sing (smartly, in one or
other department), and be an amusing patterer into the
bargain. John Coleman, Wheatlev, Harry Shine, Crackles
—to quote a few modern instances. If lie doesn’t dance
he must be a versatile actor-vocalist instance Charles
Godfrey and Rickards. These men put a lot of work
into their “ turns,’ and have large resources to draw
upon, whereas a Knowles or a John Burke seems to do
the same thing every time, and is not strictly a “ variety”
artist at all.
Some of the Sydney churches (writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent) in trying to get good music for their Sunday
services without honestly paying for it, have hit upon
advertising for tenors and basses who will be allowed
travelling expenses ! ” A certain singer living within a
mile from one of these churches offered his services and
asked for travelling expenses. The parson refused it, as
the distance was a “ walking ” one. To those who live be-
yond this limit the ex’s will be doled out penny by penny
borne singers have really applied to become choristers on
these terms ; however, a few rainy Sundays will open
their eyes. H
A common American “ bluff ” is the practice of engag-
ing two or more silent performers to do a couple of
different turns under different names. A pantomimic
disguise, in either turn, prevents the venial fraud from
being easily spotted, and the company looks larger than
its real size—especially on the programme.
When the bedroom-insect cinematographe picture was
shown in Melbourne, people laughed so much and so
hilariously that the wicked operator announced “to be
repeated. The tension which pervaded the hall pending
the second show was indescribable. To add to the con-
fusion, the interesting part of the picture seemed to be
unduly prolonged. This was the last picture shown, and
as the lights were turned up immediately afterwards, the
spectators had no time to recover their composure—gentle
sniggers and maidenly blushes were everywhere audible
and visible. Indeed, one lady evidently saw the joke with
new force about five minutes afterwards, and let out a
hearty guffaw when Carl Hertz was in the middle of a
most serious performance.
. Haresfoot: “ What Melb. Aleck needs is just one dash-
ing actor, of the type of Frederick Lemaitre, the Talma
of the Boulevards. Possibly such could be found amid
the amateurs, a man of crude power, kind of Darmont
or budding Charley Warner, such a one as Henry Neil
Warner was in Melb. forty years ago, when Brooke in-
flamed him. Rant. It is what the people want. A man
who can ‘fill the stage.’ A triste and wearv Poverty
Pomtery Co. would be galvanised.”
Tummy’s one-time friend, Mrs. Langtry, has been at
hubby Langtry for a divorce ever since the ’Bo’s, but Mr.
L. says that death only shall release her. La retry (who
was the handsomest man of his inches in Jersey when
”' as the fairest of her sex) was lately interviewed by
a N.Y. paper, to which he mentions that Lily was iust 20
years old on the day of the wedding (March 12 ’74)—the
Jersey Lily is thus in her 44th year. During the eight
years they lived together “ she showed no ill-temper and
she was one of the sweetest girls that ever breathed ”
Then she desired to live in London, and chose Belgravia
for residence. “ I don’t care to speak of our first estrange-
ment, but I may say this, that it was in 1881 that I had
an offer to go to America to ascertain the value of some
property belonging to Miss Adelaide Neilson, and in which
it was said Edward Sothern, son of the original Lord Dun-
dreary, had some interest. The offer was made by
——, now Sir , the eminent solicitor, and
;£ e A en u S T.? re ver - v satisfactory. We agreed, Lily and I
that ! should go. I went, and remained in America fi'e
months, kept there by cablegrams and letters which had
no real importance. I saw the estate in question, and all
the work it was necessary for me to do I completed in less
than two hours on the spot. It would be idle for me to
say that I had no suspicion. When I returned I met Mrs
Langtry once, and I thought we should live together
again, but she didn t care to come back to me, so we
parted. Another spicy bit: “ However seeming l cruel it
may be, I now affirm that I never heard that my wife had
given birth to a child, of which I was reputed to be the
father, until I received the (American) divorce citation,
which was served on ine here a few months ago.”
“The middle-classes are the best theatre-goers. The
stalls are the barometer of business.”— J. 0. Williamson.
A Bulletin co-respondent:—“ Saw Dion Boucicault to-
day on a bicycle In Piccadilly, and five minutes afterwards
met Arthur Balfour, also on a bike. Great men are com-
mon enough in London.”
Melb. : "Be sometime coroner Neild’s post-mortem. 1
heard this thespian medico give the ladies at the Shakes-
pearian Society perceptible nausea. Somebody, who
never cut open a body, was learnedly disquisiting on Fal-
staff’s bulk. Says Neiid : ‘He had a drunkard’s heart. I
have examined at least a hundred such,’ ” Ac.
Loudin, ’who brought round the first batch of Fisk
Jubilee Singers, retired from management with close
upon £20,000, which he invested way down in his native
Savannah in a boot-factory.
Ivan Caryll, the composer of the “Gay Parisienne,” was
so poor when he arrived in London, only a few years ago,
that he had to stare off to give muSic-lessons without his
breakfast, and was too proud to accept invitations to that
meal where he taught. He is French, and did not know
a word of English when he first conducted English opera
in London, the work being “ Dorothy.”
Actor Titheradge. is selling off all his prize daffodils at
very remunerative rates* As the bulbs cannot be lilted
till December, George Will remain till February.
has been paid during the last 25 years
£200,640 for stage performances, and she is now fulfilling
“ cn "'Patath’eW short engagement Which will bring her
‘ In the last ten y ears ber average gains Were
£12,000 a year ; in the last five £20,000 ; yet in 1872 she
earned only £8 a month.
IN FULL “CRI.”
The Idiot sat in a front-row place,
His collar Was high and his brow was low ;
He had a voice that was bull-frog bass,
And how he wore it he let folks know,
Oh, the bore is bad at the worst of times,
And many a bore is hard to beat;
But the worst of all for his many crimes
Is the one that sits in a d.c. seat.
With a voice constructed to cry “ Fish oh 1"
While the play goes on you can hear him drone,
As if he meant that no one should know
Of any voices except his own.
But why be hard on the brainless thing?
'Tis said each puppy must have his day j
But why, when song-birds begin to sing,
Should the ass near by them begin to bray ?
ZEE.


J. W. Stocks’ latest is the world’s 100 kilo-
metres championship at Glasgow on Dunlop cycle and
Dunlop tyres. Platt Betts has cut Stocks’ mile record
down to linin. 45 1-5, paced by Dunlop teams. On Aug.
7, A. C. Middleton won the East Melb. Road-race on Dun-
lop tyres. At Brisbane, on Aug. 7, W. Park won the
amateur one and ten miles scratch races on Dunlops.*
• * * *
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
The record Victorian lambing to date is
that of Rupert Clarke’s flock at Wildwood, where
2434 Leicester-grade ewes bore 2473 healthy lambs
—i.e., a percentage of 101£.
The Wool Trade of Sydney has grown
marvellously during the past few years, and the
great object now is to display wool properly for ex-
amination by the numerous foreign buyers; this
has been fully provided for by Pitt, Son and
Badgery, Ltd., who seem determined to make
their wool trade boom, and have secured those
grand stores at Central Wharf, Miller’s Point,
where wools may be well displayed, disposed of,
and landed into the ship.*
Kenneth Mackay is apparently going to
attempt to carry into practical effect his idea of a
bush cavalry outlined in ‘‘The Yellow Wave.”
As The Bulletin believes in a purely volunteer
force, it wishes his “ Ringers ” luck. Thirteen
years ago Capt. Mackay raised and commanded
“The West Camden Light Horse,” a joyous neck-
or-nothing crowd who never opened gates. Since
then he has been drover and station-manager Out-
back, poet, novelist, dramatist, and (begorra)
member for Boorowa in N.S.W. Assembly. A
few years ago, when an amateur jock., his mounts
at Randwick, Rosehill, and other courses, always
carried the public money, so the Australian Horse
will hu\o a horseman to lead them.
Mahlstick : “Quarterly, on French art,
enforces the immeasurable superiority of the
French painters, in this century, over the English.
Why are the Sydney and Melbourne galleries so
deficient in the most abounding and masculine art
of our time ? Is this also part of the patriotic
English coddling which denies our Pacific cable
for fear the United States should debauch us?
Why do we send all students to Paris ? Surely
our Longstaffs would have received better nutri-
tion on the gruel of Millais, Leighton, Orchard-
son, Waterhouse and co. All good men enough,
and worthy of insertion in the Irench list.”
The Empire Hotel, Pitt and Hunter
Streets, Sydney, has lately changed hands, and is
now under the management of Mr. Arthur Pea-
cock. The Empire is one of the largest, finest
and best-situated establishments in Sydney, and
the new manager is cleaning, papering, re-varnish-
ing and otherwise restoring it to its pristine fresh-
ness. It is also being refurnished on a lavish
scale, and when the work is completed it will be
as new as it was when it first opened. The
building contains over 60 apartments, fine private
suites for families, hot and cold water baths, large
reading, smoking, sitting and drawing rooms, and
every other convenience ; and the new manager is
a man of vast experience who confidently reckons
on keeping the Empire to the fore.*
NOW READY.
J. J. MILLER’S . . .
ANNUAL SPORTING PAMPHLET . .
Contains Entries, Weights, Performances of all Horses
engaged in Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, and principal
w.f.a. races of the season. Winners of past principal
Australian races ; complete tables of bests on record in
all branches of sport, including Cycling. Price, ONE
SHlLLlNG—posted, Id. extra. Printed by J. J. Miller.
Wholesale Agents : Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth.
|OR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other
“ nil s’ Kina-street Coffee Palace.” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ■ ■ ■ GEO. W. ELLIS.
Secretaryship- N-S-W- Chamber of
Mines-
Applicants will please state Salary expected,
with qualifications and references.
“Built like a Watch.”
All Improvements that Skill and Experi-
ence can suggest are found in the
STERLING.
Sterling Cycle Depot, 75 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
/-\XJEEINr’S HOTEE,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform his
friends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
THINK OF A WORP,
or rather two words, words that should be easy to remember, connected
as they are with the late Jubilee Festivities in London. They are only
“ROYAL PROGRESS,”
but they express the name of the best bicycle that brains can build or
money can buy. Riders of our machines combine ease with elegance,
and safety with speed. Price, .£25; Ladies’ .£26. Send for illustrated
Catalogue. We also stock the INVINCIBLE and other high-grade wheels,
including the famous Union Crackajack.
Tl>e CN6LISH « AMERICAN A6CNCY CO.,
461 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (two doors from STRAND ARCADE);
And at 62 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Reputation.
What is REPUTATION?
The character which is derived from
favorable public opinion!
—WEBSTER.
All attempts to shake the reputation held by Wolfe’s
Schnapps, no matter by what subterfuge, have ignominiousl.v
failed. Wolfe’s Schnapps still stands solid and enduring
as a rock, the leading medicinal beverage of the age.
Popularity.
What is POPULARITY?
The state of possessing the affec-
tions and confidence of the
people in general!— wubsibr.
Popularity comes not without cause. The voluntary
encomiums passed upon Wolfe’s Schnapps by reputable
newspapers, both here and abroad, the expressions of favorable
opinion of over four thousand physicians, echo and re-echo the
popularity this leading- medicated beverage enjoys.
Uirnrc.
What is VIRTUE?
That which constitutes value and
merit!— webster.
Wolfe’s Schnapps possesses virtue of a remedial kind.
No other so-called medicinal importations which are announced
to contain the same curative ingredients possess its peculiar
properties. The public would dc well to avoid such humbugs
as well as beware of counterfeits of the real article.
FAG-SIMILE OF
FOR THE
1&OKO
Wfl
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
c /i)SAeU
2 S-% !? <}&>.
*• fl *
9-tyi /w
"Uu
ti+suf^ o < fru,
, Ct-~*&A te
\/^
&
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimonials prove It to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation tor the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, & Invigorating, i -, a 6 & 4 6 s?z< s, of all Chemists,
Stores SC. THE KOKO MAfcICOPAS CO., LTD., .6, Bevis Marks, LONDON, ENG.
to some smart Yankee, and let him try to raise the dog-
gone sport a bit above water.
• • * •
Old “ Bendigo ” (William Thompson) the
famous Nottingham pug and weight-thrower, was one of
triplets. The record seems to be quite positive on that
point, but concerning the physical development of
“Bendy’s" companions in nativity sporting chronicles
are silent. Perhaps they died young, and left the future
“champion ” to a monopoly of what Mr. Micawbercalled
“ nature’s font.”
* • • •
Sturgess, the English amateur, has been putting
up a couple of new “ walking” records. If a man on
street or roadway adopted the mongrel gait which passes
for walking on the other path, he would soon be locked
up as a lunatic.
• • • *
The success of the Australian riflemen in Eng-
land is bearing fruit, as N.S.W. Rifle Association intends
to institute a match, to be styled the Australian Cup, open
to teams from the other Australian provinces and Great
Britain. England is not likely to respond to the invita-
tion, but it costs nothing to leave the oontest open.
• • • •
Cycling is not a British-race monopoly. The
French more than hold their own, and now comes news
that a Dane has won the mile amateur championship.
* * * »
Mr. Loftus Spencer is now billiard champion of
Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, having defeated Mr. “ Ben ”
Lyons, in a game of 1000 up, by 282 points. His prin-
cipal breaks were 66, 64, 38, 37, 36, and a couple of 30
each. Mr. Spencer, who plays under the cue-name of
“ Pyramids,” is a son of Mr. “ Jack ” Spencer, the well-
known dentist, and backer of Ned Trickett, Clifford,
Searle, and other scullers in the days when sculling was
the national sport of N.S.W.
• * • •
In Rugby football drop-kicking is not now so
fashionable, the backs relying on punting as safer and
quicker. Still, drop-kicking, with a good performer able
to use either foot, is far more effective. In the interpro-
vincial matches a long drop-kick, such as Malcolm Cross,
the famous Scotch player, would have scored time after
time. However, in Cross’s days goals counted for every-
thing, and “ ties,” unless they were converted, for almost
nothing. Hence the change of play.
• * « f
Dear B., —As an old-timer, it makes me smile to
hear the Oorbett-Fitzsimmons boxing-bout termed “ the
fight of the century." Fitz’s nose bled, Corbett hadn’t a
mark, and when the latter received the one and only
severe punch, he clutched the part smitten. Fancy an
old-time, raw-meat pug. making a grab at the spot when
he got a hard punch ! I saw Ike Reid and George Hough
fight down Manly way a lifetime ago, both men weighing
about 14st. Almost as soon as their hands were up, Reid
hit Hough under the butt of the ear, felling him like a
bullock, and the blood squirted out of the other ear, and
ran in a stream during the rest of the fight. He was up
to time, however, and the fight lasted an hour and a
quarter. Reid won ultimately, but was punished so terri-
bly that he was never the same man again. I venture
to say the first punch Hough received would have
sickened any of the modern pillow-fighters.— Ancient.
* * » *
Fuller accounts show that Criffo’s cabled defeat
was of little significance, for the Rocks’ wonder was hog-
fat at the time, and had to quit at the end of three
rounds. However, as long imprisonment has not weaned
him from his old ways, and as his wonderful quickness
must diminish with age, which makes every animal slow,
The Bulletin expects to soon hear of his having been
beaten fair and square. Yet Griffo, in build a little Tom
Sayers, was one of those sturdy lads who, with care, could
have kept at the top of the tree for years—shining as a
man among the lightweights, more brilliantly, perhaps,
than he did among the “ feathers,” and bustling some of
the short middle-weights.
• * « *
Rowlock : “ Melb. demise —Dick Fuller, boat-
builder, of Prince’s Bridge. Every flag, even on the rival
sheds of Edwards and Greenland, was half-mast to-day as
a token of respect to this real old Heart of Oak, the
quaintish kind of character met with at Deal, and furnish-
ing so many examples to the novelist and dramatist, in-
cluding such an amusing exaggeration as the Guv’nor,
pourtraved by Marshall and Elton. Fuller must have
been there almost from the Year One of Melb. boating,
and even honored Judge Hood with his advice in the far-
away time when Hood and the three Mitchells formed the
invincible Richmond Four.”
* * • *
Old-time cycling champions don’t seem to take
on the game with success after a lengthened absence.
Tom Busst started training last year, but, after three
weeks, found himself too ill to proceed further. He is
now managing a hotel in Ballarat, but brother Jim
threatens to try his luck on the track again this season.
» » * »
Peculiar that the Sydney police should tolerate
the gory fields on which footballers have recently settled
their little differences, yet draw the line at glove-fighting.
* * « *
The M.L. football-team, on returning to Auck-
land, was defeated by a local team by 11 points to 10.
• * • *
“ I know nothing about betting or the ethics of
betting ; I never made a bet in my life.” Byron Moore,
sec. V.R.C., to the Old Age Pensions Commission, Vic.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re the triple test-match.
How often does the same side in either football or cricket
win the two initial matches? The first is probably won
■ n :f s merits, but it always looks as though the second
gam is played with an eagle-eye on third-match gate-
mon y. A man who has “ been there” himself tells me
, ha. the middle test-match is the only one he ever bets on
- and then only upon the side which fails to win the first.
—T.D.
* * * *
Cor.: Immediately after his victory over Corbett,
Fitzsimmons said he would never again fight, but did not
resign the championship to anyone. Now said that he
intends to reconsider his decision.
* * * *
H.W.H. : “Re the Prahran (Yic.) bicycle
merry-go-round. Saw this in my town (Cheltenham
Eng.) 18 years ago 1
G. W. Robinson, of Narre Warren, Vic.,
is taking up tea-planting on a large scale, and
finds the rainy-hill country beyond Dandenong
excellent for the hardy Chinese tea-plant. He is
also doing well out of cork-oaks.
Narrow Escape of a Girl.
St. Leonards has been the scene of numerous
startling events in the course of its career, which
have excited the attention, not only of the borough
itself, but of the whole country. Recently there
has been another striking incident, which has
been the subject of much comment, and which,
moreover, has an instructive side. A narrow es-
cape from death arrested attention, and the
Hastings Observer visited the heroine, Miss
Sarah E. Gough, of St. Leonards, a prepossessing,
rosy-faced young woman, looking the picture of
health.
“I used to suffer from anaemia,” she said, and
was ill for four or five months. I kept getting
worse and worse, and could not walk about. I
used to wish I could die. I could not eat anything
without being sick, and for two or three days I
would go without anything to eat at all. When I
went upstairs I had to go up two or three at a
time, and then take a rest. I had no breath for
walking. I lost all my color; a very clever doctor
told me that I had not got half a pint of blood in
me, and that what I had was no good, adding that
I was on the verge of consumption. I had to take
to my bed—l could not stand. The doctor tried
my heart and said it was very weak. I had very
bad Dalpitations, and used to suffer from indiges-
tion.' At last I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People. Everybody was telling me about
them, and the good they had done. After I had
been taking them about a week I began to feel
better. I had more color, and regained my
strength. My breath came back, too. I took them
continuously for about two months, leaving off
taking them about four months ago.”
“ And now you feel quite well ? ”
“ Yes, I am better now than ever I was in my
life. The people used to ask me whatever was the
matter with me. They told me I was in consump-
tion.’’
Miss Gough’s words clearly show that her cure
is permanent. These pills are not like other medi-
cine, and their effects are permanent. They act
directly on the blood, and thus it is that they are
so famous for the cure of anaemia and rheumatism,
weak heart, scrofula, consumption, chronic ery-
sipelas, and restore pale and sallow complexions
to the glow of health. They are also a splendid
nerve and spinal tonic, and thus have cured many
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxy, neuralgia, St.
Vitus’ dance, and nervous headache. They are
sold by chemists, and by Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Company, Queen’s Place, Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box
or six for 14s. 9d., but are genuine only with full
name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.*
The social fabric of Natimuk (Vic.) was so
shaken by the temporary exclusion of The Bul-
letin from the Mechanics Institute of that great
weather experienced by the committee in en-
deavoring to justify its action. From the fact
that The Bulletin was denounced by the “ right-
thinking ” end of the meeting as “ disloyal,” and
“irreligious, and scurrilous and so on, this
paper is pleased to find that it still incurs the dis-
pleasure of snuffle and flunkeyism, and respect-
able humbug and conventual imposture gener-
ally ; though for the eornphpmntary remarks of
its friends ,n the fray, it is not, it fears, as grate-
ful as it might be since the result was its replace-
by a larg? majority of votes.
The Bulletin s opponents, in such cases as this,
are its real friends, in that they do their level best
to benefit its unholy coffers by making every
would-be Bulletin reader invest in his own par-
ticular sixpenn’orth of everlasting fire.
One of the S.A. Contingent, on the night
of June 22, when all London was mad with
jubilidiotcy, got mixed up with an enthusiastic
crowd. When they spotted the uniform the mob
insisted upon personally grasping the hand of their
noble brother from across the seas; someone
started “ God Save ; ” they cheered for the glorious
British Empire ; an individual, who was in liquor,
impressively observed that they were an aggrega-
tion of political units; they cheered again, and
finally the Australian brother wrenched himself
away from the crowd, but—his watch and all his
money had gone. He remembers now that the
man who remarked about the “aggregation of
political units ” brushed rather close to him when
he shook hands, and wept, and called him
“ brother.”


s
'i
m
m
-'*Um£»
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it iu
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being ?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER a CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE CONSTIPATION.
A NOVELTY!
fl ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
I Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
•. natural perfumes.
* :
> Obtainable of Chemists ,
VjL stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
Oi UJ Street V
LI
DOR SA W-G U LIE liN O, PLANER-KNTFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
Th« Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND GO.,
inrixrG-invnE! srs.
GENERAL MACHINERY MERC/I. I NTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee (U.S.A.)
has decided that counsel lias a right to shed tears
while addressing a jury. The case was one for
breach of promise and seduction, and, on appeal,
it was alleged that counsel for plaintiff, in closing
his argument, shed tears, “ and thus excited the
passions and sympathies of the jury in favor of
the plaintiff, and greatly prejudiced them against
defendant.” The Court, in giving judgment, said :
“ Tears have always been considered legitimate
arguments before the jury, and we know of no
power or jurisdiction in the trial judge to check
them. . . . Indeed, if counsel have tears at com-
mand, it may be seriously Questioned whether it
is not his professional duty to shed them when-
ever proper occasion arises, and the trial judge
would not feel constrained to interfere unless they
are indulged in to such excess as to impede, em-
barrass or delay the business before the Court.”
“When a parson speaks, keep your notes,”
has become an axiom of the Australian press. The
latest need for it turned up at the annual meeting
of Melb. Chinese mission, which fanatical gathering
was duly reported in the local Angus. In the
course of the report it was mentioned that an
arithmetical genius named Kitchen entered into
an elaborate calculation about the number of
heathens dying every second, and finished by
remarking that while he had been talking only
one Christian had shuffled off while “149.) heathens
had gone to eternal perdition.” Another remark
was from a returned female missionary, one Miss
Faith Box, who was represented as violently
attacking Lond. Times correspondent Morrison for
saying Chinese missions were a failure, and cheer-
fully adding that in the city where she worked
there was only one convert to every 100,000 in-
habitants. As might be expected, several
unbelievers wrote next day supporting Morrison
and ridiculing the mathematical Kitchen for his
eternal-perdition theory ; and the day after that
came a reply from Anglican Canon Berry, the
chairman of the meeting, denying that the, words
“eternal perdition” were used during the even-
ing, and asserting that Miss Box’s figures were
one Christian to. every 1500 pagan Chows. Unfor-
tunately for the ingenious Mr. Berry, Miss Box
herself wrote the same day, apologising for having
spoken in haste, and adding that the real num-
bers were one Christian to every 10,000 heathens —
or several times Berry’s amount. And the incident
closed with sniff.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
“ Get the noble savage into cotton trousers,
and he is conquered. Then he is ready to sell his
territory to the British Empire for British rum,
and to die and be buri«d at British expense.”
In Maoriland, the other day, a bogus
parson registered his name at a local Y.M.C.A.,
and, to make his signature the more emphatic,
wrote after it, “ washed in the blood of the lamb.”
On the strength of his cloth, a meek and lowly
countenance, an eye that could look heavenward on
the slightest provocation, and an oily tongue,
he compromised himself with several “ lydies,”
euchred sundry publicans, and generally worked
larceny, theft and fraud among saved and unsaved
alike.
NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
ontserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
* Sauce.
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIEV3E-FRUIT
JUICE.
*
Sr
lime-Frtfit
Juice, it is
found, forms
Ja most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, tn a treatise on Scurvy: —“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins."
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
&Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
WaSbiOgtoO & Co.
Do not be satisfied with “Good Enough.”
The Best is the only “ Good Knougli ” you should have, and
always the Cheapest in the long run.
A FEW EXAMPLES:
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER is a pure and sound article, at 6d. per tin.
DENTAROMA, at Is. 6d., whitens the teeth, purities the breath. A most Fragrant
Dentifrice.
DR. THOMPSON’S COLTSFOOT COUGH LINCTUS, or GLYCERINE and
LINSEED, each Is. per bottle. Splendid articles for Coughs, Colds, &c.
YAALA, or PEPALGEN, 2s. ner bottle. If you have no indigestion, you will not
need it ; if you have, use it. The most effective cure to be obtained.
SPARTAN TONIC, 2s. 6d. and 4s. The tonic that reigns supreme, and its
qualities are recorded in many an Australian household.
Do Not Forget the Old Shop—Next door but one to the City Bank.
WASHINGTON H.TOOL & CO., M’sP-S.,
158 <Sz 180 Pitt - street, Sydney,
also at 208 PITT STREET; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
I
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
5 1# inch and 3/ 4 inch Blades,
Bound and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
This Razor is True to Name—RINGS like a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Beil.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydney
ALL
CLASSES
OF
ACCOMMODATION
—FOR—
TOURISTS,
Commercial . . .
. . . Travellers,
Theatricals, Families,
&c., &c.
ROOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night.
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week.
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE
Federal
MELBOURNE.
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door.
WRITE FOR
CARDS OP
TARIFFS.
r-J
1-2
s
TiOOK OF NATURE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
Fy Dr. LAFAYETTE Jtf. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRA VINOS.
PRICE, 3/S ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A.FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL RE SENT POST FREE TO AN V
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac's Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced titles, po-t free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flashers, by De Foe, complete
and unubridßed, illustrate t, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Diieam of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koc; , p< si free, Is 3d.
KOMANCE OF A FAIR GIKLS BATHROOM, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, hy G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id.
Heptameron, unexpursrated, French stories, post 3s.
: Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plat' s, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, hy Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mam-in, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d ; p >st, Is 9 I.
The. Serpent Tempted her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbas,sou s Hai{E.m, p >st. ft-- els 6d.
Short St .kies os I, .v« and Fium c, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, i• y Gustave Droz,- posted 2s.
Mysteries ok the court, of lll, iilus
trated, p si. f e- 2s.
faris Sketches, t>y N >rd»u, illustrated, post Lee 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Works in French: L' Assassin t; Le Bonnet
Vert ; Andre Chi-Nier ; Is 6 I i aeh po-t f ee, or 3 for 4 .
The Wom n of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 9d, post, free.
Tub Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private bonk, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and (Ice ptions with cauls explained,
simplified, for home and public anius until, Is ; post
free,-Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Love.liuess, price, ,Is.. . ■
Mahomet s Fortune Tellino Hook of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
Betiger’s Food is sold bj
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 g-EORG 353 STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tl>c ALFALII4C N6RBAL (Registered. j
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the gieat viitues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizaheth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen. Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you lhat a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCHHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R ssmus-en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
1 have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the busli.—Yours very truly, B. * UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. r eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Buit n writes later: - “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near iny place on the Kose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaralta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
von that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles vyere of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Kassmussen. March loth, 1894.
Sir 1 hereby beg to certify that having been a sutterer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, tor
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE lIAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband.', 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
m
— WR
k
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSHfiUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herhalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen. ~
1 am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, nut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trvinv your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
oil mv complaint, which several of my work mates can
testify to I hive recommended your Alfaline Herlial
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.-Yours gratefully, NERV in.
Important.
•aan.l
aoiAav
Egr ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intetcolomal
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to hia
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus-PROPRIJtTOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING ’
MONEY.
Lady’s Testimonial.
Tt gives me great pleasure to inform you that vour
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Any one
writing to me will have full particulars.-1 am yours
respectfully, Mrs. E - SMIH ‘
port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to tr-
yout- Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that ioi
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
pg, You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12, 1892.
To Herb Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert that since using yout
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic l’ills 1 have ex-
perienced an immunity from my atiack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, arid I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to he, yours truly,
. E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows:
345 Swanstou-street, Melbourne..
Herr Rassmussen. . 9,3,97.
Dear Nil-, -It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
yoUr Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affeeiion of the liver and kidney's. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession; as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
1 SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Part es Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform \ou that your 4 Ifaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always lie glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Hbrr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney T had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I sati' a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as 1 had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills and lam now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to he a" blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in oilier advertised remedies
and d’oetors—all to no purpose. lam very t hankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that l was
affected with, and I feel it. is only right that
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am wiUWg lo answer any
letters or interview any person who'doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES, .y.
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.Wr
LIST
OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALIALINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED,
irwo GOLD
ywisstS
EDALS
I
ALF A LINE PILL
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
12s "posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a ROOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND.BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes Gs. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Poweifill Course, 435. Gd. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Bo*es, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, i«. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranty d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beadtifyiiig.tbe Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costivene>s, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and. all Affections of the Liv r
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,.
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest-
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfi ot,,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance:
but also in comfort, improved healthj arid renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cute
or all kinds of headache, no matter bow caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent,. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may he relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine. 1
Prices with 1 Battery 30s. >
~ 2 ~ 425.
~ 3 „ 03s.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
H RR P ASS MUSS WN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable- Infoi tr.ation for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Onlv
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own "s'ahh-hmot-.as
advertised on this page. AH I'I'ER-t RA'SMISsEN S
hEM DIE-* can only be obtain d from Ins own Umces
and as mention* d.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE dtsirtd, and all Particulars required re
the Femedies will be given FREE at HERR KAS3-
MUSSEN’S offic s, or posted in seabd envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money,
or Money Orders payable' to H<»NS
whether you send to his H ad Office
Make Cheques
hASSMU SjEV,
or ranches.
Herr
Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches:
Melbourne —150 Bourke Street.
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Adelaide —154 Bundle Street.
Charters Towers —Royal Arcade.
N.Z.— 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth: Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons' Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


A Public Gallery attendant . “I can
generally tell where a new visitor comes from.
Melbourneites always ask first what a picture
post. When I see a man looking closely at a big
frame, and he asks me, ‘ What was the price of
it?’ I know he’s a t’othersider. Sydneyites—
'veil, they never buy a catalogue. They always
bother the attendants to tell them what every
picture’s about. It saves sixpence. There’s one
lot passes the best pictures by with just a glance,
but they’ll stand for ever so long looking at any-
thing that approaches the nude. They come from
Adelaide.”
The Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords
promptly squashed that'clause in the new Mines
Bill whereby the man who mines on private lands
is to pay for surface damage only, instead of being
charged any royalty that the landholder pleases.
When the State sells land it reserves the minerals,
therefore, when the private landholder demands
part of the State’s property from the miner (who
pays the State for the privilege of digging it out)
before he will let him have access to it, he comes
about as near tcrbeing a thief and blackmailer as
is possible. But it is a beautiful and lucrative
steal for the Landlord,, and the House of Rich
Landlords intends fighting for it to the last. It is
also such a ruinous arrangement for the miner
that the Government, with a general election close
at hand, must-needs fight also. Unluckily, there
is very little that any Government can do, unless
it resorts to the crude but useful device of inciting
40,000 citizens to call on the Vic. House of Land-
lords with a gun, and to give it the alternative of
voting its own abolition or having a large funeral.
Hair-Breadth Escapes.
AN OLD CRIMEAN HERO’S STORY.
The old Crimean veterans are now fast passing
away, few only remaining to tell the tale of their
share in the great struggle of the ‘ ‘ fifties ” between
the mother country and Russia. It may not be
generally known, however, that we have right in
our midst an old and highly-respected veteran of
that campaign. Mr. Chas. Terry, of 485 Kent-
street, is the gentleman to whom we refer, and his
tales of hair-breath escapes as mentioned inciden-
tally to a reporter are well worth listening to.
Mr. Terry is a.prominent Templar and has done
much for this:good cause, in fact, he was taking
part in a temperance meeting when the reporter,
who was sent to gather details of his remarkable
experiences, arrived at his house. The scribe
was directed; to the lecture hall and soon found
Mr. Terry, who very kindly consented to return
at once with him.
In response to a few questions, Mr. Terry
stated : —“I joined the Royal Navy about 1853,
and served during the Crimea in H.M.S.
Retribution, Captain Thomas Fisher, under
Admiral Dundas, bearing the flag of Rear-Admiral
Baines, and I bear the Crimean decoration. I
arrived in Australia at the latter end of 1877 in
H.M.S. Sapphire, the Hon. Captain Merry. I
then joined the Diamond, under Captain Dale, on
this station, and on leaving the ship quitted the
service for good, having in all served in seventeen
ships in Her Majesty’s Royal Navy. In August
of last year (1896) I found myself at Emu Plains,
being in the employ of Metsn. M’Grath, fell-
mongers. It was whilst there that I was taken
ill, towards the latter end of August. I attributed
my illness to frequent exposure and sudden and
com plete changes of temperature. My first symp-
toms were coughing, a spitting of blood, and a
bloody discharge from the kidneys of the con-
sistency of jelly. One man there was particularly
kind to me, and constantly stayed up with me all
night, giving me eucalyptus to inhale, and con-
tinually rubbing it into my chest, throat and
stomach. This man kept constantly telling me to
clear out from Emu Plains and go to hospital,
otherwise, to use his own words, he said, * You
will not last long.’ • Feeling that his words were
likely to prove true, I followed his advice, came
to Sydney, and took up my abode at 485 Kent-
street, where I still am living. On my arrival in
Sydney I suffered from great pains in the back
and sides, and also under the ribs. I could take
no solid food, aud entirely subsisted on eggs and
new milk, which my landlady procured for me. I
went to see a medical man whose rooms were
within ten mimutes walk of my home, and was so
horribly weak that it took me an hour and ten
minutes to get ths»re: He told me to strip, and he
then sounded me and asked me how long I had
been bad. I told him that from the first it was
about eight weeks, upon which he said. ‘Get
away, man; it’s chrome lung trouble.’ He sug-
gested that I should go to a hospital at once, but I
refused, and returned home. I had medicine pre-
scribed for me of various kinds, which proved
quite ineffectual, and afforded me no relief what-
ever. I took no less than seven bottles of eucalyp-
tus, and even chlorodyne was prescribed for me.
I fell away lamentably, perspired profusely, and
could not obtain any sleep. I was in such pain
that I could not shift in bed. My right side was
much the worst, and my breathing was most
labored and painful. I cannot be too grateful to my
friend, Brother J. C. Jones. He would stay with
me for three or four hours at a time. One day a
friend of mine read to me the account of Boiler-
maker Jarvis’ wonderful recovery by taking Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills, and I at one procured a box.
I had taken all but two, when the blood-spitting
and emission ceased. After two boxes I was able
to get up and move about, and now, at the end of
six boxes, feel almost well, with the exception of
feeling very weak. The cure was magical, and I
tell all my friends and the general public that
nothing but Dr. Williams’ Pills brought me once
more before them to agitate the temperance ques-
tion, and on each occasion I have met with a great
reception. (Mr. Terry here called the reporter’s
attention to the amount of useless physic he had
consumed, and, indeed, the amount of bottles re-
minded one of the interior of a chemist’s shop.) I
can speak in the highest possible terms of the
marvellous curative properties of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. On my visits to, and lectures in, the
country I shall consider it my duty to suffering
humanity to recount my astounding cure, and I
trust I may be the means of saving the life of
many a despairing mortal. — Chas. Terry.”
(Signed on oath and in the presence of Charles
Lovely, J. P.)
Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for Pale People have
cured paralysis, locomotor ataxy, rheumatism, and
sciatica ; also all diseases arising from impoverish-
ment of the blood, scrofula, rickets, chronic ory-
sijjelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
Anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general mus-
cular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,
all forms of female weakness, and hysteria. These
pills are a tonic, not a purgative. They are
f '■mime only with the full name, Dr. W illiams’
’ink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by
rhemists and storekeepers generally, or the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Company, Queens’ Place,
Bydney, will forward on receipt of stamps or post
order one box for 2s. 9d., or half-a-doxen for
445. ad.*
Amusements.
UNITED AUSTRALASIAN AXEMEN'S
ASSOCIATION.
Seventh Grand Exhibition of Bushmen's Shill,
To be held in
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
About
NOVEMBER and 3, 1897.
PROGRAMME.
1. CHAMPION CHOP (2ft.) of £75 ; entry, 30s.
2. CHAMPION CHOP (18in.) of £3O ; entry, 15s.
3. CHAMPION CHOP, underhand (2ft. loirs), of £5O;
entry, £l.
4. CHAMPION IRONBARK CHOP, underhand, of £4O;
entry, 15s.
6. CHAMPION SAWING MATCH(2ft.) of £3O; entry, 15s.
6. HANDICAP CHOP of £2OO, in heats (ISin.): riom.,
£1 ; accept., £l.
7. HANDICAP UNDERHAND CHOP of £lOO (18in.);
nom., 15s ; accept., 15s.
8. MAIDEN CHOP of £10; entry, Bs.
9. MAIDEN HANDICAP CHOP (4ft. girth) of £10;
entry, 6s.
10. AMATEUR CHOP ; entry, 6s.
11. HANDICAP SAWING MATCH of £6O; nom., 155.;
accept., 10s.
12. MAIDEN SAWING MATCH of £l5; entry, 7s.
13. DOUBLE-HANDED HANDICAP SAWING MATCH
of £35 ; entry, £l.
14 BICYCLE HANDICAP of £25; nom., 3s. ; accept.,2s
Registered with V.A.L.
15. MILE HANDICAP FOOT RACE of £l5 ; entry, ss.
16. 440yds. RACE of £lO ; entry, ss.
17. ) THREE HIGHLAND EVENTS, of £lO each, in-
-18. y eluded by request of the Clarence River Cale-
-19. i donian Society, N.S.W. Dancing and Piping.
ENTRIES ALL EVENTS, with fees, close SEPTEMBER
25. Acceptances, October 16.
Entries for the Chopping and Sawing Matches must be
made on printed forms of entry obtainable from the
Secretary.
All competitors from outside Victoria allowed to enter
at half-price.
For full particulars and conditions apply to the Manager.
H. A. NICHOLS, Ulverstone, TASMANIA.
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. SATURDAY MATINEE at 2
THE GAT PAKISIENNE.
By Geo. Dance and Ivan Caryll, a most Delightful Enter-
tainment and Splendidly Interpreted by an exceptionally
Powerful Coterie of Comedians.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE COUPON SYSTEM A SPLENDID SUCCESS,
and the old original Salon flourishing like agreen Bay Tree.
Every person receives a Coupon giving Free Admission
at any time when accompanied by one paying patron.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 Onward.
J. MAC MAHON, Director.
H E A T R E ROYAL, S Y I) N E Y.
SECOND WEEK and continued BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of the Thrilling, Sensational, Romantic Drama
“ TN€ BRAND OF CAIN.”
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
TIVOLI THEA T R E, s Y D N F, V.
* Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Briudiant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Pkrformkrs 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged Everything
Up- to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d •
28 ; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle
SIXPENCE. Business Manager. JOHN C. i.EETE.
HE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager . Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
PRINCESS’S MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“Tljc Sig o of tl)€ Cross.”
To-night (Thursday) Grand Souvenir Night.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING, ADELAIDE
) |»“ FOR SHORT SEASON.
ANOTHER GRAND SUCCESS !
Prof. NORTON B. SMITH
THE EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS,
r” d n AuBt ?i' a 'n favorite Horse-trainer, will demonstrat
his Scientific Humane System of Horse Education fo
a SHORT SEASON.
For full particulars, see Daily Paper.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Management of Prof. T. A. Kennedy.
J. B. Frasier, Representative.
THIRD WEEK OF THE BRISTOL BOOM.
EVERT EVENING at
Matinees—Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and
Saturday, at 3.
SYDNEY’S ONE ENTERTAINMENT (THAT MEANS
SOMETHING).
PROF. D. M. BRISTOL’S
Educated Horses, Ponies and Mules.
“One Grand Equestrian Symphony.”
A POPULAR, PALPABLE, PRE-EMINENT SUCCESS !
His Excellency Lord Hampden said to Prof. Bristol :
“This is a marvellous performance, and will attract the
attention of all lovers of the noble animal.”
EXTRACTS FROM THE SYDNEY PRESS :
“The best show of its kind yet seen in Australia.” —
Daily Telegraph. “The large audience highly appre-
ciated the wonderful feats.” — S.M. Herald. “The
opportunity to see Bristol’s wonderful show should not
be missed.” —Evening News. “The most marvellous
exhibition of trained animals that ever visited these
shores.” —Star. “Prof. Bristol has trained his pets to
a state of perfection.”— Sunday Times. “The pro-
gramme is long and clever, and contains many astonish-
ing feats.”— Bulletin.
PRICES : Dress Circle, 3s ; Reserved Stalls, 3s ; Stalls,
2s: Family Circle, Is 6d ; Gallery, Is. No Early Doors.
Carriages at 10.15. Book seats at Nicholsons’. At the
Matinees all small children are given a Free Pony Ride,
and under 12 years are admitted to any seat for Sixpence.
•guou theatre; Melbourne.
SATURDAY, 2lst, AND EVERY EVENING
FRANK THORNTON
—AS—
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
OH, FANCY ! D’ YOU KNOW !
I’m back again with all my goods and chattels.
Manager ... L. J. LOHR.
“ DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Music, &e.
HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &o. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD'S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OW ARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. (id., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
H
Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from 6d.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from Gd. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
b OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
HOWARD’S” Flutas" and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
HOWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver ; terms. Queen-st,, Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated :
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, bras*
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
“ Tales of the
Convict System.”
LATCST NOVCLTY BROOCH,
00
Q
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CogliSb Hall-Marked (Sold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
XJnapproaoliable Value - £1 Post Free.
»
Hew (Sold Scroll Bar Brooch,
Plain, Extra Strong, 7/6.
With any Name or Motto, 1/- extra.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches and I*inks.
RKAL IVOItY. quite new, novel, and unique.
/
; ,r V.V~"
BroocbQS.
Silver Mounted 4/6 each.
Gold „ 13/6 „
Lii)ks-
Silver Mounted 4/6 pair.
Gold „ 13/%
Post Free.
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
Qua Only Australian Addmm— qq KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Baker’s Station Knife.
7/ POST FREE THROUGHOUT -7/
/ " AUSTRALASIA. / / "
“ Unique Pocket Knife for Station TTse.
—W. Jno. Baker, cutler, of 3 Hunter-street,
Sydney, has designed the unique pocket knife
shown in the illustration. It is the outcome of
years of experience of the requirements of our
squatters and farmers. The blades, as will be
noted, are each of a distinct character and shape.
‘ Baker’s wool ’ is a stumpy curved blade' for
pruning, footrot, or wool sampling. The large
blade is shaped specially for skinning and hide-
cutting, and will also answer the purpose of an
ordinary jack-knife. ‘ Baker’s sweep ’is a blade
of new design for veterinary work (one of our
leading veterinary surgeons says it’s the best he
ever used). The spear point ‘ lance,’ or pen-blade,
is for removing splinters, lancing snake bites, etc. ” *
EMPIRE HE- HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY
Centrally Situated.
Terms
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
For Reviving the Liver and BraiD
ANl> RESTORING VIGOR .
“ OH, WHAT A DIFFERENCE IN THE MORNING ! *
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK—
Fiab.er & Co.’s
FAMOUS ‘ KOLA MUT” TONIC,
The GREATEST “ PICK-ME-UP ” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAXES YOU STRONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co.’s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHARMACY, 337 Ceorge Street
(Nearly opposite General Post Office), SYDNEY.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes !
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to OF.OROE ST., lIAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoq’s Noted Accordcoi>S,
Or call at one of onr Branches -182 King-st., Newtown
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
H. /<’. <7OAON «C CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of f> per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
ril H E LAST or SIX
L
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST. Is. 3d.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO
. FIRST SHIPMENTS . ,
comprising
303 OASES & BALES 303
, . OF . .
New SpriQg Goods,
Bought direct from the Leading Manufacturers
of the World, now Ready for Inspection in all
Departments.
Finney, Isles & 00.
We offer not only EXCEPTIONAL VALUES,
but the LATEST and MOST FASHIONABLE
GOODS that are produced.
Compare Styles and Prices.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
HELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELON’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of-all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Ag-.i -i.Li.ioii Bros., Lilli.; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell & Co., Ltd.
HAIIthKES&EKS AND WIG MAKERS
To tlie Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestqnality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razprs (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 <t 683 George Street, Sydney.
SICVNET;
MiSWritis
C^©AC&
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fins for smoking
here."
German Tourist : “ Zen vy ? You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
TALES OE TIIE CONVICT
1 Prick Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
A big Eng. railway man says that the in-
ventor of a safe, suitable and simple rack, for the
conveyance of bicycles in luggage-vans, &c., will
make a big fortune out of the. patent. As Aus-
tralia’s inventive genius has hitherto been chiefly
confined to the great national industry of sport,
The Bulletin draws attention to this long-felt
want. 4
Ed. Bulletin, Alphabetical Farnell is
greatly concerned that the authorities of the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College should sell
Shapes and peaches, thus competing with Central
umberland orchardists, and violating—so T rankie
declares —a great socio-economic principle. Will
this cocksure little joker be good enough to
explain which is the graver economic fault—to run
a steam-launch in the interest of a picnic-loving
M.P. and his pleasure-seeking friends at the cost
of the State, thereby augmenting the public ex-
penditure, or to sell at a reasonable profit the pro-
duce of a State orchard, thereby, while. preventing
regrettable waste, augmentingthepublic revenue .
—J.S.
Another irate, bucolic person has dis-
tinguished himself by shooting holes in a tin-
kettler at a Vic. country svedding. This is the
third or fourth instance of the kind within a few
years, and tin-kettling is rapidly becoming an
extinct practice. The average man, now-a-days,
hates to have attention drawn to his marriage.
At Seymour, defendant in a maintenance case,
when asked why he didn’t marry the girl, replied,
“ The fellers’d tin-kettle me.”
Sound joy-bells 1 “ Wagga greets its Queen 1 ”
Let’s hope th’ historic cataloguer
Won’t fail to chronicle the scene—
Her Gracious searching maps for Wagga 1
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. fid. everywhere.*
Ed. Bulletin, —Your remark on the
peculiarly absurd speech made by Pastor Jefferis
at the funeral of the two unfortunate men, Wells
and Jones, anent the statement that Wells, when
asked whether he would take a prayerbook or a
flask of brandy with him on the fatal trip, chose
the prayerbook, is reminiscent of the fact that
expeditions run on “ Brunker ” lines usually do
come to grief. Wells was second to the “ serious”
explorer Lindsay, whose quarrel with his subor-
dinn ,it is said, first began through his wanting
to insist on them attending divine service. Lind-
say’s expedition was a failure, and now his late
second, who seems to have been the only one who
agreed with him on that trip, has met a like dis-
appointment. Naturally the tale referred to by
Dr. Jefferis is mere romance, for there would have
been no necessity for asking the fnan the question.
If Wells wanted to have his prayerbook with him
he would have rolled it up with any other duds he
was taking, and wouldn’t have gone round the
camp making a song about the thing. Of course
exploration is actually a thing of the past, the un-
known spots being so small and isolated that their
nature can be easily inferred ; but, if it Were still
possible, there are two things that would damn
any expedition. One is the insistance on divine
worship in preference to bushmanship (for your
divine-worship-man is seldom a bushman); the
other is the patronage of the local geographical
society.— Been There.
A Boon to Sufferers.—A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he "' oc ' hoalth
and vigor after years of suffering from JN ervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
X-rays were employed at Oldfield’s Dental
College, in Melb., the other week, for diagnosing
the lay of an obstinate molar, and, says the
official report, by means of a skiagram the tooth
was easily removed without an anaesthetic. This
is the first recorded case of X-rays being used for
dental diagnosis in Australia, and the details don’t
fill the reader with a wild longing to go and be
case number two. “ Dr. Clendinnen’s method of
taking the skiagram was as follows : Three pieces
of sensitised paper were wrapped in non-actinic
paper, and the whole enclosed in gutta-percha
tissue, and sealed with chloroform. This pad was
then moistened with patient’s saliva, and placed
in the mouth, just behind the angle of the jaw.
The focus tube was placed externally at a distance
of eight inches, the exposure lasting 10 minutes.”
A patient who can sit for 10 minutes with his
mouth wide open, and a pad nestling behind the
angle of his jaw whilst a scientist is photographing
tooth-prongs through the gum, deserves his name.
He must be very Patient.
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE 6.P.0-THE
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSTTF, G.P.0.,
H ‘ ST Ma Y naobr. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
Amies
vc
—FOR-
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
5J
1
%
P
PMRoT
Br^nd*
jVoIIVUW/
- jo itj'Jf/aq
Solo) 5w50<0
SdtlfloM S\4\vfyC
f'yoJTfQ a
%o^)fa.
QWw"'
sanitas
COPYRIGHT BOOK
How to Disinfect’
s 6 il_l r e e
The Sanitas C 9 L° jA
Bethnal Green
LONDON
MELBOURNE.
HffllE?
MTV POST FREEvtw
watches-Clocks-Jewellery- Birthday*
weddipJc z CrißisTEPJifJc Presents
H-NeWmaK- 1753 177- Elizabeth St*
OPPOSITE G:RO.——
MELBOURNE.
Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
Soutli Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
Ifydiat? Art Mao<»faCtGr«s.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in, to 53in. wide, 5f to 64yds.
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 36in, wide, 7yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 10 to 12yds.
in piece. Price, Rs. 6/8 to Rs. 15/- piece,
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in, wide, 8 to 12yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece. _
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wide.
Price—White, 4 annas and 6 pies yard.
~ Colored Stripes, 5 annas ~
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 18in., length 9yds.
Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syds.
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Rates; Retail Prices are 5 per
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work. Sandal-
Wood Boxes, &c., &c., Bombay and Cutcli Works,
and all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplied.
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the Ex-
change current, or reference for payment to any
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency in
India. G. G Wiil'l E & CO .
45 Radha Bazaar-st., CALCUTTA.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWH€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1896, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chloiiodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
l ave the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
hv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given ivithnut the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Pr(if)k€Qg)eS£
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriaey and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can be {riven secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a oup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Bed. & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking 1
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide.
Representative : J. 0. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi}
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Ciobrocatioo


The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
m
. PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP
Cold, Silver, [ead Copper Ores products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
f ? r CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SU P? URIC AG ? 1 ? MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemobe, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
dIncROBERTSOn’S CREUIinG eum
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Eull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works:
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
SIX <SRAND AGENCIES.
IN THE FINEST AND LARGEST
Piano and Music Warehouse
IN AUSTRALIA
IDessrs. pholson and Co.
SHOW THE MOST SUPERB STOCK
OF
PIAN OS
Absolutely Unequalled by any other House.
The Grandest Variety of
MUSIC.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS
RONISCH PIANOS
SCHIEDMAYER PIANOS
WILMER PIANOS
MIGNON PIANOS
NANON PIANOS
PIANOS by EVERY MAKER of repute from
England, Germany, and France.
KTICHOLSOKT & COMPAKTY,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Adairs Tatt?rsall Hotel,
PITT ST., SYDITEY.
AdarpS Cafs, (aeorge Strict.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION.
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAY.
. AAA A * A AAAA,.
——————— ▼▼▼ ?¥▼▼▼▼
VIS-TORS CAN DINE IN HOTEL OR CAFE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Bal H Z h onhJ of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNET.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTtD
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOK, SON, «& CHAPMAN ; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
1207
372 Jr M «=**
124
it. OS
403
126
A
125
27
234
078
:«KSK5££
56
%
%
-THE-
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co,, Ltd,,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc CooW, Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR Tit ADO
MARK
(jCjTW)
Is on each Pipe, as a sruaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LTSTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A l STEALS A.V
A EEDLEWOOD
PIPE ,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 12\ 126, 127,
66, '7, 234—3/3 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
flaw ZEAT.AND-
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co.. Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mi'. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTKAMA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
IV Barometer
... of Trade
IS THE TYPEWRITER BUSINESS.
IT QUICKLY RESPONDS TO IM-
PROVED CONDITIONS. THIS
LENDS GENERAL INTEREST TO
THE FACT THAT
n>orc
Remington...
Standard Typewriters
were sold in the month of March, 1897, than in any previous month in its history.
The NEW MODEL No. 7 has many Late Improvements.
Catalogues Free.
STOTT & HO-A.RE, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depdfc, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
nt prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with’buying them from dealers.
! 10 actions are all check-re peator with front escapement, mado bv the foremost firms in Germany,
i lie hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. Tho sounding-board, which is tho
greatest point of a Piano, is of uniquo construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
ioints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Vrißt pins are extra.
ing and plated. All
nan wire* oopper
covered. Tho clavia-
turo (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sixes
thicker than are ordi
nanly used, hence
security against break-
ng, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Framo of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapaburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold . engraving, with
arved p&nek pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
uponHiv©. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume, in tho bass;'a rich,.round, singing quality
•n the middlo coinpass ; and a clear, bdl-liko sweetness in the treble. ; Singers find the timbre
upturning and developing to tho voice. We take risk of transit. .The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty.* Testimonials frQin thousands of actual pur
chasers wflj bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wid© celebrity. Governors of
'olonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BFALE & CO. LTD., 484 Georv©
Street, Sydney, and through* .nVw South Wiles.


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free' or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Syt^ey.*
STICK TO YOUR OPINION.
HOLD ON TO
Whose Business is
MARK FOY’S,
FIXED HARD aljd FAST il)
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
“Our humble province is to ’tend the WINTER FAIR,” which is now
. IN FULL SWING!
■ ■
COUGHS, COLDS ON TH3 CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY C.RED BY . .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THOSE who have taken this medicine arc amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
J ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relic* ,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a c
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat., am
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chron .
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne. -Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period 1 was
„ , . . i ‘ „it.. i.U„ ,r lirnnfhtnnr U'flQ SO filS-
scarcelv
picviuuo i nau ueen getting vt;i y iuuv-h wvt9v» - - *\.
cine I was confined to bed, suffering,from a most violent cough expectorating ,blooa
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until 1
became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
“ Will Mr. Hearne please send A bottle of his Bronchitis Cure ? I had one two or
three months which effected a Speedy cure. J. WYATT, Geelong 1 .
“Mr. Hearne.—Dear Sir,--Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never ooughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to y i
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good. Yoms y . >
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
" Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir-Some months ago my little boy got Trst
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and pot a bottle *, koel)
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured hi 1 . i ..
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he c » ... ‘ ,
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make w - y , .
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too w ldely known
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.-Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“Myso i, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
along back of lungs, aqd the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
hack and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured. —J. I’ATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir,r-I. have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronohitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared; -Yours respectfully, TUGS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”'"
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Sir,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, 11. M'BEAN, Carlton.”
“Dear Sir,—l ha 1 occision to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“ Dear Sir,— Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quiokly. It is doing
a lot of good.—Yours'faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. IleanH'. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking bough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed.
\t this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Agk of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. Aftertaking
two hot l ies the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
get up, and am now in good health, for which l am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
.Small size, 2s. 6d.; 4s. tkl. Sold bv Chemists and
Prepare.) or.lv and .«M nM. .nd KfWI L.v U» «—*• "**■
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable lo< ally
Ladies
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. Ions:, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wll llaiu-st. Only, Sydney.
Whitehead’s hJSSTS* *
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Dkspatcii Stork: Washington-st., /'"I-..*-. _ „ __
near Druitt-street. uOHipcHl^.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed!
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of i ne-
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian,
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triumpb..”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as.
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and.
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protkctko ry Rkoisiration
by the
An>ericao Import Co.,
YORK and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale From All the I.ending Warehouses,.
An Australian Mammy .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
« interesting discovery was made the other day by >
Bartvot archaeologists now engaged in making excavations
near the supposed site of the ancient city of Melbourne.
While tunnelling their way through what seems to have
been the burying-ground of the old inhabitants, the
archaeologists found a stone sarcophagus enclosing a
leaden coffin which contained a mummy in a perfect state
of preservation. From certain coins which were in the
sarcophagus, it seems clear that the mummy was once the
mortal part of some person of note who died in a.d. 1897,
or thereabouts. It is now in the Museum of Antiquities.
We print below some verse on the subject written by
Alexander W. Muddlarque, one of our leading Australian
„ oetg .” prophetic extract from Southern News F. ,i/,/.a;id
of March 10, 4897. Translated from the Australian
language of that date.
* * * *
Brown, shrivelled Mummy ! Relic of a Man
Who lived when Austral history began,
And all the land with rosy morning-glow
Was flushed and thrilled three thousand years ago,
If thou couldst speak what tales thou couldst un-
fold —
What stories tell of those fair days of old
That followed hard on the heroic age,
When— as we learn in legendary page—
The bold forefathers of the Austral Race,
The daring hearts that feared not Fate to face,
From Northern lands their wondrous voyage took
Led by their tutelary sea-god, Cook !
Alas, thy lips are sealed, thy tongue hath gone ;
Thou art as silent as Oblivion.
Dumb, shrouded shape! Methinks, beholding
thee,
The Present fades, the Past alone I see ;
The Veil of Time is solemnly withdrawn,
And I, with thee, am walking in the dawn
Of Austral history—the Age of Gold.
What scenes of peace and beauty I behold !
The white sheep straying o’er a thousand j 1 ns,
Tended by happy, smooth - browed sluyherd-
swains,
Whose lives from all corrodingoares are free,
Wrapt in sweet pastoral simplicity ;
The cattle grazing on a hundred hills
(Now all defaced by factories and mills !) ,
The teamsters brown that gently urge along
Their bullock teams with kindly jest and song !
O, charming pictures of a vanished time,
Alas, that ye should only live in rhyme !
I see the Homesteads, built with graceful art,
Set not too near nor yet too far apart,
Where dwell the Squatters—Monarchs of the
Land —
Far-famed for open house and open hand.
The Guest-House by their hospitable gates
With welcome warm the Traveller awaits.
To him the Squatter comes, with genial smile,
And generously bids him rest awhile,
And bravely sup, nor for the morrow care ;
And on the morrow, ere he forth can fare,
With free hand adds unto his little store
Tea, flour, and sugar, till his bags run o’er.
The Squatter’s heart nor greed nor meanu<*._
knows—
He is as liberal as the wind that blows.
His Station-hands (so antiquarians say
His men were called) in pleasant work and play
Their time pass, living, in content supreme,
A life idyllic as a springtide dream.
Small marvel is it that the Squatter reigns
Belov’d by all—the Patriarch of the Plains.
And now, far-off, a smoke-wreath white I view
That slowly trails along the sky-rim blue,
It marks the patient passage o’er the plain
Of what the Ancients called a Railway train
(Quaint caravan whose swiftness was their boast
A drowsy fifty miles an hour at most:
Little could they imagine, or presage,
The fierce Time-Hunger of our rushing Age)
The train creeps steadily upon its way
To yonder distant City by the Bay.
“ Behold ! Behold ! ” (saith thou) “ ere day be
done
The domes of Melbourne flashing in the sun ! "
I gaze and see, outspreading far and wide,
A City Glorious —the Country’s Pride —
A City Beautiful, whose ev’ry part
A poem is—a dream of splendid art;
A Temple Yast—constructed wisely well—
Wherein the Graces and the Muses dwell,
And where, above all high or common things,
Serene-eyed Culture spreads her golden wings.
No knavery here may live, no meanness th we—
The very air with Honor seems alive.
Well may her citizens with pride commune,
Whose lives are set to such a noble tune !
Lean Competition—squalid fiend yet dread !
Here may not even raise her haggard head.
Men work like brothers, each in his degree,
Together bound by bonds of sympathy.
Untroubled are they by the frets and fears
That harass us in these sad latter years,
When man with man is evermore at strife,
And death-grips, for the means of wretched life.
The Worker (by our Rich Men scorned and feared)
As Doer and as Maker is revered,
And recognised by all men, small or great,
As corner-stone and bastion of the State.
Him his employer looks upon with pride,
Responded to by zeal upon his side.
Thus grows and flourishes in stately health
The fair and goodly Guild of Work and Wealth.
Yonder their House of Parliament, built high
Upon a hill, stands out against the sky—
A noble pile for noble uses fit!
Within its walls in soleifm council sit
Grave senators —the Chosen of the Land—
Calm-eyed as gods, with looks of high command.
No turgid talk, no empty eloquence,
Proceed from them —confounding sound with
sense.
Their words are few, but pregnant all with thought,
As if by some divine Egeria taught.
Of petty interests and clique-control
They nothing know —they see things as a whole.
In one direction all their actions trend,
The Public Good their only aim and end.
No titles bribe these Rulers of the State,
Too proud to be vicariously great.
Like gods they sit, like sages speak and vote.
In their majestic Witenagemote.
This Ancient People brook no priestly gyves.
true religion, rules their lives,
Presiding o’er each small and great Event,
As o’er the earth the starry firmament.
Their creeds are many, as befits the free,
But each to each is bound in Charity.
No rabid bigbtry, fanatic zeal,
Debase their Spiritual Common weal.
Content are they unto the Blest Abodes
To wend by various but converging roads,
Hoping, when life is past, old friends to greet
When they with them at Heaven’s gate shall meet.
Poets they have : it is the Holden Prime
Of Poesy, when Nature’s song sublime
Through Being thrills, with mystic meanings rife
The Epic grand of Universal Life.
Earth, sea, and air are full of melodies :
The Bards have only to interpret these. _
Poets they have : Long perished is their fame.
Their Gordon Kendall is to us a name,
And nothing more. Their Lawson Patters, who,
’Twas said, could lure a lark down from the blue,
We know from fragments only —solemn, deep,
As Orphic hymns. The rest in Silence sleep.
Long ere the land to nationhood upsprang
Its magic and its mystery they sang,
And hoped for Fame Immortal. Well away !
The tongue they sang in is as dead as they.
In these glad days o’er every heart and brain
Love, Lord of all, extends his radiant reign.
(Ah ! he was mighty in the Years of Old
Ere he was conquered by the God of Gold)
Before me pass in beauty and in grace
The glorious early Daughters of the Race—-
Rathe blossoms, they of that great Family Tree
Our fathers planted by the Southern Sea-
Each lovely as a lily on its stem,
Small wonder that their lovers worship them !
O happy, happy time, when youth and maid
Of broken vows or hearts are unafraid !
No venal Hymen with his torch of shame
Upon their nuptials sheds unholy flame. _
True Love illumes them with. the light divine
Of his clear eyes, that like twin planets shine . . .
Alas, that hearts like yours in dust should lie—
O, faithful lovers of the days gone by !
The Vision vanishes. The Ages roll
Once more upon me—withering my soul.
Ah me ! the Days of Eld how bright they shine !
Then thou wert fair indeed, O Land of mine i
Yet, though our days from those are far withdrawn,
Brave souls among us see a gleam of Dawi;,
The promise of a Golden Age to be,
When, from the Gulf Land to the Southern Sea,
All men will feel their common brotherhood,
And Love, not Gold, shall be the Greatest Good.
Night’s shadow falls on the Museum floor.
Brown, weary Mummy, rest in peace once more !
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Glen Iris (Melb.) line is one of the
unintentional jokes that Dick Speight practised
upon the Vic. Railways, in the days when Mel-
bourne was supposed to be spreading for miles
around. The Glen Iris line is situated geographi-
cally and morally between Caulfield racecourse
and Kew lunatic asylum. At long intervals a toy
train runs up and down the rails, for the accom-
modation of the few women and children who
play at travelling therein. The toy train drags
its own box-office about with it, and the stations
seemingly have neither station-master, ticket-
seller, nor porter in attendance. Customers at
these wayside stations buy their tickets at the
peripatetic pay-box when the train comes round,
and take their seats. The engine-driver, no doubt,
feels the jolt as the passenger flops down upon the
cushion and the engine resumes its dreary journey.
Three men in a boat! Three residents of
S. Queensland recently went a-boating in Tin Can
Bay in company with a quantity of dynamite.
They went off—so did the dynamite. Number
One lost a right hand and right eye. Number Two
—all the fingers and a thumb-joint of one hand.
Number Three —the right hand. Hands all round !
There is at least one man in London who
curses the Jubilee. Reckoning upon a large
crop of fatalities from street crushes, collapses of
wooden stands, Jubilee feeds for the starving
poor, See., Sec., he speculated in a stock of 2000
coffins (mixed sizes), and was left with them on
his hands. The death-rate for the week didn’t
exceed the average.
New publication—the “ Literary Year
Book,” 1897, edited by F. G. Aflalo (publisher,
George Allen). Is promised to be annual affair.
Contains a directory of alleged literary clubs, and
a (more or less) complete list of “ British Authors.”
A search for the address of that immortal author,
Guy Boothby, proved fruitless. Which is itself a
criticism. There are some saccharine little articles
on various little authors — -c. 0., Le Gallienne and
Olivia Shakespear, which have the trail of the
literary log-roller over them all.
“C.” sends to The Bulletin a Melb.
gambling story :
When a recent raid was made on Little Bourke-street
Chinese dens in search of illicit spirit, one of the places
searched was a gambling-shop. A burly Customs officer,
pressed into service with the detectives, had to secure
the front while the searching party entered the back.
He stepped into the little shop, and stood with his back
against the door. Immediately there was a cry of
“'Police ! ” followed by a panic and attempt at stampede.
The customers that day were the usual mixed crowd.
One old vent., with flowing white hair and beard, went
down on his knees to the officer, explaining that he was
only “there out of curiosity’’—that he was a respectable
man with a grown-up family. Another customer—
obviously a boozy old battler—also declared that he was
there “ out of curiosity,’’ and, therefore, had also a right
to go free. Two or three big fellows tried bouncing.
Several boys leaned against the counter and wept patheti-
cally—one sobbing that his mother was in the hospital,
and that it would kill her. The Chinamen present were
the only ones undisturbed in philosophic calm. The
officer had his instructions, and accordingly barred the way
against them all. Then the humor of the situation dawned
on him and he began a moral lecture on the evils of gambling
(he can be seen himself in the paddock at Flemington any
racing-day). They received his remarks sullenly or re-
pentantly, according to their respective moods, till he
said, “ Look at me—l never marked a ticket in my life ! ”
Then one impulse possessed them all, the banker and his
assistant alone excepted. They seized blank tickets from
the counter and crowded round him, each eagerly saying,
“ Hey, mister, mark a ticket for me 1 ” The old man got
cheerful, the roughs got civil, the boys got brave—for a
novice always bring luck to the gambling-table, ft was a
queer anti-climax to his moral harangue, but the Customs-
man was equal to the occasion, and marked a ticket for
every applicant. By this time some jars of Chinese spirit
had been discovered in the back rooms, and every one
except the banker was free to depart without police pro-
tection. The Customs-man is still waiting for the share
that was promised in the proceeds of the tickets he
marked.


' ■ ' _________ ' ' ' ? r,v '|V '* v "» N ✓Jv ✓fV ✓»'
The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
-V
Hi^
U '
H
1
X
f* ;
• V
. ■•'<
,4
X'
REPUBLI
FRANCA
a *
| A.t F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
UB9.
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Song of the Southern Trades.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tall bergs Nor’ward straying
Their sisters once have been—
White ladies, still displaying
Their fading charms serene,
Lost maidens, gone a-Maying,
Decked all in opal sheen.
The dull Antarctic bound them,
Who were not born to pine ;
Now, far and fair, around them,
The brave, blue billows shine,
The Clipper Fleet hath found them,
Loud laughing to the Line.
On their swelled bosoms sleeping
These gay winds pillowed dream,
Of dim, cold coasts still keeping
Long vigils in the gleam
Of Southern lights, up-leaping
Beyond the World’s extreme.
The penguin, standing lonely,
’Neath weird, snow-darkened skies,
Sees wearing Night, that pronely
On wearied Nature lies
In silence, broken only
By groans, and screams, and sighs !
Gaunt northern waves are beating
Their wild weight on the bar ;
Gray fogs gray seas are meeting
In latitudes afar;
With no glad friendly greeting,
No high-hung Cross or star ;
But here, in worlds grown kinder,
The sun-bars burn and blaze :
Each bark, with storm behind her,
Doth hail the pleasant ways—
With sky and sea to bind her
A wreath of summer days.
The sou’’-east trades are callin /
Across the creamy curls,
The bow-thrown spray is falling
In scattered showers of p?arls ;
Or, like the tears enthralling
Of soft-eyed island girls.
The sou’-west trades are blow'a /
The withered seaman smiles
To feel his strong ship throwing
Behind the flying miles.
His swift-sailed thought is going
Towards the Blessed Isles.
Now bears the Austral trader
Right gallantly away;
The brave west wind to aid her
Along the open way,
An iron-heeled crusader
Of our more peaceful day.
A twin sou’-easter carries
Her copper-colored crew .
By palm-clad coast, where tarries
The chieftain’s war-canoe:
Or fickle, woos and harries
The long Malay prahu.
Low down their high spars frailly
Go swinging south amain ;
Bar down the great hulls daily
Fair haven do attain,
To dress them glad and gaily,
And journey out again.
Brave Southern Trades, o’erladen
With scent of tropic bowers !
They tell of some warm Aidenn
Where, lulled by opiate flowers,
A comely, brown-skinned maiden
Dreams idly out the hours.
With Bornean spices freighted,
With breath of Austral glades—
Which yet, mayhap belated,
No white man’s foot invades—
Still sweep they, unabated,
The Trades ! the Southern Trades !
Sydney, 1897.
E. J. BRADY.
Yic. Govt, is asked to experiment with
manures at Dunolly scent-farm, for the benefit of
farmers. Local residents “ have no objection to
anything that will mitigate the odors of the scent-
farm.”
Among the late Melb. coroner Youl’s most
cherished and curious possessions is a letter ad-
dressed to him, and found in the pocket of an
unmarried carpenter, 37 years old, who shot him-
self eight years ago in a Brighton Beach train.
Here it is in full:—
To Dr. Youl, City Coroner.
My dear Doctor,—Whilst still in the flesh, and ere my
soul takes its flight from that frail tenement of clay, the
body, allow me, with all due respect to your high and
important office, to tender you my heartiest, congratula-
tions on the business-like and consistent manner in which
you have, for a considerable length of time, carried out
the onerous duties of coroner to the city of Melbourne.
As you are aware, I have not the pleasure of your
acquaintance, and, in anticipation, I cannot but regret
the fact that when we do meet I shall have to occupy
such an unconscious position at the interview, besides
haying to suffer, without opposition, the indignity of
being “sat on.” However, dear doctor, I feel assured
that you and the respectable company who may assist in
the ceremony of enquiry will doso with becoming respect
and decorum, if not for my own memory’s sake, at all
events for the sake of those who have the misfortune to
be connected with me—by ties of blood.
The question has been raised, “ Is life worth living?”
“ Well,” as the Yankee says, “it all depends.” Speaking
personally, I must say, in many respects, I have found
this “a jolly old world”; and if I have had a goodly
share of ill-luck, I have also had a fair share of its plea-
sures. Therefore, I think that I and this ancient planet
may cry “quits.” I dare say, dear doctor, you find life
on the whole pretty jolly. It is just possible that if I
possessed your ability, and the good fab screw attached
to your office, I would not be in such a hurry to leave this
sphere. However, we cannot all be city coroners; and
even you, dear doctor, must at times encounter vexations.
In conclusion, let me express the hope that your re-
maining years may be characterised with an abundance
of the joys of life, and few of its ills, and that when your
time for disunion arrives, it may be at a period of con-
tented old age ; unattended by violence, and in the ortho-
dox manner, thus avoiding the necessity and unenviable
notoriety of being “ sat upon.” In prospect of an early
meeting (on this earth), I remain, with due respect—
Yours, In Carne.
Yet an unintelligent jury brought in a verdict of
“ suicide whilst of unsound mind ! ”
Barmy Barker’s Blacker Boots.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You see, Barmy Barker was once trampin’ the
roads He was always forgettin’ himself and was
half his time bushed. He was awful absent-
minded, was Barker. For instance, he’d get up
in the mornin’ and wouldn’t know no more’n the
man in the moon which way he’d been goin’ the
night afore, and ten to one he’d go back t’where
he’d come from. He ’adn’t gumption enough to
beat about and t'ack himself. He’d no idea of
anythink barrin’ straight ahead to nowhere in
particular. What he was goin’ for —he didn’t
know Once he scorned the otter of a good billet,
when he was downright ’ardup for one. It come
o’ bein’ ’ead-over-ears in some big scheme or other
in his mind.
* * * *
Often as not he’d go to stations with his tucker-
bags and come away with nuthin’. Couldn’t re-
collect what took him up, and forgot his bags
thinkin’ of it. Then t e’d ’ave to ante-up a bob to
a blackfellow to show him where he left his swag.
When it come to payin’, Barker’d say, quite inno-
cent, “Do I owe you a shillin’ : what was it for,
now? I can’t think.” “Me find um swag.”
“But that’s my swag. I put it there.” “Das
right, boss. You been lose um camp, see?”
Barker’d barney over that for an hour sometimes,
but he’d, stump up at last. He lost a mint o’
money that way.
Anyhow, ratty as he was, he hit on a good plan
to steer by. When he’d come to his campin’-
place he’d take his boots off, and leave ’em
pointin’ the right way. Then he could twist about
as much as he liked takin’ his swag off, and makin’
preparations in gen’ral for the night. Till them
boots was right, though, he daresn’t turn, or he’d
be flabbergasted altogether. In the mornin’
everything must be shouldered for the track ’fore
he dare step into ’em. Otherwise he might get
turned pickin’ up something. He did go without
’em onct, and it wasn’t till he’d picked 40 or so o’
thorns out o’ his feet it occurred to him he was in
the ’abit o’ wearin’ boots. A traveller fetched ’em
along for him that time.
* * • *
One night he ’ad to get up and go to the water-
hole for a drink. That was the turnin’ point in
his life. He put his boots on—it bein’ the time
snakes, go picnickin’ and matin’; and there’s
nuthin’ in the wide world that sets Barker’s hair
standin’ on end more’n snakes.
When he got up next day the boots was facin’
the water-hole.
“ Dang it,” says Barker, “ I didn’t know I ’ad
to cross that! ”
But the boots pointed that way, so there was no
get out of it. It was only 50 yards round that
hole, but leather said cross it, and ’cross it went
Barker—up to his neck. He felt miserable when
he got out, for Barker wasn’t used to bein’ wet.
So he stripped off to dry. When he was ready to
start ag’in he found his compass ’ad gone bung
once more. One boot pointed east, t’other west.
“Now, which way am I goin’?” says Barker.
He sat down to think it out. But it wasn’t no
use. Thinkin’ made him giddy, and put him in
such a gen’ral muddle that he lost sight o’ what he
wanted to think about. So he saw there was no
help then but to wait till some one came along.
* * * *
So Barker filled his pipe. He ’adn’t ’ad a
smoke that mornin’, and his mouth was waterin’.
Soon he was puffin’ away big licks, and found it
a good help to his brain. So he tried ag’in to think
them boots the one way, and finished up with
bandicootin’ murphies in the old country. He was
that disgusted that he grabbed the old clay-dabber
to knock the ashes out, and then he saw as he’d
never lit it. Barker saved a lot o’ ’bacca in his
time forgettin’ the match part o’ the performance.
As luck ’appened, a stockman came in sight
about dinner-time. Barker cooeyed, and he came
over. “ ’Souse me,” says Barker. “ Would you
do me a favor, mate ? I’m a bit flummoxed.”
Certainly, old man—if it’s not too much trouble.
What is i.?” “Ah, what is it? Lemme see—
Oh! . . . Will you tell me where I’m goin’to,
and oblige—yours sincerely Barker was
workin’ it off on his fingers.
“ Why, strike me dead ! ” says the stockman to
himself, “ that bloomin’ old fool’s mad ! ”
“ Where am I goin’? ” asks Barker again.
“Off yer nanny,” says the stockman, riding
off. “Keep straight on, and you’ll not be long
afore you’re there.”
* * * »
Barker chewed that over for an hour. One boot
said east and one said west. Which was straight
on? “Dang me if I don’t go with Bobindie,”
says Barker—he called one of them boots Bobin-
die. So he put Bobindie on and went west. That
night he struck a dry gully, and near perished for
want of water. “ You’re the devil’s own,” says
Barker. “To blazes with you ! ”
He got back next night—how, I dunno—and he
says to the other boot, that he called Brian Boroo :
Brian.’ he says, “ we’ll go east at your wish,
and the Lord strike you blind if your designs be
treacherous ! ” So he put on Brian Boroo and
went east, leaving Bobindie to perish. He’d ’ave
no more truck with that gentleman.
three hours Brian Boroo kicked ag’in a slug
o’ gold and Barker danced and howled in his
delight Before sundown he struck this one-’orse
place where I m treed now. But in Barker’s eyes,
with that slug shining in ’em, this miserable old
creek was Heaven. So here he stuck. He was
offered a tidy sum afterwards by a shindykit in
the township to show ’em the spot where Brian
hit the slug; but, Lor’ bless you, by that time
Barker knew as much of its whereabouts as a
gorilla.
* * * *
Anyway, he took the old blucher off, and knelt
down ’fore the ’ouses and kissed him. “ Brian
Boroo,” says Barker, “you’re a brick!” So he
pensioned him off straight away, and-well, there’s
the old fellow, snug and comfortable, in that glass
case.
Me ? Oh, I’m Barmy Barker.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Sin f at, of the furniture trade, continues
to drive his hammer through the Vic. Factories
Act, aided and abetted by Fat Man, J.P., who
reluctantly inflicts the lightest fine when it is not
possible to spare the leper by a quibble.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers
Nos. 203, 203, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydnev!
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)


MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
Restored to Health by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A Grateful
Husband and Father tells the Story:
V*
p
V %
1
lA\
%
OCWi
<s>
mt
I —
-,au&
XX- pig
“My wife has all her life long been subject to rush of blood to the
head and fainting fits. In later years these were more frequent, and
her skin became very sallow. She had scarcely any appetite, and it was
not safe to leave her at home by herself for fear of a fainting fit. I may
state we had medical advice both in England and here in New Zealand,
but it did no good, so some months back I suggested that she take
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. She protested against it, believing it to be quackery,
but I purchased a bottle just to give it a trial, and the result was mar-
vellous. Mrs. Moul has taken five bottles, and now she is a new creature.
My daughter has also begun to use your sarsaparilla for skin
discoloration and poor appetite, with considerable success already.
I forward you their photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully,
John F. Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland, N. Z., Feb. 9,1897.
P. S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Only True Blood-Purifier.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of Imitations Claiming to be “Just as Good•"
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD?
A DOSEatBfcDiIMEWILL REMOVEII.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
. Try it for a Cold.
1 ry itfor Whooping-Cough
been the meana of iftvi.ur n h ° Ut a hott,e ot tr* the house. I believe it has
ne means of saving me many a doctor’s bill.
’ S. HOLLINGWORTH, Clifton Street, Manchester.
AVKbridge’s
vjjjjtgTOic.
"The influenza left me with a bad haokfmr _ u .l
'"ssing, and after taking the one bottle I am myse/f at/aln°anrl**iii ery . d i*
" 11 ' out a bottle of it in the house.” ,ySelf aK “ in * * nd wiU not be
_ JOHN WALKER, C.G. Station, Killybegs, 00. Donegal.
Try jtfor Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS,
Prepared by
w. T. OWfcR DGt, Chemist, HuR.
Sold in Bottles, U. lsd„ y B . t
and 11s., by dll Oheioiats and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
W h,desale of all London and
Oolonial Houses.
•OLD BY THE LAVKRB MANUFACTURING (30., 31 KING STREET SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
3&1?l H IFS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, S ck Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dia
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be A
GUINEA A BOX/’ _
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, lhese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medievne vn
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9id, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
TALES OF THE -
- CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNG."
»»♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
IVCiolsL Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists 3 Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of H{.DRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROL A, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
KW Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAKKET, SYDNEY.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
a blessing in evert family.
OLLOJVAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing; virtuesof these grandmedicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of su deters. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. frW" Pur-
t* s^ look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 628 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
'--THE—'
Ballet dir!,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/^,
Also The Life, Adv
tures and Confessio
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars «.'h_
Manners, Habite, Customs and Morals of Barm’aids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PAN2A,
Box ‘)l.i, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
U
The Last of Six.”
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ARE ’
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
“THE BLOCK.”
03 Yorfc
Collins Street, ME
Wortbiogtos) P6ri)pii)g Ei)gii)c Conipaijy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll Brothers. (Australasian Bramh.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTH INGTON
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, F.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
« , . „ ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN * CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in. Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
f
&IC
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) •
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refresjimerg) and 23 Royal Arcade-for
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135
SEND ORDERS TO THE
Agents Everywhere.
KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
HEAD OFFICE,’ 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARK€ & LACY COMPANY LIMIT€D,SyDN€Y.
manufacturers & Importers
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates’ Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking Pump.
mining t general machinery.
Knowles’ Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Roots’ Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
—Powder.
Scale or Advertising
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year „ (52 insertions)
Paragraph Ad vert women ts
An KXTKA DISCOUNT of 5 par cent.
6s. per inoh per insertion, nett.
10 per oent. discount.
20 „
25 „ ;;
10s. i»er mch per insertion, nett,
allowed for cash m advance.
Boi)Qil)gtOI)’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
AL L K IND S of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
LULN/A, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed hy Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat
Kemoves all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
WILL C
INI
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s,
—~ * '&* ®
