

ALB.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
56 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Merohanta,
_______ Wb.olesa.le Ironmongers, Iron &■ Machinery
Hold the Largest and Best-Assorted Stocks of General Ironmongery (including SHELF GOODS) in these colonies.
Also at London, Melbourne, Wellington, Dunedin.
EY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
: .
A
30
&L
* I
$
m
R. A. HER VEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Stdnbt.
GIBSON, BATTLE S, CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Boston's Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by RhstoS,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Plait, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Eleciucal Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and 11l ustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, quarts 10s, pints ss.
GLENLIYET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart 5s 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE EOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
GEORGE and MARKET STS.,
SYDNEY.
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bod and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
Before viyiting the Qty wrirefo the Manager for
(jrd oj Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
IdtJEIISB A.3STB.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETBBMAM.iI,
Proprietor.
fLate Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THIE3
(SrosveoorNotel,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDUEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
1
x hed
ED
Built of Nickel Steel. They never require repairs.
Manufactoekd
BT
THE
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
GOOLD
Depots-
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
WELLINGTON, N.A.
■
Bicycle Co.
Agents Everywhere.
PIONEER
LEATHER
RELT 8N C
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
' ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World's Pair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
j. C. LUD9WICI & CO!,!, LT
102 Cii-iiiENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
3 f
,s )
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Sdiswan ■ Lamp.
n
BS
1
5
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE im l IW
United Electric Light
- ~*a
Australasian Branch —l6 Carringion-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.'
Poverty fointera!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
1 4 GOLDEN SHANTY, and ->iher Sketehes in
I A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
i posted.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence .£1 per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN" YOU BUY7Z
j Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF. ALL CHEMISTS.
N.R'W. : Messrs. ELLI-OTT BSCS,. Ltd.,
O’Conneli-strect, Sydae,.
Tasmaxian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CISARS
The Bulletin
Vol 18.—iso. 912 j
[Saturday, August 7, 181)7.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robhitson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S 'TORIES (from Thb Bulle-
tin' ; price. Is. 6<1.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from Tiie
Bulletin, Ry Price Waning : price, 25.: post-free.
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d.
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
A.
G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work, involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
THE LAST OE SIN, by Ernest Eaveuc: price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
TALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
SMOKE
CAMEO
CIGARETTES.
THE BED PAGE OF AUSTRALASIAN NOTES AND QUERIES .
1. —Red Hair.
‘R.’ incorrectly states (10/6/97) that the preju-
dice against red hair is peculiar to English-speak-
log peoples, and that ‘ amongst the Germans this
prejudice does not exist.’ As a matter of fact,
Hermans are possibly more prejudiced against red
dair than Anglo-Saxons. Of this, as a German
aative, lam confident. Two proverbs well-known
throughout German-speaking Europe are : ‘ Rothe
3iaare uud Erlenholz wachsen auf keinem guten
(Red hair and aldervvood never grow on
food soil), and ‘ Die Rothen und die Gezeichneten
Gabon's hinter den Ohren ’ (The red [haired] and
Jhe marked ones [such as cross-eyed, &e.] are to be
yarded against). I don’t think ‘ haben’s hinter
den Ohren ’ has an English equivalent; but it is
employed to denote people you can’t trust. As to
other races, let your correspondent ask a Jew, or
an Arab, or even Frenchmen pr Spaniards, how
much they ‘particularly admire’ red hair, and
three times out of four he will be told to beware
of red-haired folk.—J.B.W., Perth, W.A.
‘ R,. ’ says antipathy to red hair is peculiar to
Anglo-Saxons, and that nearly all other races
admire it. In a description of the uses of hair-
rowder given by Parini in his satire ‘ II Mattino ’
Btumble on
In bianco volse
II biondo, il nero, e Vodiato rosso.
The epithet scarcely means that Italians admire
red hair. By the way, lam told that in Turkey
*ll Jews have red hair. Is this correct?-
M.T.
4. —Marsupial Reproduction.
It is not surprising that there should still be
division of opinion among bushmen on this sub-
ject, for even philosophers took a long time to
make up their minds. Our aboriginals observed
the facts correctly, for P. Cunniugham, writing
in 1827 (‘Two Years in New South Wales,’p.
313), says the natives assert that young marsu-
pials are born in the usual way, and that the
mother places them in the pouch. So far as
regards Australia, European scientists had few
Opportunities of investigation in the early days;
but this was not the ease with American pouched
animals, whose conditions of birth nevertheless
for long remained mysterious. Even dissection
was not at first conclusive. James Mudie (‘ The
Picture of Australia, ’ 1829, p. 161) says ‘dissec-
tions, and most minute ones, have been made, and
careful observations taken, by and in concert with
Sir Everard Home, but the result has only
shortened the time [i.e., observed the young in
the pouch at an earlier stage] without removing
the difficulty.’ Westgai th, writing in IH4B (‘Aus-
tralia Felix,’ pp. 129, 13U) is assured that the
young marsupial is bom in utao.
There is an interesting reference to marsupials
(when the reproduction-question was still unset-
tled) in Oliver Goldsmith’s ‘ History of the Earth*
(Glasgow, 1835, vo-1. ii, pp. 447 et sq. ). The book
says—
Pouched animals were known at first only in America.
All the species found on that continent agree so com-
pletely in general organisation, as well as in their peculiar
confirmation of the genitals, that Linnaeus found in
them the elements of a single genus, which he called
Didelphas, or double-w'ombed. Afterwards from the East
Indies, and still later from the regions of Australasia,
animals arrived equally distinguished by the possession
of the abdominal pouch. At first an opinion arose that
the young of these animals were actually produced in the
abdominal pouch hi side the mainmee of the mother. It
is nearly two centuries since Musgrave has said: ‘The
pouch is properly the matrix of the Cariqueya (Didelphas
Opossum). I have been unable to find any other ; this is
a point whioh I have ascertained by dissection. The
semen is produced there, and the young are formed.’
Pison confirms the same facts, having, as he observes,
dissected many of the opossums. Valentyn makes the
same assertion in his account of the Molucca Islands:
‘The pouch of the philanders is a matrix in which the
young are conceived. This pouch is not what is usually
supposed. The mammas are, with regard to the young,
what stalks are to their fruit.. The young remain attached
to the mammae until they have obtained maturity, and
then separate from them as the fruit, drops from the
stalk.’ Those notions are also commorrin Virginia, even
among physicians. Beverly says that the young opos-
sums exist in the false belly, without ever entering the
true, and are developed on the teats of the mother. The
Marquess of Chartellux makes a similar remark. Hence
Pennant says, ‘ that, suspended to the mammae of the
mother, they remain there at first without motion ; this
lasts until they have acquired some development and
strength, but then they undergo a second birth.’
Two opossums (Didelphas Virginia), male and female,
were domesticated in the house of M. d’Abovile in 1783 ;
these animals copulated, and the effects were attentively
observed by that gentleman ; in about ten days the edge
of the orifice of the pouch grew thicker, a phenomenon
which afterwards grew more peroeptible. As the pouch
increased in size, the orifice widened. On the thirteenth
day the female did not quit her retreat except to eat,
drink, and evacuate ; on the fourteenth day she did
not stir from ifflj M. d’Aboville then determined to
seize and examine her ; the pouch, the aperture of
which had widened before, was now nearly closed,
a slimy secretion moistened the hairs on its circum-
ference. On the fifteenth day, a finger w 7 as intro-
duced into the pouch, and a round body about the size of
a pea was plainly felt at the bottom. This examination
was made with difficulty on account of the impatience of
the mother, who had before been always mild and tran-
quil. On the seventeenth, she permitted a further
examination, and M. d’Aboville discovered two bodies
about the size of a pea. There was, however, a great
number of these young ones. On the twenty-fifth day,
they moved very perceptibly, yielding to the touch ; on
the fortieth, the pouch was sufficiently open for them to
be plainly distinguished ; and on the sixtieth, when the
mother lay down, they were seen hanging to the teats,
some outside the pouch, some inside. The nipple is
about two-eighths of an inch in length ; hut it soon dries
up, and at last drops off, after the manner of the umbilical
oord.
M. Geoffroy, lamenting the vagueness and obscurity
existing on the subject of pouched animals, wrote an
article in 1819, with this query as title: ‘Are the pouched
animals horn attached to the teats of their mother? ’
His object was to call the attention of scientific men to
the subject, and more especially of those who possess the
means of investigation in those countries which form the
habitat of the animals. His observations are highly in-
teresting and important. On the pouch, he remarks that
it is not in the adult female a cavity of equal capacious-
ness at all times. M. d’Aboville observed it to increase
in magnitude tinder the influence of the phenomena of
generation, and M. Geoffroy himself has observed its
relative dimensions in females of the same species. It is
small previous to sexual intercourse, large to excess when
the young ones are about to drop from the mammas, and
of a moderate size in the period immediately following.
Thus the pouch cannot he considered tneiely as a second
domicile , without spring or activity ; it is a true place of
incubation, extending by degrees, acquiring more and
more volume, as happens to any other domicile of the
foetus. Well, therefore, might it he called a second
uterus, and the most, important of the two.
As to the mode in whioh the young are placed in the
external pouch, or, rather, attached to the nipple, nothing
is accurately known. A communication between the ex-
ternal uterus and this pouch has been asserted to exist,
but never demonstrated. Some have imagined that the
mother placed the young there herself with her hand and
feet: hut this is not very likely. Another opinion was
that the pouch extended to the orifice of the vagina ; hut
the_ muscles do not seem disposed for such an arrange-
ment, and some species have no pouch.
Pouched animals derive their appellation of Marsupiata,
or, as some call them, marsupials, from the character of
the pouch. It may. however, be well questioned whether,
as a generic or classic term, it is unobjectionable. There
are many species in which this Character of the pouch does
not exist, while, on the contrary, there are none without
the double matrix, which would render the Linniean ap-
pellation of Didelphas more universally suitable to all
G. Gerhard.
H.G.R. (17/7/97) says ‘both kangaroos and
platypi are monotremes.’ This is a mistake. The
only members of the monotremata are platypus
and echidna (see Nicholson’s ‘ Manual of Zoology ’
p. 656, Blackwood, 1880). —
Nil, S.A.
17. —Habits of Persons Lost in Bush.
A number of 1 bushed ’ people scatter their
clothes about with a view to letting any pro-
spective search-party know that the scent is hot.
The vast majority of those rescued in a state of
nudity, and delirious, can, >n subsequent recovery,
give no explanation why they shed their garments.
The most feasible theory seems to be that
the thirst and starvation usually associated
with such cases conduce to a high state of
fever, and the clothes are thrown away in order
to cool the delirious sufferer—just as a typhoid
patient would, if permitted, throw his bed-clothing
bn one side. Regarding the walking in circles to
the left, bushed people turn in this direction 99
times out of 100. In the remaining instance they
take a route straight ahead, and I know of no
case when anybody lost in the busli turned to the
right. This peculiarity seems due to the fact that
the right leg is—invariably, I think—longer and
stronger than the left; and the general compara-
tive weakness of the left side of the body leads to
an inclination that way, especially if the walker
be at all exhausted. —McG.
I think it will be found, on referring to all
known cases, that no sane man has ever parted
with his clothing when bushed. It is when the
mind becomes unhinged that the clothes are oast
off, because then any covering whatever is op-
pressive and irritating. As to circling, the sanest
man that ever trod the bush will circle if inex-
perienced. The reason, I think, may be found in
an inequality of the eyes. The right eye is, I
think, generally keener than its companion, and
can thus locate or distinguish objects at a longer
range. Though these appear to be straight ahead,
they are in reality a little to the right of a direct
line, and a man steering by these distant ob-
jects is gradually executing a circle to the right.
Another reason may be found in the varying powers
of the legs, if the sight is accepted as trustworthy.
I have been told by old bushmen that if you
sight always with the same eye, and from the
same end, it is impossible to erect a long line of
fence without curving it.
The following is the rule generally followed by
old hands when they find themselves ‘in a fog ’ ;
First locate the four principal points of the Com-
pass by the sun ; at night by the stars ; then steer
by successions of two objects at short range. It is
nearly impossible to go straight to a single object
at great distance ; it is always safe to have two in
a line. If the person ‘ bushed ’ is insufficiently
versed in astronomy to take bearings by the planets
he should look to the ‘lay ’ of the country.
Never ascend a hill; make for the lowest ground,
for there’s sure to be a water-course at the end of
it, and, no matter how small, it will ultimately
lead to a lake or river and habitations.
The following incidents may bear fruit:—
Some years ago I started from Myrtle Creek to
11 (it* through the bush to Wooroowoolgen station
a distance of 20 miles. After four hours steady
ndmg. and as I was looking out for the clearing
above the homestead, X saw a creek before me.
Act until I had ridden up and down that creek
several times, viewing and reviewing the hut on
the other side, did 1 recognise it as my camp—the
spot I had started from. The horse had gradually
edged round without my noticing it. A similar
case came under my notice a short time ago. An
overseer started from his house for a tank six
miles away. There were no fences—no track. He
was going straight as the crow flies, and in two
hours pulled up behind a stable. There he sat
nonplussed, lie couldn’t think what stable it
was, never having noticed any such building
between the station and the tank before. Then
he rode round to the front, and nearly fell out of
the saddle when he saw his wife’s face appear at
the window. Physically the horse had turned him
round ; mentally he was shaped the other way.
Therefore home was behind him, and the tank
should be—- ■ ‘ls that you, Reginald ?’-
E.S.S.
18. —The Maginnis.
I am not sure ‘ A.E.0.8.’ (17/7/97) is right in
referring tins phrase to an Irish-American origin.
I remember the term in very general use thirty
years ago, and I heard an explanation by an old
Scotchman, who was a famous wrestler and boxer.
It was to the effect that, in the olden days, a
chieftain of the clan Mclnnes (ignorantly printed
Maginnis) had a knack in catching hold
of his opponent—an arm crooked round the neck
which always left him master of the situation.
Thus the term putting ‘ the crook of Mclnnes ’ on
anyone meant putting a complete block on the
opponent’s movements, or, in other words, com-
pelling a victory. ‘The crooked Maginnis,’ is, of
oourse, a corruption.-
M.C.
19.—'The Real Mackay. ’
Pronounce ‘ Muckeye.’ I don’t think the deri-
vation has anything to do with Port Mackay, Q.
The old Scotch song, * He’s no the. rale Sandy
Mackay !’ is the original legend as far as
Australia is concerned—printed and published
long before rum' and niggers brought the Northern
port into good and bad repute respectively. Fifty
years ago the expression ‘not the real Mackay’
was as common as ‘not the clean potato.’— SCOTTY
the Rumklkr.
The phrase ‘real Mackay ’ dates back to long
before there was any * Mackay, Q.’ There was a
very respectable forger in Sydney in the early
thirties whose name was Mackie, and whose per-
mits and discharges were unfailingly successful in
passing the authorities. It was said that a ‘pass
into Heaven if written by Mackie would deceive
St. Peter.’ Hence a ‘real Mackie’ document
was valued. This on the authority of my father,
who was a surgeon in the days of the old regime.
WORRY M.
31 —Australian Slang.
i append a few examples of bush slang from
N.S. Wales and Queensland. Some I have only
heard quite recently : most are commonly used by
swagmen and others who follow work at the
shearing-sheds.
Carrying Swag—‘Pushing the knot,’ Very
common in Q. and N.S.W. since 1891. Intro-
duced by the city element who yearly come up-
country for the wool season. Probably from the
nautical knot, for mile.
Swag—‘ National debt.’ This is more in vogue
in settled districts, especially Blue Mountain
way. Seldom used out back. The root idea is
that each is a burden.
Cook—‘Poisoner,’ Well known through N.S.W.
and Q. for many years. First applied to bad
cooks, but now generalised.
Flour—‘ Carrington tooth-powder.’ I have
heard only recently on Castlereagh and Barwon
Rivers, N.S.W., e.g. : A traveller, on getting a
very small pint of flour, remarked to his mate
‘ This is another Carrington tooth-powder station.’
Damper—‘Night-mare.’ New, though I’ve
heard it occasionally in Q. as well as in N.S.W.
Johnny-Cake— ‘ Death Adder.’ Recent. Used
mainly on the Dqrling River, N.S.W. Intro-
duced hy city bushmen.
Loaf of Bread ‘Dodger.’ Common in N.S. W.
settled districts. Query: from ‘Dodging the
baker’—begging a loaf of bread ?
Baking Powder—‘Dynamite.’ Common through-
out the bush. It makes things ‘rise.’
Mutton —‘Dunlop.’ New slang. Used mostly
on the Darling and Western border of Q. Dunlop
is one of the largest sheep-runs on the Darling,
and owners give liberal quantities of mutton to
travellers.
Beef—‘Tyson.’ Old. Tyson runs mostly cattle,
and the main diet on his stations is beef.
Shoulder of Mutton— ‘ Banjo.’ Ribs of Mutton
—‘ Concertina.’ . Ancient, and very common
throughout Australia. Both terms, of course,
refer to the meat’s appearance.
Bone—‘Point it.’ Quite a new term to me.
Heard in Western Wales only. A chestnut
still goes round the bush re an old swagman who,
when he had no meat, used to point his bread at a
bone and let imagination do the rest.
Cabbage—‘ Leprosy.’ Only lately used in Q.
and western N.S. Wales, from the association of
leprosy with the Chinese bush-gardener. ‘Pass
the leprosy ! ’ Ugh 1 (Often heard at dinner-time
in shearers’ huts.)
Tobacco—‘Snout.’ Old and common. Query:
a remnant of Botany Bay times, when prisoners
on road-works used to point to their mouths by
way of silently asking passers-by for tobacco?
Match—‘Anarchist.’ New. Only heard re-
cently in western N.S.W.
Beer— 1 Catchup.’ New to me. Used by
N.S.W. bush-town beer-cadgers. Query ; from
‘ Catch up to him ; lie’s going to shout! ’
Long- glass of beer—‘War Cry.’ Common in
western N.S.W. and Q. Used since the Salvation
Army has come into the bush.
Bottle (of anything)—‘Aristotle.’ Fairy-tale—
‘Joe Rail.’ These two are rarely used, and only
of late. I’ve heard them both in N.S.W. and Q.
They are obviously constructed on the plan of
London thieves’ patter, by substituting a word
with similar terminal sound— e.g ., ‘ Anna Maria ’
for fire; ‘daisy-roots ’ for boots; etc.
Delirium tremens— ‘ Elephants.’ When I first
heard this a year or two ago in Western N.S.W.,
I hardly understood its meaning. - ‘ He’s got ele-
phants,’ I was told by a chap vviiose mate was ill
at a wayside pub. Have heard it frequently since.
Does it spring by antithetical perversion from
‘ snakes ’ — the old slang?
Battling— i.e., struggling—‘On the Johnnie
Ru-sel.’ A city term, quite new in the bush.
Used in Q. atid N.S.W. towns—mainly by public-
house loafers.
Blankets—‘ Early risers,’ Old and common.
Bush men are seldom burdened with much ‘nap’
(another term for blanket), and on cold winter
mornings are hunted out of bunk at daybreak in
search of the nearest fire.
New slang terms are soon circulated in the bush.
Swagmen are always on the move, and always
proud to be the first to introduce the latest epithet
in camps or shearers’ huts.—6 xB.
QUERIES.
32. —Most Australian wild birds lay their eggs
in very open places—often on an open plain, with-
out troubling to make a nest; yet, as far as I
have seen, it is very seldom the eggs are interfered
with. But I have several times noticed that, on
removing them to a very secluded spot, the crow
will find them out in ten minutes. Is this others'
experience? If so, what is the cause?- R. WIL-
LIAMS, Gilgunnia.
33. —What is the origin of term ‘ broombies’ or
‘brumbies,’ applied to wild horses? Some years
ago, I think, ‘ Bulletin ’ said it is derived from an
entire and mares that had broken away from Cox’s
‘ Broombie ’ station. This, I lately learned, has
been denied by the Messrs. Cox. Another more
recent derivation was from Baramba station, in
the Maryborough (Q.) district; but the evidence
did not seem satisfactory.—A.L.
34. What is the origin of the word ‘squatter ’ ?
I believe it is American, and from ‘squat,’ but
would like some dates and references, and know-
ledge how it came to Australia.—V.
35. When did the practice of ring-barking trees
commence in Australia? Is it common elsewhere?
—R.Q.
36. Did the poet Gordon leave or have any
children? Is his widow still living—where, and
in what circumstances? Does she derive any
income from the sale of Gordon’s poems ?—J.G.L.
37. Dr. P. Maloney, of Melb., writes in the
‘lntercolonial Medical Journal,’ re the beard:
‘The European who is without it belongs to an
easily-reeognisable class of sexual impotents, and
nations such as the Chinese, whoso undeveloped
faces are well-nigh bald, belong to a cruel, corrupt
and stagnant civilisation, their Japanese oon-
querors succeeding, doubtless, by their slighter
advance in hirsutem-ss. That idiotic and savage
monster, Philip V., of Spain, was by nature
beardless, and when he issued his edict that his
subjects;should shave, the Spaniards, the foremost
men in the world of that day, exclaimed that their
souls had gone out of them with their beards.
Are these implications invariably correct?’—X.Z.
38. I have reg.d that moonlighthasa baleful effect
in the West Indies ; and ‘ moonstruck ’ is still a
synonym for ‘stupid.’ Also, there is a Scrip-
ture promise : ‘The sun shall- not smite thee by
day, nor the moon by night.’ Have any readers
noticed harm from moonravs ?—C. Ewenson,
M.L.


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN.
YoQOg M€ij,
if you are troubled with
exhaustin'; complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, amm-
t inn and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man
howl and absolutely unfit you for studyor busmess-.f
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get w ell ana
be a man.
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory Write tor
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental an
physical suffering, and add golden years to your e.
Medieal work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Comer Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee. 10/-. 127 Redfern Street,
Appropriate Medicine REDFERN.
by Return Post.
!_• A- DIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’S invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920.
29 York Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than £ 1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufkbrkr a Prescription (in plain English) for Pkrma-
nent Cure. Anv Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address “MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
*)« R I COJRD’s
sstwctofyft-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
diu.J'Ti"
all the important elementeoj the human frame.
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
female TABLETS
KttrKS&tf
‘" '
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
“A Boro PbySiciai)”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M R C S., Eng ,
THE greatest and most successful practi-
tioner IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
SSSSSS3I
&~r£SHSS2SHS
in an acute or c ‘ l , ~ addresses himself in particular
phj'sic.ans have He addresses P of Qther
name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
d 0 onrf9;v„v 0 n r f 9 ; v „v case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
ad YOUNG MEN VoSwiU find this distinguished doctor
vour best friend and benefactor. If jou are troubled
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
lfc midDLiTagFiDTIEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
nhvsical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In
to this celebrated specialist R can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia female com-
nlaints liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney’and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
Surgeon Langston s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a cai eful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Bef< re confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON, a friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano," nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
mALESQF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Trice Waning. Is. 3cl.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street)
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
p.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
' of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by P' lr * fy ’"g “e
enriching the blood, gives new life 0 , a
whole nervous and muscular systems, and buil< q{
new constitution in the most enfeebled. T VEB » jjqe
treatment brings glad «lief, ancIPERSLVERANC
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURB.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies,
at the root of the disease.. The symptoms f
appear, vigor and lost health returri.sunkcnejcsretn
their old lustre. The blood-giving pnr.apleofte medi
cine secures a healthy appearance, the Patmn h
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sun tee
cheeks become rounded ; the weak
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds hmiseu
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor 01
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describingtheir
troubles in detail, be treated at home The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
b *Everv" person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case an the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
C so; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
ffi- MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACK™
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sii.;
Box 920 G.P O. SYDNEY.
JOHN OUWANTS
rjgs;
rfttc«4fePßrßoK<
FULL DIRECTIONS!
„ ENCLOSED,' j
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation
48. Box 854 G.P.0.. Sydney. JOHN DURANTS
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Cansules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
SULPHUR PILLS
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
definitely cure hydatids, skin eruptions,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
'O
LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive. .....
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
’SfnnKui'ffiADS: SYDNEY.
Sydney, May 19th, 1897.—1 hasten to thank you and tell
you what a splendid treatment I have found if, am now
auite well. Three months asro 1 tried it as a last resource,
dreading an operation, which 1 have avoided.—M.J.K.
DrGi)k € oossS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can be given secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup .of teaodte*, or,n
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED LK
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so Quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st„ Sydney.
Abcrnethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty’com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
' ME DRUM
N
PcafQ€SS
R^li^v/Qd
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
_ No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Divisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Publications, etc.
mHE SOILED DOVE, being the History of a Young
T Lady who ran away from her parents, and ulU-
raatelv “ went to the dogs.” Also, Miss Skittles the G
with Six Husbands; Life and Love in Palis >
Each post free, Is. Gd. The three for 4s. Anglo-Aus.
Publishing Co., 331 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. .
rwTHE LAST OF SIX: TALES 01
T THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
PRICE Is P er
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having competed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients ab
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period ot
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind ot
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness m the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society', a whitish or cloudy sex 1-
jnent in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the baok, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, <v.c.,.
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FFEE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. Ihis
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common iii these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you ,any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO LOI DHL,A x,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send bd. m
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves:
Dr GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred —
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IHIHOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Eipe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
VV permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored b y our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don t
despair even if in the last stages. Don t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
livin'*' at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Looms, n
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the un-iters
only: otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable ,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr J. H. WEHR,, FARMER,
WAS LEYS, S.A. writes 1 can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list, in
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves 1 must say that your
treatment, of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being'well again. When 1 visited
you 1 was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
mvsplf and from the first I was able to attend to my
oecnpation asTariner. lam happy to. state that lam now
wpll and better than 1 have been for years, nut snau
follow vour advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. 1 shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARKY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
« I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Parley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
m
conversation; noises in the ears, and other symp
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, w as a nuisance
to mvself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
withouioht ain ing any relief. On my way toNewG.unea
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Addaide to
obtain your treatment,, I decided to do the same. lam
Had to say 1 now feel fit to continue my journey w
fear and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.
mtsm
m
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
« your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
1 should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co- -
ven- soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
j - p e or aincG I took your remedies lam as well and as
Sngas waTin my life. 1 cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
T w AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
monv to vour extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as ramp
since bein" under your care 1 can safely say that I
am a S manoncewnre, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappearedin
most miraculous manner. 1 had previously been under
The care of five different practitioners for the past four
vears • purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without derivin'"" any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
Til hope of ever" being myself again when I was recom-
mpnded to see vou. In two weeks time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
1 can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what
ever use you like of this.
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes “ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over A 200
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthings
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong.
mi
«1 ‘w^fuldT7.uri“TS d o»”
until I was a short time unde J and anxiety which
tinue for months writmg of t test '| mon ial one of great
I have suffered and it makes who v be
value, not only t J,’,, that read this and will take
sufferers like IXe "heir case voim hands will not only
Znkyou, an but P aTso me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Insert this m any papei
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
boston herbal institute,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open- Daily
Consultation Personally or


"ATTERSALL’S
PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Gleo. Adams, Hobart.
liAWKESBURY H. Sept. 4.
2.3,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame ;
Address
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address
DEMONSTRATION H. Oct. 4.
25,000 Subscribers at S.
Address
£ * :
CAULFIELD C
Oct. I<i
100,000 Subscritoera sxt 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me I__ shares in the above.
N ame.
Address .
MELBOURNE C
November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address,
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at S»
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
Tattersall’s Great DistriTaution
—OF THB —
Mill bank Estate, Junee, N.B.W.
116,000 Siaris at £1 Each Closes 25th September. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize —Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee ... ... valued at £10,065
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead, or
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF —
City at)d SobOrbao
Freehold - Properties.
100*000 Shares of ss. Each.
Ist Prize. — Terrace Houses* Glen more
lloacl, and large Dwelling-House, Value
Woollahra... ... ... ... £8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars appl't .for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOsted
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
wliat is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the oefcasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you're almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
\Ve provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGA.RS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
Jnthony Horderns Sons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
$ in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
; Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
1 ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent — B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London, E.C.
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes ... 10/- and 12 6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8/6, and 10 6 „
KROPP BRAND 66 and 7/6 „
BENGALI, BRAND,.best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7 6,10 6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 5/- upwards.
T> U ki ll A SE ItS of any of these Razors can rely upon
x getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW MPGEE, Hairdresser, &c„
:> O \STLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
tMJScU. MAJCAAK/UaMsSp
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality.
nCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
an( i PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
14S Oollins-street, MELBOURNE
I’ll Try It,
The Only Certain
M oust ache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (under cover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I’rice, I Os. lid.
Sole Agents:
'l'he Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st. Sydney
Australian Novelty Introducing Co.,
13 Imperial Arcade, Sydrey.
Importers Latest Amerr'can Novelties-
Sole Agents Monarch Car<l, Pistol and 3 Arrow Slot
Machines, Jewellery. 14-carat Solid Gold-filled WAL-
THAM WATCHES, 13 155., guaranteed 15 years.
Only Depot for the CINEMATOGRAPH BOOKS :
Widow’s Kiss, Dancing Girl, Butler Execution, and Aus-
tralian Buck-Jumper. Wholesale and Retail.
EPWAKD
WORLD-RENOWNED
air Erodueer & Beatorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
S, *v...
'
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey JTnir
to its original color.
IST" It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other :
injurious Inerredients.
I/-, 2/C and (triple 2/6size) 4'6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
CD WARDS’ "HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN. LONDON, W.C.
Specially prepared as a Beautifier of the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate wilh each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. lIA It VI? Y, .5, Denman Street, London Kridac, Una.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Biid's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird's Baiting and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS l,y STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from =62 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from £?> 3s. each.
MOUTH' HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOTTRISrE.
Every Variety of
■np*¥=2 *
AND IJACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
or SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. fi»
THE
* Plum
THB
‘ Plum’
Gi ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
f Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
Tt is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
caln highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6rl. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21st
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any oj the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delii ious ! o Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. W ll give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Given a trial.
Proprietors: QOODALL, BACKHOUSE -St CO.. LEBDS. ENCL MDV
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN AUGUST.
O, almond blossoms, almond blooms, I think
you are a cloud
That sank from heaven’s depths, too tired to
further sail along,
And rested on the crooked stems that are so
sweetly proud
To bear you, that their leaves burst forth a
green thanksgiving song !
A cloud you were, soft, soft and white, and Juno
on you rested
When she put off her royalty to lounge her
languid leisure,
And Cytherea’s doves, cloud pure, with wings
cloud soft, have breasted
Their fairy way, their trackless way, through
you to do her pleasure.
The birds know, and the bees know this, your
worshippers and lovers—
The birds have seen your pride above, and give
you one devotion :
And all the bees from miles away crowd round,
their briskness hovers
Above you, and the calm’s disturbed of all the
air’s dim ocean.
Still, cloud that once a goddess bore, your pride
has more been heightened
Since you alighted here this spring than when
you sailed above ;
For one has stood beneath your shade by whom
the world is brightened
Who makes the dawn seem dim and dark—my
own and lovely love !
Adelaide.
ROSAMOND BENHAM.
DREAMS AND DEEDS.
In dreams—l wield the lightning’s flash
And whip the wearying planet’s pace.
In deed—l tremble at the dash
Of cabman’s whip flicked near my face.
In dreams —with joyous gods I dine,
And nectar’s none too good for me.
In fact—l take another line ;
A very mildish kind of tea.
In dreams—l lead an armed host
To victory through storm and stress.
In deed—my fiercest fight at most
Is but an ill-played game of chess.
In dreams—l own a business vast,
And in huge industries engage.
In deed—at risks I stand aghast
And tremble for my weekly wage.
In dreams—my well-kept garden knows
The harvest of my steady toil.
In deed—the weeds in serried rows
Possess my patch of city soil.
Good Sancho gave his thanks for Sleep,
But, when t see how sordid seems
This world of those who toil and weep,
I offer up my thanks for Dreams.
They come with cruel Fact to cope,
And temper stern old Fate’s decrees ;
They dower day with art and hope,
And night with varied fantasies.
And, if you add up Life’s account,
You’ll find the dreams, though filmy-light,
Are far the best of the amount :
The things that make the balance right.
Sydney.
ZEF.
THE FAR-AWAY LAND.
The far-away, far land where nobody lives
Excepting the people I made,
A glowing and comforting noon of light gives,
Or a sunset of solacing shade,
And a while of contemplative, quiet content
When the powers are weak or the forces are spent.
I put down my irksome, slow pen and I go I . . .
Though only a mere thought away,
It’s a million or billion of furlongs or so
From the rim of the wearisome day !
It is so far away that the thunderous sound
Of the travail and work of the Earth-day is
drowned.
There men with unquenchable passion for Right
The highways of courage pursue ;
They challenge the speeches of riotous Might,
And combat the deeds it would do.
Oh, ’tis pleasant to see their brave, scorn-thrilling
eyes
Flashing fire on the helmeted captains of lies !
And they of the studious, arduous soul
Pore over old volumes and scrolls,
Athirst and aflame to find out how the whole
Mystic Universe pivots and rolls.
It is vain ; but the pageants of day and of night
Fill them full of exultant, delirious delight.
And those, too, endowed with a quickened, keen
sense
For the merry, glad aspect of things—
When the faces of others are tortured and tense,
Their faces make laughter that rings.
Oh, ’tis peasant to look at them rallying there,
Launching shallops of joy on soft ripples of air !
And they with the star-beaming eyes of soft blue,
And the many with large eyes of grey,
Are some of them trusty and loyal and true,
And some of them set to betray,
But all of them fashioned to lure or command
In this far-away, far-away, thought-shapen land.
I made these and others in prose and in verse
In the past with slow labor of brain ;
And when I now see them and hear them rehearse
Their virtues and foibles again,
I conceive as I once again take up my pen
That perhaps the good God sometimes so visits
men !
PSL


_ . . g . .. . . . ■ Established 1849.
ACiStraliao HCitdal ProVidcijt Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established „ i *
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. \V. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ,
J. T. WALKER, E?sq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Animal Income .. ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000,
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Rates i2/cx dI? fii)MDS
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
tt.Edwin Moore,
MANAGER.
PEMEMBERI . . .
Record Watch of tlife
Record Reign
IS THE RELIABLE
. Watsrb(iry Watch-
ZRO-A-D
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEA.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric- Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
, mining machinery, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
lIFAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
LoQdoQ ai)d Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
having
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount,
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER, GARMENTS at
Suits—4ss. to 90s. Trousers —from 12s. 6d. to 255.
Send or call for Patterns —Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M. BAUMARSHE, Manager.
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULK IKS, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
hiuh, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
DOuilLK-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O; DOUBLE
W AGO A 'sTY LE R SAL)DLES%est quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
N. HiLLSER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Sc Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Sc Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE. '
m
-«««
33
R
US
_ . . tVw , Ur , tp increase of mv Saddlerv and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-payment
OwinK a« OR gTOOk Qf BIcyOLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY. The whole of
System, 1 ha' e i n<l M am j vv. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Biiyers should apply early as these poods cannot be bought apain for the same money.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
rPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without, Plates, by means of Bridyetnorh,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to tit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
OS King-at., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
"RodLalla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
B odal la, Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
j-gotialla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— -It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
22!> SUSSEX STREET, SITONEY.
—THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
- '■ ”. m -=r^±s
1 31
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visiters have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2-to 10 - per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30 -eo £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 416 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
l® - INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896—divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making JE97.763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Seoretary. _
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.Q., M.L.C.; lion. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73.972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘MiiiLAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ZEIilDIRailDa-IE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the. colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Toi)S njore Imported Leaf
tbao all tbe otbcr Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yankee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cban^pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cooq{i?ror.
New and Old The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)tei)i)ial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole,
Roth>eliilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and ali Tobacconists’ Ware.
Cigars.


The Bulletin
Reqistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
VoL. 18.—No. 912.
SATURDAY. AUGUST 7, 1097.
Price, Gd.
IT MAKES NO DIFFERENCE.
“ The Primate of Australia is henceforth to rank as Archbishop.” — Cable.
CABBY (to most Rev. Bob Cob Smith): “Oh, yer a Archbishop now, are ye? Well, I don’t care aif yer the Archfienel hisself; yer ain’t a-goin’ to ride to no
Bishopcourt in a first-class outfit like this here for no bob fare! ” —(Drives of with language unfit for a Bishop to list a to —to say nothing of an Archbishop.)


The Bulletin
National Australian Newspaper.
" -Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu l lettn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
terms to subscribers
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
•®y. sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required-
winch you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Blade and White,
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Alaoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
Cs. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special' Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7, 1897.
The “Unearned Increment.”
The various disasters that have lately be-
fallen the New South Wales land-tax have
roused up B. R. Wise, ex-M.L.A., to tell
in the Sydney daily papers a tale about how
that tax came into existence, and the
treachery by which it was created, and its
wickedness and foolishness and want of
scientific incidence, and other things to the
same efiect. Other people have risen to
support Wise, and to contradict him, and to
do other things to him ; and the ghost of
our old friend, the “unearned increment,”
together with other spectres that have
troubled the local world but little of late,
loom out of the mists of controversy. B. R.
Wise’s objection to the impost itself, lodged
presumably on behalf of the Single-tax
party, may be best told in his own words :
The land-tax, as passed into law, is so different in
principle from that which was recoin mended to the elec-
tors that, quite apart from carelessness in drafting and
mistakes in form, it has an altogether different scope to
which the previous arguments are not intelligently refer-
able. It is avowedly a tax upon land as a species of pro-
perty—a taking away from the owner a part of that which
he has bought and paid for. The land-tax recommended
to the country was a tax only upon the betterment. If
there was no betterment there was to be no tax; but if
there was a betterment, then it was thought reasonable
and just that a portion of that which the State had given to
the owner by the expenditure of public monevs should
come back to the State in the form of taxation. From
the application of this principle no one was to be exempt
and no complicated machinery was to be required to
bring it into operation, since every owner was to assess
himself, subject to a right of purchase by the Government
at an advance upon his valuation, or, possibly, by private
persons at a greater advance.
* * * *
According to B. R. Wise, Premier Reid
virtually pledged himself to impose, not a
tax on land but a tax on the enhanced value
given to land by circumstances for which the
owner was not responsible. In other
words, he pledged himself to tax only the
betterment, or the unearned increment
and then he meanly went back on his pledge
for sordid reasons which won’t bear inspec-
tion. As Premier Reid’s version of the
story has not been heayd yet, his alleged
back-down is a matter of some uncertainty •
but The Bulletin takes comparatively little
interest in that part of the question. What
it is mainly interested in is the sudden resur-
rection of its venerable acquaintance, the
Unearned Increment. This world is mostly
governed by phrases ; almost any creed which
has a crisp little gag attached to it can main-
tain some kind of existence on the strength
of it. Bi-metallism lives to a great extent
on such expressions as “ the yellow man with
the white money ” and “ the white man with
tke yellow money ” ; and “ the crime of
1873 ” also comes in handy. The Single-tax
party has valuable assets in the terms “ bet-
terment ” and “ unearned increment,” and
in the good, old, hopelessly-exploded argu-
ment, ‘‘all wealth comes from the land.”
All wealth doesn’t come from the land, for
land without water is mere Sahara and pro-
duces practically nothing ; wealth comes
from moisture and atmosphere and sunlight
and human agency and land ; but the phrase
goes on just the same. Similarly, one of the
agencies which won Cleveland his second
Presidential election was the war-cry of
‘‘ Franky and her baby ” ; it meant nothing
in particular, but it was a good, loud phrase,
and did some service. And, a/rrupos of
Phrases in general, The Bulletin desires
just here to damn the unearned increment
and all its equivalents in the Single-tax
vocabulary, as an expression that has been
done to death until it has become a weari-
ness to the flesh and a burden to the spirit.
* * * *
In theory, no doubt, the idea which B. R.
Wise advances is strictly logical. The State
sold much of its land alarmingly cheap as
present ideas go; still it did sell it and it
can’t honorably go back on its bargain.
When the bulk of it was sold nothing was
said about a land-tax ; if anything had been
said the purchaser might have refused to
give even the moderate price demanded in
the early days. To impose a tax on the
whole value of the land means that the State
forcibly takes back part of what it sold and
received payment for, and to a dreadfully
sensitive conscience that is a questionable
proceeding. On the other hand, the “ better-
ment” or the “unearned increment” or
whatever it is called, was not in the original
bond. The land which the State sold in its
unimproved state for £1 an acre may now be
worth 30s. or £lO or £4O or £2OO, still in its
unimproved state. The increase is caused
partly by the increase of population for
w hich the owner isn’t responsible (except in
a limited degree) ; partly by the expenditure
of money for which he also isn’t responsible.
According to the most rigid variety of theo-
letical justice, it is a fair thing to tax this
betterment, or unearned increment, and it is
not fair to tax the original purchase value.
It is a beautiful theory, but the remorseless
logic of Things As They Are interferes very
badly with the application of it.
* * * *
The betterment is a legitimate object of
taxation when it can be got at and located,
but in most cases it has dispersed in many
directions, and the person who got it can’t
be found. The State sold its land to the first
pioneer. Smith, at (say) £1 an acre, in the
40’s. Smith sold out to Brown at £4 in the
60's, and disappeared with his share of the
unearned increment or the betterment, and
his present address is the universe generally.
Brown passed the land on to Jones at £8
and died, and his descendants dissipated the
money, and the present residence of the
family is at the soim-kitchen or looking in
the dust-bin at night for broken meat.
Jones mortgaged it to a bank at a value of
£l2 an acre, and lost the money silver-boom-
ing, and Jones’s earthly tenement is an
unmarked grave somewhere or other, because
he didn’t leave enough increment to pay for
a tombstone. The bank liquidated, and the
land was finally passed on to the present
holder at £4O an acre, and has since gone
back in value to £2O. Therefore, there has
been a betterment of £l9 an acre, possibly
arising entirely through the expenditure of
btate money around the property, but the
only man who can be got at in respect of it is
the present holder of the property, and his
share of it is less than nothing. Considering
the enormous amount of land which changed
hands in the boom days, and the enormous
and unanimous slump which has taken place
since then, it is probable that a third or one-
half of the present landholding community
hasn’t got any unearned increment whatever.
On the other hand, there are cases where the
value of land has remained practically
stationary, and where the acres which were
sold for 20s. many years ago are not, worth
quite 30s. to-day, and never have been worth
more. Consequently, if it is proposed to make
the present holder liable for the unearned
increment (and he is the only person who
could be made liable), the man above-
described who had lost £2O an acre would be
taxable on £l9, or 95 per cent, of the value
of lus property ; and the other man who lost
nothing would be liable on 10s., or 33 per-
cent. of the value of his property, and there
would be chaos all round.
* * * *
The betterment or unearned increment
would be a fair subject of taxation, if it
could be identified, but it seems to be a great
deal too widely scattered. Some of it is
diowned off the Horn, and some away drink-
ing in Johannesburg, or tacking off a lee
shore in the Chinese seas, or administering
the Dogberry variety of justice from an
English magisterial bench. It has melted in
the Cosing colony of Paraguay, and frozen
on the new goldfields of the Yukon, and
vanished among Westralian wild-cat pro-
moters in London. Except in the compara-
tively rare cases where property has remained
m tlie same family for a long series of years,
the betterment can seldom be traced in any
satisfactory fashion. Taxing it, in a vast
number of cases, would only mean taxing the
man who hasn't got any betterment, because
he bought his property from the man who
did get it, or who came after the man who got
it. 1 his is how it would work out if the tax
was levied on the betterment which has
already accrued. The matter might be put
on a basis of cast-iron justice by starting
fioni present values, and simply taxing all
future unearned increment, but in that case
the land-tax, as a source of revenue, would
be worth next to nothing for years to come,
and wouldn’t pay expenses in its earlier
stages.
* * » *
Taxation in the main is a coarse, sordid
effort to get money. To prevent the public
kicking too hard an attempt is made to dis-
tribute the burden with some semblance of
equity, and to get the money with the least
amount of injury to the community, but
when the question lies between pure theore-
tical justice and getting money, theoretical
justice generally has to go down. The land-
tax, as B. R. Wise points out, is “a tax on
land as a species of property ; ” if it wasn’t a
species of property, and therefore of some
cash value, probably very few people would
pay any tax on it, and the threat that it
would be seized and sold in case of non-
payment would be of very little value. It is
also, as B. R. Wise points out, a “ taking
away from the owner a part of that which he
has bought and paid for.” A tax has to be
a taking away of something from somebody ;
if the btate didn’t take away something from
somebody it obviously wouldn’t get anything
from anybody. And it must take away some-
thing that the owner has bought and paid
for, or that his ancestors bought and paid for,
the sufficient reason being that the goods
which are acquired dishonestly or without
payment each year in this small community,
even if the State could find them all and
take them away, wouldn’t cover the cost of
Government or anything distantly resembling
it. And, considering that the people are the
State and are really taking away some of
their own property from themselves to give
it to themselves for their own use, the griev-
ance doesn’t look so very bad after all.' The
IST.S. W. land-tax is probably a coarse and
unscientific grabbing after ready money, but
that seems unavoidable. And it has one
great recommendation : it isn’t decorated
with beautiful phraseology about unearned
increment and similar learned wearinesses.
Whatever evils and imperfections there may
be about Premier Reid’s land-tax, the fact
that it leaves out all mention of the unearned
increment will always be remembered in its
favor.
The Turner Government: A Wail
“ R.P.S,” writes in a bitter spirit as follows :
The dearth of large-brained and clean-handed Demo-
crats is very noticeable at the present time, and no surer
proof of this could be given than Tub Bulletin’s adula-
tion, off and on, of the Victorian Ministry. Sir Hodge
Turner is elevated to the plane of Higinbotham and
Ballance, and the result of a fortunate accident is set
down to the credit of his statesmanship. After having
fairly committed itself to Turner, The Bulletin was
placed in a nasty position by the idol’s acceptance of a
Knighthood. An attempt was made to minimise the
force of the blow. The shabbily-dressed, unambitious
Premier on whom the unsought honor was thrust, etc.
would probably, by his contemptuous indifference for it’
do more to bring the title into disrepute than the
scornful refusal of another, and so on. The said im-
ambitious Premier, whose own remarks on tus dis-
inclination for power seem to have been accepted
at face-value by The Bulletin, belongs to the
freemasons, the Orange Lodge, the Foresters
and the Natives, and also to the St. Hilda Council. It was
his modest desire for seclusion, no doubt, which drove
him from the fierce glare of domestic life to those lonely
places of obscurity. As for his statesmanship, it consisted
of sitting tight and doing nothing. Turner came in on a
rising market, and he just sat and watched it rise. Vic-
toria, with its great natural resources, could not be kept
down for ever. To hasten on the results of this beneficent
statesmanship, the Westralian craze developed, and the
unemployed problem was solved. A sum ranging up to
£.30,000 a month poured into the colony, and the unem-
ployed, instead of beiny a clog*, as on previous Govern-
ments, became a buoy, assisting Sir George and crew to
float.
Peacock, in Bulletin parlance, is the “brainy” Pea-
cock. <^uery—the “zany” Peacock? He brought in a
Factories Act, which is more or less a botch, owing to
numerous provisions for evasion, and a Saturdav half-
holiday scheme which was a failure. He also displayed a
Legree sort of talent for flogging up the underpaid female
slaves of the Education Department, who have no votes.
Then Isaacs (of the double somersault), popularly sup-
posed to be, alter the Age, the brains of the Ministry
and who wins Bulletin praise for stern incorruptibility'
goes round witli the hat cadging Salvation Army votes’
In fact, public posturing and vote-cadging are more
characteristic of this Government than of any for a long
time. That it has travelled so far on its press-lauded
imaginary virtues is due to the steadfast, natural inevi-
table recovery which Victoria lias been making from the
ills of the depression, which recovery is actua ly ascribed
to the talents of a Ministry which had as little to do with
it as they have witli the rising of the tide.
The rest of the gang are merely gapstoppers. Cimi-
BERT and Best are nobodies, and Duffy is hauled into the
team to please the Catholic party, which is suffering more
than any other body from the absolute lack of a good
public man of its creed. At the same time, The Bulletin
is unjust to him, and has caused disgust by allowing itself
to be dragged at Syme's chariot-wheel and converted into
a weekly echo of the Age, which bitterly and venomously
hates Duffy for being the son of his father and for bein'---
Irish and Catholic. "
The success of Victoria's Ministers is due to the associa-
tion, or set of associations, to which nearly every member
belongs. In regard to the “ unambitious ” Turner this is
particularly the case, (woof his associations being secret
societies, whieh are the curse of this province. Another
cause is that our politicians, like the Age and The Bulle-
tin have sensitive ears cocked for the first whisper of
public opinion. Those who appear to rule, and those who
pretend to direct, are themselves ruled and directed by
the opinions or inclinations of the masses, whose shaiii
leaders they are.
*’* * .
This is a fair sample of many letters which
come to The Bulletin office on political
subjects in general, and the writer is a fair
sample of the unintelligent individual who
can’t understand the existence of a paper which
has no party ties whatever. The business
of a party paper is to uphold everything its own
man does, even when he does wrong, and to
amn everything the other man does even when
he does right. Therefore, the party paper, ii
it generally approved of Turner or anybody
else, would have to approve of him always—
unless he left his party. The Bulletin, not
being a party paper, hasn’t “committed itself”
to lurner or anybody else. It isn’t bound to
admire him all the time or to curse him all the
time, and it only keeps on admiring him
because it feels so inclined up to date. Being
absolutely independent it was able to tell the
sohd truth about Turner’s title—that he
sbouldn t have taken the mangy gewgaw which
wiH probably drag him down in the end to
political lophet—but that, as he never labelled
himself a Democrat, or said he wouldn’t take a
title or openly derided titles in general, he
stood in a better position than certain other
1 renders who had done all these things. If
this isn t solid fact then the wild correspondent
above-mentioned is invited to explain what the
solid facts really are.
r * * *
The Bulletin is perfectly aware that, as a
Democratic paper, it is a woeful disappoint-
ment to many. A popular idea of a Democratic
paper is one whose career is one long streak of
damn-blast and sulphurous adjectives, which is
against everything except the shearer and the
pick-and-shovel man, which wants to destroy
everything, and whose creed is that everything
done by the horny-handed person is right, and
everything done by everyone else is wrong.
Not being pledged to uphold any party, whether
right or wrong, The Bulletin never got into
that frame of mind. It objects to Orangemen
and lawyers, and knights and Freemasons in
general, but it declines to lie about Turner’s
able financial policy, even though he is a lawyer
and an Orangeman, and a knight and P.C., and
a ridiculously-gewgawed Freemason and various
other things. It never undertook to go back
on its own opinions, even for the sake of differ-
ing from the Age. If the Age likes to hold the
same views as The Bulletin on manv matters,
and to be a daily echo of The Bulletin, this
paper won’t change its views on that account,
even if all Victoria is “disgusted” in conse-
quence. In fact, it rather likes to hear that
somebody is disgusted.
* * * »
The Bulletin supports Turner, first and
foremost, on account of his financial policy. He
didn’t “ come in on a rising market; ” no more
stupid statement was ever uttered. He came
in upon the worst falling market these pro-
vinces have seen for many years. It fell lor
two years after he assumed office. Shiels, with
over £1,200,000 more revenue than Turner
received in his worst year, had .£700,000 deficit ;
Monro, with £1,800,000 more revenue had
nearly £BOO,OOO deficit; Patterson, with
£200,000 more revenue, had £600,000 deficit.
Turner took hold when things were going
down to the very lowest, and made ends meet
all but an inconsiderable fraction. His biggest
deficit was £330,000, and as £250,000 of that
was created by the repayment of Shiels’
Treasury bills lie really only went £BO.OOO to
leeward. No Treasurer in these provinces for
25 years past has faced such a stupendous diffi-
culty and done it so well. It was done parl ly
by levying new taxation, and mostly by hard
cheese-paring economy, but there were no other
ways of doing it, and there was no other man,
until Turner appeared, who had the courage
to do it. Yet in three years, even in these
desperately hard times, when the temptation
to fill the gap by borrowing was well-nigh
irresistible, he spent only £550,000 of loan
money just about as much as even the
best of his immediate predecessors was ac-
customed to spend in a single year. Squar-
ing the finances, in bad times, is the most
thankless work going ; also it is the most
essential duty of a Democratic Government,
ciim the one most neglected. It is compurti-
tively easy to whoop through Democratic legis-
lation that costs nothing and brings plenty of
applause and advt. But to face the eternal
grind of making 9d. do the work of a
shilling, to be constantly groping for the
odd half-penny, to be cursed by one-half
of the community for levying new taxation and
by the other for inventing new economies—to
be a miser and a money-grubber for the good of
posterity when it is so much easier to float a
big loan, and shove enough ordinary expendi-
ture into loan charges to make ends meet, and
have a large, beautiful, dishonest surplus—is a
very different thing.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s good opinion of the Turner
Government is based further on its income-tax
policy ; its valuable Companies Act, which
tackled a glaring evil with very good effect ;
its State Land Bank,-; its minimum wage
policy ; it's Factories Act; its support of the
b ederation movement; and many other things.
As regards the factories Act, it is easy enough
for any unintelligent, splashy correspondent
to call it a “botch” without giving any sem-
blance of a reason, but when a meeting was
called in Melbourne recently to condemn it the
result was a solid vote given in its favor, so ap-
parently the people who live under it regard
it with a certain amount of approval. The
lurner Government may not have a very kum
list of valuable reforms at its credit, yet it lias
more than any other Ministry in Australia or
l asmama and the things it has accomplished in
t le way of adjusting the finances are sufficient
in itself to account for most of its time. The
theory that the Premier who did such splendid
work in stopping the drift towards national in-
solvency owes his success solely to his associa-
tion with secret societies is ludicrous.
* * * '.
Cutiibert, no doubt, is a man of not much
account, but, at the same time, he looks the
best, or nearly the best, man available to repre-
sent the Government in the Council, which
contains little talent and is, in the main, bitterly
hostile to boot. Some of the other Ministers
are also of small account; it is difficult to find
ten superlative geniuses in a small Legislature *
but, on the whole, the present Victorian
Ministry is head and shoulders above the
average Australian Cabinet. The £3O 000 a
month which now comes into Victoria from
W. A. doesn t account, as “ R.P.S.” alleges for
the success of Turner, as compared with
Shiels, Munro, and others ; in their days there
was about £lOO,OOO per month more of borrowed
money coming in from England than comes in
now. therefore the influx is £70,000 less than it


wa g__not <£30,000 more. Even now, though
things are better than they were and a distinct
re covery has set in, that infallible barometer,
tlie State revenue, shows that they are not so
rood as they were in the days of Munro,
g HIKLS , and Patterson ; so the story of Turner
d Co. living on the “natural return of
prosperity” is mere Ananias. The present
Yie. Ministry faced the three worst years
of drought and ruin and slump the province
lias seen in the last quarter-century. It practi-
cally squared the finances when its predecessors,
with far larger resources, went headlong to
ruin- dispensed almost wholly with the
ruinous borrowing policy, and, even if it doesn’t
advertise itself as a Democratic Government,
its policy has been Democratic throughout. Its
successes have been its own ; its failures have
been mostly owing to a Council which was
beyond its control. And, though Turner is a
K C.M.G., a P.C., Freemason, Orangeman, and
police-court solicitor, and though Isaacs (whose
alleged “ double somersault ” “ R..P.5.” doesn’t
explain) is a lawyer, and Cuthbert a nonentity,
and Peacock an individual with a kookaburra
laiudi, who poisons the minds of the State-
school children with idiotic grovel per medium
of the State School Paper, The Bulletin
hereby gives them as much support as it is
capable of, and will continue doing so while
their record remains as good on the average
as it has been up to date.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Democratise the Municipalities!
Victorian candidates are stumping for the
Vic. municipal elections in August. Are the
socialistic and other democratic ratepayers
doin'* anything in the matter ? The munici-
pality has proved a magnificent object of
attack in England on a much narrower fran-
chise. Why should it not be captured here?
The serious flaws in the present constitution
of Vic. municipalities are as follows :
1. Only those liable to be rated and who have paid
their rates by the 10th June in each year are allowed to
vote.
2. Some ratepayers have two and others three votes.
3. There is a property-qualification for councillors.
4. Lodgers and residents, other than ratepayers, have
no votes.
5. There is no power to rate land on the “ unin p.-oved
land-value” basis.
Most of this could be easily altered by forcing
the Councils to petition for their alteration.
Parliament couldn’t withstand this. And an
alteration of the personnel of the Councils by
the united efforts of the democratic ratepayers
is the first requisite to such petitions. The
following questions asked at every election
meeting would both prepare the ratepayers for
the change, and gradually bring about the
change itself :
1. Are you in favor of every person liable to be rated
being entitled to vote, whether he has paid his rates or
not ?
2. Are you in favor of one adult one vote at municipal
elections?
3. Are you in favor of rating being based on the unim-
proved value of lands in the municipality ?
A great many councillors will be afraid to
answer the first question otherwise than in the
affirmative, and, though they may hum and ha
about the other two safely enough for a time,
gaining the first will soon mean the rest. A
lodger, and even a residence franchise, may
then be hoped for. And after ? Well, then it
may be wise to try to open the councils’ eyes to
the extensive powers they have already got in
socialistic directions, and to extend said powers.
Another appropriate question just now shouldn’t
be forgotten :
Are you in favor of a minimum-wage clause being in-
serted in all municipal contracts ?
The Murderer's Mash.
Social Purity societies have a choice subject
for moral discourse in the Eaglehawk (Vic.)
mystery, which is now solved, to the Law’s
satisfaction, by a jury verdict of wilful murder
against Charles Hall. The probable guilt, or
possible innocence, of the condemned man in
this case is a question apart from the abso-
lutely certain folly of his sexual unrighteous-
ness, and the pale, clammy saints who look for
social “sin” through gimlet-holes may con
gratulate themselves not so much upon Hall’s
conviction as upon the evidence that brought it
to pass. Charles Hall was a miner, young,
married, inconstant. One morning his wife was
found dead — Hall himself being the first to
announce the discovery—with her head in a
bucket, and the circumstances were altogether
so suggestive of the poor woman having been
done to death that her husband presently
tried for the alleged murder. The Crown
prosecution brought to light a reasonable ap-
pearance of motive for such a crime in the
person of a barmaid who admitted her-
self to be Hall’s enslaver, and laid bare
the facts of the amorous connection. She
had borne a baby by another man, and the
impecunious Hall helped her to pay for its
support. She took his money, and wrote, at his
suggestion, an anonymous letter to Mrs. Hall
with a view to bringing about a divorce. All
this she told to the Court at Hall’s first
trial, which ended in the jury’s disagreement
on the vital issue. Hall was tried a second
time, before another Judge and jury, and this
time the girl of his heart gave evidence which
doomed him. Claiming to have been aggrieved
by her severe cross-examination at the first
trial, she now said to prisoner’s counsel—“ I
have myself to consider. You did not consider
me in the Supreme Court at Bendigo. I am
not giving this additional evidence out of
revenge, although it is partly, but not solely,
the reason.” The indignant barmaid—partly
out of revenge for the publication of her
damaged reputation, forsooth ! —stated that
Hall once asked her to get sixpennyworth of
strychnine wherewith to poison his wife, also
that he had casually remarked— re the poor
woman’s tendency to cramp in the stomach—
“ if he put her head in a tub of water no one
would have the slightest suspicion ” With
these additional confessions before them
the second jury found Hall guilty. In the cell
dedicated to hanging cases Charles Hall is at
liberty to muse upon his wasted crime, and
wonder why he could have brought himself to
kill a faithful, affectionate little woman for the
purpose of putting the barmaid in her
place. If the Law’s last dread sentence be
duly carried out, Halt, will die penitent, with-
out a doubt. Penitence must surely have been
thrust upon the prisoner when the sweetheart
he had longed and crimed for put a rope around
his neck—partly out of revenge for her out-
raged womanly feelings ! There is but one
consolation for Charles Hall in his misery.
The thought that he might have lived to marry
the fascinaling young creature from behind the
bar.
Exported Products.
The rejection of the Exported Products Bill by
the Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords is a
noble example of crass ignorance and stupidity
and several other things which it would pos-
sibly be impolite to mention. The 48 Rich
Landlords, as a rule, look on any bill sent up
by the Turner Government with grave doubt,
as something that is liable to have democratic
tendencies or other explosives concealed about
it, and their first idea is always to throw it out
on suspicion. And the Exported Products Bill
was thrown out on suspicion. Yet it was a
purely business measure, which was simply cal-
culated to bring more money into the country
and then let the Fat Man and the Lean Man
scramble for possession of it when it arrived,
with every chance that the Eat Man would
get the larger share of it. There wasn’t
a semblance of any political instinct—
Democratic, Tory, or otherwise—about it.
Victoria, like the other six provinces, lives
and struggles to pay its interest bill by means
of its exports. Most of the produce it exports
is of the best quality, but here and there some
dunderheaded individual—generally a small
producer of the Democratic class which the 48
Rich Landlords utterly detest, who hasn’t the
means or the knowledge to get the best appli-
ances—sends to England bad butter or inferior
fruit or ill-flavored cheese or other rubbish, and
t his, being sold as Victorian, brings down the
value of Vic. produce in general. If all ex-
ported Vic. produce could be guaranteed as
excellent, it is reckoned that the extra prices
which it would realise would bring probably
.£5OO, OOOor some other large sum more per annum
into the province. The obvious way to secure this
uniform excellence is to prohibit the export of
goods which can’t pass a rigid inspection. This
only means blocking a very small quantity of
produce which often doesn’t realise enough to
pay freights, and which does little or no good
to the exporter himself, while doing much harm
to other people. The Exported Products Bill
was built on these lines, and, barring that
eternal minority, Murray Smith, M.L.A., it
passed the Assembly almost without opposition.
Its one audible opponent in the Council was
dull-witted Rupert Clarke, who urged no
objection to the Bill as a business proposition,
but asked if it was actually proposed to prevent
a free citizen sending any goods he had to sell
to any market he pleased, in any condition that
he liked. And this made it so clear to
the 48 Rich Landlords that the measure was a
sinful interference with the Liberty of the Sub-
ject that it was thrown out by 13 votes to 12.
Yet the Bill was mainly for the benefit of
the obtuse politicians who gave it so cold
a reception. They are all rich men, and
many of them large exporters. Being rich,
and blessed with much more business know-
ledge than political acumen, and able to get the
best appliances and to hire expert assistance,
their goods are probably almost always shipped
in the best condition. But small men, with
antiquated methods and obsolete appliances,
send goods to England which give Vic. produce
in general a bad name, and keep down prices.
Therefore the goods of the 48 Rich Landlords
fetch less than their value, and these bloated
persons are robbed of the money which would
otherwise come their way, and the want of that
money makes the country more depressed than
it need be, and, as a consequence, the value of
the Fat Man’s property is lower and his bank-
shares are less valuable than they should be, and
all manner of bad things happen to him. The
Exported Products Bill was a device to enable
every Vic. exporter to get the highest possible
value for his goods, and as the Fat Man and his
banks and finance co.’s own most of Victoria,
he would have reaped the largest part of the
benefit. The spectacle of Rupert Clarke
indignantly asking why other men shouldn’t be
allowed to damage his interests if they want to
—for that is exactly what his attitude amounted
to —is very fine indeed.
The Court of Appeal.
On the motion of (lawyer) Minister Car-
ruthers, who is fast moving every great or
useful idea out of the Federation scheme,
N.S.W. Assembly decided that there ought to
be no Federal Court of Appeal, but that the old
system of appeal to the British Privy Council
should continue. The same three arguments
which are always served up when this subject
is on the board did duty as usual. Car-
ruthers observed that it was advisable “ to
remove appeal cases from all possibility of bias
which was imperceptibly derived from local
surroundings.” The fact that the Privy
Council might have imperceptible bias from its
own local surroundings was not mentioned.
And as Privy Council appeals are only allowed
in the very few civil cases where £5OO or
more is involved, it apparently doesn’t matter
whether the other 99 per cent, or so of legal
decisions are biassed or not. Crick and
Haynes both lamented that the abolition of
Privy Council appeals would “ sever one more
of the ties which bind us to the empire.” And
Crick and Ewing asked, tragically, if we had
any right to deprive four or five million people
of “ the right 'to appeal for the redress of
wrongs to the highest Court of the empire? ”
This good old wheeze implies, of course, that it
is always the party with justice on his side who
appeals, and that it is never a case of having
the redress of urgent wrongs indefinitely post-
poned till the other man has exhausted all
possibilities of “ appeal to the highest Court of
the empire.” Moreover, it assumes that
the four or five million people have
the aforesaid right of appeal as matters
now stand, whereas not one-twentieth of
them possess it. No one has any right of appeal
to the Privy Council which is worth a copper
for practical purposes, unless he is rich enough
to put up the necessary security for costs and
to have £5OO worth of property involved in a
law-suit. To the great bulk of the community
the right of appeal to the Privy Council is just,
as practical as the right to become King of
Great Britain and Ireland, and Emperor of
India, &c. Every individual subject of the
empire has an absolute right to become King if
he can get up a large enough rebellion to upset
the present dynasty and force Parliament to
entail the crown on himself and his heirs in the
usual form. No amount of written or printed
law can make any headway against that argu-
ment. And to the ordinary subject one privi-
lege is of just about as much practical value as
the other.
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent “ J.”
is under the erroneous impression that the
claims in the N.S. W. cyanide patent are identi-
cal with those in the British patent; and, as
the whole of his contention is based on this
misapprehension, it is valueless. “ J.” says in
reply to my letter : “A technical slip was
made in including in the specifications this bad
claim,” etc. Allow me to inform him that
the N.S.VV. specification contains no other
claim —the second claim in the English specifi-
cations for a certain dilute solution does not
appear in the N.S. W. patent. Concerning
claim 1 of the English patent —which, as I have
stated, is the only claim in the N.S. W. specifi-
cations—the High Court of Appeal in England
held (9th April, ’95) that the “ claim 1 wherein
plaintiff claimed generally the use of cyanide
in solution to extract gold from ore was too
wide, and was useless, and therefore bad.”—
Arthur Griffith.
Practically the Mine Accidents Commission
incjuiry at Broken Hill petered out. One or
two union officers gave evidence warily, and,
of course, all the mine managers ; but of the
general body of men none except a few out-of-
works who had recently been discharged came
forward. The mine-owners’ attorney promised
that no workman should suffer now or in the
future for giving “ true” evidence ; but as the
workman’s idea of what is true probably differs
from the employer’s, and as the employer
might easily decide that all the evidence
which told against him wasn’t true and
act according, the workmen prudently held
their tongues. One union official who had
been selected to represent the surface workmen
at the inquiry attended to the business
instead of to his mine work, and was
promptly sacked. The two or three who did
give unfavorable evidence were as promptly de-
nounced as frauds and failures ; and in con-
tempt apparently of the whole proceedings the
surface men’s representative suggested that the
inquiry had better be wound up. So Judge
Murray raced through the remaining witnesses
and got back to Sydney.
Attorney-General Isaacs seems to be doing
as much as an able draftsman can do to ensure
the carrying out of the intention of Yic. Par-
liament re the minimum wage in Government
contracts. He has just remodelled the con-
ditions for Treasury contracts, and it is under-
stood the Public Works and Railway conditions
are to be altered similarly. The new wording
makes the Treasurer sole judge as to whether
the spirit of the contract has been carried out,
and allows him, without waiting for cumber-
some proceedings before a court of law, to
deduct wages found to be owing from progress
payments or the deposit. There is, however,
one thing badly needed in connection with the
minimum-wage provisions. It is to give the
workmen interested a right to appear as
parties interested in cases where the mini-
mum wage is involved. At present, as
the contract which has the minimum wage
condition in it is only between the department
and the contractor, the workman has no stand-
ing in the courts at all, and, as the provisions
were intended by Parliament solely for his
benefit and as a right which he could claim, it
is absolutely necessary, if the minimum wage
condition is not to become a farcical one at
the hands of an unsympathetic Treasurer, that
the men should personally be able to claim
arrears as a right. The present effect of the
minimum wage provisions in both Government
and municipal contracts is apparently to pro-
duce an abundant, almost universal, crop of
perjury among contractors, managers, and
workmen. The honest contractor is squeezed
out by the man who is prepared to swear any-
thing (generally by proxy), while the workman
has to swear he got his minimum-wage, or
starve.
An American magazine, The Cosmopolitan,
sent Julian Hawthorne, a w'ell-known Ameri-
can writer, to enquire into the causes of the
Indian famine, and thus sums up in its July
number the results of his investigations :
We are compelled to recognise that, if Mr. Hawthorne
is a competent observer, British rule in India is of the
clumsiest and least intelligent order. The impression
made upon the mind from reading the story here told is
that the government has been administered with a view
to revenue, rather than by minds deeply intent on giving
happiness to the hundreds of millions of India—by well-
meaning, indifferently-educated, haphazard officials, who
want to avoid mutiny and such civil troubles as would
scandalise Christendom, while collecting the revenues
carefully and getting all the personal enjoyment possible
out of their own clubs and limited foreign society.
All sorts of little problems seem to have been taken up
in a fair-enough-minded way; but the great problem of
these millions of almost helpless creatures, with its plan
solving their destinies upon the broadest social principles,
seems scarcely, if at all, to have been touched—though,
it is, perhaps, not quite fair for us to criticise too severely,
at this distance, these servants of Government, who are
doubtless doing their best with the facilities at their com-
mand.
But of Enqland—the nation—we have the right to de-
mand : “ Why should this be so ? ”
The mental and physical photographs which Mr. Haw-
thorne has brought back are pictures of inconceivable
conditions. Doubtless similar horrors have existed in the
world’s history, but no record has been left sufficiently
authentic to bring them vividly to our understandings.
In the photographs there is told a story of human misery
and suffering beyond which nothing more terrible can be
pictured. It is said that millions of people are thus slowly
perishing of want while their fellow-subjects, ruled by the
same Gracious Queen and Empress, are preparing to spend
in display enough millions of pounds to save the loss of
every life
What is this sham of a Christianity which knows of
these horrors and yet fails to raise its hand in protest ?
What is this sham of a civilisation which countenances
such inequalities? What is this boasted society which,
by its heartless expenditures at such a time, proves itself
so innately vulgar?
What the daily press is too “ respectable ” to
print otherwise than as an “ American story ”
of the Duke of York’s alleged morganatic
marriage, figured extensively in the English
press, some time back, with tolerably precise
indications of the distinguished official paternity
of the lady who, with her two children, was
said to have been calmly shunted when the
Duke of Clarence’s death made it dynastieally
desirable that York should mate with his
brother’s betrothed almost before “ poor
Clarence was a-cold ! ” L’he alleged first
marriage—being with a “subject”—would be
illegal, in any case ; and the whole miserable
story, if true, would simply demonst rate that
Dynasticism—which ordained that the Pi olemies,
themselves the offspring of royal incest, should
marry only their own sisters —is just as shame-
lessly ready, in its own interests, to-dav to put
its sexual relations upon the level of the beasts
of the field ! And, now that this characteristic
GuELPH-story has had public attention focussed
on it afresh by a clever “ allusion novel,” the
“ silent-contempt ” device won’t work any
longer. The thing has got to be officially and
categorically denied—if it can be !
>
To The Bulletin from Albany, W.A.:—
You recently said that the Forrest Government is about
to make a big effort to divert the mail steamers from
Albany to Fremantle, and that Albany and districts would
offer lively objection. What about the other provinces
objecting to the proposed diversion ? I send you a copy
of the clauses of the new contract, dealing with this
point, and you will see that, if the mail steamers go to
Fremantle, they get an allowance of time above the con-
tract time. Westralia gets the English mails at least
three days before S.A., and is able to post at least three
days later. It was understood that one of the main
points of the new contract was a quicker service, and yet,
merely to gratify the vanity of the Perth and Fremantle
people, all the other provinces are willing to suffer delay.
Nobody believes that the mail steamers can safely use
Fremantle harbor, but, as John Forrest desires them to
do so, people are looking for a miracle. When Forrest
took office, he made a wild plunge. He passed railways
to Southern Cross and to Mullens (Murciiison-road), and
the miracles of the Coolgardie arid Murchison fol-
lowed ; and, since then, every blunder he has committed
has been covered by a miracle of the same sort. And now
the people believe that he cannot do wrong. No man who
was not regarded somewhat, in the light, of a deity could
have persuaded the old Westralians who filled the Assem-
bly in last Parliament to vote two and a-half millions to
pump water 360 miles at the rate of 5,000,000 gallons
(or 22,000 tons) a day, and sell it at 3s. 6d. per 1000 gallons,
or 4Jd. per ton !! They are looking for the usual miracle
in regard to this scheme, and also as to Fremantle harbor
scheme, which is being carried out in direct defiance
of the opinion of the late John Coode. When the old
Westralians find that John Forrest is not a god, then
things in this province may fall again into their natural
condition. The frantic desire to get the mail steamers to
Fremantle and to supply the fields with water from near
Perth arises from fear of Esperance. It is felt that the
day of Esperance must come, and it is believed that if the
mails and the water of Coolgardie come from Perth they
will form two strong ties between the new districts and
the old.
The Gospel of the Lash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[The recent severe flogging- of two prisoners at Fre-
mantle (W.A.) for the hideously-unnatural offence of
making a dash for liberty (without using violence) puts
up a record even for the gory Gospel of the Lash. There
isn’t, at best, any more logic in punishing an attempt to
break gaol than in chastising an effort to get rid of a
disease ; and, though the shooting at an escaping prisoner
may be taken, constructively, as an attempt to detain
him, the deliberate torturing of him when again safely
under key is a senseless barbarity worthy only of a com-
munity which, like Lagland, has been taught by its leg-
iron traditions to consider personal liberty as more or lesr
of an accursed thing, anyhow.]
To all who cross the border
Of the law, in moments rash,
We, the Friends of Laic and Order,
Preach the Gospel of the Lash.
With serpent-like hiss ! hiss !
The Lash swings in the air ;
’Twill kiss with bloody kiss
The victim’s body bare.
His heart with fearful throbs
Is beating, and we note
How suffocating sobs
Are bursting from his throat.
Let him curse in desperation,
And his teeth in anguish gnash !
But Society’s Salvation
Is the Gospel of the Lash.
Ho, Blogger, see that you
Your shoulders open well!
Put pith in what you do,
His rebel spirit quell !
If in his breast remain
Of human love a spark,
Bring down the lash again
And quench that in the dark !
If he’s still above brute-level
Stripe and score him, cut and gash,
Till ye make of him a devil !
’Tis the Gospel of the Lash.
He’s poor ? Then full of vice
He must be, art and part,
So up the scoundrel trice !
Cut out the ruffian’s heart!
He swoons ? He mustn’t swoon ;
He’s yot to feel his pain,
A few more cuts will soon
Restore his wits again.
To the Flogger then we fling him,
To be mangled to a hash ;
For the tidings glad we bring him
Is the Gospel of the Lash.
But when the man who sports
Silk hat and coat of black
Arrives within your courts
Touch not his tender back.
He may have been sent there
For hell’s most hideous sin,
But never, never dare
To touch his sacred skin !
Never flog the well-connected,
Flog alone the common trash,
Let the Black Coat be respected
Is the Gospel of the Lash.
Humanitarians’ cries
For mercy do not heed,
For we —the Rich and Wise—
Say Flogging is our creed !
“ Thu Lord will gauge your worth,”
Prates each presumptuous elf—
Why, when He came on earth
We flogged the Lord Himself!
For the world’s regeneration"
Kindness isn’t worth a dash !
Sirs, the only true salvation
Is the Gospel of the Lash.
CREEVE ROE.


What You Pay
Ladies’ Glace Kid Lace or Button
Shoes —
12/0, 13/6, 16/6
Ladies’ Tan :Laee Shoes
13/6, 14/6, 19/-
Gent’s Tan Lace Boots —
19/6, 21/-, 23/6, 25/-
Gent’s Patent Pumps—
-10/6, 12/6, 17/6
for a thing is something ; but what you get for
your money is everything.
Judged by wear, comfort, and good appearance,
Callaghan Boots
are everything desirable-
Why not try them 1
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
AUSTRALASIAN DEPART RENT s
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £18,202,081,
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income ;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life •
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years
and to be free from business cares.
hor detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager , at the
Company s Building , Martin's Place , Sydney, or at any
oj the branch Offices —
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
lij Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 Kino William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
93 Macquarii Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only .£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
An
IDEAL
Portrait
Means all that Art and
Science can produce in
the latest methods of
Photography.
We leave the Framing
to you
Our efforts are solely
directed to the product-
ion of Perfect Portraits
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,"\
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- (
ment in Permanent Bromide Or (
Opal Any style or pose. No extras^
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no STAIRS )
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS 8
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Gay Parisienne."
2; ivoll Rickards’ Variety Co.
® OYAI ' “The Brand of Cain.”
Criterion Professor Bristol’s Edu-
cated Horses and Mules.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Sign of the Cross.”
® OYAL The Flying Jordans.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
8ij0u.... “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Town Hall Hambourg Concerts.
The first night in Sydney of the ‘ ‘ Gay
Parisienne” crowded Her Majesty’s to the last
extreme, and set one wondering how things would
go if the supports of the gallery suddenly handed
in their resignation and the whole concern tipped
forward and emptied its contents into the stalls.
Judging by present appearances, business ought to
continue prosperous for some time. The “ Parisi-
enne” has all the elements of a good musical
burlesque-farce-comedy, or whatever the proper
name of that gilded nondescript may be. It is
full of frill, and drapery, and snowy underskirt
with flounces on it, and contains a reasonable
amount of song and stocking and dance and
jewellery. A limited selection of plot is inserted
to hold it up. An aggressively British married
man, who staggers under mountains of moral re-
spectability, gets away alone to Paris, and there
takes a fainting girl home in a cab under circum-
stances which call at the top of their voice for
further inquiry. Whereupon he is rushed by a
thin streak of humanity who calls himself the
lady’s husband, and he gets out of it for the
moment by promising marriage, and bolts for his
old home, and the familiar Sunday-school, and
the tabernacle where the Pev. Stiggins holds
forth on Sunday. In the breach-of-promise case
which follows he is struck by heavy damages,
and has to disguise himself as a red-headed
Scotch Highlander and lie low at a Ger-
man spa, where the mineral water tastes
like something dead. A blighted French girl
goes away to wander over the face of the world
without any damages, and her Frenchman, who
hoped to settle down comfortably on the loot,
again makes his precarious crust by sketching ze
German fortification. These few solid facts can
be dug out here and there from the confusion of
much stocking and underskirt with frill on it;
and, having got thus far, the show suddenly goes
mad in Germany for the rest of the even.ng, and
only comes to itself in time to make a hurried
explanation and drop the curtain at a late hour.
* * * *
The dry oones of a burlesque, however,
matter very little ; the only essential is some kind
of framework to hang a lot of mixed frivolities on,
and if the frivolities are all right almost any kind
of dry bone will do for the mere purpose of sus-
pension. The “ Parisienne ” goes with a rush and
a bang and a clatter all through. Ernest Shand’s
Frenchman is.the biggest half of it, and as a
bright, hilarious joke that leggy Gaul is especially
commendable. He is a thing of beauty and a
shriek for ever, and his career is a continuous
jump of three hours’ duration. Why he doesn’t
collapse from sheer exhaustion at 10.30, having
jumped himself to death, is a matter which calls
for explanation. If he were omitted from the
cast, and G. Kignold took his place, it might
possibly dawn on the public that the “Gay
Parisienne ” was an empty thing and of
no account, bqt as matters are it looks about
the brightest affair of its kind which Sydney has
seen since a date which The Bulletin can’t locate
at the moment, the memo, on its shirt-cuff having
been washed off. Miss Ada Willoughby, who is
a good deal of the other half of the show, is a
dream of loveliness. She is a moderate success
from an acting point of view, and a very moderate
one from a singing standpoint, but as a dream she
is all there. George Lauri and Coleman are two
powerful comedians ; and though it is impossible
to disguise the fact that Miss Alice Leamar
doesn't sing “ Sister Mary Ann’s top-note” any-
thing like so well as it was lately done by Maggie
Moore, still she is another good-sized item in the
programme. The fact that people of the calibre
of Misses Juliet Wray and Florence Seymour,
Arthur Lissant, P. Bathurst, George de Lara, and
others, are scattered round in comparatively small
characters only goes to show the lavish fashion in
which the Firm has spread itself over the “ Gay
Parisienne.’' When the show has settled down
somewhat after the howl and riot of the first night,
on which occasion 25 characters and a chorus and a
large orchestra struck the audience in the eye all
at once, this paper will endeavor to further sort
out these people and a lot of other people not yet
particularised. Up to date, however, the general
impression is favorable all round, so the new pro-
duction is hereby let out on light bail pending
further consideration of its case.
** * *
A faint, odor of warm horse is wafted
through the classic theatre where the Second Mrs.
Tanqueray used to work out the tragedy of her
existence, and the comic mule has taken Dot
Boucicault’s place behind the footlights. Those
who remember the Sydney Cri. in the days of its
glory, when Dot played the French count and
Mrs. Brough was the eldest of the Amazons, can
hardly imagine Dynamite, the smallest perform-
ing ass on record, as their successor, but he is
there all the same. The flavor of hot, American
mule is spread over the establishment, and a stout
Amurrikin gentleman and a blind dramatic horse
argue with each other on that historic stage, and
the burlesque mule professes to bite the Amur-
rikin gentleman, and then tries to establish an
alibi by mixing itself up with the operatic mule
so that its proprietor won’t know which was
which. Professor Bristol, in a large, slow way of
his own, is a cute showman who covers up any
deficiencies on the part of the animals by clever
patter, and his team is a very smart mass of horse.
The list of feats is a very long one ; all of them are
clever, and some of them are really astonishing,
and the low comedy mule in particular is an
animal of immense versatility and mental grasp.
All the same, horse palls after a time, and the
show gets through in the presence of depress-
ing thin audiences. Even the fact that a
thing is wholly remarkable, isn’t in itself
sufficient to ensure success. One of the
most remarkable things going is the dead
fly in a complete state of preservation in a
lump of amber, with the guarantee of many
learned scientists that he has probably been there
doing nothing at all for 20 centuries, and that no
one knows how he got there, but that he is exactly
the same kind of fly that you blow off the meat
to-day. All the same, the lufnp of amber with
the fly in it, despite its beastly remarkableness,
wouldn’t be much of an evening’s entertainment,
and the present writer feels the same way after
2| hours of thrilling mule. Prof. Bristol’s horses
do a number of things that this scribe never saw
any horse do before, and he confesses regretfully
that he doesn’t care in the least if no horse ever
does them again. Even a very clever horse only
manages to sit down in a chair after several
attempts, and then he doesn’t appear restful, and
he is only a strained-looking horse half-way in a
chair after all, and the person who writes this
could do the business a lot better himself.
** * *
Sydney Royal has struck a patch of very
inferior luck—in fact, since the season opened
with the unsatisfactory “Johanna” nothing very
good has happened to the old house. By way of
a new departure, therefore, the “ Brand of Cain ”
—reported to be a melodrama of vast proportions
and great thrill—goes up on Saturday. The
Bulletin trusts that this production will throw
some light on a case of which only one side has
hitherto been heard. It has always regarded it
as possible that the person above-mentioned hit
Abel with a branch under great provocation, and
that the latter was a mild, objectionable, pallid
individual with green spectacles. Further, there is
no evidence that Abel wasn’t laying for Cain with
road-metal when the trouble commenced. At all
events, if the latter has anything to say in his
defence on Saturday night, this paper bespeaks
him a patient hearing and an impartial report in
the daily papers.
** * *
The Tivoli is the only Sydney theatre,
apart from Her Majesty’s, which is doing any
business worth mentioning at present. Rickards’
show and the Firm’s burlesque are crowded to the
door as a general thing, and the rest is mostly
silence and melancholy blank.
«* * *
Janies MacMahon, the desperately ener-
getic little man with the big hat, keeps his cine-
matographe still going at the old address, 237
Pitt-street, Sydney, and consignments of new
pictures arrive frequently ; some have just come,
The Lyceum is closed as usual, and the “silver
coin ” co. at the Royal Standard was wrestling
with “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” at latest advices.
#* * *
A new management, whose fell design of
re-opening Sydney Opera House, lately deserted
by Farley, was indirectly alluded to in a recent
issue, thought better of it, and is lying low at
present. An individual calling himself the
“ Bohemian Lecturer ” has rushed into the breach,
however, and announces that he will occupy the old
house with the curse on it on Saturday. If he is
anything like his name he ought to be the most
luckless person who ever struck a thoroughly luck-
less establishment. Even when Farley’s show
was at its best and playing at reduced prices, the
only sure way to keep even a thin audience was to
beguile it in with promises of drink and then take
away its clothes to prevent it escaping. Yet
Sydney likes opera and likes Farley, whereas it
hates lectures and has no kind of interest in
Bohemia.
** * *
Miss Elsie Adair’s benefit was announced
for Wednesday, but the exigencies of a paper
which goes to press on Tuesday night makes it
impossible to do justice to it in this issue. By the
time next issue comes out it will be ancient his-
tory, and no one will have any further interest in
the subject, so the less said about it the better.
In its very young days The Bulletin used to get
over such difficulties by writing in advance a
vague and general notice to the effect that every-
thing passed off well, and Miss Smith, in particu-
lar, sang charmingly. Then the cussedness of
things generally led to the entertainment being
postponed at the last moment because Miss Smith
had been fatally run over by a cab, and, as the
notice looked particularly foolish under these cir-
cumstances, this journal takes no chances now.
It has gone right out of the prophet business.
** * *
Howard Vernon, having laid the ghost of
his late opera season, is now giving melodrama a
chance at Melbourne Alexandra. The house
doesn’t overflow with humanity as yet, but it
looks less unfilled than before, and when the vast
Haleck is not very empty the managerial prospects
are encouraging, asa rule. Vernon’s present bill
is “ A River Mystery,” an honest five-act horror
with much murder and brain disease and un-
scrupulous lawyer in it. The lawyer who sticks
at nothing is supported by a doctor, who runs the
local lunatic asylum and supplies sudden deaths
on reasonable terms. Thanks to an original
dramatic device the medical man is able to kill ’em
with impunity. Even the unscrupulous legal
practitioner sniffs a possibility of danger in poison-
ing the heroine, until the doctor says, “ You for-
get ; I am the coroner ! ” whereupon the twin
assassins exchange a meaning smile, and shift the
heiress from their path with a large dose of Fatal
Drug. Luckily she comes back from the grave in
the last act. Howard Vernon, Glover, Frank
Norton, J. G. Patten, Wilson Forbes, Miss Castles
and Miss Ada Laurence are principal persons con-
cerned in the Alexandra undertakings. “East
Lynne ” will attempt to raise another sob on Fri-
day evening only, and “ A Brother’s Sin ” is fixed
for Saturday.
** * *
The Flying Jordans and Co. have struck a
rather cool time at Melbourne Royal, where they
are booked for a five Weeks’ stay. In a couple of
small particulars the entertainment grew wiser
after the opening night, and the “ American
Queen of Song” no longer warbles the word
“eye” with a sentimental aspirate. She con-
tinues to sing, however, and her sovereign
supremacy is still asserted on the programme. As
regards the two “star” turns—both of which
would be better appreciated in the Exhibition
Building— most people seem to prefer the imposing
lady on the wire to the family on the trapezes;
also, most people have realised that the perform-
ance, in each case, lacks the thrill of previous
efforts in the same branches of business. The Jor-
dans are finished artists, but none of them “ fly ” as
Walter Silbon did, for instance. They swing, or
drop, right into the grip of puppa Jordan, and the
cleverness of their feats is not more apparent than
the credit due to the fixing of the apparatus.
Miss Virginia Aragon is quite remarkable on the
wire. All the same, she cannot astonish a public
that saw Caicedo, in jack-boots, turn somersaults
on his wire, with never a netting to catch him if
he fell. And why does the lady not place her
performance across the stage, where everybody
could see it easily, instead of going aloft to trip on
a high wire with a high net stretched beneath her ?
** * *
The Hambourg boom, at Melb. Town
Hall, is to extend beyond the original arrange-
ment, after the manner of most booms, musical or
otherwise. Extra concerts will be given to-night
(Thursday) and Saturday, with a Friday matinee
sandwiched between. Further hearing of the
Hambourg brethren increases one’s respect for
their genius. Young Jakoff, not so nervous
as at first, plays the violin as wonderfully
as Mark punished the piano two years
ago, and when he begins to be a man and the
warmth of a Musin comes to him, Jakoff no
doubt will rank equal to his long-haired relative,
and together they will stand unrivalled. The
shock of falling off his bike last Sunday will pro-
bably have put a little more feeling into Jakoff’s
touch before these remarks appear in print.
Which reminds The Bulletin that two lads who
promise to stand peerless five years hence, bar
accidents, would do well to dispose of those bikes
at auction. What prices they would fetch !
* * * •
All this while the battle of the gods rages
on Pluto against Christus, which is to say
“Charley’s Aunt” versus “Sign of the Cross.”
The Aunt turns money away from the Bijou on
Saturday nights, and the Sign is in the fifth week
of triumphant success at the Princess’s. There is
nothing special to say of these rival attractions,
except that the two managements might as well
agree to swap leading men for a week or two. For
real dramatic interest there would be nothing to
choose between Julius Knight, as the Lady from
Brazil, and Frank Thornton, as Marcus, digesting
the solemn intelligence that the Kingdom of
Heaven is not meat and drink, or bath buns.
** * *
The versatile Selbinis, likewise'the Alli-
sons, and the cheerful new arrival in the baggy
pants, and a company that hasn’t changed hands
since last week, are holding forth to large audi-
ences at the Opera House, as usual. The horse-
training show at the Rotunda was to close on
Tuesday, with a grand final subjugation of man-
eating stallions, and a benefit to Prof. Norton B.
Smith. The Professor is proceeding to Adelaide
vvith his grooms, drums, steam-whistles, saucepan
lids, and ail kinds of music, and he will start to
educate the Holy City in ’orse discipline at the
Exhibition Building, on Saturday (7th).
At Poverty Point .
Pianist Mark Hambourg rapidly acquires the elfish,
weird, vulpine, high-dried appearance of a Paganini.
With his spectacles on, for the rare occasions when he has
to read music, he looks over 30.
The clerical orgy about “The Sign of the Cross” reached
its apogee in Norwich, Eng. The Bishop gave his im-
primatur. Mr. Ben Creedy, newly shaven, of the “ Sign
of the Cross” Dramatic Co., clad in a surplice, most re-
verently read the prayers on Sunday morning in the
principal church ! How is that for high ? Biggest house
of the season. Topping collection. Better than a play.
Nero saying his prayers into his shiny, black belltopper,
after the orthodox overture fashion. Mercia in the latest
London sweet confection of a bonnet. Marcus in trousers.
The Flying Jordans, like Nat. Goodwin before them,
were astonished at the sudden drop in their Melb.
business after opening to a crowded house. Money
turned away on the Saturday ; nice, soft notices in the
Monday journals, but 01 the fall at night. It had
taken Sydney a fortnight to come to the conclusion which
Melbourne spotted right away.
Judging by the daily paper notices of the death of T.
H. Aspinall (of Thiodon’s Wonders fame) T.H.A. appears
to have deceased principally for the purpose of calling
attention to the fact that “ Mr. E. Lewis Scott ” used to
hold up the lecturing end of the show. And yet Aspinall
lived to 74 !
The Sydney dailies did not do half credit to the in-
genuity of poor old Thiodon’s Wonders. Out of
date and behind the times as that kind of show
is now, it is doubtful if mechanism has ever
been produced to equal it. The natural move-
ments of the figures, including taking out and put-
ting back a handkerchief, firing a gun, and setting down
and picking up a wheelbarrow, were all obtained without
the use of a single wire or thread. No mere marionettes
ever could approach them. The Wonders were sold and
dispersed after the last disastrous effort at the scene of
former triumphs—the Sydney School of Arts.
“S.S." : “ The petite Virginia Aragon is a wonder on a
wire. She has one great demerit as a show-woman —she
is too good. Watching her waltzing on the wire one for-
gets the cleverness of the performance for the reason that
the performer is so perfect. It is all too easy to her ; she
is so absolutely at home that there is never a tremor or a
thrill for the safety of those natty limbs of hers, and
thrills are essential to the success of such a spectacle.
The Bulletin has hinted that Virginia will yet break her
pretty neck in a fall from the wire. Wrong, I think, but
she may some day when taking a walk on the grass in a
thousand-acre paddock.”
Mark Hambourg, the genius who makes the piano-keys
smoke, still looks about 18, and Brother Jakoff is 16, or so,
or perhaps a liitle more. Jakoff is of pronounced Jewish
type, with such a nose, and a head of hair like the mane
of a buffalo bull.
Peggie Pryde and Marie Lloyd are among the list of
Rickards’ recent engagements. It is a long list, and the
strength of it will be appreciated in due course. Rickards
writes to his people in Australia that he has secured “all
the best artists in London” —not a few of them only, but
everyone of the lot that he had been anxious to get upon
his books.
Busk : “ I am told that Bland Holt, at Melb. Royal,
was sub-lessee, under Geo. Rignold. George Rex must
have viewed the biz. with * one auspicious and one drop-
ping eye.”
Pollard’s opera-girls left a lot of aching hearts behind
them at Broken Hill (where the co. is said to have netted
£lOOO for the season). The silver city johnnies became
the girls’ slaves, and volumes of letters have been sent to
the co. since “ good-byes ” were said. The johnnies, you
see, are in blissful ignorance of careful Tom Pollard's rule
of having many of the girls' love-epistles read aloud to
the assembled co. The Pollard Co. is probably the
straightest and most paternally-managed opera troupe
that ever travelled.
N : “The initials H.N.W. to a stinging letter in a
Melb. morning paper, on deadhead clergy at the theatre,
are transparent as tho*e of one of the best-known Melb.
clergymen. One hundred of the cloth take the free
banquet at a single matinee, on the footing of inmates of
the Benevolent Asylum. Mr. Wollaston —for such is
H.N.W.—wants to know why? The clergy are amid the
best-paid members of the community. Probably, not one
of these white-chokered dead-heads has less than £3 a
week, and some of them call £4 a paltry pittance. It
may safely be said that the average screw of this hundred-
strong rush, as for hot rolls at the bakery, was £6 a week.”
Marie Lloyd (she visits Australia next year-, under en-
gagement to Rickards) has had to withdraw one of her
giddiest songs from the London ’alls, writes one who
heard her sing it. The vetoed ditty had an appealing re-
frain, which began with “ Won’t you be my little Satur-
day-till-Monday t”
Pastor Walters, the Unitarian minister, of Sydney, has
written to London Daily Teleorapii, asking the responsi-
ble authorities to remove the veto placed on the perform-
ance of his play, “ Joseph of Canaan.” He points out
that “The Sign of the Cross” and “The Daughters of
Babylon,” which are twin sisters to his production, have
been licensed.
Paradis : “ Howard Vernon suddenly, though not cap-
riciously, jerks and dings opera at Melb. Queen’s, late
Aleck, late something else, and ’Gus. Glover, under his
auspices, exhumes with the spade of Black Mullins the
long-laid ghost of ‘Peep o’ Day.’ Born some 30 years
ago, ‘Peep o’ Day’ was the second sensation drama,
‘ Colleen Bawn ’ the first. Edmund Falconer, after play-
ing Danny Mann, under the despotism of author Bouci-
cault, for 400 nights, struck out for himself, at Drury
Lane, with his ‘ Peep o’ Day,’ which earned him a round
£lO,OOO from a year’s run. But, whilst Boucicault con-
tinued to manufacture successful sensations, Falconer
couldn’t get beyond ‘Peep.’ His new ventures failed,
and the little man died of consumption with hardly a bean
to his name.”
Dear Bulletin,— l see that “Young Australian S.S.,
who is younger in experience than in years, lays down
his lawful opinion as follows :—“ Well, the fact remains,
Paulton is a second, small, revised edition of Johnny
Toole.” To which contradiction of my opinion I reply
that my statement remains, and Paulton isn’t another
J. L. Toole. But statements of opinion like these are
valuable only for purposes of comparison by intelligent
readers who have seen Toole and Paulton on the stage.
The real fact which remains always with S.S. and myself
is this : 1 got my first ideas of the two actors when I was
a youth, in London, and I saw no more resemblance
between them at that time than I have seen from their
performances in Australia. S.S. knew nothing of them
until he saw them here, and he has looked at them through
an anti-Hinglish prejudice (as regards humor), a preju-
dice born of secret regret for his provincial training,
which blinds his eyes and paralyses his memory re Hing-
lish low comedians, and makes him utterly unfit to discuss
the matter. — Melbourne.
Subscribers to Allan's series of Chamber Concerts at
Melb. Athenseum Hall had a “throw in” at the finish.
The fourth and last concert was promoted to the Town
Hall, with the Hambourgs as a chief attraction.
Percy Abbott is in Sydney this week, and announces
that the Hellers are “ resting” just now, owing to a mis-
hap which lately betel a recently-imported and expensive
serpentine dancer glucosely yclept “La Belle Vera.”
This lady, while trying recently to unite the litheness of
the serpent and the fluttersomeness of the butterfly, met
with the accident now so fashionable with skirt-dancers.
The lady has The Bulletin’s sympathy. Heller has the
only cinegraph film in which the Prince of Wales is
depicted as scratching his royal head. It is comforting
to see this picture, as it confirms one in the belief that
princes are only men, after all. The P. of W. tried to
suppress this picture, but Heller escaped from England
ere the authorities could seize him. A man-o’-war was
sent in pursuit, but, by the simple device of painting the
P. & O. steamer a pale-green during the night, capture
was avoided, and the wonderful art treasure may be seen
free by paying for the rest of the show.


CYANIDE
or POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN &. CO.,
SYDNEY —63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
STOCK
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
ONLY
SIR 30HH
POWER’S Illltiskey.
Atis. t
Reps. {
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic&otherSodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
NV.
Markwald, 11
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne: 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
The Simpson guckboard.
Easier than a Buggy, Stronger than
a Dray, No Vibration as in an ordi-
nary Buckboard, High Driving Seat,
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easily. It’s a Buggy, it’s a
Waggon—it’s both.
Simpson’s Patent Jump-seat Sul-
kies, “ Town and Country,” “ Over-
lander,” “ King o’ the Road ” (pole
and shafts).
S TDNK V SIMPSON,
Newtown, Sydney.
Perth— Robt. Wolfe. Geraldton— A. Meadowcroft.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A..
THE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double Bedrooms,
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From, 4s. to Ss. per Day.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Westralian revenue for July was >£174,425,
(vhich is £12,400 less than that for July, 1896. The land
and mining' revenue are the chief causes of the trouble.
And now what everybody wants to know is whether this
is a mere episode or the beginning of a slump which will
leave the Forrest Government stranded high and dry. So
far whatever else has slumped, the W.A. State revenue
has kept up a very steady increase, but its boom is
tottering on the razor-edge of disaster, and the lovely
surplus may go wrong at any moment. The latest report
is that Acting-Premier Wittenoom has received favorable
news from England about loan matters, and it is generally
understood that a desperate attempt must be made to
float something this month, or next at latest. If anything
goes wrong with that float, Gordelpus.
Victoria pays the London and Westminster
Bank £15,000 a year for managing its public debt in Lon-
don, and the Government figures out that it could do the
work itself at the Agent-General’s office for £33oo—saving
£11,700 per annum. Previous Governments, however, so
far committed the province with the London and West-
minster joint-stock cormorant that the latter disputes
Victoria’s power to deprive it of the business, and wants
£BO,OOO compensation—equal at 3 per cent, to a payment
of £2400 a year for ever—to hand over the job !
* » * *
J.O’N. : Regret that we have been unable to
gather any reliable information, either favorable or other-
wise, about the building society.
* * * *
The Australian Joint Stock Bank for the half-
year ended 30th June, ’97, shows a loss of £53,506. This
is the record loss put up by any Australian bank in one
half-year’s trading within the average man’s memory ;
the next biggest thing to it was the same institution’s loss
of £48,200 last half-year. For the previous half (ending
30th June, ’96) the A. J.S. showed a profit of £20,629, so
the slump is not only very violent but very sudden. The
reduction of deposit interest took effect on 10th May, so
the A. J.S. had nearly two months out of the six at the
reduced rate, which implies a saving of about £lO,OOO,
and this should more than cover all the costs of the new
reconstruction. Therefore it would seem that the A. J.S.
is at least £5OOO worse this half-year than it was last,
simply through continued fading away. Under the new
scheme the old 4J per cent, deposits are to be divided into
inscribed stock at 3J per cent., to be increased to 4$ if
profits admit, and “ A ” and “B ” deposits at 3 per cent,
increasing to 4 per cent, if profits admit, the increase
being governed by several dozen complicated circum-
stances particularised in The Bulletin of April 24. The
result amounts to about this : If the depositors avail
themselves of the option given to take up inscribed 3J
per cent, stock to the extent of £2,000,000, as they
probably will, the largest possible saving will be
about £69,000 a year; if they don’t so avail
themselves, the largest possible saving will be some
£79,000 a year. And the gap to be filled, on last year’s
figures, is over £lOl,OOO a year. Therefore, unless things
improve very materially, the A. J.S. won’t be nearly able
to pay even the minimum rate of reduced interest, to say
nothing of paying dividends, accumulating a reserve, or
providing the proposed extra 1 per cent, to depositors.
Probably they will greatly improve ; the A. J.S. has a
tremendous mass (over £3,000,000 worth) of pastoral in-
vestments, and the drought can’t come every year. Still,
there doesn't look sufficient margin to give the bank a
fair show.
The loss of =£53,506 is written off that myste-
rious thing called the old bank’s reserve-fund. When the
A.J.-S, reconstructed in ’93, the reserve of £747,079 was
set aside to cover possible depreciation. This gradually
faded away until, at June ’96, there only remained
£374,212. Then it vanished altogether out of the balance-
sheet, but it now appears that, after the above writing-off,
there still remains about £96,000 of it and £52,000 of the
new reserve to cover losses. The amount of these losses
is not stated, but one London director alleged that they
would probably swallow most of the paid-up capital
(£1,166,578). parallel case seems to be that
of the Commercial'of Australia. It reached bottom at
30th June, 1896,--when it made a loss of £24,055, and the
immediate result was the writing off of £1,200,000 capital.
If the Commercial stood on the same basis as the A.J.S.,
and had to pay interest on all its original deposits instead
of having turned £2,000,000 into preference capital,
its loss, on that memorable occasion, would have been
£71,000 against the A.J.S.’s £53,000. Therefore, if any
inference can be drawn from the relative sizes of things,
the A. J.S. would require to write off £900,000 capital to
get on an equally solid basis.
Compared with last half-year the note-circula-
tion has declined £35,000 ; deposits have decreased about
£200,000 ; and cash and other liquid assets about £200,000.
The cash in N.S.W. banks in the aggregate, however, has
decreased £1,215,000 in the last year, so the A. J.S. has
only shared the common fate. Apparently if the pastoral
industry and other things get worse the condition of the
A. J.S. is hopeless ; if they remain as bad as they are its
condition is very doubtful indeed ; if they improve to a
reasonable extent it should get through—though per-
haps without very much room to spare. And at present
they are so bad that it seems almost impossible for them
to avoid improving materially. Even at the best, how-
ever, the prospects of the shareholders appear to be
worth about half of nothing for a number of years yet.
• • • *
The following are the various disastrous balance-
sheets published by Australian banks of issue since the
1893 reconstruction. In the case of the B.N.Z. and the
E.S. and A. each item represents a year’s work; the
other losses are each a half-year’s accumulation :
Bank. Date. Loss.
City of Melbourne ... \ ... 31st March,’9s £19,793
E.S. and A. Bank ... , ... 30th June,’9s 16,432
Do. ... ... 30th June,’96 27,950
Bank of New Zealand ... 31st March,’9s 37,356
Commercial of Australia ... 30th June, ’96 24,055
Queensland National... ... 31st Dec.,’96 1,608
Do. - ... ... 30th June,’97 25,425
London Bank of Australia ... 30th June,’96 231
Do. ... .. 318tDec.,’96 4,396
Colonial (Melbourne) ... ... 31st March,’9s 4,694
A. J.S. Bank ... ... ... 31st Dec.,’96 48,200
Do. :.. ... ... 30th June,’97 53,506
There are some interesting deficits among these figures.
The City of Melbourne Bank, which was a feeble weed at
the best, died of its one shortage. The Colonial Bank is
now showing small profits. The B.N.Z. and the Commer-
cial of Australia are doing well by their last balance-
sheets. And as regards the London, E.S. and A., Queens-
land National and A.J.S. the public is waiting to see how
their new arrangements will pan out.
The Ballarat Banking Co. closes the half-year
with a profit of £2BBl. Profits for six half-years were as
follows :
December, ’94 ... £3710 June, '96 £3250
June,’9s 3449 December,’96 ... 2936
December, '95 ... 3463 June, ’97 2881
The Ballarat Banking Co. still pays its regular 5J per
cent, dividend (its yearning after that odd J per cent, is
unaccountable), but in view of the steady decline in pro-
fits, and the absence of any prospect of immediate im-
provement, it would do well to think seriously over the
position and reduce the div. to 5 per cent, anyhow. The
amount divided is £2337, and after adding £5OO to the
reserve, which now stands at £53,000, there remains £44 to
add to profit and loss, making £2464 carried forward.
The co. has £69,580 in cash and Government securities,
equal to 33 per cent, of all liabilities to the public, and
looks solid, well-managed and prosperous as usual.
• * » *
The aggregate coin and bullion in N.S.W. banks
decreased £688,000 in the last quarter and £1,215,000 in
the year. A year ago the cash represented 24j per cent,
of liabilities to the public; it now stands at 20£ per cent.
» » » *
Broken Hill Water Supply Co. (a Melbourne-
owned concern) earned £8879 net profit during the six
months ended June, ’97, and manfully splashed around
£9325 in paying a 10 per cent, dividend, so it naturally
goes £446 to the bad. The co. has about £150,000 of pro-
perty, and in case anything serious happens to this it has
the magnificent sum of £2500 put away to a contingency
account. The desire to pay 10 per cent, whatever hap-
pens, is an incurable complaint with the Melbourne
financier.
* * » »
Melbourne Gras. Co. realised a profit of £36,444
last half-year, compared with £35,293 and £33,862 for two
previous six-monthly periods. A dividend of 8 per cent,
accounts for £34,288, leaving a balance of £2156. The
dividend is good enough, but, at each meeting, the dread-
fully misguided person who bought £5 gas shares at £l7
about the end of 1890 rises to wail that he is getting only
2J per cent., and asks that the co. will get more for its
gas, or make the meter sprint faster, or something. And
the meter already sprints so fast in the struggle to earn
adequate profits for this person that Melbourne is about
ready to insurrect against its Gas Co.
* * * *
Swan Brewery Co. (Perth) reports a half-year's
profit of £22,038, equal to nearly 100 per cent, per annum
on capital. This is a Melbourne-owned concern, and its
big dividends fall like the gentle dew from heaven on a
province whose local beer-concerns are mostly in a
desperately bad way.
* • * •
N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co. reports a loss of .£221
for the half-year compared with a profit of £lOB6 last half,
£2507 the one previous, and £6075 at December, ’95. The
co. has hopes of better things to come, but if this sudden
and breathless slump continues a little while longer it
looks as if there would be very little co. left.
* * • •
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney) has a half-
year’s profit of £48,436 compared with £54,898, £46,873
and £53,701 for three previous half-years. The usual 15
per cent, dividend absorbs £51,135, so the balance at credit
of profit and loss is reduced from £5728 to £3029.
* * * *
One more scandalous instance of somebody’s
gross stupidity is (Tub Bulletin hears) being carefully
kept out of sight. Last year the N.S.W. duty on methy-
lated spirit was fixed at one shilling per gallon. Some
harassed copy-clerk in an interval between rests made the
list read one penny per gallon. The duty was duly col-
lected as one penny per gallon for months before anyone
in the Govt, woke up enough to detect the error. Even
then, the united intelligence of and Minis-
try was unequal to the strain of putting the matter
straight. So they just go on collecting one penny per
gallon instead of. one shilling—-and importers don’t
grumble. Seeing how many hundreds of thousands of
gallons of methylated spirits are imported yearly, the loss
is no trifle—also, it now pays most handsomely to “fake”
methylated spirit into grog. Between muddled taxes and
muddled duties, “Nearest and Dearest” Reid will have a
fine skein to unravel when he gets his brain free from the
fumes of Himperial fizz.
* • * *
Editor Bulletin, —Ramornie Meat Works were
honored in your issue of July 24 by a notice signed
“ Medicus,” in which it was stated that we have con-
tracted to supply an English firm with 72 tons of extract
of beef at 4s. (four shillings) per lb. That price is so high
for extract in bulk that the statement has attracted some
notice. May I just briefly say that “Medicus” is in-
accurate, and that, to the best of my belief, it is at present
(and is always likely to be) impossible to obtain anything
like 4s. per ib. for extract in bulk.—C. F. Tindal, Manager
Australian Meat Co., Ramornie. [That being so, how
colossal must be the profits of the middleman !—Ed. B.]
* * * *
The Brunswick (Melb.) Gas Co. proposes to ex-
tend its mains to Fitzroy and Collingwood at a cost of
£60,000, and promises a better supply of superior gas at a
lower figure than the Metropolitan gives. Petitions from
the ratepayers in favor of the irruptive company are being
extensively signed. And yet, at last week’s meeting of
Met. shareholders, one more outcry against any reduction
in the gas-rate was raised by the inevitable juggins who
had bought his shares at an awful premium.
* * » *
The worst thing that ever happened to silver
within the memory of man struck it week, when the
price went down to 2s. 2%d. per oz.—the very lowest on
record. The next lowest figure was 2s. 3d. per oz. in
1894. Up to 1891 the lowest price recorded was 3s. s£d.
per oz. A comparatively small further drop—small, that
is, compared to what has taken place in the last six
years—would shut up Broken Hill for good unless
economy in production could be carried to a point which,
at present, looks absolutely impossible.
* * * *
The Inspector of Mines at Broken Hill gave the
Mine Accidents Committee sitting there a few illustra-
tions of the absurdity of the present Mining Regulations.
It is provided that boilers shall be tested periodically.
That is all—it isn’t mentioned to what point they shall be
tested ! Neither is it definitely provided that accidents
shall be reported; notwithstanding which the mines’
annual report purports to show them.
* * * *
July 20 was the second anniversary of the out-
break of the fire in Block 11 of the B. 11. Proprietary. On
damp days steam and smoke may still be seen rising in a
faint cloud from the broken timbers at the bottom of the
open-cut; but the burning section is so well closed in now
that the average cost of watching it and keeping the par-
titions in repairs amounts to only £22 per month.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, directors, in their half-yearly report,
say that in the six months to May 31 the lead averaged
a higher price than any realised during the past five years.
Thev anticipate a further advance. But as for silver they
admit that the future is most uncertain. As against the
preceding half-year, the rise in lead means a gain of
£8234 ; but the loss through the fall in silver in the same
period amounts to £20,576. The highest price realised at
any time by the co. for lead was £l5 Is. 6d. per ton ; last
half-year’s average was £ll 11s. 3d., to which it has
steadily recovered from £9 12s. The old fall was due to
the fillip to production of silver-lead ores caused by the
silver legislation of the States ; apart from the prodigious
quantity of silver-lead ores then mined, much lead ore,
even when it contained but little silver, was raised in
Mexico and elsewhere for mixing with the ores rich in
silver preparatory to furnacing. The steady advance in
the price of lead, extending over about four years, seems
to indicate that the stocks then accumulated have been
used up, and that normal conditions again prevail in the
lead-market. But, nevertheless, it is not reasonable to
expect the old level to be reached, seeing that in the last
eight or nine years the normal price-level of almost every-
thing has been brought lower The latest quoted price is
£l2 7s.
* • » *
On the plea of office economy B.H. Prop,
directors propose to distribute profits quarterly from
January next instead of two-monthly. What they don’t
say is whether the quarterly div. will be only as much as
the two-monthly has been. But shareholders may make
up their minds that it will come to that —unless some
quite unexpected development in connection with zinc-
extraction occurs. Last half-year, after paying the divs.
(£144,000) and the machinery bills (£43,000), there was
only three thousand odd to spare —and there would have
been an actual deficit if the Taxation Commissioners had
not made a refund. The directors intend to try and keep
the pot boiling by dealing in Westralian ore tellurides
chiefly—and treating them at Port Pirie, where, they say,
they have all the appliances ready.
• * » *
For labor contracts the B.H. Proprietary last
half-year paid £63,600; in mine wages and salaries,
£35,383. The figures show the extent to which the once
almost universal day-labor has been superseded.
• * * »
B.H. Proprietary’s profit in the last six months
is equal to 10%d. per oz. of silver extracted during the
period. In other words, the price of silver could fall
another 10|d. before all the profit w-ould disappear,
assuming no further economies could be made.
• * * *
Block 10 follows Block 14 and the B.H. Pro-
prietary by introducing horses for haulage underground.
• * * *
Block 10 makes just under 10s. per ton now for
its zinc “ tailings.”
* * * *
Of Broken Hill mines, Block 14 is shown to be
freest from accidents. Zeb. Lane’s influence still remains.
* * • *
What is really the matter with the Ashcroft
Sulphide Works near Newcastle ? Shares have fallen
considerably in London, and all sorts of rumors continue
to fly around without any definite contradiction coming
from the local managers. Probably they think it is none
of the public’s business. Undoubtedly something has
gone wrong with the works—timber has to be substituted
for iron in a considerable part of the establishment, and
the advertising for iron-ores long after starting would in-
dicate something else. The issuing of £lOO,OOO worth of
debentures in London was also, the writer imagines, not
contemplated when the works started.
* • * *
Over JB7OOO spent on the N.S.W. Govt, toy
metallurgical works at Clyde, and no provision for smelt-
ing. Why not publish a monthly return of the work
done ? Monkeying with an elephantine business.
* * * *
New Bushman’s mine, Parkes, N.S.W., has
made a successful first run with its cyanide plant. The-
story told of this mine by the capable mining-man of
Sydney D.T. has been confirmed by results as well as by
the silence of the directors on the subject.
Garibaldi, Hillgrove, N.S.W., applied for three
months’ suspension. The warden granted one month,
and declared that no further time would be given. Bull
is asked to “ put up or shut up.” Considering the amount
he has put up, he had better shut up. What has become
of the £20,000 working capital ? A detailed history of
this mine would give the outside world a startling
illustration of the ridiculous sacrifices which have to be
made in financing Australian mines on the London
market. Mining is not regarded in circles financial as a
legitimate industry.
Peel River Proprietary mine, Tamworth dis-
trict, N.S.W., offered for sale by auction, but failed to
effect a riddance. Few persons want to buy mines under
the hammer. Much money has been lost on this show,
worked off-and-on for many years without profit. Dick
Hamilton, now manager of the Great Boulder, once had
charge of it.
* * * ♦
Myall's United, a N.S.W. mine taken over by
Bull at a big cash-and-share price, some two years ago:
2900 tons, for 9320 z Ojdwts. per ton. Another
severe disappointment, the return being far less t han the
average by the former owners for many years. The big,
new battery has told the tale, indicating very big tons by
the old mill, or gutting the mine for the best ore, which
cannot now be done. No doubt even this return will pay
breaking and crushing exes., but it won’t pay divs. on a
capital of £200,000. Tonnage tells. For years it was
given out that this mine had averaged an ounce to the
ton. Now, when the mine is well-equipped with a big,
new battery, and everything else which a working-capital
of £70,000 commands, the first crushing is less than a third
of that produced by the owners’ “ rattle-trap,” and less
than half the yield foreshadowed by report. And, in the
face of these things, men and newspapers continue to pre-
dict a boom in London for N.S.W. mines !
* • » *
Bluey mine, Stewart’s Brook, N.S.W.: 552 tons
crushed during the half year for 150 oz.—not good enough
to pay, and about enough work has been done and money
lost on this show to “jack” it, as a mine having a fine
reef only wanting another few dwts. to the ton to make
it worth working. The present co.—the third—proposes
to try another level.
• • • *
The Lucknow (N.S.W.) strike has come, owing
to the big English co. seeking to reduce miners’ wages to
425. per week—3s. less than the current Vic. rate, hitherto
the lowest in Australia.
* * * * %
Rumored that the Beacon Co. (London), work-
ing the N.S.W. mine formerly called Taylor’s Reward, has
declared a Is. div.—£lo,ooo. It will take about ten to
return the money put up by the Exploration Co. on this
deal. The character of that great and remorseless organi-
sation is shown by the rapid way they got to work on this
mine.
* * * *
Over-capitalisation—Australian Broken Hill
Consols, London, Co., £600,000 in 600,000 shares !
» * * *
Charters Towers items :— Brilliant Block (fort-
night’s) : 801 J tons, 6820 z. smelted gold.—The Bull owners
of the Day Dawn Block and Wyndham will rejoice ex-
ceedingly when they hear that there are several faces of
pay-ore 30ft. high in the mine. As here predicted re-
cently, Victory stock is booming. Large English buying
orders raised scrip 3s. in a month, increasing capital value
by £30,000. On July 17th 96 tons were cleaned up for
4040 z have 4ft. of good stone in the sink of the
Brilliant. Fortnightly ore-haulage, about 3000 trucks.
Prospecting shaft at Brilliant Central down about 1830 ft.
No sign of Brilliant reef although the surveyed depth has
been exceeded considerably.——Victoria (July 20th) : 265
tons for 3270 z. Queen Cross reef fortnightly ore-haul-
age : about 550 trucks.——Victoria and Queen year’s re-
turn : 828 tons for 14600 z. Extensive development work
retarded output. Current year’s work probably profitable
and dividends likely. Towers Stock Exchange at latest
advices lively. Transactions in Queen district mines
numerous, and Bull money rolling in.
* • • •
Ross, Ross & Co. financiers, 352 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, notify that money at very low interest is now
available on C.P. or Freehold Land. Owners writing to
this firm can always rely on prompt and straightforward
business.*
* * * *
Long Tunnel (Vic.) has cut the reef 2J*ft. thick
at 1822 ft. —100 ft. lower than hitherto worked, showing
good gold. That this run of gold should have gone from
the surface to such a depth without a blank makes it the
most wonderful mine of Australia up to date. How much
of its gold has gone down the river ?
* * * *
In asking for six months’ exemption for the
Lady Loch and Forest King mines, Coolgardie, Fred.
Monger showed how the money had vanished. The
£15,000 working capital for the first had all gone, and
£35,000 had been spent on the Lady Loch —£20,000 from
capital, and £15,000 from gold won. The directors had
been led to think the mines would be self-supporting, the
whole of the funds had been exhausted, the directors had
personally subscribed £2OOO to pay wages, and now prayed
for time to reconstruct. The Warden granted three
months. And they still dream about cheap mining in
W.A. ! The boom was hot enough about a year ago to
give the Lady Loch a market-value —whew !—of over
£250,000.
* * • •
It has more than once happened in Westralia
that the rich mine of to-day is one of the poorest of to-
morrow, and in one or two very notable instances it has
been the other way about. One of the first W.A. mines
floated in England was Mawson’s Reward, at Dundas. It
was taken over by the Goldfields Exploration Co. A bat-
tery proved it for a time a duffer. Having a solid work-
ing capital, and its parent co. having cleared a heap of
money on other floats, it kept going. The shares are now
about par, 60 men are working in the mine, the boss says
he has nearly 20,000 tons in sight which will average
nearly an ounce per ton, and the writer hopes it is all
true.
• * * •
Brookman, at Kalgoorlie, has, probably, found
out by now that it is easier to talk production than to
make It. Instead of 500 tons of five-oz. rock weekly from
the Associated mines being sent to Dry Creek, it seems to
be 200 tons of ore of a little less than half the estimated
value—and this after putting men almost on top of one
another to break it.
* * * *
Reconstruction of co’s owning individual mines
in W.A., and the amalgamation of exploration co’s loaded
to the neck with worthless mines they cannot float, still
go on slowly in London. The Venture Co., which adver-
tises mines for sale in the W.A. papers, proposes to amal-
gamate with the nine other similar co’s with which it has
been associated. Excuses given—saving in administration
exes., a reduction of liability on shares, and a freer
market for the new co. It paid an enormous div. by the
sale of mines in the boom, and it has sufficient assurance
left to say that the mines left on its hands are developing
satisfactorily.
* * * *
The Golden Cliff, Mt. Margaret district, Cool-
gardie, is a big ironstone outcrop, purchased from the
prospectors for £30,000, and floated in London for
£300,000. Now that the boom is over it may go some-
thing under lOdwt. per ton, and will have to pay in
dividends £30,000 a year for 15 years to give hack the
principal with 5 per cent, interest.
* » •
A Coolgardie paper: “We have 16 payable
mines in the district!” That isn’t many out of 2000 or
more mining leases on Coolgardie proper. And this after
three years’ gasconading, the destruction of reams of
paper in their praise, and the swallowing of truck-loads
of champagne towards their success.
» * * *
Burbank’s mine, within a mile or two of the
Londonderry, Coolgardie, is looking very well in the
bottom levels from the three main shafts- 170 ft Ten
heads running, another ten going up to be ready in two
months. Water slowly increasing, and expect to have
enough to run the full plant by the time it is ready.
About nine months’ reserves for 20 stamps opened up,
and there is reason to believe that the 2oz. average can
be maintained. Prof. Nicholas still in command—a good
thing for the co. Burbank’s is one of the very few mines
of the Coolgardie field that has improved by develop-
ment. Is it on account of tellurides, of which the reefs
just show enough to swear by?
* * * *
An offer is made through Clarke & Co. to take
the Boulder Central mine, Kalgoorlie, at £30,000 cash
and 15,000 shares in a £lOO,OOO new co.
* • * *
The disclosures made at the General Gordon
shareholders’ meeting, held recently in Melbourne, show
how cheaply some mines are run in W.A. In a year
£22,000 had been spent, and there was a 10-head mill and
a winding plant to show for it. One manager had been
changed for another. It took one man three months to
prepare a report, and it would probably take shareholders
six to understand it. The broker of the co. said he was
disgusted, and motions indicative of dissatisfaction were
passed. The writer has a sort of hazy idea that he fore-
shadowed these things quite a year ago, and was for so
doing much condemned by the very people who are now
spitting fire and vengeance. Crushed at last 410 tons for
31oz. 15dwt. The gold is “in the tailings,” as usual, and
shareholders are in the soup.
* * * »
Clarke and Co. (Adelaide) have another special
Westralian issue of t heir Investors’ Guide, and the tone
of this handy publication is joyous, not to say jubilant.
“ It is quite within the bounds of possibility that W.A.,
at the end of this year, will stand second only to Vic.
amongst the gold-producing provinces of Australia, and
it is more than probable that bv the end of 1898, Victoria
itself will be headed.” There is comfort in the general
remark that “ wild-cats are being thoroughly sifted out.”
A wild-cat, when sifted, remains much the same as
before so far as shareholders are concerned, and it
doesn’t appear under a savage feline heading in Clarke’s
catalogue, but the moral results of a thorough sift are
doubtless splendid in a market sense, or something of
that sort.
• * * *
May last saw the record output from the Rand
—248,3050 z. gold. Also reported that men are starving
there in hundreds. Gold going to London. Very dif-
ferent when it is the other way about. Westralia,
beware !
* • • *
The N.S.W, Co-Operative Wool and Produce
Co. Ltd. is a concern which, having brains equalling its
ambitions, must revolutionise the wool-broking business
of this country. The big wool ring is an uncombined
combination for joint selfish interest; its members ap-
parently helping and trusting, but secretly plotting
against and frustrating each other. The Co-Operative
has now gone into the heart of the enemy’s camp by secur-
ing At wool stores on Circular Quay, Sydney, and as it
offers the producer advantages which the ring does not
afford, the only stumbling block in the Co-Operative’s
progress is the conservative stupidity of the producer
itself. The co., however, will educate the producer up to
its cardinal principle “ that co-operation dispenses with
the services of all unnecessary and profit-making agents,”
and it will enforce this principle by paying every pro-
ducer top market value, and charging only 3 per cent.,
inclusive commission, as against the ring's charge of 3 per'
cent, plus %d. per lb.—which brokers’ charge, on account
of the J4d. bids, really means 3 per cent, plus ]4d. per lb.
So that on an average bale of 6d. per lb. wool the Co-
Operative’s charge is 6s. ; whilst the ring’s charge means
14s. 4d.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing*
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATEEIALS THOROUGHLY SHRUHH
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suitable for
BUSINESS RIDING _
OFFICE BUSH _
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS *
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
35/-
40/-
45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony,
i urmshmgs excepted.
ihe Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
David Jones & Company,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.) "
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CQRTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TUB VCCO - 6d. Each.
See tlle M * CORTO on the hands, and beware of imitations.
lE. CUSERTIER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
brandy.
«2^ 4 3WS5i,‘"fl
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES. A aud
Price No Hiyher than Other Lead in r, Brands.
SOCIETY
[?]lestin
COGMAG
The Australasians in ‘ Queen Victoria’s
Ootomal Escort,’commanded by Col. Lassetter,”
witites Ihe Bulletin’s London correspondent,
were Sergeants O’Grady, Williams, M‘Allister,
V\ augh, Corporal Munsie, Troopers Riley, Dooley
and Private Muntz, of the N.S.W. M.R. and
Dancers ; Capt. Nichol, Sergt. Strong, Privates
btandish, Phillips, Prowse, M‘Lellan, Comrie
Paten, and Somerville, of the Vic. M.R • Sersrt
Somerville, Corpl. Cardale, Privates Taranaki Te
u jT. d Hazktt of theM.L. M.R.; Lance-Corpl.
Nobblett, Privates Francis and Major, of theS.A.
fhl n 5 Tr d D H e ms , and Private Hade, of
the Q. M.R. though the escort, they were
not within cooee of her Gracious, and the
reason was palpable, for since the bushwhackers
landed they have been the Jubilee for the peoples
of the street. Their reception in the East End at
the military parade was marvellous, and the men
will never forget the way the crowd cheered, and
powerm]. females smacked the horsemen’s taut
thighs as they waited in the many halts. The
outer files were sore and bruised for two or three
days afterwards, but the rough good-nature of the
assault excused much, and after the supercilious
havv-hawism of British officers, it was like a
rub-down with a rough towel to drive out the chill
ot contemptuous patronage. To have put the
colomals close to the Queen would have taken
the tat out of her reception, and left only the suet-
strings, and the management of the Jubilee jaunt
could not have been excelled by the most experi-
enced circus menagerie-owner—it was perfect.
“Speculators bought vacant sites at fabulous
prices, and in one case dragged down a busy build-
l-pfT> T order to erect stands for the wealthy
Ameiicans, Australians, &c., who were ex-
pected to sport their sox ’to see the boss throne-
continues our correspondent. “ Trades-
HONI SOIT, &c.
HE: “ Are you going in evening-dress to-night?”
SHE: “No.”
HE (airing his French): “Oh, I see—simply ‘au naturel.’”—(And then he wondered.)
men opened at 4 a.m., and crowds of people slept
on the route all night. Yet the former did not pay
for gas, the latter could have slept the day through
gnd remained unmolested and undisturbed, for
when the panorama passed there were hardly two
million persons on roof-top, stand, or street that
witnessed the show. Shopkeepers who, six days
before, had replaced their window-goods by a
wooden flight of steps, labelled at two guineas a
15in. space, were glad to tout ricketty pavement-
posers in at the last moment for a few shillings.
Everyone fearing hunger had bought a pocket-
lunch or a hamper, and the big cafes were crowded
with waiters cursing for the Jubilee tips that
came not. The bun-and-tea shops were battle-
merited with sandwiches, scones, cake and
pastry, which the expected hosts made little
perceptible breach in. The buns have by now
become cobble - stones, the sandwiches leather
triangles, useful for tiling, and some of the pro-
prietors bankrupts, or men of sin and violence. It
was such a record slump as might be experienced
if one built a pagoda on the clouds of Paradise and
the floor fell out, landing him midst the desolate
embers of a deserted hell.
“The Jubilee slump will be handed down to
history as the most colossal ‘ busted ’ bubble since
the rampant days of the South Sea speculations.
For weeks and weeks the papers have fairly
frizzled with the figures of abstruse and, more
frequently, obtuse calculations as to the people
who would fight tooth and nail and swear and
gasp and die in their loyal attempts to catch but a
glimpse of the royal pageant. The millions would
faint and collapse from thirst and hunger ; the
restaurants and bars would be invaded and
wrecked by maddened throngs. One scribe
discovered that thousands would be suffocated by
the air exhaled from the myriads, another that
only one in ten would see more than his predeces-
sor’s neck and samples of assorted ears, and a
third floated out in a sea of billions and other
illions on a raft composed of his own cheek, lashed
together by impudence, and discovered that more
wood was used in jubilee stands than had reached
the country during the last five years.”
* * * *
An Australian in England to The Bulle-
tin :
At the Duke of York’s school, Chelsea, a queer incident
occurred. The Yorks and Cambridge were proceeding to
dinner after the ceremony of presenting flags, and the
various officers around the sacred person were invited to
lunch, including the Indians, but excluding the Aus-
tralians. The crowd disappeared into the building, leav-
ing the Australians standing alone, with all eyes on them.
Presently an officer emerged rapidly and, seeing the Aus-
tralians, rushed over to them, spoke to them, ran inside,
stayed several minutes, rushed out again very red in the
face, and took the Australians from outer darkness into
the sweetness and light of May and George.
One of the features of the “ little Jubilee procession ”
(viz., the colonial Premiers and other outsiders sent
ahead to frighten small boys) was the enthusiasm of
George Turner, waving his cocked hat over his head
with great good humor. ( One of the Premieresses, by the
way, kissed her hand right and left to the crowd !) At
every fresh burst of cheering the Vic. Premier went at it like
a marionette, while Premier Reid, who occupied the same
carriage, frowned between his official smiles and turned a
severe eye-glass on him—eventually trying to look as if
Turner was a stranger who had been thrust into the same
carriage accidentally by one of the Imperial bunglers.
The best figure in the “ little procession ” was Laurier, a
pale, cold man, with a hard, intelligent face, who sat
erect and haughty, acknowledging the cheers slightly
and condescendingly. He has been much fussed over,
ported the Austra,ians have been very imperfectly re-
Seddon’s bluff hearty, style seems to have impressed
those who have met him here, and to have disgusted all
those who eonsider Oxford or Cambridge “ culehavv ” in
dispensable to a colonial Premier. He seems to have
had the right word on all occasions.
There was much comment on the stand I was on with
reference to the. loose, swinging, graceful wav the Aus-
tralians rode so preferable to the “ swallowed-t lie-poker ”
The Haussas, Chinese and black contingents from fhe
outskirts of the Empire have a trying time in England.
STERN NECESSITY.
STOPPERS : “Hello! Bludger. Wot, are you working now? ”
BLUDGER : “ Yes, Bill; but 'tain’t my fault —the ole ooman’s in the orspitel!”
The small boy in squadrons falls upon them wherever he
meets them and indulges in grave and cordial shakes of
the hands. _ To compensate for this, hardly a dark or
yellow soldier is to be seen at night without a nice
London girl, hanging proudly and confidingly on his arm.
The London policeman carried off the honors of the
Jubilee. He is certainly a benevolent deity, and a won-
derful manager of crowds, his good humor helping him
where the official snarl of authority of the Australian-
Irish bobby would set the crowd against him. He does
not force, he manages. You ask him how he manages
some nine millions so easily and he modestly sums it all
up in the apothegm—“ Well, you see, sir, the London
crowd’s a crowd that’s used to a crowd. So thev’re easy
to manage.”
There was some humor in the official who put the
Chinese envoy and the Pope’s special envoy in the same
carriage in the procession.
The London ’bus companies must have netted fortunes
by raising the fares 600 and 1200 per cent, during the
Jubilee week. The seat speculators did not come out so
well in all instances, and the prices were preposterous.
The people are being “ God-save-the Queened ” to death.
Bands, street organs, penny-whistles, going all the time,
street-singers, &c. Last night I saw a crowd of 300 people
crossing the Albert Bridge, Battersea, singing the “ Ana-
thema” while a girl went ahead turning handsprings.
As jubilee-honor time drew near the hearts
of many Westralians beat high with hope. Acting-
Premier Wittenoom, placed at the head of the
Cabinet for the first time, had been starring with
great energy, and expected something, while
Attorney-General Burt, the oldest member of the
Westralian Ministry except Forrest, hoped for a
share of whatever was going. Justice Stone and
Saunders, M.L.C., Mayor of Perth, both ex-
pected knighthoods, while President Shenton, of
the Leg. Council, went to England so that he
should not be overlooked. Forrest was to get a
G.C.M.G. in addition to whatever general honors
were handed round to the Premiers. When ex-
pectation was at its height the cable announced—
Forrest’s P.C. -ship and one wretched C. M. G. -ship.
Loyal leading citizendom felt like the obsequious
waiter who is given no tip, or the cabbie paid in
the coin of Bishop Smith. Now there is deep
silence in loyal circles in Perth, save for the voice
of the lawyer-politician who supported the Govern-
ment and “expected silk,” and was disappointed.
* » * *
At the Duke of York’s School ceremony,
when Princess May presented the new colors, the
Australian troops marched into the grounds on
the tail-end of squad of darkies, in this order
Indians, first; Haussas, second ; Australians,
third. The Australians (writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent) evidently felt their degraded position.
* •* * „
“Such were the beautiful scenes that I
was privileged to witness at Windsor, and the
merely religious portion of it was repeated in most
cases on a much larger scale in the churches of
worship, places of every creed and denomination
throughout the length and breadth of the United
Kingdom Christian, Catholic, Moslem, and
Jew. b.M. Herald special London cori'cspoyi-
dent.
* * * *
Johanna M‘Mahon, of Melb., who dis-
tinguished herself by attacking the holy-Bible-
bearer in the Brunswick Orange precession, when
fined 10s. for her misdemeanor the other day
marched to the clerk’s desk, planked down her
half-sov., and cried : “ Fer the honor an’ the glory
av me counthry I pay id ! ” Johanna was quite
satisfied that she had had her money’s worth.
From a re-
cent wedding
notice: “The
bride comes
from Cuddell,
near Naran-
dera.” Girls
must find it
easy to get
husbands in a
place with a
name like
that.
There are
stations in S.
Queensland
where free-
dom of vend-
ing and buy-
ing is utterly
u n k n o w n.
Recently, a
station - hand
bought a nag
from a pass-
ing drover.
Manager ir-
ate : ‘ ‘ What
the do
you mean by
this ? Aren’t
the station
cattle good
enough for
you ? Give up
that brumby
and let that
grass-
pirate cut his
stick. ”
* *
The walls
of a Sydney
rest a u rant
display an
unconscious-
ly - humorous
mixture of
bills-of-fare and texts from Holy Writ: Tea and
coffee, 3d. a cup. Come unto Me.” Hot pork
pies. “ Prepare to meet thy God. ” We shouldn’t
wonder.
* * * *
An old Queenslander writes to The Bulle-
tin from England :
At the trooping of the colors by the Duke of York’s
Boys Brigade at the military tournament on 28th Mav,
when the colors were marched down the hall every soldier
m the place raised his hand in salute with the exception
of the Australians, who made no sign. Jn one box there
were stweral officers of cavalry, artillery, etc., and one
.N.S.W. officer in a sort of snuff-colored uniform, forage-
cap and broad gold-laced belt. The N.S.W. officer was
slightly in front of the others, and so did not see that
they saluted the colors each time they passed, or perhaps
he would have followed suit. This was remarked by
everyone in the place and put down to ignorance.
* * ♦ *
Perth (W.A.) City Council used to hold its
sittings m an informal and business-like fashion-
councillors sitting round a table, with the Mayor
unfrilled, unfurred, and unfeathered, at the head
The flummery of .1 übilee got into the air, however,
and the meeting-room was arranged after the
fashion of the local Leg. Council Chamber all
sitting round the r,.om, wi h the table in the
centre ; to honor the improvement, the Mayor and
town clerk Mere 1 educated to appear robed. The
municipal millinery is worn now. Also the coun-
cillors provided themselves with special gold watch-
pendant Jubilee medals, and there was great wrath
and a debate in the council when it was found t hat
the enterprising jeweller had sold extra med ds
from the same die to unauthorised persons. Men
—they are moie vain than women !
* * * *
The delicate wit of the city councillor.
While Perth (W.A.) City Council was engaged in
naming certain streets, one councillor suggested
(he name of another member as appropriate for a
certain street, and added that it was famous for
the number of houses of ill-fame it contain-d.
then the count-,llor whom it was sought to honor
rose and snorted “Coward, scoundrel, liar ! ”
Rockhampton (Q.) papers report the local
Jrange 12th of July sliivoo as “commemorating
the anniversary of the Battle.of the Boyne.” Said
glorious and immortal scrimmage was fought on
the Ist of July, and the nearest loyal Orange
episode worth mentioning to the 12th is the
anniversary of Aughrini. There Ginkell, the
Dutchman, and St. Ruth, the Frenchman
argued the point, James and William being both
absent. 1 urther, the native Irish wore yellow, or
orange, and the rest of James’s troops had white
tor the l r distinguishing color, while the Duteh-
VVilham crowd flourished green decorations, so
tilings have got, very badly mixed nowadays. The
old Irish 1 Sunburst banner ” would now only
serve to rouse the patriotic Dooley or Mick Pagav
to assault and batthery. °
*
Light o’ Love, O be kind to me ;
Kiss me awhile and begone, my dear;
Else if you linger, it well may be
Sony the fruit that your kisses bear.
Lighter is Love, doth the proverb say,
Than the jewelled shape of a butterfly ;
When he folds his wings in one’s heart to stay,
Leaden with sorrow his soft plumes lie.
Zadig.
* *
Interesting to hear that some of the most
disreputable Melbourne wine-shops employ half-a-
dozen women “ ostensibly as domestic servants.”


HARRINGTON *C''L" ; :
PHOTOOUTFJTTERS
66 KING S? sydne
PC
Am... \/ .
TNF r/ff/U / Bt/y
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
X l*K (IT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms—FßEE.
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
■O OSE’S CELEBRATED
Jtb ,
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dinni'ss of Sight, Granu-
ations, <&c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. IC. A. ICO'll. Chemist, 531 George-stweet,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station send Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33 - per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A astral in.
Pat terns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
WAHOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
A FARMER AT BLAYNEY CURED.
Blayney, N.S.W., 26th June, 1897.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
Dear Sir,—l suffered terribly from Indigestion and
Chronic Constipation. I had no appetite, and if I
forced myself to eat the consequences were fearful.
I lost weight rapidly until reduced to S stone. Doc-
tors could do nothing for me, and patent-medicines
failed to relieve. I tried Loasby's “ Wahoo,” and the
effect was magical. It acted on the bowels imme-
diately, and then my other troubles gradually dis-
appeared. Since taking the first dose "of “Wahoo”
my weight has increased to 10 stone. I can’t speak
too highly of Loasby’s “ Wahoo.” -Yours truly,
GEO. SEYMOUR.
WAHOO!
Price 26, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s “Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
Sydney Telegraph publishes an article
about the advisability of every householder leaving
the scraps and spare food in a clean box at the
back gate for the starving poor—the box to have a
lid to keep off dogs. It is four years now since
Reid guaranteed to abolish the unemployed in a
week or thereabouts,' and the country has so far
advanced on the road to that desirable consumma-
tion that it recognises the advisability of letting
the gaunt,wayfarer get the first show at the scraps,
and leaving the dog for a secondary consideration.
* * * *
lb was a beautiful advertising - fake for
Sydney Catholic Press (the priests’ paper, be-
gqcra) to get its new machinery publicly
blessed before starting, and so deeply moved
was, this ungodly rag at an invitation to
the function, that it had taken up its hat to
comply when it was stayed by the thought that
it might be thereafter expected to submit its own
unhallowed plant to the bell book-and-eandle
business. When The Bulletin feels like taking
any benison, it will duly advertise in the “reli-
gious” papers for tenders. The lowest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
* * » *
at the St. Vincent de Paul meeting in
Sydney, the other day, the Salvation Army’s
work was frankly and warmly commended by R.C.
clergymen;-who further asserted that if their own
church did not bestir herself she would be left far
behind in reclamatory and benevolent operations
amongst the slums. The Blood-and-Fire people
must indeed..be making things lively, thus to get
ahead of the most systematically and sincerely
charitable of all the churches. The R.C. priest is
about the only clergyman ever known to die penni-
less—because his charity doesn’t begin at home.
Two ladies, driv-
ing along the Bath-
urst (N.S. W.) Road
recently, overtook a
small boy trudging
wearily along on bare
feet.' When given a
“lift,” it was found
he had-walked from
Lawson to The Valley
(twelve miles) to buy
a loaf of bread, which
was a penny cheaper
there. Twenty - four
miles to save a penny !
* * *
The charity of
people living on the
Bathurst-road, the
main route from Syd-
ney to the West, is
sorely taxed by
tramps. The other
day a resident of
Springwood, annoyed
by the frequent re-
quests for meat and
drink, refused one old
swagtnan. Later, he
passed the same man
seated by the road-
side, dipping a few
dry crusts into a billy
of cold water. When
questioned, swaggie
said the crusts were
the last of a loaf of
bread given him in
Bathurst, 80 miles
away. The resident,
filled with remorse,
took him back to the
house,' fed him, and
sent him away with a
full tucker-bag.
♦ » •
According to a C umberland Times (N. S. W.)
contributor, it has been ordered that the works of
certain classic authors are to be vigorously ex-
purgated before being lent to prisoners from the
N.S.-W. gaol libraries. “ The work of expurgation
is now being carried out —the work of clipping
pages and half-pages out of Scott, Dickens,
Thackeray, Lvtton, Byron, and Morris, by a clerk
with a scissors, at a charge of ten bob a day to the
country. Having been in gaol recently I am, of
course, prepared to say that this bright, unclerical
youth has expurgated the whole of the prison
scene—Pickwick in the Marshalsea, for the ver-
dict and costs in the Bardell versus Pickwick
breach of promise action —from the Master’s great
work with a common scissors, and the best-
known works of the other authors have been
treated with even less consideration.”
* * * *
The Council of the Churches (N.S.W.) has
protested to the Friendly Societies Association
against the use of Sunday for the association’s
annual hospital demonstration. The C.C. is
grievously exercised, it says, over the extra Sun-
day labor involved, and doesn’t appear to consider
that the Scriptural dictum about the ass that falls
into a pit on the Sawbath applies to the human
ass—the ass that believes these holy men are ha’.f
as much concerned about the “ violence to the
consciences of church-members ” as they are about
the violence to the collection-plate. The F.S.A.
meeting, hovvever, decided, by 64 votes to 5, that
it wasn’t taking any saintly slush just then.
* * * «
Melbourne dailies had stirring accounts of
the disbandment of the Rupertswood Battery (the
late Baronet Clarke’s military toy), which would
lead one to believe that half the population of the
country was present at the harrowing ceremony,
bathed in bitter and angry tears. But the wretched
weeklies dispelled the illusion with pathetic
photos, showing the abandoned heroes, a dozen or
so, drawn up in a 40-acre paddock somewhere on
the baronial estates of Clarke, and the indignant
public is represented by two girls leaning over a
fence, and a ribald small boy on a log eating a
carrot. It is the great draw-back to the camera
as an adjunct to the press of the day that it cannot
lie —much.
* * * *
The young Hambourg brothers are, in
private life, almost as boyishly unaffected as
Master Betty, the “Infant Roscius” of yore.
They talk cricket with enthusiasm, and take a
lively interest in the Melbourne football struggles
between Collingwood and South, &c. In contrast
to older and inferior performers, who wear their
blessed Art on their sleeves, these two born musi-
cians are quite refreshing. A new-chum tells of
how he met them at a friend’s house, not long ago,
and, figuratively speaking, patted Jakoff Ham-
bourg on the head after conversing with the young-
ster re. his brothers piano-practice. Then Jakoff
obliged the company with a violin solo, and the
visitor felt appalled at his former irreverence. In
the atmosphere of revealed genius the boy loomed
ten feet high.
* * * *
At Port Moresby (New Guinea), the other
day, six young native girls pleaded guilty before
a white magistrate to a charge of theft. As they
were rather young to send to prison, his worship
took each offender in turn across his knee and
spanked her.
» » * •
A late number of the Clarion (Eng.) sug-
gests to needy Treasurers the establishment of an
order of “ Respectable people, entrance into
OVERHEARD AT THE CLUB.
CYNIC: “I hear that ass Charlie's turned Benedict."
EPICURE: “Poor devil — who’s his Benedictine?”
which could be obtained by payment of a stiff fee.
Although proposed jestingly, it is singular to note
that the very word “ respectable ” arises from the
circumstance that Constantine established it as the
second of the three orders of “nobility” at the
time of the founding of Constantinople. The
three classes were, according to Gibbon, the Illus-
trious, the Respectable, and the Honorable.
There’s little doubt that if the thing were seri-
ously proposed, there’d be a helter-skelter rush by
Sordiddom generally for the “ dignity. ” Or sup-
pose that instead of the “ Respectable ” we made
it “ The Nicest ” ?
* * * *
Melb. butcher to a Bulletin man: “We
find a big demand for penn’orths of bullock’s liver
growing up.” Evidently the country is going to
the dogs’-meat.
A NATURAL QUERY.
COLORED GENTLEMAN: “An’ den he blackened mine eye”-
P.C. O’GRADY: “Phwich wan?”
The distressed Melb. ex - maiden who
declared that a local dentist had drugged her
when she was in the chair, and that a baby was
the consequence, now goes back on her sensational
tale of woe, and says that an anesthetic was not
employed, and that she had agreed and whispered
“Yes” to the toothpuller. “Melbourne men,”
remarked an eminent Q.C., the other day, “should
have discovered by this that ‘a verbal agreement
is not worth the paper it is written upon.’ It is
wise to get consent in writing.” Later news is
that the lady now says that it wasn’t the dentist
at all, but somebody else, miles away.
* * * *
That Melb. girl’s story, since admitted to
be fabulous, about the outrageous dentist who
became father of her child after only two inter-
views, recalls the yarn about the unkempt news-
boy brought before Dr. Lloyd, the North Melb.
beak. “ Who’s your father, my boy?” demanded
Lloyd of the tearful prisoner. “Dunno, sir,” was
the reply. “What!” exclaimed the court,
“ Don’t know who your father is?” “No, sir,”
explained the lad, “ mother only seen him onct.”
* * * *
The recent case of a woman stripping her-
self stark-naked in the presence of a Melbourne
court, and calling on all and sundry to compare
her with artists’ models and sculptors’ dreams, is
by no means new. A similar occurrence, with the
same word-accompanirnent, was recorded in Eng-
land a few years ago, and was then said to have
been imitated from France.
* * * *
The case of Ah Kow. The other day four
lepers were shipped to China from the quarantine
station at Queenscliff (Vic.), the most shocking of
them being a 15st. remnant, whose eyes, ears,
nose, gums, teeth and hands and feet have all dis-
appeared. “ When the Chinese sailors on board
the Whampoa saw the state of their fellow
countryman they gave him a wide berth, and
would render no assistance in getting him on
board. Fortunately for the leper he had a brother
with him, and this relative, a powerful man over
60 years old, lifted him and carried him up the
gangway on to the forecastle, depositing his
burden in his bunk.” The brotherly affection
shown by this Chinese is remarkable. For years
past he has been in constant attendance on the
stricken man (his elder brother) nursing and feed-
ing him when no one else would go near the leper,
if he could possibly avoid it. His name is Ah
Kow.
* * » •
Melbourne has just missed a beautiful sen-
sation. The trouble centred round a lady who
arrived at the hospital in a bad state, and ex-
plained that her husband had forced her to drink
poison in a wine-shop—presumably because he
wanted to marry something with yellow hair, and
found his wife in the road. She gave the address
and the exact hour of the tragedy, and things were
going all right till it transpired that the old man
had been arrested on a charge of larceny and
locked up some hours before the alleged incident.
Then she tried to alter the hour and locate the
horror in a different wine-shop, but her story
couldn’t recover its original coherence, and she
presently acknowdedged that she took the poison
herself for reasons that she couldn’t identify with
any certainty, and accused her husband on general
principles and hysterics. Therefore, that particu-
lar house-father is probably very glad he was
locked up. Being in gaol is the only alibi, bar
one, which is absolutely beyond suspicion. Being
dead is the other one.
* * * *
An infallible s ; gn of the wane of the honey-
moon is when the bridegroom eats pickled onions
for supper.
Pingat: “ The Australian
vogue, quite a rage, is to do
the hair clubbed over the ears
—this even in religious circles
and in church. It entirely
arises from the nude statue of
Mdlle. de Merode, ballet-
dancer in last Paris Salon —
her hair was done this way.
‘ Her chaste ears ! ’ as the wags
said.”
* • *
“Chief Mourner ” to The
Bulletin from Melbourne :
“ When the corpse arrives at
the cemetery the procession
stops, and a claw-like hand is
thrust into the mourning-
coach, and a deep voice de-
mands ‘ eight and sixpence for
the minister.’ If the needful
is forthcoming the procession
moves on, headed by your
eight-and-six-penny sky-pilot,
who, at the planting, will mum-
ble out the old, old story, heave
a professional sigh or two, and
trot off to catch another ca-
daver. To him dcatli is indeed
a sad thing.”
* * *
In a Queensland railway-
carriage. Lady (to male pas-
senger) : “ Would you be good
enough to lend me a knife,
please?” He: “With plea-
sure, madam.” She (after peel-
ing and eating apple, returns
knife) : “ Many thanks ; what
a sharp edge it has ! ” He :
“Yes; you see it is my corn-
knife, so I have to keep it in
good order ! ” Solemn fact.
H. : “ Melb. City Cor-
poration has so far relaxed its
shameful regulation as to per-
mit one coffee-stall to appear
in Bourke - street, and, as
usual, there is a woman in the
case.”
FRATER, AYE ATQUE YALE !
Upon the sand he waved his hand,
We waving back in merry strain ;
A careless kiss, a gay good-bye—
We only part to meet again !
We sailed away that sweet spring day,
And out across the harbor bar;
The sun shone bright, the waves shone white.
The snowy mountains glittered far.
The cliffs rose grim, the pier grew dim,
And faint the line of bush-clad shore ;
O idle laughter ! light farewell!
W e part, who meet not any more !
In vain, in vain ! we sailed again
Across the angry harbor bar ;
The sun shone bright, the waves leaped white,
The snowy mountains glittered far.
No welcome word that day we heard,
Nor any greeting smile we had ;
A funeral bier across the pier
Was borne in silence, slow and sad.
His bed is deep and sound his sleep,
Beneath his own dear trees, I wis,
Beneath his pines and matipos
And ugaios twined with clematis.
Farewell, farewell! no passing bell
Disturbs their rest who sleep like thee.
Sleep, brother, sleep ! thy bed is deep,
Thy face is towards the open sea.
M.L. Dora Wilcox
• * • *
Dear Bulletin, —“ H.” misses the point
re front-names. Even John “King” Smith
illustrates a common rule of nomenclature, but I
doubt the acceptance by priest or parson of “ King
John Smith.” As for the R.C. rule, instance a
friend of mine who was inadvertently taken to a,
registrar first and saddled with three “family”
names, for which the humble praenomen Joseph
had to be substituted at the church ceremony.
Invariably called “Joe” in the domestic circle,
but signs all documents in his registered name.—
T.JJ.
* * » ♦
Dear Bulletin, —A recent paragraph re
queer names reminds me that within a mile of
each other in one part of the Hawkesbury district
reside three fruitgrowers, respectively named Veal,
Pye, and Pigg. Apropos a statement which has
been made re the difficulty of inducing clergymen
to acquiesce in the conferment by parents of
strange Christian names upon their children, no
such difficulty, apparently, stood in the way of
Mr. Dan Mayne, of Bathurst (N.S.W.) Sentinel,
two of whose children bear the front names of
“ Colonel ” and “ Cardinal ” respectively ; whilst a
daughter, since deceased, was christened “ Mar-
chioness.” Dan explained to the curious that it
occurred to him it would sound well to hear that
“ Colonel Mayne took the chair at this meeting,”
or “Amongst the visitors to the course was Car-
dinal Mayne ”—and so on.— Oxberrtite.
* * * *
lie liquor-licensing grocers. “ The skele-
ton in the cupboard ” of most houses is the brandy-
bottle.
* ♦ * *
Burgoo Master—Gaol Governor.
A LAY OF WESTRALIA.
E¥ a starving wretch is scooting
With sixpennyworth of loot,
And he will not heed the summons
Of a number fourteen boot,
Then, like skin-and-vermin trapper
After bear and bandicoot,
Our bold and fearless bobby
Has the privilege to shoot!
If too indisposed or lazy
To betake him to the track,
He can plead he thought, with terror,
That the rogue was coming back;
So he coolly sights the runner,
And you hear the rifle crack
As he shoots— O shades of brave men !
The poor devil in the back.
Then twelve “ men ” sit on his carcase
Just to squeeze out why he died ;
While the bobby tells his story
With a pardonable pride—
And the coroner’s decision
Is “ Just murder —justified ” !
Hut the Blood cries up to Heaven
That that coroner has lied !
GEMININ.


Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
£3?" Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
'£s7’
S
M
dßßow*p°r
Biituiw
)
, Food L
jeeiM'youd
eh
mm
0©
> ® A ®
A WOMAN’S LETTER .
T . ~ Sydney, August 3, 1897.
Mt Dear Myee—
Sydney Society ” woke up with a sudden start
last week and rushed around to every sort of
festivity it knew. There were so many functions
on that the Nicest had to keep going strong for
the whole time to get through. The various balls
culminated in the Freemasons’ on the 28th, and
the gaudiest sight in the Centennial Hall and its
crowded balconies was Speaker Abbott with all
his Masonic emblems and embroidery hanging
around his manly form. Mayor Ives was a good
runner-up for gorgeousness. It was the men’s
night-out for apparel and glitter. After deep
consideration, I vote the man the more successful
displayer of gewgaws. As an animated jewel-stand
he gets in more awe-inspiring effect than the
woman; there is more of him to make a back-
ground, and he has no long, bright-hued draperies
to confuse the effect. The general impression was
that the Masons managed their party well.
Small economies seldom rule a ball arranged by
men. Hosts rarely spoil the ship for a penn’orth
of tar as hostesses sometimes do.
Mrs. A. Marks, who possesses a daughter Ruby
with a well-trained soprano voice, gave an assem-
bly of guests at the Y.M.C.A. Hall an opportunity
of hearing that young lady sing one afternoon last
week. It was a very fashionable flutter, and the
concert was a success. Miss Marks has already
made a name as a drawing-room singer. Miss
Blanche Thomas supplied the contralto. Mr.
Alfred Hill sang his new song, and Mr. Lawrence
Philip, without whom no recent programme seems
to be complete, let off some effective piano fire-
works.
The shipping companies united their efforts and
house-flags in Paddington Town Hall, last Friday
night, and made their annual ball hum satisfac-
torily with the aid of an untiring band and an
average amount of sustenance. The news of the
loss of life on the Tasmania had not then arrived
to damp the dancers’ spirits, and Huddart-
Parker’s flag floated merrily in festoon along with
the others. The dressing was of the penny plain
order. Girls faced the music in unfresh frocks
with damaged trails of gum-and-calico flowers.
Two or three women showed grey poplin exteriors
a depressing night-color, but a showy texture. A
happy-looking woman in a pink frock and an
obvious state of honeymoon, got all her dances,
and seemed as much “in it” as anybody. An
attractive young thing in a heliotrope frock with
up-to-date no-sleeves added years to her appear-
ance by doing her tresses & la artless little Flo—
no girl out of her teens can wear her hair hanging
down her back convincingly.
The recent craze for shop-made violets was a
fashion fresh born of the Jubilee. Nine ball-
gowns out of ten this season were thus adorned ;
the emblem of modesty in mauve muslin came
high, but wearers were bound to have it. Conse-
quently, the supply of millinery violets ran out iA
two provinces, and there would have been money
in making a corner in the unassuming blossoms
had any enterprising importer formed the boom.
There isn’t much decorative value in violets ; they
are too small, and purple is an unbecoming tint,
anyhow. Brunettes are reading with a sinking
heart the accounts from ’Ome that at all the much-
millinered festivities of last month mauve and
green were to the fore —two bilious tints that can’t
even be painted up to, and don’t match any hair
with brown pigment in it. But dark and fair
alike rushed violets, and now on the evening frocks
of yesterday a few wilted sprays and scatterings
of long green stalks with crushed little purple
knobs at the end still show the dying-out craze.
On Saturday night, in Pitt-street, people were
thronging to two “first nights” and a Govt.
House partly-patronised amateur show at the
Lyceum, and yet I suppose, at that moment, there
wasn’t a thoroughfare in the whole world harder
to get along in. What with the telephone excava-
tion at Park-street, gloomily canvas-covered like a
fresh-dug grave, and the sandy wastes on the side-
walk, when it isn’t wet cement, and the building
going on, which allows but a few inches for pedes-
trians to walk round the scaffolding—for miscel-
laneous and assorted examples of the condition
which the principal street of a big city ought not
to be in, Pitt-street, from King to Market streets,
holds a world’s record.
They threw planking across the pavement in
front of the Lyceum on Saturday night, and only
a few acres of sandy desert outside were trans-
ferred to the stair carpetings. A fairly large
audience, with a long row of notables in the front
of the d.c., sat out “ Duty,” played by the Sydney
Dramatic Club for the fashionable charity of the
hour. Most of the audience had turned up in the
spirit indicated by the title, but roused themselves
during the second act to the consciousness that the
stage-folk were warming up to a surprisingly good
performance. “Duty,” like all dramas bearing
the Sardou trade-mark, goes for a third-act climax
which has to be worked up to intelligently all
through. There were one or two lamentable cir-
cumstances in the cast, such as the moth-eaten
wig of the chief butler, and the hero’s keeping on
his silk hat while he hugged the walking-lady in
his own drawing-room, though the lady was pretty
and well-frocked enough to justify this lapse of
memory about his topper. Perhaps the two most
brightly-played parts in the best all-round per-
formance which the S.D.C. has yet given were
the Uncle Hammond of C. W. Anson and Mrs.
Trelawney Smith of Miss Mabel Hogg.
Vast crowds of smartly-attired women, sporting
the local sky-blue in hat-trimmings and neckties,
thronged the stands at the Cricket Ground last
Saturday, and took an absorbing interest in the
football-match. One interested spectator was
Sylvia Grey (Mrs. R. L. Fenwick, booked for
London by Monday’s P. and O.), who, dressed in
dark-blue cloth, a cream lace cravat, and hat tilted
at the side, chatted in front of the grand-stand,
and displayed her pretty shoes—but Sylvia Grey’s
feet could only be done justice to by a poetical
man-admirer in a reminiscent sonnet recalling her
“ cigarette” dance and her “statue’’dance, and all
the other measures in which those tootsies tripped
into fame. In the vice-regal pen sat some new-
comers—Sydney possesses several distinguished
visitahs just now—a nephew of the Secretary of
State for the Colonies, with the Chamberlain
clean shave, but without the family orchid and
eye-glass, also detached members of neighboring
suites. A naval beauty-man crowned his many
inches with a “ Butler ” cap. A girl in an 1840
bonnet with border of pink roses, successfully
proved that it requires a “ profile ” to set off that
quaint style of headgear.
Spangles and spoof are the chief stock-in-trade
of the Gay Parisienne as pourtrayed by Miss Ada
Willoughby, also a knowledge of high-kicking.
It seems that in gay Paree every girl must learn
to take off the hat of every man she meets with
her shoe-tip, or else she is not considered properly
introduced—judging, that is, by the stage French
girl. The gowns of the newest and gayest Parisi-
enne are really rapturous; in the first, which is
all rosy-pink where it isn’t steely-blue, and gleams
with tinsel wherever tinsel can be sewn on, the
wearer spreads herself until half-time, beneath a
white and plumy hat. The second brings a round
of applause for itself and makes the dainty
Julie look as if she were playing a game of
oranges-and-lemons with herself beneath a gold
and yellow sunset with black points in it, and her
hat and sunshade are sensational. She puts on
so much glitter with her clothes that there is none
left for the other ladies in the cast, who are all
neat but not gaudy. The other Parisian two, the
poodle and Pompier, are both barbered Frenchily
and both possess waists.
A polite hint “evening-dress” on the corner of
the cards for Mr. F. Down’s pupils’ concert was
promptly taken by a festive-looking crowd which
quite filled the Y.M.C.A. Hall, last Wednesday
evening. The entertainment was given by the
singing pupils, who did good average work, and
was brightened by a long interval and the enforced
absence through sickness of one of the principals.
Messrs. L. Philip, Leston and E. P. Truman gave
their professional services.
In connection with the Charity Carnival on
Aug. 28, at the Show Grounds, the Chinese are
going to have a festival. They will borrow all
the paraphernalia from their brethren in Bendigo,
where the Chow procesh and bang drums annually
at the Easter Fair. The shivoo will be altered
slightly from the old style, as up-to-date notions
like bicycle races have crept in. Evidently the
bike has supplanted the old-fashioned kite-flying,
such as the gold-seeking Celestials used to give on
the Victorian diggings in days of yore. There
ought to be lots of money in a Chow festival—and
lots of police also.
A correspondent sends me an account of a swell
dinner-party given by Melba shortly before she
sang at the Command performance at Covent
Garden. The company wasn’t too overwhelmingly
distinguished—names include, besides two or three
musical stars of second or third magnitude, only a
few known this side, Ada Crossley and J. M.
Bruce and an ex-Melbourne penwoman who was
supposed to have offended the whole Mitchell clan
by something she wrote, but who has apparently
been taken on again. True, that lady-writer can
write pro as well as con, and a press backing is
always useful, even to prima-donnas. V
\The same copious source gushes forth a note re
the Harmsworth reception for the colonial Pre-
both Melba and Crossley warbled.
The crush was something awful, and at one time
1 was wedged on the stairway, and could neither
move backward nor forward, for nearly 20 minutes.
There were many dukes and other'lofty people
present, and also Mrs. Ronalds, who rules musical
.London. She is a friend of Sir Arthur Sullivan,
and used to be a great pal of Napoleon the Third ”
Many dukes—and Mrs. Ronalds ! Who is Mrs.
tx'4 any , ho . w • Also, it is a long time since Nap.
ill. faded away.
Brisbane girls are mourning that their most
charming and popular canon is going from them.
Rev. Stone-Wigg has just been made Bishop of
Guinea, and henceforth his “ soft and musi-
cal voice will be heard wrestling in prayer by the
natives of Papua only. This seductive cleric has
points which the heathen in his blindness won’t
begin to see. He is described as “ handsome, tall,
dark, slight, age about 33, and charming without
an effort. Any well-fed person would be just as
charming without an effort, and just as much ap-
preciated when cooked. Surely such a person is
too good to waste on cannibals. Why not swap
him for—say Bishop Goe?
Brisbane took football fever very badly. The
visiting Maoriland team was responsible'for an
abstracted soloist singing, at the last Liedertafel
concert, A brigand still, a soldier I, my foes my
goalers I defy.” The last line was repeated several
tunes by the singer, who imagined probably he was
fighting over again the battles of the previous
oaturday.
At little Raimond Pechotsch’s benefit, the
financial element floated, but the artistic was con*
siderably sunk. At benefits the people who
pay will good-naturedly tolerate any absurd
person who chooses to assume the title “artist.”
It is simple crucifixion to watch a pseudo-artist
standing with chest rising and falling, with face
purpling, with eyes bulging, while he or she
laboriously forces out a voice that is tied in a knot
at the back of the throat. In those parts of the
civilised world where the general community
understands what to expect from an “artist,” the
pretender is suppressed with hoots, hisses, or a
shower of walking-sticks. Miss Eva Mylott,
Riccardi s pupil, was a star in a firmament of her
own at this benefit. Miss Wynne’s top notes
brought her through successfully, but her lower
ones were not too audible.
Mme. Charbonnet-Killermann created much
mirth in her duo with Herr Pechotsch. After
steadily cantering up to the scratch, Madame sud-
denly raced away at a cracker, her head shaking
so violently that every moment promised to see
the front part of her hair tumble off and get
trampled to death by the galloping keys below.
IJutter, flutter, flutter went the curls; waggle
waggle, waggle went the “bang,” and the Herr
flogged into his violin like a jockey, and strained
every nerve and grew red in the face—and, in
fact, nearly dropped his bundle in his struggles to
keep pace. Of course the 10-year-old god of the
occasion played his violin and looked heavenly
innocent to perfection. He was the one being
who looked natural. He was neither cultivating an
absurd eye-glass nor growing long hair with a curl
at the end like a drake’s tail.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Somebody writes, all the way from Maori-
land, correcting a Bulletin misstatement that it
was cyclist Carpenter who delivered the Sydney
despatch at Melb. Govt. House, and got a glass of
beer for his pains. The bearer of the despatch,
says our far-away informant, was G. R. Broad-
bent, who is a total abstainer, upon whom beer of
any description would be wasted. Guvment
House hospitality missed a chance to score in this
case. Had His Ex. known that a strict teetotaller
was waiting in the garden with a travel-stained
bike, he might have offered to open a magnum of
sparkling. Whereas, the case being doubtful, the
messenger was merely invited to bathe his chew-
in(? §> ul n in a mouthful of ‘ coloniale. ’
“The Melbourne debutante who figures as fellow-
slave to Mrs. Maesmore Morris in ‘ The Sign of
the Cross,’ is said to be devoting her leisure to
serious study of histrionic art, with a view of
going ’Ome. Rumor doesn’t state what branch of
art the plump little novice is at work upon. If
she hugs an ambition to burst forth as a leading
lady, her friends had better talk to her seriously.
Ihe lady’s much-photographed shoulders will not
be of much assistance to her in a dramatic career,
her figure isn’t built for heroics, and her profile
—well, she may perhaps hope to make a name,
some day, in genteel low comedy.
“ Women still worship at the joint shrine of the
Hambourg boys, though violinist Jakoff is now
first favorite. Not only is he the beauty of the
family, with his slender figure, dark eyes, and halo
of wavy brown hair, but his performance is less
disheartening to female hearers, of whom com-
paratively few attempt the fiddle. It’s all very
well for men who have not wasted half their youth
in futile pianoforte practice to gloat through opera-
glasses over Mark’s digital gymnastics, but the
prodigy’s free-and-easy passage across all the tra-
ditional ‘ asses’ bridges ’ of music is too aggravat-
ing for female flesh to bear. In suburban trains
and trams homeward-bound from Hambourg con-
certs the girls sit in dull despair, only rousing up
now and then to protest against the star’s sensa-
tionally rapid rendering of ‘ Yalse Allemande,’ or
some similar chestnut, as compared to the less-un-
attainable tempo affected by the past and gone He
Beaupuis. Meanwhile, Mark, looking healthier
than he did, makes his old bob-curtseys and
clutches at his front hair as of yore.
“ One of Melbourne’s cleverest pianists num-
bered among her pupils a scion of an extremely
wealthy, extremely sudden, Toorak family, and,
visiting the house for the first time, she had the
temerity to sit on one of the red plush-and-gilt-
framed chairs that crowded up the garish draw-
ing-room. Soon the lydy of the house waltzed in,
almost bursting through a neat little thing in
green and red satin. ‘ Git off them chairs ! ’ she
yelled, gasping in horror at the situation. ‘ D’yer
think we buy chairs like them to be sat on by the
likes of music-teachers ? ’
*' The Geelong Coffee Palace, like most of that
ilk, is run by a pious directorate. Every room is
fitted with a Bible, and an assortment of texts
adorns the walls. But, in the bridal-chamber,
surely some clerical humorist has got to work, for
above the dressing-table is the big, glaring injunc-
tion, ‘ Suffer little children to come unto Me.’
. “-A certain Tas. wool-king, a staunch blue-
ribbonite, is notoriously absent-minded. Recently
he, with his wife, attended a little social function
m the township nearest his location, and when it
was over, made off to the hotel to get his buggy.
The groom was absent, so the squatter himself
harnessed up and started homewards. After
driving some miles he found that his seat was not
E laced as usual. Investigation showed that he
ad taken the wrong trap. He drove back again
and .exchanged vehicles—then he found that he
ha/a forgotten his wife !
/“ Sassiety bestows a jaded smile upon a romance
in ’umble life. It is understood that ‘ Old John,’
the military-looking carriage-attendant, who
wears a soup-plate badge of office on his chest,
and carries things with a high hand outside Melb.
functions, is about to take to his bosom a wife.
One pictures John, when the holy bonds have
been fixed, bustling to the door of the tabernacle
to call his own carriage.
“ The cash she was wont to cut a dash with
having gone in the bank-smash, a daughter of one
of Melbourne’s Nicest families was on the point
of opening a tea-room when an old schoolmate
came forward with an invitation to take a year’s
trip to Europe with her, offering £lOO and all
expenses for the time. The Nicest one—well past
her first youth—accepted, but in the course of
many subsequent conversations with other society
damsels confessed that the most awful horror of
poverty was the associations it compelled. ‘ Look
at me,’she said, pathetically, ‘a lady! And yet
I am forced to become paid companion to a person
of that class.’ So widespread were these com-
plaints that they ultimately reached the voyageuse,
who immediately informed the aristocratic one
that she could not think of inflicting upon her the
degradation of compulsory association with one so
lowly.
“ August is to be a very giddy month. Several
large charity shivoos, two military dances, a
fashionable spinsters’ fling, the Melbourne Hunt
Club ball, the Mayor’s hop, and several small-fry
festivities are among the fixtures.
“ Mrs. (Premier) Turner, I hear from more than
one London correspondent, simply beamed on the
crowd as she drove in the procession on Jubilee
Day. The crowd, unused to such excessive
amiability from the occupants of royal carriages,
cheered her to the echo, and the more they cheered
the more she bowed.
“ More and more flowers are, I have noticed,
being sold in Sydney streets, and it is the same in
Melbourne, where flowers are ever so much
cheaper than on the shores of the Beautiful Har-
bor. A regular flower-market is now established
in Swanston-street on Saturday mornings. Last
‘ Block-day ’ I counted 38 persons between Flin-
ders and Collins-streets, mostly selling button-
holes violets, jonquils, and wattle. Two
camera-men were busy taking snapshots at the
time. Facially the boy-sellers mostly appear to
be either Jews or Graeco Italians ; and are nearly
all employed by one man. I analysed one penny
bunch of violets. It contained 45 violets, 2 brown
leaves, and 3 sprays of maiden-hair, all fastened
by no less than 3ft. 6in. of wire. This for Id. !
Where does the profit come in ?
“Among the passengers on the wrecked Tas-
mania were a bride and bridegroom of less than a
fortnight's standing. They were taken off in one
of the boats, leaving all their wedding-presents to
go down with the ship, but they escaped without
bodily damage beyond sun-peeled noses and chil-
blained knuckles and ears. A girl turned adrift
like that without even a spare hairpin must surely
feel depressingly squalid, though a woman who,
through a similar accident, began her honeymoon
on a raft, testifies to the contrary. She was so in-
tent, she says, on watching for her turn at the tin
of plum jam diluted with water, the only refresh-
ment available, that the thought of her short
ulster and bare feet troubled her very little.
One of the Indian mutiny romances tells of an
English officer who showed himself a regular bear
to his new-made wife, when they were besieged in
a fort, not in pressing danger, but in sweltering
heat and without luggage. There was no water
‘ s P are to wash the heroine’s face, her muslin
wedding-gown grew soiled and draggled, and her
hair hung in wisps all out of curl.
“ An old medical identity, who died at ’Omethe
other day, had shortly before his death taken
a second wife, matron of a hospital. His
grown-up daughters kicked against the match at
first, until a wily friend of pa’s reconciled the
youngest and most rampant of the rebels by point-
ing out that, as one of her elder sisters was married
and another engaged, it would be her sacred duty,
unless she sanctioned his marriage, to comfort her
fathers old age, give up dancing for filial cribbace,
and cultivate the knack of rubbing rheumatic
joints.
‘ The head of an Australian ‘ house,’ who lately
to his estates, has adopted one more
°ld English custom, and now exacts a modest
half-caser ’ from all strangers who would be
shown over his country residence.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
“ The Holy Trinity, Country, Republic,
President,” was a toast at the French Club, Melb.,
last week, on the National Anniversary.
The prices of old-established London pubs,
have increased enormously of late years. Aus-
tralian cockneys will be staggered to hear that The
Angel, Islington, was recently sold for .£lOO,OOO.
Premier Turner’s constituency, St. Kilda,
has_ “ got rats ” over the exalted position attained
by its elect, and proposes to hold a public recep-
tion to “Jarge” and Lady Turner, for which
2s. admission is to be charged. “ Come and see
the man what shook hands with the Queen for 2s
a head. ”
According to private letters, Premier Reid
presents an appearance very different from that of
George Reid when he left Australia. During the
voyage ’Ome the rotund Reid worked like a Trojan
at a corpulence-cure, and reached London a
bewchus youth with and eyeglass something like
'-'has. Godfrey s Clarence Fitz Clarence.
On behalf of defendant in a recent Mel-
bourne factory prosecution objection was raised
to Mr. Nicholson, P.M., adjudicating single-
handed, and it was asked that the bench might
include. some J sP. as well. Every observant
person in Melb. sees that as shameless jobs are
being worked in factory cases as ever disgraced
the Courts in the days of Rappiport and Baxter.
A Jewish Chronicle correspondent de-
scribes the “ Holy City ’’ as filthy beyond concep-
tion, pestilential with stinks, swarming with beg-
gars—“ the sacred places prostituted to unblushing
rapacity, and the people more degraded even than
the multitudinous, curs that subsist upon the
p-u-hn.ae of the noisome streets.” Jerusalem the
Golden 1
The collected Bulletin verse of Barcroft
Boake will be published in a few days, with a
lengthy memoir of the poet, and many illustra-
tions by Mahony, Lambert, and Fischer The
title of the book is “Where the Dead Men Lie,
and Other Poems.” Readers who send ss. 6d. to
this office will have copies forwarded post-free
immediately on publication.
Dr. Ernest Hawthorn, of Georgetown (Q.)
reports in the Lancet a case of a baby-girl six
days old yielding breast-milk of the same quality
as ordinary human milk, and getting angry and
rrn. eV i S^*m °ther did not milk her regularly
JLhe baby’s breasts were the size of half an orange!
Apparently the soul of a wet-nurse had gone astray
during transmigration, or disobeyed orders. Dr.
Hogg, of lillingham, Eng., though, beats him
easily with a family in which not only two girls
but a boy likewise, yielded breast-milk in their first
week.
Rumored, that the Westralian Govt, will
probably not submit the Federation Bill to Parlia-
ment at all, and that the W. A. delegates will
simply be mussing, with no explanations offered
when the Convention meets at Sydney. Assuming
this to be so, the absence of Queensland and W.A
is so much the more reason why the other tour
provinces should go ahead with renewed vigor.
With only one Tory province left in, there is all
the more chance of building up a decent demo-
cratic constitution. W.A. will come into the
federation without asking questions when the
great slump arrives.
The United Australasian Axemen’s Asso-
ciation, after holding six successful exhibitions of
chopping and sawing, &c., in Tasmania, has
decided to hold the seventh on the mainland and
the event comes off in Melbourne at Cup-time. A
Eono r^ nime i. 0f iin V u ntS l W ' t h P r * zes ranging from
£2OO down to <£lo, has been arranged, and parti-
culars are set forth in the advertising columns of
this issue. It is hoped that this year one or more
Americans will compete. The lumbermen of
lacoma (Washington Territory, U.S.A.) have
been offered free entry and a liberal travelling
allowance. Previous offers to the same effect
however, have evoked nothing save some eloquent
assurances to the effect that Australia would be
chawed up if the Amurrikin axemen did happen
this way.
Hall, the young man who smothered his
wife and then squeezed her like a lump of pressed
beef into a tub, is one of those people whose feel-
ings would not be moved by anything short of
dynamite. His callous demeanor during the trial
at Castlemaine went three-quarters of the wav in
driving the jury to the conclusion that he mur-
dered his wife, and the production of a wax
lay figure of a naked woman stuffed in a tub
went the other quarter. Nothing like drama-
tic effect for a jury.. As to this figure, the
police had made up their minds that, to pot Hall
the tub business was the correct card. So a miser-
ably necessitous girl earned a few shillings by posing
aVIL® aether ”at the request of the police
At the Castlemaine July sittings, by the way, the
jury was called upon to decide in only four cases
One of wife-murder; one of giving drugs for an
unlawful purpose; one of incest, and one of
criminal assault. When Eva Scott, the chief wit-
ness, said, after persistent questioning, that Hall
ieft her one night at 12 o’clock, the town-
clock outside the court chimed 12. As counsel’s
speeches were about to begin, Hall took a seat in
the dock with the rope from the window touching
his neck. Sheriff M‘Farlane noticed the omen. *


Kiippers Elberfeld I
J H. SQUIRE & CO.
Pbotograpb'C Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTEKNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM FOR 12 EXPOSURES, 1 6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
LIiyiWISSEIDi
MAPS!
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—op—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agknt, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
N.S. Wales has lost by death two ex-
premiers within the last 15 months.
So-and-So, Esq., J.P. (as per visiting-card)
has just been appointed a Sydney suburban in-
spector of nuisances.
Sydney Theosophical Society claims that
meteorologist Wragge is an enrolled member of
its body, and an ornament of its order.
Arthur Streeton has fixed up a studio in
London and, on a recent Sunday, was one of a
party who supped with Bertram Mackennal.
Late Gov. J. B. Thurston’s death was
directly due to excess of limesalts in the blood,
arising from exposure in all times and weathers in
his earlier Fiji days.
“ WHAT IS MAN , THAT THOU SHOULDST
BE MINDFUL OF HIM?”
LADY : “ What’s the matter, little girl?”
LITTLE GIRL: “ On'y a man run over!”
Explorer Ernest Giles is once more a
Govt, official. In the early fifties he drove a pen
in Melb. G.P.0., and later clerked it in the
County Court. It is W.A. this time.
Out of a total of 37 Mayors of Sydney
only one—Manning—has been Roman Catholic.
The longest record as Mayor is held by John
Harris, who reigned five years altogether as
gutter-boss.
“After all, what a fool Windeyer was,”
(said a Sydney Q.C., the other day,) “to reach for
that P.C.-ship over the head of Darley, Chief-
Justice and Lieut.-Governor ! Surely he might
have known ! ”
Archdeacon King, who died on Saturday
week, aged 74, was a grandson of Governor King,
the third ruler of N.S.W. The Archdeacon was
a kindly old man, whose fad was the hopeless task
of converting the Jews.
From one point of view Australia is demo-
cratic enough. A recent Acting-Governor of an
Australian province is the son of a publican, and
it is related of him that when a boy he used to
play the fiddle in his father’s bar to induce custom.
In the cemetery of St. Matthew's Church,
at Windsor (N.S.W.), is a monument to the
memory of Surgeon Thomas Arndell, who came
out with Gov. Phillip in the first fleet, and after
his service settled on his grant in the Hawkesbury
district.
Outside N.S.W. Agent-General’s office in
London is a gigantic inscription —“New South
Wales, the Mother Colony of the Australias.”
Who is responsible for this advt. of our doubtful
first parentage?—Saul Samuel or Georgey P.C.
orgy?
Hon. “Bob” White, of Sydney, visited
the Japanese settlement at the far end of Mon-
frelia —to wit, Thursday Island —the other day.
ack Want has much to answer for when his
“ fairies ” send old gentlemen like “ Bob ”on the
warpath after this fashion.
Usury inspires poetry, it seems. A de-
ceased Melb. money-lender left a volume of his
own verses behind him, and now another provider
of cash, “ with or without security,” has published
a number of musings and things in various metres,
The Bulletin is informed. O, my poetic soul!
my uncle !
“ Australian Abroad ” : “If Cripps Clark
can assert he has seen a Corelli-Mackay ‘ license
to love,’ he will solve an enigma that has puzzled
the London pen-people for long. The prevailing
belief is that the relationship varies according to
the sun’s position, or the moon’s age, or the chances
of rain next Sunday.”
Dr. Dicky Youl, Melb.’s comic coroner,
relates how, at one inquest involving suspicion,
Purves, Q.C., appeared on behalf of a certain
witness and resented Youl’s reflections on his
client. “Why do you consider my client is
guilty ?” he asked at last. “ Because,” said Youl,
“ you are here to defend him.”
Australia’s one purely surgical knight,
Thomas Naerhten Fitzgerald, has been surgeon to
Melbourne Hospital for 37 years. Of other Aus-
tralian knighted medicos, Agnew and Renwick
got their handles for political reasons, Roberts for
his services to the Prince Alfred Hospital, Brown-
less for his to Melbourne University, and Hector
for his lustre in the world of natural science.
Another version. An Australian, writing
from London, says that, in the Jubilee procession,
it was mirth-provoking to study the demeanor of
Australasian Premiers. Reid was clothed in an
expansive smile, Turner looked pale and panic-
stricken, Seddonand Kingston, looking immensely
proud, recognised the salutes of the crowd in a
lordly way, but Braddon neither lifted his hat nor
smiled.
The Japanese mail-boat, Sagami Maru,
which came down the coast a few days ago,
dropped 250 Jap. emigrants in one lot at one
North Queensland port. They are going it
very gaily up in the Piebald Land. And,
meanwhile, nice, natty, gentlemanly Jap. consuls
keep assuring the Australian people with a pitying
smile that the Japanese invasion is all a myth—
the little brown man doesn’t emigrate—he is too
much attached to his home and has too much to
do there, and Australia is the last place he would
think of going to, anyhow.
Premier John Forrest, a Vic. paper points
out, rodein the sixth carriage among the “colonial'’
group at the Jubilee procession ; he has been six
years Premier of W.A., is six feet high, has six
brothers, belongs to a Cabinet of six, is a member
of the Six Families, and proposes to borrow
<£6,000,000. He also weighs 16 stone and has a
vote in 16 different constituencies. Also, 606 is
the number of the Beast of Revelations.
O’Malley, M.P., the barmaid abolition
champion in S.A. Assembly, on his enemies
He thanked God he was too strong for the reptiles to
pull down. He thanked God that the wilful, malignant,
heartless, prostituting, cold-blooded, social institu-
tions called drunkeries were not strong enough to
kill him. . . . Why did people like the ant ? They ad-
mired the ant and execrated the bed-bug because the ant
made its living in a respectable way and the bed-bug
made its living by sucking blood.
“Peter” Symmons, of Melb. Argus, was
once accosted at a Presbyterian Assembly meeting
by a parson who desired a few minutes’earnest
conversation with him on the rising of the session.
Scenting conversion, Symmons tried to escape per
back door, but was intercepted. “Ah want to
know,” began the black-coated one, “eef there’s
onny vacancy on the Airgus. You see, ah’ve a
nephew who was in the ir-ronmonger-ry, but of
late he’s taken to dreenk, an’ so we thocht of
getting him on to the press.”
Ed. Bulletin, —Think of New Guinea
M‘Gregor re-naming Mount Owen Stanley, Mount
“Victoria ! ” The name was a fitting one for the
loftiest peak of British Australasia, commemora-
ting, as it did, the gallant young lieutenant who
did so much survey work in austral waters—who
was on board the ship that landed the hapless
Kennedy, and helped to form the Raffles Bay
settlement; but what can “Victoria ” have to do
with it? Fortunately, no one agrees with the
change. The latest writers on geography unani-
mously condemn the action, as against all geo-
graphical rules. The name was given by the
officers of H.M.S. Rattlesnake in 1846-50, during
her long survey cruise, and M ‘Gregor had no more
right to miscall it than he had to re-christen New
Guinea. —E.F.
The subpoenaing of
teetotaller Lormer,
J.P., as a witness
(though he could give
no relevant evidence)
simply to stop him ad-
judicating in a licensing
case, recalls the story
of a Sydneyite who, on
his escape owing to a
technical flaw, was
warned by the Judge
that, should he fail to
profit by his good for-
tune, his next sentence,
if he came before his
Honor, would be severe.
Soon afterwards he was
again listed for trial be-
fore the same Judge,
and mentioned the
above incident to his
counsel, who prevented
his Honor from carry-
ing out his declared in-
tention by subpoenaing
him to give evidence,
it being impossible for
one to be Judge and
witness at the same
time.
Ricardo : “ Gra-
ham Berry’s financial
position, and his un-
doubted claim to a pen-
sion, is naturally a
theme in view of the
resolve to oust him as
Speaker, of which he
has had a good year’s
notice. It is doubtful
whether he has man-
aged to put by anything
out of his salary, though
he has lived as econo-
mically as ever a
Speaker can. Some
odium attached to him
after the Mercantile
Bank smash, because he
had sold out shares in
that concern; but he
explained, to the per-
fect satisfaction of every
one, that it was posi-
tively necessary to pay
the passages of himself
and family from Lon-
don to Melb. on the
expiration of his Agent-
Generalship, and he had
every reason to believe
then that he made a
grave sacrifice.”
The present Tasmanian Jack Ketch was
formerly a sweep. Now, in addition to his capa-
city as man-butcher, he ranks as a petty constable.
At the last Tas. execution, the sheriff’s under-
study was incognito, and did his gory job success-
fully disguised by a wig and painted face.
Mr. NAKAGAWA, Japanese Consul in Sydney.
Photo., Newman.
This picture ancl that! Frances Saville, in
London, winning hearts and fame and fortune !
“Frances Saville,” in Sydney —six months for
“ acquiring ” a gold watch ! One Jeremy Taylor
was once convicted in Melbourne of picking
pockets.
As appearances go, W. J. Lyne and B. R.
Wise stand about level as lost memory champions.
Lyne’s proved lapse in re the Queen’s Jubilee, and
Wise’s apparent lapse in re Ashton, M.P., have
seldom been surpassed as memory-failures in the
politics of Australia.
TESTED HONESTY.
CITY VISITOR (with surprise): “I put my boots out last night and
they haven’t been touched !”
BUSH PUBLICANESS (indignantly): “The saints presume us! Didye
think we wor thayves?”
The Adelaide city acre on which Premier
Kingston lives was bought by his father at
the first sale of town lots in ’36. The elder
Kingston was second-in-command to Col. Light,
who selected the site of Adelaide and conducted
the survey of its streets, square, and park lands.
Arthur Cheke, late taxing-
officer of Vic. Supreme Court,
who died the other day after a
long illness, was, before his as-
sumption of that office, associate
successively to Judges Webb and
Hood. He was closely related to
the late Judge Cheeke (so spelt in
the law reports) of the N.S.W.
bench, and a direct descendant
of the Cheke noted in the per-
secutions for Protestantism in Eng-
land and Flanders in Mary and
Elizabeth’s time. A book on this
Cheke’s sufferings, rather well
written of its kind, is looked
upon as a sort of addendum to the
Reformation martyrology.
Looking at the four marble
statues of Victoria, Albert, “ Tum-
my,” and the Princess of Wales,
which the late W. J. Clarke pre-
sented to Melb. Nat. Gallery, one
is not so much struck by the
grovelsome selection of subjects
as by the sculptor Summers’s
disloyalty to the man who gave
him the order. The four figures,
each seated in a chair, are slovenly
works of art all round, and absurd
misrepresentations of the originals
in three instances. “Wales’s”
wife is the exception.
Ten of the Federal Conven-
tion delegates were born in August.
Deakin was 41, Aug. 3; R. E.
O’Connor had a birthday, Aug. 4 ;
Attorney General Isaacs is 42,
Aug. 6 ; Premier Turner will be
46, Aug. 8 ; Simon Fraser will be
62, Aug. 21 ; Chief Secretary
Moore (Tas.) will be 74, and
Premier John Forrest 50, Aug
22; Education Minister Cock-
burn (S.A.) will be 47, Aug. 23;
R. F. Sholl (W.A.) will be 49,
Aug. 27 ; and Speaker Graham Berry (Vic.) will
be 75, Aug. 28. Then John Henry (Tas.) celebrates
his birthday on Sep. 1.
The Maori contingent had to be clothed
in Wellington before it was sent ’Ome. The
order for boots was given to a local warehouse,
and included “ fourteen pairs of tens and one pair
of thirteens.” The head of the department was
so flabbergasted with this item that he went about
all day and far into the night “ jibbering “ four-
teen pairs of tens and one pair of thir-feens.” The
dusky boys could march and ride far better with-
out boots and stockings. When the contingent
stood at attention with toes out, “Oh, those feet!”
said the onlookers.
The lately - deceased Archdeacon King,
grandson of Governor King, of the beginning of
the century, was one of nearly a dozen direct
descendants of that historic personage, all resident
in Australia. Gov. Bourke, another early monarch,
is the only other N.S.W. potentate of that rank
whose progeny (through the Deas-Thompsons)
abide with us. Lieut -Colonel G. Johnstone,
who, with two others, acted as a sort of trium-
virate Governor during the suspension of Gov.
Bligli, between 1808 and 1809, has also left resi-
dent representatives.
Governor Ranfurly, now on his way to
Maoriland, is particularly vitriolic where Irish
nationalism is concerned. When Gladstone es-
poused Home Rule, Ranfurly howled savagely
and betook him.-elf to Belfast to head the Orange-
men. And yet lie is of Irish descent, and his wife
is one of the In t lineal representatives of Lord
Charlemont, founder of the practically rebel Irish
volunteers. “An uneducated democracy ”is male
Ranfurly’s special aversion. For years he hung
around the Queen as Lord-in-Waiting at J 5702 a
year, and, though his actual presence at Court was
required for only six weeks out of the fifty-two,
his loyalty caused him to linger long and lovingly
about the royal premises.
Sydney University has the right to yearly
nominate two students in the Imperial army. As
a rule, its children are not taking any gore. An
exception has, however, turned up in the son of
the hereditarily-gilded Mat. Harris, M.P., who
not long ago received a commission in the Ennis-
killen Dragoons. Mat. should find footing the
bill for this youthful warrior’s kit about equal to
the expenses of two general elections. But, his
troubles ! To look at the burly Mat., who bears
an almost twin-like likeness to “ Mudgee-gaol-
bricks-Jones ” —save that his silence is more golden
—no one would accuse him of being a B.A. But
he is, all the same—he holds one of the earliest
degrees of Sydney University. Next year will
probably see him Mayor of Sydney.
Subjoined is a complete list of the persons
—ghouls and others —who were present at the
judicial hanging of Frank Butler, on July 16 :
C. E. B. Maybury, Stephen L. Guv, Whitting-dale John-
son, G. Herbert, C. W. F. Taylor, F. Penny, P. Hunter,
A. Kierman, George Lane, F. E. Diamond, M. H. Donohoe,
J. Weymark, Edward Evans, Alexander Barber, Charles
Gibbs, W. Ridley, J. Robinson, J. Holloway, W. Jay,
M. E. H. Felton, G. A. Hyam, J. Roper, J. Lowry, J. B.
Spence, Dr. Paton, Nosey Bob, and an assistant.
Several of the above, as the names show, were
present in an official capacity, but more than
hree-fourths were ghouls, pure and simple. The
reasons assigned for the admission of a full half-
dozen of the crowd would have made Butler die
laughing.
The Argus on Barney Barnato ;
The papers are full of anecdotes of Barney— stupid,
vulgar, music-hallish; but a man who had the simple,
single-minded courage to call his son “ Rosebery Ladas ”
cannot have been wholly bad.
Now, supposing Barney had called his boy “ Per*
simmon Guelph! ”
Rupert Clarke informs Yic. Leg. Council
that he will “ enter into the butter industry on a
large scale ” when Govt, will allow him to manag*
his own business, instead of etc., etc. Australia’s
first hereditary baronet is bound to enter largely
into the butter trade. He can’t help himself.
Rupert Clarke, the least remark
That anytime you utter,
Each public word, howe’er absurd,
Which painfully you stutter
Will bring “ the Bart"—God bless his heart!—
An offering of butter.


Packets
Of
»<*&■>
m mmzf puf{£
/flanu/acZured by A
( mb
i^Sw
X
SoftCai)VaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per J4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on-
receipt of P. 0.0, or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTH EKB,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
*
“Kyrle Bellew,” says a Bulletin correspondent,
when rt that lS T>face tr wa S n 'Si
mining ‘on his own’he at the old Lion
olaim driving the whip. Then he budded forth as an
artist by painting the sign-board of the Lion Hotel—a
ferocious-looking animal standing on his hind legs, and
for years looked upon locally as the greatest of chef
d’oeuvres. Then, when the hall connected with the hotel
was opened, he painted a set of scenes for the stage which
oaused even more sensation than the Lion. Then the first
00. came along and were billed to play a ‘ Shakespearian
masterpiece for a few nights only, prior to their departure
for India, to fulfil important engagements’ (all country
shows, somehow, seem to be always about to ‘ take their
departure for Indiaßut on the first night the leading
man was razzled and could not speak, much less rant
Shakespeare ; and as Kyrle had been so successful with the
painting he was appealed to, and luokily knew enough of the
part to carry him through and save the piece. He left with
the co. as leading man, and Solferino and Lionsville knew
him no more. _ At Solferino, the other day, I met one of
the old identities, a gentleman named Bob. ‘D’ye know
b V, n °° ! u-°~O
—* c * l ont .
•,,„ e ww w ?s d ' r? la^ e ? over - L . lon8 ~
w l ,' >,» G vl afton i Pl . ayln uow in Sydney,
ni Jf m T- C £ me n OVe r r and
®°" Jual l-
Kvrle wa« T l/L^ 8 ' 8 ed that the only
Kyrle was meant. I went and gazed at this interesting
relic. It was not a prize-medal shaft. I have seen worse,
but not much. ‘He used to be a neighbor o’mine,’con-
tinued Bob. Many’s the time he’s borreyed my camp-
oven, and then come over to borrey a slice o’damper
when his own turned out a sod. Wonder what he’d say
if I went up to him now- and asked him to lend me a lump
o’ damper. I got the camp-oven yet. Come on over to
the humpy and I’ll show it to you.’ I went. The oven
was alongside the kennel, the broken end tilted up by a
lump of quartz. I wept with joy wl en I saw it. Here
indeed, was a priceless relic, that would fetch its weight
in gold at the Austral Salon, or the Victoria Club in Svd-
ney. But would he part with it? When I asked him to
let me have it he was so indignant that I felt ashamed
and apologised. ‘You are quite rio-ht,’ I said ‘ not to
part with it. There is nothing so priceless as the early
belongings of famous men, and you do well to cherish so
interesting a relic as ’ ‘Relic be blowedl’ he said
How d’ye think I’m going to give my dog a drink if you
take the rotten old oven away ?”
Us the atanrd siwroatim that
L-onsniricv of daiMnti'nn w a P reS j
relitnous nlav “Thp 8 Se ?°j <:
w Ss^‘ lT e f b ru y
Lveeutii as Benedick nr Urmien ? ni f bt tbe
1-enutafion hehinH him h„pn,«i iA enuurmg
tint he has secured Ihe ndrdU ni lt ’ °- ( ° ertal , n^ x ;
his many engaging- social onalities mnke'ifficul
‘ him U , L criHcc * d , lfflc f u 4 lt to
hounds under his control they could noVprevent the
nublic s-oinn- to n prei enr une
Con/“l S peci a ll hfth lp n » rb nrnLcT
the “ D of B ” wlf L beLst tdv P ?ti?ld y rn P An 8
hour. y beSt ' ad ' ertlsed manager of the
<‘ ~
Pm i < < !rv,l en -p " 11 ui ° S * \ wr . l , tes . Bunny to The
o * e "’’.H .not easily forget the pathetic
g spent recently listening to and
wnrda c.p;ii ’ tW ° n \ en ''' b °se names, once household
l s ’ sbl ,i re membered well. It made one’s heart
make-up, no scenery, no props, no anything,
vtdcd eni'iv v,c° U H ha^ d ; U ? players. Friends pro-
hail L. 3ard and . lod f n b r i friends guaranteed their
Tccninunuirrfou £ fQ° ne Ai ll^ fc season ; _fneuds played their
shew P Th mei wi s ? dea d-head friends attended their
heaH nf T R y » Et ° Ur tOWn f ° r ’ and have Ilot been
since.
An Australian manager lately received
a fresh consignment of films from Paris. One picture,
which the agents wrote had been highly popular through-
out the continent, represented a dance of grisettes at the
üb ’ n , R c ou^e ’ bu . fc M ; hen j be Australian threw it on the
xxrVrir»Vi P riv Site audience he found it to be a photo,
,y oul , d - unquestionably earn the exhibitor six
« p S 4- har i- in u Examination showed it to be
u n M >uc fi ed picture, taken with a backgroumi of
well-elresseci’apparentlv-respectable and there
,lS n 0 doubt that 18 was a real presentment of the
AT THE MORGUE DOOR.
“Can’t you let a poor fellow come inside and rest a bit?”
X49: “ Yes; if you’ll go and stay under water for about half-an-hour!"
famous Parisian dancing-hall. Yet all visitors to Paris
go and see the Moulin Rouge, and make no secret of it
afterwards.
Paradis : “ A young lady of my acquaintance is brilliant
and original. She has a fine voice, charming appearance,
money enough to learn singing, dancing and other
things, and here is her programme. She is going to be a
dashing opera-bouffe artiste. But her old age, beginning
at 35, will find her thoroughly equipped as a lady doctor"' l
Here is wisdom indeed ! Dr. Nellie Stewart on a brass
plate.”
Re the literary feebleness of comic opera books—bar
ring W. S. Gilbert’s-a Bulletin correspondent writes:
“ There are really a score of men in every Australian
capital capable of turning out words equal to the average
imported opera libretto, if it were only made worth their
while.” But how about plot situations, stage business,
and general knowledge of effect-manufacture ? Dialogue
is only a third-rate consideration in an operatic show
First the music ; then the “ guts,” as managers term it;
then the words.
The two Melbourne amateur operatic clubs were deftly
described by a rude man recently as the “ Upper ” and
“ Lower" operatic clubs. The aristocratic Lyric Club un-
veils its upper half, but hides its lower half under a bushel
—of long petticoats. The democratic Opera Club delights
to show how well it can fill its stocking, and—but that is
another story—while it discreetly hides the temperate
zone between waist and neck.
“ Strange that such difference should be
’Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee 1 ”
Melb. : “Here is what would pull the public here. A
Natatorium in the city, with lady swimmers, and gentle-
men trying to angle them out with rod and hook, after
the style of the London Aquarium.”
The music-hall artiste who picks out a man in the audi-
ence, and sings amorous or other verses at him, till he
lusts for blood, ought to be howled off the boards. Writer
was present at a variety show in a Vie. mining town when
the lady star did this thing, and the butt in the audience
presently unfolded his great length and stood quietly
until opportunity offered. Then he said in a firm, con-
vincing voice: “Miss, if you will send out the biggest
male member of your company to sing at me I will batter
up the furniture with his head.”
X.Z.: “ Haresfoot queries why ‘ never a Hebraic name
appears on the stage.’ Isn’t Wangenlieim Jewish enough
for him ? Also Gougenheim ? Likewise Graupner, and
Hart, and Josephs? Perhaps he wants nothing short of
Mahershalalhashbaz Ben Habakkuk.”
S.G. : “Marshall Hall, arch-hater of concert-chatterers,
should print on his programmes this quotation from
Ecclesiasticus: ‘ Hinder not musick. Pour notout words
where there is a musician, and show not forth wisdom
out of time. A concert of musick in a banquet of wine
is as a signet of carbuncle set in gold. As a signet of
emerald set in a work of gold, so is the melody of musick,
with pleasant wane.”
“Acrobat” to The Bulletin “ Every circus per-
former comes to grief in time cautious or careless;
temperate or ‘indiscreet,’ asrial performer, acrobat,
gymnast or equestrian. Accidents which horrify the
spectators are often the least painful and soonest re-
covered from, whereas apparent trifles frequently cause
great suffering. Hanlon, falling 65ft. from dome to audi-
torium, struck his forehead on the iron back of a seat,
literally slicing the top of his skull off ; yet he recovered,
and was performing again in a few months. I myself
have had the usual run of falls and mishaps from varying
heights, but never, as the result of any of them, suffered
a fraction of what I endured from what seemed at first a
trifle. At juggling practice the occasional dropping of a
small 7oz. ball on a particular spot on my wrist —a
mishap so slight that it could scarcely be called
an ‘ accident’—set up an inflammation of the tendon-
sheath, which caused me acute pain and prevented
me from performing for nearly 12 months. Go into
the dressing-tent of any first-class circus after the
night’s performance. You w ill be surprised to see that
some of the men—who have just previously been bounding
about the ring as though they were indestructible—are
in cold blood almost cripples. Amongst those who have
been any length of time in the profession, wrist-straps,
knee-bandages, ankle-supports, and other extraneous aids
are the rule, not the exception. A feat has been per-
formed successfully thousands of times, in practice and
in public ; but there comes a time when something goes
wrong—a guy-rope gives—a high wind shakes the tent,
the performer ‘takes off’ an atom of a second too soon, or
too late—or gets‘cast’in the midst of a somersault—it
is done in a tick, and the injury is perhaps irreparable.
After one important mistake the boldest performers never
have quite the same courage. Hanlon, after his great
fall, lost his nerve; and shortly after recommencing his
business came down again and was killed. Dashway, a
man of the most reckless daring—nightly doing his
‘double away’from the horizontal bar, at all angles—
janded on the edge of the mattrassat Broken Hill, tearing
the tendon of Achilles clean out of position. His leg was
in plaster-of-Paris for weeks, and on his recovery, when
performing this feat, he always had a man to stand by—a
precaution which he had previously scorned. Moulton,
his partner, another courageous performer, after seeing a
former mate killed by a fall from a flying trapeze in
Ottawa, never again ventured upon serial flights. Amongst
female performers, those who experience maternity lose
their nerve. Many never venture to perform again, and
even the bravest exhibit an excess of caution which itself
leads to disaster.”
Rho : “ What price the Noah legend for an upright and
downright realistic Scripture drama? Look at the
chances. Real animals! Real water!! Real drunk!!!
Noah arrested by real numbers av the foorce for re-
shishtin’ av the po-leece in the execution of their real
duty ! !!! Ten-round fight between Constable O’Mac-
sullivan and Noah ! Mick Nathan, leferee !! !! ”
A.V.G.: “Shakespeare up to
date: I overheard a young- lady,
who had just seen ! Romeo arid
Juliet’ for the first time,
describing the plot to an elderly
dame who had neither seen
nor read the play. Throughout
the recital she referred to Friar
Lawrence as ‘ the clergyman,’
and to the Apothecary as ‘ the
chemist.’ And the former was
credited with having promised
to send 1 a telegram ’ to Romeo,
apprising him that Juliet was
not really dead. Fact 1 ”
“ The clergy, having emptied
the churches, now want to
empty the theatres.”
The Billy: “‘Paperknife’ Says
there is no reference to the
fidelity of dogs in Shakespeare.
What about this well-known
one from ‘ As You Like It,’ Act
I, scene 1 ? : —Adam : ‘ Is old dog
my reward ? Most true, I have
lost my teeth in your service.’ ”
Cockaigne : “Be G. 11. Rogers
—that is to say, not re him at all.
In London there was little
Jimmy Rogers, much identified
with the Strand. Before this
he spoke up in a London police-
court one morning. ‘Your
worships, I have much pleasure
in donating to the poor-box the
sum of 13s. 4d., the joint contri-
bution of Her Gracious Majesty
Queen Victoria and James
Rogers, comedian. It is the
fee I received for acting at
Windsor Castle last evening.’
The Queen paid each performer
the usual night’s salary. This
scene appeared in the news-
papers, and is alleged to have
caused the discontinuance of
the Windsor performances.”
Harefoot: “An actor who
travelled with the late, i.e.,
former, ‘ Daddy ’ C. H. Rogers,
told me Rogers always carried
his wigs in his Wellington
boots."
C.M.G. : “It is easy to tell
when a theatrical venture is
doing well by the scornful
allusions to deadheads and per-
sons who get in ‘on orders’
thrown off by the 00. in the
progress of the ‘piece.’ When
the houses are filling well
nightly, if the play gives the
slightest opportunity, most
scathing remarks are made
about ‘ stiffs,’ but, on the con-
trary, when the co. is playing
to echoing vacancy mainly,
there is a respectful reticence on the point in ques-
tion, and we may presume that the manager’s heart-
felt gratitude goes out to the few deadheads in stalls and
circle who drop in, thinking the poor actors might feel
lonely.” e
Original Melb. cast of “ Rip Van Winkle ” : Rip, Jeffer-
son ; Knickerbocker, Stewart; Vedder, Dunn ; Derrick,
Milne; Hermann, Ireland ; Gustave, Gladstone; Hudson!
Tanne.tt; Dame, Mrs. Phillips ; Alice, Rosa Dunn;
Rowena, Hattie Shepparde (her d6but).
SPORTING NOTIONS.
T . , .. mu u . ...
It was snow-tune. i. he champion jumper of the
Western side had, by a bit of bad luck, been beaten. It
was a sore spot, the downfall of the champion with the
orack steeple-jock up. “ Lay me 100 to 60,” said the
owner, “that he don t top the bar with my black-boy up.”
Someone laid it, and then the man called out: “ What ’ll
you lay me the darkey don’t break his neck?" “ 100 to
1, replied the owner. “A fiver, Sam, if you clear it,
and you know what if you don’t.” The boy’s eyes
sparkled, he^ showed his teeth and laughed. “By ,
he s done it,” said someone. He had done it, for boy and
horse lay on the other side. “Mind,” said the owner, as
he coolly walked over, “ I laid a broken neck, nothing
f/i?" *v. Wbat is , it > do c tor ?’’“ Skull stove in. Dead.”
h vi e fi. j rk ’. Bald Bbe thin man as he
passed the pound, lit his cigar, and walked away dis-
gustecl. # * * *
0 ~ . ,
baid an amateur cricketer, the other day, ‘lm
full of firms’ clubs.” “What are they?” “Well, the
heads of some firms are so gone on the game that a man
has only got to be a specialist at any branch of it to get a
billet. There’s the Greasy willow-whackers, now. Say I
was all there with the ball, I could go and get a billet as
acoountant—even if I didn’t know a oredit-note from a
CAN HE EVER GET OVER IT?
The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee: Vie. Premier Turner leaving the Hotel Cecil for a drive in
one of the Queen’s carriages.—From the “Penny Illustrated Paper” (London).
dill of lading:. I’d get, say, four notes, and 15 per cent,
risq in three months, if my bowling average came up to
club-standard (whatever that may be), and a bonus if it
exceeded that. But what sort of show have I got of getting
a bonus when every man of the team is bent on keeping
my average below a certain point, so that his own chances
of a bonus won’t be spoilt? Talk about jealousy in a bur-
lesque co.! Why, man, it’s nothin? to the hatreds in a
‘ firm’s club.’ If there was a chai * of a good catch off
my bdwling, and my average w > < high, the fieldsmen
would missfit —not once, but over a• ,d over again. Firms’
clubs do more harm to cricket, a sport, than all the
betting there is, or ever will be. No more firms’ clubs for
me ; your billet’s never safe, and the game is only a
fraud.”
* * * ♦
Quiller Couch is gaining much kudos in the
English press by verses in which all sorts of sports are
ludicrously mixed up. But “ Q.” is not original here.
The late Geo. Lash Gordon, once well-known on the Aus-
tralian stage, effectively handled the same idea in “ How
Flyblow Won the Cup,” in The Bulletin six years ago.
“ Flyblow,” which has since been extensively recited in
Melb. and Sydney, is a jumble of every sport known to
Australians, and deals with the dastardly attempt of a
gang of ropers to stiffen a horse by getting him to stop in
the middle of the Melb. Cup to scratch a mosquito which
is biting him.
♦ * * *
S.S. : “To the public generally. Never travel
in the same railway carriage or ornthe same steamer with
a mob of racing cyclists. The racing cyclist on the loose
is a howling and ruinous nuisance who bellows incessantly
and gallops up and down with the brainless frivolity of
the garden goat. He seems to be in a perennial state of
baby drunk, and there is more peace of mind to be found
in the society of 15 legally certified idiots in a powder-
factory than cooped up in a carriage with several profes-
sionalVheelinen when their Kanaka-like sense of humor
sets them acting the horrid boy, the giddy ox, and blatant
slaverer ail at once.”
* * * »
Ed. Bulletin, —At Bathurst Show this year
there was no prize awarded to the cattle-dogs. On en-
quiring, I was told that the judges did not consider them
worthy of a prize—“ They were not cattle-dogs.” Among
the exhibits were the first and second prize dogs of the
year previous. What is one to infer from this ? Can a
dog be worthy of first prize one year and not even worthy
of a name the next ? —Enigma.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—The opinion that a certain
amount of chivalry, manliness and generosity accom-
panies hard-faced horsey-men got a severe knock the
other day in a back-country (N.S.W.) police-court. Dur-
ing the hearing of an ordinary flve-shilling-fine-drunk-
case, a trooper, in corduroy riding-pants, top-boots and
spurs, unblushingly confessed : “I heard the whole argu-
ment, your Worship ; I had my cap off and was crouched
under the bar window.” Shades of Gordon and Corrigan I
Crouched !_! In top-boots and spurs! It sounded like a
criminal libel on the rig-out. I could almost hear his
horse outside snort with disgust, and I fancied I oould
see'the poor disgraced beast drop a tear and blush with
shame, and lower his bottom-lip right down to his ohest
with indignation. No wonder the Clanoys are leaving
the noble animal and taking to bikes.— 4 xB.
* • • •
Trust a Chinaman to make the most of a good
thing, A big Australian raoing man had a China-
nian cook, who, in collusion with the first mount, got the
cream of the market every time the boss decided to let
loose. The owner’s instructions to the jockey used to be
“To-day, Pigskin,” or “ Not to-day, Pigskin,” as the case
might be, and the jockey then signalled to the oook,
whose commissioner acted accordingly. One day owner
gave his parting blessing to rider, “ Not to-day, Pigskin. **
‘‘ Yes, to-day, Mr. Owner,” was the reply. Thinking he
had misunderstood him, owner repeated : “ No,notto-day,
Pigskin," but Pigskin answered again with a grin, “ Yes,
I said to-day. Mr. Owner”—and to-day it was, for the
mare romped home, and cook and jockey skinned the
market. It proved a dear bit of fun, however, for when
license day came round, the club refused Pigskin’s license
without vouchsafing any reason, and he has “ stood
down” ever since.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—For years the “ Sports ” head-
ing of your paper consisted of a presentment of the late
Walter Bradley, seated in an easy chair, with a glass of
grog at his elbow, a Sunday at Home in his hands, and a
pair of gamecocks having a ding-dong set-to in front of
him. Now, as a matter of fact, although the late genial
auctioneer bred more gamecocks, perhaps, than any man
of his day, it was as show-birds only, and he was only con-
nected with one “ main ”in his life. The Waterhouses at
that time were breeding fighting-stock with a strain of
Malay in them, and Bradley, of course, beat them in the
show-pen with his highly-bred, smaller-looking imported
stock. This led to the Waterhouse-Sparks people laugh-
ing at the imported birds as “ game-cocks,” and the end
of it was a big main, for £lOO a-side, between the heavy
Australian birds and the light English. To the chagrin
of the Australians, the light English birds fairly slaugh-
tered their heavier opponents. And that was the first
and last main ever fought under the auspices of Walter
Eradley.—W.
* * * *
Dear B., —You recently mentioned several men
who think they “ lost their chance ” by following cricket.
But every man has his regrets, and it is not certain that
they would have done any better had the game never
been invented. The brothers Gregory, “ Billy ” Murdoch
“Tommy” Garrett, H. H. Massie, Fred. Spofforth, Percy
Charlton, a few Sydney names which occur on the spur of
the moment, do not seem to have suffered much from the
cricket bias. “ What is to be, will be.”
• * * •
The football match was over, and the hero
of the day was Chowder, the great ’arf-back. The
evening papers, the groups of barrackers that stood
around the corner, all sang his praise. I thought 1
would like to be a Chowder, and just then I noticed a
big, hard-faced, bullet-headed youth playfully pick up a
lady’s poodle and bathe it in the trough, smile, and care-
fully place it alongside the baby in the pram., and then
offer to punch the stuffin' out of an old man who couldn’t
or wouldn’t see the fun. “ Who is that fellow ?” I asked
a grinning youth. “ Blime, don’t cher know Chowder—
’im as kicked three goals and played the game of the
forty!. Oh,’e’s a dandy player.” Ashamed of my ignor-
ance, 1 slunk away.—E.K.
* * * *
The late Bord Falmouth, who did not back even
his own many successful horses, on being asked how
betting could be put down, laconically said, “Legalise
pulling.”
» * * *
The Earl of Shaftesbury— not he of Melbourne,
but his great-grandfather—was one of the most earnest
patrons of the old prize-ring, and on the retirement of
Mendoza, the champion of England, it fell to his lordship
to make the subscribed presentation to the pug. “ Not
only in the ring,” said Shaftesbury, “ but on all sides has
Bill Mendoza made his presence felt. (Applause.) There
has, it is true, been a slight prejudice on the part of some
bigoted people because Bill is a Jew. But we should all
remember that in that respect Bill is like the Saviour of
mankind. The difference,” mused his lordship, “is that
the latter died on the Cross, while Bill has lived on it."
• * * *
Old Mat Hardy, an ornament of the ring in the
old days, and still affectionately remembered by sporting
identities, is now an inmate of Ballarat Benevolent Asylum.
* * * *
Reported that the metropolitan daily-newspaper
offices are importing, for the use of their reporters,
machines in which the bicycle is combined with the type-
writer. The sordid commercialists who boss the Archi-
medean lever don’t see why their minions shouldn’t tran-
scribe while abike.
* * * »
“V.” to The Bulletin Australia’s po*
blackfellow, whose boomerang has puzzled philosophers
and scientists, has in two respects revolutionised sport.
It is now reoognised that the fashionable over-arm
stroke was borrowed by English tourists who saw some
blacks swimming in a Ooogee waterhole. Seven or eight
years ago an aboriginal was laughed at when he started,
on all-fours, at Carrington and Botany. Yet that style is
now universal in America, and is becoming prevalent in
England. Tts advantages are that the hands on ground
prevent a p 1. from going over the mark and incurring a
penalty, and that once started he loses no time in getting
* down ’ to his work.” However, this paper remembers
seeing it stated somewhere that Catlin saw the over-arm
side-stroke used by N. American Indians.
* * * *
“ One of the best all-round athletes I ever saw,”
said a veteran Australian cricketer, “ was a long, quiet,
left-handed slab who could do anything, and yet would
$o simply nothing. As a bowler at practice he was a
second Frank Allan. What a wonder we thought we had
got! Play in a match? Not he—the wretch said he
bowled for exercise. At football, in Carlton’s best class,
this useless object could mark higher and kick further
and straighter than any man in the team. Play ? Not a
bit of it. On the river he could push his boat faster than
any man in his olub. But he never took a seat with
them. It was the training he objected to, and he gave it up
Then with the gloves at the M.A.C. he could fool the best
of the fighters, but not a round would he do—and he could
do lots more things, but wouldn’t. I lost him for some
years, but met him again. He was boss cornet-man in the
Army. It was a sad sight to see such talent blowing out
his lungs for the good of his soul. Think what he might
have been ! ” Then the crowd round the veteran dropped
tears into their beer, and said that it was very, very sad.
f “ Sporting Notions ” continued on page 24.)


Chief Justice Way, of S.A., gets no salary
as an Australian Judge on the British Privy
Council, and while he is away in England attend-
ing the Council, S.A. puts him on half-salary.
Apparently he has also to pay his own travelling
expenses, so there seems to be a lot of ruinous
dignity about the business. Little Way has let
go the bone and is clutching at the shadow.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraciough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection —
long sight, short sight, old sight. Eull particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraciough.*
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Aldermfn
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Eorest
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effeetively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
9k
,'.vv:
%
s*
s
&o
VQ
0
AN CXC6PTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
of purchasing a Eirst-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give up the Agency for “ Raleigh. 99 Cycles, we are
offering our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
at the following
REDUCED PRICES.
All fitted with Dunlop Tyres, Martin Sijlenr Toolbag, Pump and
Spanner. All Ladies’ Machines have Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Raleigh Co.’s] Post Pree
The Justral Cycle Jlgency [td.,
“Raleigh
Depot, 393 6eorgc-&t., Sydpey.
Branches At :
Melbourne—229 Elizabeth-st.
Adelaide—33 Rundle-st.
Perth —Hay-st.
Brisbane —Adelaide-st.
Charters Towers—Gill-st.
Wakrnambool—Kepler-sfc.
Goulburn
Christchurch—Lichfield-st.
Dunedin— l 23 George-sfc.
Hobart, &c.
Answers to Correspondents.
Xo notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
Ynf am/ m-ovinee) acromvanv
(oj any p i ovmce) accompany.
n„ n w • Not even n “ miner ” T B • “ And
Dun boy . IN ot even a corner. ...... JL.rs. .
with burning breath 111 curse till death The land that
starved my mother _ a t advt. rates, if you R.S
“ al ' f otbe J', u ® of
twin brother Death. .. Whittier : Guess in three tries
where it’s gone to? Lictor (W.A.) : Can t afford to say
a mans a murderer after a jury says he
Amory : Not quite enough novelty or ■ j. ■
(Brisb ): Will better than deed . Kobar : Neither usable.
" W.B. . One ode to a dead butterfly buried .....01 .
Destroyed... .6 x 8 : Verse below B.E. : But you don t
m tend to put yoim ganowsJhe-greatest-good plnlosophy
mtopiactice ...Spimfex . Weak.... .Violet (Q.) . No .
.. Nomad : Too like an early Scotch sermon, with lunch
in the kirk-yard and houghmagandie on the road hame.
D.B. : One comfort-there s not much of it .. Eugah .
Two drowned ; one insane ; one staggered and fell
heavily on the sand. Now, if you had added one to
take rat-poison and die horribly under the kitchen table
we’d have printed it, sure A.V.G. : Verse pretty flat
Leslie (M L.): So-and-sc was a promising young
fellow; So-and-so went to the dogs; So-and-so died.
And you want a column to baldly say so l -
Kincumher : To repudiate pensions deliberately con-
'••acted for by the State is flat robbery, whether such
repudiation regards a police-superintendent s Pension or
a common policemans Even the man who has drawn
£450 a year is entitled to justice..,....D. Bon. : A first-class
C < a n 36 Q t re . at . * Mr. Ashton s picture,
•‘The Prospector’ certainly does not depict a typical
prospector, but a lusus naturce in the way of prospectors.
It is the picture of a Johnny with » tin
Martha ; The object of a man s club is to get away from
women , the effect of a w °ni a n 8 club apparently is to
catch men G.H.C. . You challenge comparison, on his
own ground, with a writer whom we need not name ; but
yourcocoanut is milkless More, it is all husk ...
Dead Chinaman story too horrible . .F.S.B. . The most
dramatic thing done on the Australian stage this or last
Fhlhnrv 1 .
The Wearing of the Green. ... John Ebsbury . No,
Sydney is not an absolutely freetrade port by any means ,
2nd, the luggage of travellers landing at Sydney is liable
t ?«Q C 7v t nvfßrh 1 a l !i S ipri CtlCn rintt.oi. lB /n a ?
closely.o\erhauled......Gower (Q.). Too preachy..
n?en J°RW™Th bU v not od w e
Doubtful.... J B W. : ( Thanks W.H P.: ‘‘Revenge _
« o oiiwn?'> ;7rif. 1 fpT r R Che °xivn y . Kvl.A,f l ppn.T.r h ’
S1 n Vl . y B ’vpimfvplif b vo^,p Ugh '
n 1 ne ') B. . |erse va gue
Q.R.X. : Too useless H. C. A.: Six months would beour
port Mp„ f iI.
parables D. : Yorkshire is probably the most Republi-
can English county A.A.A. : Labored, overdone
Debrille : But, then, every woman whom that artist drew
was his wife He probably wasn’t game, poor man, to
draw any other To be married to your art and also to
such a woman is sheer bigamy E. 8.: There are eight
attornies and eight barristers in N.S.W. Leg. Council
Edols’, The Bulletin hears, is the biggest N.S.W. clip—
-4000 bales......Costeen : More or less funny, but it looks
too much like approval of cold-blooded murder . L.P.
(Dun.): Cannot reproduce Me.senbach prints A G M :
Thanks M.A.T. : Yigorless W.J.C. : Thanks ; but
sorry to see that there is even one reader incapable of
appreciating the brilliancy of the cleverest naneuse who
ever wielded a quill beneath the Southern Cross Mus-
wellbrook asks : “Has a bullock-team passed down George-
street, Sydney, to Circular Quay .within the last five
years?” The Bulletin doesn’t remember hearing of such
an occurrence ...Yarrum : Too odorous. Also, it isn’t a
typical case. Doctors have assured us that the Chinese
are among the cleanest patients received at the hospitals.
... Waldo : The first criminal hanged in S. A. was aV.D.L.
convict named Magee (April 13,1838) for the attempted
assassination of Mae Sheriff Quacko' v ou see, we ar4
unable to keep track of all that appears in the professional
thief-papers. The Bulletin isn’t athief-paper, although oc-
casionally it is led into paying thieves for goods which they
have stolen. If the thing alluded to appeared in Answers,
no doubt Answers stole it. Where did Answers steal it
from ?—that’s the only thing which interests The Bulle-
tin. The Bulletin’s drawing was original, anyway....
Streak: One suggestion treated by artist; none of the
present available ..E.B. (P.): If you guarantee originality
ft may serve as a suggestion O.P. : “ Mungundi ” runs
too much on same note ; but will try a piece Temple
11. : Mechanical rhymes Uloola: Ballade a bit dull;
and since you repeat rhymes as well Otto W. :
Possibly Q.R.X. : Better not swell the young man’s
head farther C.R.R. : Poem escaped and bit two
valued contributors ere it could be recaptured and chained
down again Ecclefechan : “ S.M. Herald’s Lucy stated
a while back that he refused an invitation to go in the
Tantallon Castle to open the Kiel canal; and on July 24
states he did go.” Likely enough ; but even the egotisti-
cal Lucy is better than the dreary person over whose in-
capable Jubilee description the Herald cackled proudly
: Nothing usable X. : Guess we’ve had that
in already Nullah : Not quite over the stile F.W.H.;
The last verse is fair; but you can’t run a poem on a last
verse alone F.E.M. : No yarn-value Bilbeh : The
gist of it has already appeared ; and it isn’t quite well
enough handled to reprint Tyagong: The goburra
poem will never laugh any more R.S. : Not bad ; but
a month behind the fair Zigzag : Nice little yarn, but
far too young for print. Practise away, and come back in
1900 Medda : You want to preach sermons ; and not a
single Bulletin reader wants to listen to sermons
G.E. : Translation stiff Roy S. : Promising fish : but
wanted a little more play Chump : Looks like it
S.L. : Declined H.B. (C.) : Take those “ horrid, haunt-
ing, dev’lish, dreadful dreams ” off the premises at once ;
the office caretaker feels nervous about sleeping with ’em.
Alice : Grieved to be unable to come into line with the
other fellows’ Xmas numbers ; shows shocking taste,
doesn’t it ? H. Van H. : Will consider as suggestion for
artist Irish-Ameriean (Clermont): The Bulletin
alluded to John L. Sullivan as a “hog” because he was
in ’Murka, and couldn’t come and wreck this office and its
inmates W.J.0.: The West Australian Review is a
wretched little London boom - rag into which certain
share-speculators breath the breath of life. It trades on
the ignorance and credulity of a public which has found
the money for many hundreds of bepuffed Westralian
mines, out of which perhaps one per cent, will ever pay.
The West Australian Review is a mere maggot living on
decayed meat. Where the carcase is, there will the blow-
flies be F. Searohlight: Of course, The Bulletin is
“had” sometimes by contributors. This paper doesn’t
profess to be absolutely original. It only professes to be
as original as it knows how. You quote against us an
adaptation of a paragraph from an English paper. The
Bulletin paid for that paragraph in good faith. 95 per
cent, of Bulletin matter is probably original; whereas 95
per cent, of that English paper’s matter is undoubtedly
stolen. Possibly enough the very paragraph you instance
was stolen from a Bulletin of years ago. Complaints
like yours generally reach us from people who, if they
were running a paper, would have “The Raven" and
“The Ancient Mariner” traded off on them as “little
things of my own.”
The champion Jubilee poem —by the
Ponsonby (Auckland, M.L.) poet Tomlinson—
who has got it out in good style, printed in black
and gold :
IN COMMEMORATION OF THE QUEEN’S RECORD
REIGN.
Junk 22, 1897.
Your Most Gracious Majesty has been called to reign
Over the British Nation lor sixty years, without a stain—
A people of riches, great and wealthy,
With its important cities and towns, all healthy.
Thou hast had wise and noble men as advisers,
They have sat up late at night and yet early risers—
Men that have made money, yet not misers—
And judges that have presided over the assizes.
Ministers who have guided the helm of the State,
Who first commenced life by writing on a slate,
They have risen to the highest position in the realm,
Broad and sturdy as the oak, and taller than the elm.
On or about the year Eighteen hundred and forty-six,
When John Bright, Richard Cobden and others were in a
fix,
And after great battles fought at the hustings, and in the
House of Commons, they were enable
To give the working classes of the United Kingdom a
cheap breakfast table.
Thine has been a reign of Peace and Prosperity
At home and abroad. At times a call is made for severity—
In 1854 the Crimean war broke out,
And had to be defended by our soldiers, brave and stout.
In the battles of Inkerman, Alma and Sebastopol,
And the brave charge of Balaclava’s Six Hundred,
Who went through fire, powder and shot
As it came from the mouth of the Russian cannons, red
hot.
Most of thy ministers have been men of renown ;
Their talents have been used in the service of the Crown.
They first saw the light of day in some village or town,
Not forgetting thy faithful old servant, John Brown.
The Lord Chancellor, Earl Cairns,
Was once one of the Soottish bairns.
The Lords Selborne and Hatherley,
The Lords Herschell and Halsbury,
Who have in turn sat upon the woolsack,
Whatever their politics, they have trod in the same track.
Thy Prime Ministers, Sir Robert Peel, Lord Derby,
Palmerston, Beaconsfield, Gladstone and Salisbury
Have guided the helm of the State through many a storm
Before many of us now living had ever been born.
Thy late husband and consort, Albert the Good,
Had his name written upon the hearts of the people, and
not only upon stone or wood.
Thy sons and daughters have been nursed at thy side,
And as long as thou livest they will ever abide.
And now Your Most Gracious Majesty, in point of time,
has broken the record,
It is beoause thou and thy people have believed in the
Word of God.
As they have looked into those things which are Divine
And most of thy people have been able to strike out the
[TOP LINE.
Thy reign upon earth has been victorious ;
In that eternal world above it shall be more glorious,
And when thou has finished wearing the jewelled orown
that shall fade away,
Thou shalt wear a crown of glory throughout the long
Eternal Day.
God Save thb Queen.
Yours, &c., G. Tomlinson.
Ponsonby, Auckland, M.L., June 22, 1897.
This is the only J ubilee ode The Bulletin has
read which is absolutely worthy of the subject and
the occasion.
Touching Our Gracious Queen’s “ sweet,
womanly sympathy,” London Figaro tells a yarn,
as coming from an admiral who was showing a
newspaper man over the royal yacht. The
admiral mentioned the incident of the Queen find-
ing a middy in her cabin, trying on her royal
bonnet at the looking-glass. She gave the lad an
awful smack on the ear, which was womanly
enough. Next day the middy—-a “jolly little
fellow ” —was sent home, and his parents got word
to take his name off the loooks. Not much sweet
sympathy about that!
Cook was a lanky, slabsided, simple
Queenslander with a thick, shaggy beard and
£1450 in a Brisbane banjt. At the door of the
shipping office he met a gentleman who, by some
unknown means, suddenly became his bosom friend.
Mr. Derby was so infatuated with Mr. Cook's
company that, after the latter had shown him
his deposit-slip for £1450, Mr. Derby determined
to take a holiday and accompany the backblocker to
Sydney. In Sydney they had a real good time, and
after three days? riot on the fat of the land, Mr.
Cook fell among thieves and said he had lost all his
money. Mr. Derby was angry, and used language
that scorched the paint off the bedsteads. Mr.
Cook proposed a loan of .£5O till he got his busi-
ness fixed up and returned to Brisbane. Mr.
Derby got the money, but at the end of the week
the business was still incomplete although the
money was finished. Mr. Derby raised another
.£lO, and introduced Mr. Cook to two finanoial
gents, who offered him a share in that valuable
parcel of land upon which the new Sydney markets
are being erected for the paltry sum of .£1330,
pointing out that the city was anxious to
buy it for building purposes. Mr. Cook was
suspicious, and after much hesitation de-
lined to buy until he consulted Mr. Derby.
Mr. Derby said he himself was trying to borrow
money with which to buy a share. Cook was
satisfied and next day started for Brisbane to
get his money, Mr. Derby supplying the funds.
When he returned he showed Mr. Derby the
draft, and they arranged to have a little dinner at
a fashionable restaurant after cashing it. When
they arrived at the bank next day, Mr. Derby and
the financial gents determined to wait round the
corner. Cook went in, got the money, and pre-
sently emerged, carrying in his left hand a little
canvas bag, which, whem he joined his friends, he
put into his inside pocket. “ Have you get it ? ”
asked Mr. Derby. “Oh, yes, I’ve got it, and I
d well mean to stick to it, you infernal scoun-
drels ! ” said Mr. Cook, as he poked Mr. Derby
heavily in the wine-vat with his, walking-stick,
while he shouted loudly: “Police! Murder!
Thieves ! ” And while the solitary bobby chased
the flying spielers Mr. Cook quietly walked away,
making objurgations as he went


JS>or TH£ car cvm£ jzqck
o
Ofity' Scotched
cr^/er
- o jt
CHALLENGING MAGISTRATES.
SEYMOUR, Tuesday
The defendant at once challenged
Messrs. Sullen and Carnie. Their own good
ta«!,e. he said, should have made a request
for them to leave the bench unnecessary.
He did not care to say in open court why
he desired Mr. Bullen to lep-ve the bench!
but if the latter wished he Would tell him.
privately.
( One fflany^t-eeenT
eases.)
A n^w~obTe7^
i-£5 So,m. '
• />/ e V
///s ?
lfl°‘ .s' r
°< r k *
i /
miEORtfAT JUBILEE.
'''ty'-no/ A a/e. oC,el
Y-^/ooP'o^
//er •
TO HIE EDITOR OF THE ARGUS.
i/‘ .’r Tlle mmm . an ity owes ypu thanks
;tor the report ot the proceedings at the -
Jubilee procession. I wish to suggest that
it, or some similar account, should be read
to the echo ara in the state schools, or made
a reading lesson, so that all our voung
fellow-colonials should learn some of the ■
lessons it teofches.-Yours &c
w. G. P
wwlong run to v
' "~P7 7/7ajori/~y'o/ > ONE J
//f TIES/iES ///J SWaTrD
° OPTtOjWL " j 7
free co^ x cl
OPT/ON A i INSPECT/ ON,.
V Produced were l al7o°^The S o^i’on b rf 1
having their goods inspected and graded by
bUt Uley not -^
Tfu/oet-t Clahke.
HAWTHORN’S DAIRIES.
SURPRISE VISIT BY THE BOARD OF
HEALTH.
i The first unity catted
iflituated on the bank of a large open drujiL
and it wan in a condition to which the wjjftf
disgusting” is about the mildest that will
apply. Ihe milk was kept in a flat basin.
;m a pantry, which also served the purpose
of a washhouse and bathroom. The ownery
m addition to BclKnc milk, also took's&
washing and kept poultry/ and a “biujdlfe”-
pf dirty clothos were being “put through**!
fat the time of the board’s visit, the storin'
from the tub falling on the open milk basin.
The house was in the utmost disorder at
the back. Tbo vow iced was kept in the
outhouse, and immediately adjoining the-
milkmg-yard was an open “tip.”’ , ft was
state-*! that ths council had prohibited this:
dairy, but the owner did not deny that Bhd
was still selling milk. •j’The'n'eSfc establish-
ment had an open dram along the yard, and
the yard was uneven and muddy In places,
the third place stopped at had a row-yard
which was a frightful 1. * '
~£hx 'trj/inari ft his^ecfoi-')
PIEm/P yet- < /to Hanky
fear ~//i/$ a<7i't~ my^<a/
/tome oEayT "
llt will not follow, -therefore, that-
' federation must come 1 now or / never.
A few years of, delay are nothing' . in the
life of a nation ; and the care we .exercise
•flow in fully understanding and. providing’
against’ mistakes, so far from retard-
ing federation, will be a means
of its more • and , salutary
•Accomplishment. '
33)ANm is I 'iimiOUS.
tfyrnxt <sto~n \ a?i urflA 'Us-at-A’^
p 4, A / /ncr\"
JDai/ftZ- 7 ?AaYe 7o dety in Me creation ,
~/A a /~V?7 ap' everx jz-ecCTet-y/iaji Dam . /A/s mtyh Ae my' Tictn/itn sletn ,
' ** *"■
V >o 'rtjc& e^ ft( *& Se^.
t£s*Ss-
-6 V; '
t/&ATL Bull /n
MELBOURNIANA.


Co.lonel Lassetter, in the course of a
speeclh, said that New South Wales would
be prepared to help to defend the Empire
in any corner of the world.
f\ fartnC-r Itad J?i<f
i J\<> lowbred a$ a- Co aid be.
He- Iff if round fuj
J\nd K/ifl] kis drawin/frootn rnakt.frt-t
It'm ckdocistuc- of tVm iroo/rw,
> osurptd th&- place of taX or do <s •.
If broKt h/Kat it could rvoiT. consume:
pMjfo , ,
liq|aW-Ss folk
vinlutt-d t]tar
txptcUnir decency
1 at least"
I fitter.- driven out irJm
. . f Ue.cmdft.tr
Un-^in%. Viilfar btasT.
fIU PUMKS saul % 9 hfcruteretl lOhij
J oiVrte-r Ip-t"'
j'jfc'd merely pat i Tcrnd reply
‘ [ t s Suck ajjioas pi£ yoakyo*).
T r fj usf
|°£ s /
™ vW A K /r
Li A At?"
\ 5 1 ' l>
' \^
, Will
i>s
L h ,
I
ar Cl
% '
Applications have been received by the Minis-
ter tor Mines and Agriculture, Mr. Sydney Smith,
from a number of ladies, the daughters of far-
mers in various parts of the country, for facili-
ties to be afforded them to receive instruction in
dairy work.. may be remarked that
/the Hawkesbury College has obtained an enviable
reputation in this branch of dairying.
jjv- <f f a£ *y ty/rft&tn.f- rvAd/*f
7 ItsAojf /Feyuzsir&s __
/ >7o/ sfadexfzs epfiec/ect /*
/bi'/sur y.
Ziiairs J**7e-r*‘»
y // /3?ucZer Zoofe
£ » TTae/zs
£ (?r//rr ean c5 'A t /-/s f
/ Az/sAzn
/ fe/r&f-
jZ fuz/s Ay/Zt 7rt,<X S ——
|fjA WiJf
> O
I^-I E u L T |
0/fA> fifty i 0 rJ E “ l\-
|W% A>J.
72 // /- /-<? •s'/ /'-S' zfz?/~r/^
VARIOUS THINGS


STEWART DAWSON & COS
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments —the Finest in the World.
Inapproachable Variety. UoeqOalled ValCie. Woi)derf£ii Selection).
The most recherche and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
First in Elegance. First in Business Resources. First in Fopnlarity.
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
olid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, A 2 2s.
11l
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, S fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 5s
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
B£in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, ' 6f
Smaller Sizes at 1 20 to £4O.
FifS
No. 590.
-15 ct. GOLD BROOCH. Rubies and
Diamonds, *.2 lik.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s. ; f-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15et. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
794 in., i'l Is.
Ladies' ALBEBT, 9ct. Gold, £2 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
get LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15et., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,
l Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
15ot. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
OTHER
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Very Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
This design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
ill
- i
A”
1
■
SSB
SiALA
mss
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s.; 14in., £3 6s.
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 16ot. ditto, £4 10s.
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine Whit- Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £6 6s
dr
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ot. Gold, £8 10a
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £6 10s.
Oct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ct. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
9ot. Gold, £1165.; 16ot. Gold, £3 6s.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
Isct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handler,
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9et. Gold, £2 ; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, ills.;
15ct. Gold, £1 17s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
16ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 ss.
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
8-%in. by l5 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 519.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pe iris and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 5s
m
Elegant Diamond STAR, £6O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
16ot. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d
OL,
iiiiiiiiiifc-y °
No. 687.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 16s. 6d
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s. ;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
Greorge-street, Sydney; Swans ton-street, Melbourne


WM
-J&m fyjfrr;,.-;,
TRADE
MARK
W'/y,
mi
ONKEY BRAN!
ALWAYS READ THE DIRECTIONS
mam
iW'i'/Siw
mmm
Name «<Trade mark
Observe
'•S////S*
'tr'P
iiwiii
W=&i.
Sfe
§3
&
«
&
HP
w/mwm.
»
/.'y±
mm
%
%
ii§^'
*
<*r
&
H
mmm
£
li
sss
i
1 | v '
lym
SSSSSSS-S*
WON’T WASH CLOTHES.
WON’T W'ASH CLOTHES.
BROOKE’S
MONKEY
AND SOAP
For Cleaning, Scouring, and Scrubbing Floors and Kitchen Tables.
for polishing
Metals, Marble, Paint, Cat lev,,, Crocker,,, Machinery, Baths, Stair-Rods.
For STEEL, IRON, BRASS and COPPER VESSELS, FIRE-IRONS, MANTELS, G tu
B.ust. Dirt. Stains. Xarnisli, et«.


Granuma for Health ,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Horn ah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you'd see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Guard of the Bendigo Express.
HOW HE SAVED HIS LIFE.
Perhaps no railway guard is better known in
Victoria than the veteran Mr. Morris Morris, of
the Bendigo Express, and he tells how his life was
saved by using Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure. Railway
men and those whose business necessitates con-
tinual rai’ way riding are especially liable to kidney
disease, caused by the constant jolting and nervous
strain to which they are subjected. Guard Morris
Morris says: “For nearly 25 years I have been a
guard on the Victorian railways, and am at pre-
sent in charge of the Bendigo Express. Until
about twelve months ago I had never lost a day
through ill health. Then I gradually took bad un-
til my case necessitated a doctor. He saidT was
suffering from Bright’s Disease, and recommended
me to resign. A friend casually mentioned to ma
Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure, and in desperation I tried
it. The effect was wonderful. I speedily got
well, and am now in robust health, my life bemg
no doubt saved by this medicine.”*
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Lrrii
and Kidney Disease.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Stree'
Syaney.
OUR CHIEF,”
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
from America.
POLITICAL
POINTS
George Reid, P.C.—Parent of Cash-basis.
The present N.S.W. Government: Reid
and—Want.
The S.A. Labor-party declines to have
anything to do with Federation, save on the
basis of “one adult one vote.”
Sydney Chinese propose to establish a
brigade to supply food and clothing to the white
unemployed. The Caucasian is played out.
There are plentiful signs in S.A. Assembly
of an attempt by Opposition Leader John Downer
to get on better terms with the Labor-party.
The five Q.C’s. in N.S.W. Leg. Council
seem to dominate the Federal question. Want,
Salomons, O’Connor, and Barton have, so far,
done all the talk.
How is it that N.S.W. Public Library is
so deficient in the works of Protectionist writers ?
This applies to other public and semi-public
N.S.W. institutions. Has the ruling gang tried,
with some success, to stifle opposition opinion ?
. Bombay native paper that said “ God
didn’t give foreigners a charter to rule over India ”
will probably be prosecuted for blasphemy—of
Bull ! Bull thinks it’s his place to give charters
to God ! In fact, Bull isn’t quite sure that he
isn’t God !
The God-fearing N.S.W. Ministry com-
pletes its third year in office Aug. 30th, which
date is no doubt annually set apart for prayer and
thanksgiving in the domestic circles of their
reverences Brunker, Garrard, Cook, Ghould—and
Jack Want.
The Validating Bill rendered necessary by
the N.S.W. Land-tax bungle may precipitate an
appeal to the country before Xmas. If it does,
may the Lord help Commissioner Spiller ! The
“ six-pound-a-weekers ” won’t forget him if they
ever get back.
The late Mr. R. C. WALKER, ex-Public
Librarian of N.S.W.
Photo., Vandyck.
The story goes, in a wide circle, that
Speaker Abbott was offered, but refused, the
N.S.W. Agency-General before Reid went jubilat-
ing; that Brunker was the next to get the offer,
but declined ; and that the choice still rests be-
tween Dibbs and M‘Millan.
Why should Q. object so furiously to
Imperial regulations imposing heavy shipping tax
©n all slavers (and other vessels) visiting the Solo-
fnons? Is it not from the Solomons that nearly
*ll the Q. Kanaka murderers of men and outragers
Of women have hailed for the past 10 years ?
Zox, M.L.A., to Prendergast, M.L.A. :
If there were many men like you I don’t know
what would become of Victoria.” Prendergast to
Zox: “It is men like you who have made men
like me possible in Victoria.” Then the Hebrew
ragman in the white vaith-coat left hurriedly.
Pointed out to Lands-Minister Carruthers
by Christian Endeavor deputation that Queen Vic-
toria had “recognised ” that the prosperity of the
country during her reign had been due to Divine
guidance. “Recognised,” again! “Self—first
prize,” as it were; “ God—honorable mention ! ”
Maoriland Cold-Tea Party
announces that its amended pro-
gramme is prohibition by a bare
majority and that, at future
anti-liquor polls, only two issues
be submitted to the electors :
(1) That things remain as they
are, and (2) that liquor be abso-
lutely prohibited. The third
issue, that licenses be reduced in
number, is regarded as a feeble
pandering to the moderate
drinker. The loveliness of this
arrangement is that when once
any district goes in for Prohibi-
tion, the Cold-Tea Party pro-
poses to give it no further voice
in the matter. Where drink is
already sold the people may vote
either that it be abolished or that
things remain as they are.
Where Prohibition is in force
they are to vote on the same two
issues: (1) That drink be pro-
hibited (when it is prohibited
already), or (2) that things con-
tinue as they are (in other
words, that drink continue to be
prohibited).
Tasmanian enthusiasm for Federation.
Acting-Premier Fysh opened the debate in the
House the other night, and, after an hour’s mono-
tonous wailfulness, broke off to complain that he
was being interrupted by the sound of members’
talking. “ Snoring ! ” corrected an Oppositionist.
Professor Harper, of Melbourne, says that
“ every concession towards secularisation of public
life is taken advantage of, and pressed far beyond
its original meaning.” Ecclesiasticism’s old dodge
—to call everything that is absolutely forced out
of its grip a “concession.” The virtue of neces-
sity !
“What is this Mr. ? A toad, a
creeping thing, a simmering hypocrite, and a
gaping fool. We are only degrading ourselves by
speaking about a thing like him. He is not a man,
biit a thing.” Observations at Melb. Trades
Hall. Fat Man was right, after all. The Trades
Hall does think itself Parliament.
Brisbane Courier of July 30 re Pacific
trading licenses in the Solomons : “ The Kanaka
is so safeguarded and provided for that his con-
dition is the envy even of the whites.” And yet
the other day Polynesian Inspector Caulfield
proved to the hilt in open Court that the poor
Polynesians were often scrimped of their daily
tucker.
That phenomenal railway, the Northern
(Q.) has just improved its previous best record by
about .£24,000. Also the little Bowen line has
hopped up from £978 to =£3054. Wherefore
Townsville, which is ever clamoring for justice to
the North, will, of course, agree to allow the
Northern line to connect with Bowen and so
export the North-western produce through its
natural outlet.
Howe, one of the S.A. Convention dele-
gates, gives the other side of the case. The
papers sat heavily on him for taking £2 2s. per
day, Sundays included, not only while the two
Conventions are sitting but for the interval
between as well. “My election cost me £227,”
says Howe, “and the newspapers took almost all
of it. The fees will just about pay their bills. It
is they who are taking the two guineas.”
London Speaker (the Gladstonian weekly)
says it thinks that woman-suffrage, which it re-
gards as a “ doubtful experiment,” was tried and
abandoned in Viccoria some years before its recent
adoption in New Zealand and Australia ” (sic).
So that all the Jubilee grovel and Hempyah
twaddle have not taught a scholarly English paper
that Victoria is a part of Australia. To say no-
thing of the Speaker’s dense ignorance of Vic.
politics.
“ Result of the godless N.S. W. education
system! ” snorts Salomons, Q.C., because the
State-schoolboys scribble unwashed observations
on his fence. But, even if the shrieky little man
had a Sunday-school alongside, he wouldn’t find
the inscriptions any holier. The teaching has yet
to be invented that could get God very far under
the skin of the healthy male urchin. The juvenile
saint has mostly something wrong with his
“ innards.”
The recent fizzled-out N.S. W. anti-Sunday -
lolly-shop campaign was a move towards the
nauseous Calvinism that principally engineered
the iniquitous Melbourne boom-swindles—the im-
pudent hypocrisy which, while squashing the
Saturday - produced Sunday - papers, carefully
ignored the real Sawbath-breaking involved in the
Monday’s issue of the “respectable” morning
sheets. “ God-fearing ”is a label that has to be
lived down to !
It is the specially-privileged classes who
oppose Federation in Tasmania. Thus a legis-
lator :
The expenses of the Federal Government with its build-
ings, its army of officials and its cocked hats, will swallow
up our Customs revenue, and leave us to pay our national
debt out of direct taxation !
Just so. Tas. Customs revenue just pays interest
on the national debt, and a bit over. Abolish the
Customs and Fat Man is in the fire.
For Federation Reid bids steer !
His colleagues follow the suggestion,
Save Want, who roars : “ No blanky fear !
That fad was left an open question."
For Prohibition Cook’s agog !
Five pals take sides with Holy Joe ;
While Want and Reid avow that grog
Should have free course of ebb and flow.
A Cabinet ’gainst itself divided
Must fall. For fatal is the folly
When Ministers, all undecided,
Fail idem velle atqrn nolle.
J.S.
A WE WARD,
"Well, butcher, have you brought the ox
heart I ordered? ”
BUTCHER : “ Well, mum, the dog shook your heart on me this
mornin’.”
J. ’sP. are being gazetted batch after batch
almost daily in N.S.W. The God-fearing Minis-
try blue-pencils every publican’s name submitted,
but approvingly initials the names of brewers and
their chief men. However, bush storekeepers are
allowed through, and thus the outcast publican
will have a step-brother on the bench.
Smellbourne’s Fatmen appear confident
that Duncan Gillies will carry the Toorak elector-
ate, in spite of the Age’s furious contumely.
They consider him alive and kicking, in a politi-
cal sense, whereas the “ unrespeetable ” class
would fain believe that the shiny little jobber is as
dead as £. £. Smith, Bent, O’Loghlen, and a
dozen others, boys of the old brigade. The ques-
tion is—-Was Duncan’s defeat at the Federal Con-
vention tantamount to a public funeral of his cold
remains ?
C. : “ Yery rough on Isaacs and Peacock
to expect them to decide respective merits of
Orange and Green —especially at election times.
The Yic. law about 4 illegal processions ’ is vague
and shaky. At any rate, such questions should
be decided by the judiciary—-not by the political
party on top. Wanted, amended law, enabling
courts to be moved to grant an injunction pro-
hibiting sectarian processions, before the danger
is done. Orange and Green would then fight in
the court with hired champions.”
Expenditure of loan moneys in Victoria
during the Turner Government’s three years’
term of office has averaged about £184,000 a year
—total, ,£550,111 for the three years. For the
same three years N.S.W. got through about
<£4,l32,ooo—that is to say, it supplied continuous
work for nearly 50,000 inhabitants out of loan-
funds, whereas Vi. toria found employment from
the same source for only about 3700. The good
old loan keeps quite a lot of the population in
work while it lasts, and swells the local industries
beautifully.
Yic. Labor-member Hancock on Federa-
tion: “All the talk about the consolidation of
loans is a fraud. It could only be done as the
loans mature, and that means waiting 30 years
before there is any possibility of making a saving.”
What beautiful logic ! There are loans maturing
every year, and as each loan fell due and was
converted into Federal stock, something would be
saved. The saving would begin almost in the
first month of Federation, and would go on in-
creasing every year till the last provincial loan
was consolidated.
Hancock, M.L.A. (Victoria), says that
“ Federation is not popular in countries where it
exists. ” The principal countries where Federation
exists are Germany, Austria-Hungary (which is a
species of Federation, though rather an awkward
one), Switzerland, United States, Canada, Mexico,
Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. Pro-
bably all these countries grumble at their Govern-
ments —no one expects even a Federal Government
to be perfect—still Federation is so popular with
them that not one of them makes a move towards
any other system.
Note well the following figures for the year
1896. Total male Polynesians in Queensland, 749.
Total females, thirty-three ! The Solomons con-
tributed 423 of this number ; the Hebrides 286,
and the Banks group 73. The death-rate was
31 '62 per thousand—an increase of 2 per thousand
on the previous year. Hence Kanaka morality is
as dubious as ever ; Kanaka cannibals are on the
increase, as the Solomon importation testifies ;
and, last but not least, the Queensland canefields
are not likely to lack human-flesh-and-bone manure
for some time to come.
Dear Bulletin, The rabid parson's
pathetic ignorance of men’s real minds is well
exemplified by Rev. Dill Mackay’s assertion that,
with the exception of a very few infidels and
agnostics, all the people of N.S.W. want God’s
name in the Constitution. The infidel-positive
certainly doesn’t grow on every tree, but the
ostensibly orthodox person who doubts-and-
daren’t-say-so is nearly as common nowadays as
the outsider who simply laughs at the notion of
taking a fellow-creature’s word for what can’t
possibly be known.— Heretic.
Re Papa Brunker’s boorish refusal to house
those belated French soldiers, what conception of
“ the large, fine courtesies ’twixt State and State”
was to be expected from, a man who, born at Mait-
land, where they still use type cast in the 18th
century, had never set foot outside N.S. Wales
until sent to Adelaide, as a snuffle-selected dele-
gate to the Federal Convention, and who is
possibly under the impression that Anti-Christ is
still ramping round somewhere in the person
of the First Napoleon, and that Gaul and Briton
are as anxious as aforetime for each other’s scalps.
Vic. A.cting-Premier Isaacs also wants to
arrange for the “ recognition of God ” in the
Federal Constitution. What about the recogni-
tion of Joss? Presumably every one hopes that
Queensland and W. A. and the Northern Territory
will be included in the Commonwealth, and with-
out the recognition of Joss what"inducement is
there for them to come in ?
The land-tax assessment, it is alleged, has
revealed the fact that for one-tenth of the pri-
vately-owned land in N.S.W. no owners can be
found. Yet they can’t have all gone prospecting
with Butler. One casual advantage of the land-
tax is that it will provide owners in course of time.
If somebody doesn’t turn up and pay within a
certain period the State will sell the property for
arrears.
Van Dobson is irreclaimable. In Tas.
Assembly he admits that since getting away from
the influence of the silver-tongued eloquenoe of
Deakin, Reid, Isaacs and Trenwith and other
Democratic Federal-Conventioners, he has seen
the error of their ways, and is more Conservative
as regards State Rights and Manhood Suffrage
than ever. Says Dobson :
I will go to the Sydney Convention and fight as I never
fought before, and insist that there should be a strong
Senate.
This should mean sport for the mainland delegates.
The decision of Dobson to fight for a property-
vote “ as he never fought before ” is a plucky one,
for it means that he will be laughed at as he never
was laughed at before. And ridicule is no joke
to a man of Van Dobson’s temperament.
Acting-Premier Wittenoom of W.A. has
not John Forrest’s capacity for making things
look good. He admits that of the late £1,000,000
loan —which only realised about £935,000 —no lea,
than £750,000 was spent in advance as far back as
March last. The rest has since been dissipated*
and the Government is now keeping its public
works going by Treasury bills, overdrafts and by
loans from revenue. Another big loan will be
wanted by August, and a good part of it will be
spent in advance. Last loan floated with difficulty
at a low price, and that was only a few months
ago. The next one might not float at all, for
W.A. has been going on such a howling riot that
its paper is not in high esteem now, and then the
Forrest policy would crumple up like a Chinese
lantern struck by the Day of Judgment.
OUTSIDE A SYDNEY FISH-SHOP.
OLD GENT (excitedly) : “ Dear, dear; what a
splendid specimen of the ornithorhyncus
paradoxus !”
MR. BIGSCRUB: “No blanky fear — it’s a platypus !"
Pertinent questions addressed by Schey,
M.L.A., to the pious Brunker, N.S.W. Acting-
Premier :
(1.) Is it his intention to direct the Inspector-General oi
Police to prosecute the Reverend William Curnow foi
desecrating the Lord’s day by writing articles for the
editorial columns of the Sydney Morning Herald?
(2.) Is it also his intention to direct the necessary stepa
to be taken to restrain the firm of James Fairfax and
Sons from keeping their shop open on the evening of the
Lord’s day, and employing Christian young women to set
in type on the Lord’s day evening the Reverend William
Curnow’s leading articles?
(3.) Is it also his intention to instruct the proper officer
to prohibit James Fairfax and Sons’ reporters from follow-
ing their avocation on the Lord’s day by reporting the
sermons of the Minister in charge of the Pitt-street Con-
gregational Church and of other Ministers?
(4.) Does he intend so to enforce the laws of the country
as to restrain the Postmaster-General from carrying on
Lord’s day letters and despatches ?
Part of the vitriol in this lies in the fact that
Editor Curnow is Brunker’s brother-in-law. The
pained expression of Brunker’s countenance is the
only answer which Schey is likely to get. The
man who alludes to the stately pile where Parson
Curnow cogitates over his leading article as a
“shop”—-as if the Fairfaxes sold five cigars for a
shilling—is too dreadful to be answered seriously.


Ao Object of
Adn)iratioi)
is a Pretty Foot encased in a Pretty Shoe. No other cover
is worthy of such Association. Here is a Shoe that fulfils all
a woman’s heart or her husband’s pocket-book can desire.
Glace Kid Shoe, Pat. Cap and
Facing, American Forms,
5s- 6d.
My Shoes are made to fit, I do not make the Foot to fit the
Shoe. Try one pair, and it will be followed by many of
the same kind. You will he satisfied, I know it.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS,
84 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Jhcdc^l/w
Cbtuk
£ven if you
g COCK-CROW
YO U WON’T FIND
ANYTHING better
A FOR THE
VOICE-***"
TUBES,
or LUNGS,
Ik. THAN
Geraudel’s Pastilles in tubes containing 72 each
To be had of all Druggists and Storekeepers .
PIANOS!
WE CAN supply you with a BETTER PIANO or ORGAN at a LOWER
PRICE than any other Rouse.
WE GUARANTEE to give you entire satisfaction.
WE HAVE recently made great improvements in all our instruments, an
are selling at same low prices for Cash, or on Easy Time-
Payment Terms.
Cornets, Accordeons, Flutes, etc., and all kinds of Musical Instruments.
VIOLIN, BOW AND CASE, 25/-
Our established reputation is a guarantee that misrepresentation is never re-
sorted to in order to effect a sale, and we cordially invite the public to call on
us and look through our magnificent stock of Instruments by all the best makers,
which we offer at least 20 per cent, less than any other house in Sydney.
s Leads The
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD
. . SYDNEY aQd BRISBANE . .
Dun lqp Tyres
AND Westwood Rinjs
ARE
THE
HALL
MARK OE A HIGH-GRADE CYCLE.
That this combination has
given satisfaction
IS
PROVED
BY
THE
FACT that 90 per cent, of the
CYCLES in Australia
are fitted with them.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.
4SO Kent Street, SYDNKY.
ALSO AT
Tattersall’s Lane, Melbourne;
Franklin-street, Adelaide ;
King-street, Perth;
Litchfield-street, Christchurch, N.Z.
After N.S.W. Attorney-General Want had
stated his case for the Little Cornstalk Party with
much fury and damned Federation in all its aspects,
R. E. O’Connor, M.L.C., floored him badly by
reading out of Hansard an old speech in which
King Jack declared himself an ardent Federa-
tionist. That warlike relio of the cabbage-tree-hat
mob can seldom recollect what his last year’s
opinions were—he forgets his political oonvictions
while hunting up worms for bait —and the news
that he had once been a shrieking advocate of the
Commonwealth crumpled him up. But only tem-
porarily.
Some Jubilee newspaper-titles were ex-
pected in Australia, but none came. “ I believe I
am right,” says Sydney D.T.’s London special,
“in stating that after conferring together, Mr.
Reid, Sir George Turner, Mr. Seddon and Mr.
Kingston urged Mr. Chamberlain to mark the
Jubilee by some recognition of the Australian
press, each Premier naming a suitable eminent
editor for titular distinction. Unfortunately, cer-
tain rivals of the gentlemen nominated who are
now in England got wind of the project, and ex-
hibited virtuous and disinterested indignation.
Mr. Chamberlain thereupon roundly condemned
the small-mindedness of colonial newspaper folk,
and declined to put his head in a hornets’ nest to
oblige.” In other words, putting facts together,
editor Finlayson who, when at home in Adelaide,
runs the Tory Register, derided the idea of his
deadly rival Bonython, of the Advertiser (King-
ston’s friend), being bebaubled. Also, such of the
Fairfax brigade as happened to be on the spot pos-
sibly jeered at the proposed making of Sir Lachlan
Brient, of Sydney D.T., proposed in all gratitude
by Premier Reid. Also—several other things.
Salomons, Q.C., in the course of his anti-
Federation speech in N.S.W. Leg. Council, re-
lated a remarkable number of anecdotes, most of
which, ouriously enough, had reference to women.
Speaking of the close resemblance of Barton and
O’Connor in the Federation movement, he said he
was reminded of the man who married a girl who
had a twin sister very much like her. When
somebody asked how he’ managed to distinguish
between them he said, “ I don’t try ! ”
A vice-regal visit to an inland centre
being in view, the private sec. of an Australian
Governor wired to the local M.P. asking him to
secure rooms and a carriage for vice-regal use
during the stay. The M.P. complied, and when
the Govt. House people arrived their appreciation
of the hotel accommodation was only discounted
by the scorn with which they regarded the carriage
hired for them. In vain did the member plead
that it was the best vehicle available. They could
never ride in a thing like that; and their grief
seemed so pathetic that the M.L.A.’s heart was
touched to the extent of offering his own turn-
out on the understanding that he had the hired
one. Thanking him effusively, the suite luxuri-
ated in his victoria, but, on the termination of
their visit, when he forwarded the livery-stable
keeper’s bill for hire to the private sec., a polite
answer came back expressing surprise that “Mr.
Dash, M.L.A., could expect His Lordship to pay
for the hire of the carriage, seeing that Mr. Dash
himself had the use of the vehicle.” The M.L.A.
sent his answer, which was strong and to the
point, and per same post Govt. House received a
note from the hotel proprietor demanding im-
mediate settlement of his account and requesting
His Lordship to patronise another house next visit.


_ Banking. Publio Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
further reduced rates.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Oni.y Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every Jei to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
___ Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
__ Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,.8A0,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,950,211 ss.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Eso., J. P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Mean s, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; linn N. Thomlev,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gvles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 lii.s/iopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuoh'ar.
Hay market, Gosford with atrency at Wvong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. * .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
A mount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500|000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability ..
1,949,500 0 0
1,191.934 0 0
1,949,500 0 0
Total 5,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The H -n. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Utiier, Esq.
l.oiHlon office- Old Dread Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United Slat s. Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The 'tank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on theirbehalf in publio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879,
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HE£D OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER,BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
GO • 9 9 6
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
999 9 9 0
ANNUAL INCOME AND INYESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
l GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
L stories), Is. Sd.
„ Banking, Publlo Companies, &c.
The Trustees , Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
£150,000 0 0
£60,000 0 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP ..
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : E. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. I
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,700,426 15 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 49,573 4 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia '(Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
the royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £4OO 756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33^000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Directors :
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A ■
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability _. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
Sir W. P. Manning, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: Georg-e Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.’
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane
Directors:-Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager!
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, off MELßoum% st '
Melbourne (?r. Testing & Teahnioal Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores
Minerals, buels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
TbiS Cotppaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital. ..£soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
bt., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manaeer
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 337, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Minin?
Slocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
. Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
VVest& South. Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
POR PLAND
VVARRNAMBOOL
T\rian, Saturday, August 7, 2 p.m.
Buiiiuyoiijr, Tues., August 10, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
■ Buninyong, Tues., August 10, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninynng, Tues., August 10, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leurn, Saturday, August 7, 2 p.m.
Burwali, Tuesday, August 10, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Lenra, Saturday, August 7, 2 p.m.
-Banalmol, Tuesday, Auff. 10, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, »aturday, August 14, 2 p.m.
E 1
Oargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CIJRKENT EARUS TO ALL' PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
INGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney ; Coiner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
to Domuay, innia, umna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
David graham ( go.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
d'otlmeo’s S ™ E
Winter Soitiogs
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies’ Costumes a Speciality .
SOLE AGENTS FOR,
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BIUHAM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
£rin?€ & Srpitb,
Ladies ’ & Gents 1 Hairdvessevs ,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 6/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
LIFE POLICIES.
ANNUITIES. LIFE
REVERSIONS.
I NTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden S, Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at 6 X per
annum by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
F ox- London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
Steamer.
Arcadia..
Massilia*
Par’matta
marseiiies.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, i 65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, <£3s. Return, £*37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Austral]a._ Passage - money can be paid here on
termsfor passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MIOHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Kuddart, parker & (Jo’s Cine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
Oanadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAIIU/av
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information
apply ’
. HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Ounces : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE” and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Vascender Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
a^oon are I London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON'& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne : or
GEO. WILLS &, CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
qXTmS&T are J . carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
obante Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON (London)
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY,
ADEN SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, ’ and GENOA
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Ade-
laide.
18 Aug. 21
14 Sept. 18
l6
l()Nov. 13
8 Dec. 11
... - - * .... i,„. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney. ’
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney) Tues-
day, August 10.
S.S. Wallowra, Tuesday, August
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo (from
Tuesday, August
S.S. Wollowra,
August 17.
Sydney)
10.
Tuesday,
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Rob Roy (from Adelaide) about
August 16.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. South Australian, Tues-
day, August 10.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., JiTD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


1207
3 72
124
IZOS
403
126
w w
WW 1
A
125
127
234
078
fggsssss
56
57
%
2>
B 2
—THE—
Australian
Needlewoo d
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest 8s CooW< Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
(jCtTw)
Is on each Pipe, as a vuaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
AUSTRALIA V
2k EED L E WOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA —Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
A Barometer
... of Trade
IS THE TYPEWRITER BUSINESS.
IT QUICKLY RESPONDS TO IM-
PROVED CONDITIONS. THIS
LENDS GENERAL INTEREST TO
THE PACT THAT
njore
Remington...
Standard Typewriters
were sold in the month of March, 1897, than in any previous month in its history.
The NEW MODEL No. 7 has many Late Improvements.
Catalogues Free.
STOTT & HOARE, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
XO DEFY CO MPSTIXIOKT.
WINES The Be “ B Z uh onUj of SPIRITS.
„ MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDMEY.
Wa&bifygtai)N- SoGl & Co.
Do not be satisfied with “Good Enough.”
The Best is the only ‘ Good I no ugh ” you should have, and
always the Cheapest in the long run.
A IEW EXAMPLES :
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER is a pure and sound article, at 6d. per tin.
DENTAROMA, at Is. 6c1., whitens the teeth, purities the breath. A most Fragrant
DR THOMPSON’S COLTSFOOT COUGH LTNCTUS or GLYCERINE and
LINSEED, each Is. per bottle. Splendid articles for Coughs, Colds, A:c.
A' \ ALA or PEPALGEN, 2s tier bottle. If you have no indigestion, you will not
need it ; if you have, use it. The most effective cure to be obtained.
I PART AN TONIC, 2s. (id. and 4s. The tonic that reigns supreme, and its
qualities are recorded in many an Australian household.
Do Not Forget the Old Shop--Next-door but one to the City Banh.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO., M’sP-S-,
158 & ISO Pitt-street, Sydney,
also at 2GB PITT STREET; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
n
mm
• ••
. PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF . .
Gold, Silver, [ead % Copper pres Products.
WOEKS, situated at DAPTO (lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comnrise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING BULLION REFINING,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemork, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hi . ' .
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unnval e .1
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. JP rom.pt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
mum linuin I (late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
JUrIN nIiWtLL, Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
SIX 6RANP AGENCIES.
IN THE FINEST AND LARGEST
Piano and Music Warehouse
IN AUSTRALIA
Messrs. IJicholson and (Jo.
SHOW THE MOST SUPERB STOCK
OP
PIA.KTOS
Absolutely Unequalled by any other House.
The Grandest Variety of
MUSIC.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS
RONISCH PIANOS
SCHIEDMAYER PTANOS
WILMER PIANOS
MIGNON PIANOS
NANON PIANOS
PIANOS by EVERY MAKER of repute from
England, Germany, and Eranee.
IXTICHOLSOKT & COMPAIM
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Y
Adaips Tattersall Hotel,
PITT ST., S YIDJ^TJE
adanjS Caf«, <s«org€ Strstt.
, ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION.
TERMS: FROM. Bs. PER DAY.
- ❖♦♦♦ »♦♦♦♦♦-
vrs TORS CAN DINK IN HOTEL OH CAFE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tei. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
W 1
aUTfc DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depat;. 484 Ceorge-street, Sydney, for photos and
w v particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest ol
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as .compared with-buying them from dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made bv the foremost firms G* l
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are nvetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at aIJ
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra
long and plated. All
ba.ss wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
ratb workmanship.
Wires aro two sizes
thicker than are. ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD.. SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks ol
acmei.a wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirae. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy,'
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a noh, round, smging quai ty
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers fin j
sustaining and developing to the'voice'. We take risk, of loss in transit. The P n _
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands o ‘ P ,
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors o
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALiV & CVJ, Ell/-, 6
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
masjtoiEßTsoi s mm coni-
ITS USE
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all" onfectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works:
- Pitzroy,
Melbourne, Victoria.
-.I so. 3T


FKAJNZ JOSEF
PILSEKIER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
It is explained that the ruddy color of the
British—haw ! —new-ehum who lands on these
shores is largely due to the British habit of using
Scrubb’s ammonia at the toilet. This celebrated
preparation has a multitude of remarkable cleans-
ing virtues, and is for sale by all reputable Aus-
tralian chemists. *
Messrs. Wallen and Woods, the latest
share-dealing firm established in Melb., embraces
Mr. Frank Wallen, son of the late Mr. Robert
Wallen, one of the founders of Melb. Stock Ex-
change, and Mr. Norman Woods, also well known
in Southern mining circles. Both partners are
from the firm of Clarke and Co., Melb., where
they have occupied leading positions during the
past ten years.*
Stock Returns. —End of’9l there were
61,831,416 sheep in N S.W. : in ’96, 48,318,790.
Opinions vary from 5 to 20 million on the probable
shortage this year. Perhaps 10 millions is a
shrewd estimate, which means about 38 million as
the colony’s present woolly wealth. A redeeming
feature is that Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. are
selling stores at double the prices going before the
break up.*
“ H.”: “Two men, both residents in
Little Leveson-street, N. Melb., were killed by
accident, one day this week, at opposite ends of
the city. Little Leveson-street is only 100 yards
long, with houses on only one side. More Long
Arm.”
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free’ or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The T. A. Dibbs presentation at the head-
office of the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
on Aug. 1, by his “ brother officers,” was a strong
and moving lesson to the young bloods of the
service. No man of the many present can ever
hope to look as T. A. Dibbs looks with 50 years’
hard service on his forehead, and probably no
other man present could speak honestly from his
heart with more affecting and simple earnestness
about a woman. Mr. Dibbs stumbled, broke down,
cleared his throat—-“nothing could have pleased
him more than the presentation of this oil-paint-
ing of my wife; the officers all know that, if
they want the general manager, and can’t find
him at the bank, they are sure to find him
at home. If there is a silent advocate for the
officers of the bank, it is my wife. ’’ Une of the
bank’s messengers was crying. Meanwhile, big
brother' George looked on with the interested
air of an amiable bear. The gathering at the pre-
sentation matched the occasion in size and im-
portance.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE ( ItUSI IiVT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other
** It 11 s’ liini-strcct toffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
NOW READY.
J. J. MILLER’S ...
ANNUAL SPORTING PAMPHLET . .
Contains Entries, Weights, Performances of all Horses
engaged in Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, and principal
w.f.a. races of the season. Winners of past principal
Australian races ; complete tables of bests on record in
all branches of sport, including Cycling. Price, ONE
SHILLING —posted, Id. extra. Printed by J. J. Miller.
Wholesale Agents : Gordon & Gotcii, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth.
‘‘DO'WRIDGE’S 5
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
KOKO
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH,
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
m
m
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only stepped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
;of your prepara-
tion.”
1/-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD., 16, BEVIS MARKsI ENGLAND.!
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
• . 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
Various fancies for the Caulfield G.N. Hurdle
Race, run on Saturday (7th), have lost their rosy appear-
ance within the last week or two, so at time of writing-
nobody seems to be sweet on anything. Response suffered
a fall at Moonee Valley, the other day, whilst Tagus and
Hive were shaping moderately in the same event. Of
these three G.N. horses, Hive would carry The Bulletin’s
hopes on Saturday if he were at his best, seeing that the
Millerites lately talked of him as a likely “double”
winner. If he goes to the post, well backed by the stable
in preference to Insurance, punters will follow Hive and
perhaps get a win for their money ; also the same may
be said of the mare Insurance if she goes instead of
Hive. Another dangerous pair are Glendower and Zouroff,
though the latter seems more threatening for the Steeple-
chase, a week later. The outlook is very cloudy. In sug-
gesting that Hive, Zouroff, Glendower, and Insurance
may possibly include the winners of the two big events,
The Bulletin doesn’t mean to suggest that its “tip” is
necessarily worth the paper it is printed on. Meanwhile,
this journal has no fancy for Hayseed’s chance in the
Steeplechase, which may be a point in the horse’s favor
rather than otherwise.
* * * •
“ He will make a grand 4-year-old, and we shall
want, one of his stamp to take down the Australian crack,
Newhaven, who will by that time be fully acclimatised.”—
London Sportsman on Gaitee More.
** 4 * *
The V. A.T.C. is so close-fisted repress tickets
that when the reporter for Melb. Paunch gets his free pass
he grovels before the “courteous secretary ” in this style:
“The general arrangements at Caulfleld since Mr. Tom
Moule took charge of affairs have been so excellent that
to speak of them now is like
‘ To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
To throw a perfume on the violet.’”
Quite so ; it is as unnecessary as the addition of new odors
to the onion I but Air. Moule is not the only fragrant
vegetable attached to the club. There are—well, it would
be really cruel to name one member of the committee.
* * * *
The Alexandra Plate (three miles), at Ascot,
once won by the well-known Musket, though valued at
£l5OO this year, resolved itself into a match'in which St.
Bris, started at 100—7 on, managed to just get home bv a
short neck. Long-distance racing is evidently at a dis-
count in Eng.
* * * *
Irish-bred horses are carrying all before them
in Eng., for, in addition to Gaitee More’s successive vic-
tories, Count Schomberg accounted for the Queen’s Gold
Vase at Ascot, and more recently he won the Goodwood
Cup (2| miles), for which event Persimmon was scratched.
• * * •
Canterbury Park (Sydney) Cup was run off in
three divisions, Survivor winning his heat and the final.
Although the innovation was made in the interests of the
lives and limbs of horses and jockeys, the course-proprie-
tors may hear from the A.J.C., as it is opposed to the
latter’s rules.
* * * ■*
Mr. Buckland did not have the luck he deserved
for taking his trotting stud to Victoria. Viva ran a great
race, when starting from 45sec. behind, and was only
beaten by a few' inches. The course was too heavy from
rain for Fritz to have any show of breaking his record,
but, to prevent disappointment, Mr. B. sent him a mile,
which he covered in 2min. 25sec.
* * * •
The M.L. and N.S.W. final football-match
began with the usual lunatic remarks “ Rick, Rick,
Ricketty Dick, houpla-ha ! ” from the N.S.W. side, and
the usual insane response “ Ake, ake, kia kia” from the
Maorilanders, and, directly these noises ceased, the
crow T d guffawed with its usual tremendousness, after
which both teams walked over to the grandstand and
hurrahed Gov. ’Ampden. Why thev didn’t “houpla”
or “ake” H.E. is explained by the fact that the football
mind doesn’t reckon ’Ampden worth such an honor.
“ This is what I like,” snorted one Jumbo with sarcastic
emphasis, “ Ch-er ’im—’Ampden ; strike me!” but he
hurrahed louder than anybody. This shows to what base
uses a person with a noble name can come in Australia.
On Monday the ALL. team, in a more or less incoherent
state, tumbled itself into two drags, and, after throwing
kisses to the ahlgails of its hotel, drove off and em-
barked for home. Ake, ake—hooray !
*** ’ •
Port Adelaide beat South Adelaide, and is now
at the head of affairs in Adelaide football. But all the
clubs ought to be disqualified for suspicious play in the
interests of the “ gate.”
* * * ,
In one respect, perhaps in several, Rugby foot-
ball has gone back during the last 18 years. Formerly
the men behind the scrum were one full", two halves, and
two quarter backs. The “full” remains; the two
“ halves” have increased to four, and are called “ three-
quarters”; the old “quarters” have become “ halves,”
but without a numerical increase. Now, Sydney clubs
have a “ five-eights,” and the “ wing-forwards” are really
“ one-eight,” or perhaps “ quarter” back.
* * * •
The bicycle craze has reached its climax. When
the s.s. Wainui struck the rocks near Nelson, ALL., on
July 12, and commotion ensued, and men ran about the
saloon in their night-shirts and pyjamas calling loudly for
life-belts, a wheel-enthusiast of the frailer sex cried, not
for help or a life-belt, but “My bike ! Aly bike ' Oh
save my bike ! ”
* « » •
A champion horror was the death of a man
thrown from a cycle, the other day, in Chicago, while
carrying round his neck a bike-frame, which got jammed
on his windpipe. Then people stood round and grinned
at what they thought were his drunken antics till the
poor wretch was dead of strangulation.
• * * •
London papers call attention to the well-mean-
ing dishonesty of a young man who “ shook ” two
bicycles. With the proceeds of the first theft he opened
an account in the P.O. Savings Bank. The second was a
lady’s bike. He exchanged it for a sewing-machine, which
he gave to his wife as a birthday present.
* * * *
All hope that the N.S.W. footballers would on
Saturday last repeat their victory over the M.L. team
was soon dispelled when play began ; the visitors scored
a try almost as soon as the ball was set rolling, and sim-
ply romped over the local men for the rest of the game,
winning by 20 points to 3. The N.S. Wales men, as usual,
played a selfish game in contradistinction to the Maori-
landers, who, in combination and short passes, were as
nearly as possible perfect. Whilst the individual play of
the N.S.W. men was in many instances excellent, their
lack of combination and determination to hang on to the
ball until it was fairly “ vvrastled ” from them made vic-
tory impossible against such a team as opposed them on
Saturday.
* * * •
That unhappy combination, the Australian base-
ball team, has disbanded in London, and some of the
members have cabled for funds to carry them home.
♦ * * »
Percy Cavill was beaten by both Derbyshire
and Green in the half-mile swimming championship at
Southport, Eng., on Saturday. Derbyshire won by 15yds.
m 13min. 38sec., whilst Green beat Cavill by a touch.
Amateur A. T. Kenny swam half a mile in Australia in
1891 in 13min. 12 4-ssec.
Hall, the Vie. miner convicted of murdering his
wife, was one of the most brilliant footballers of the pro-
vince. He intended moving' to Melb. and playing with a
metropolitan club this season, but Fate ordained other-
wise.
* . * • •
“ Life in the old dog yet.” Last year Spofforth
had a better average than any of the first-class English
bowlers, and did not come far behind M'Kibbin. Though
he did not do too much, and was not pitted against killing
batsmen all the time, still the performance is noteworthy
when we remember that it is nearly 20 years since his
bowling first electrified the world. The fairness of his
delivery was never questioned—a remark which does not
apply to M'Kibbin.
if., ... * * *
Vic. rowing circles are still agitated re the
amateur question. Recently a rule was passed excluding
from competition athletes who had competed for cash in
any branch of sport whatever. This was brought about
chiefly by the harriers, callow youths who indulge in aim-
less runs across paddocks on Saturday afternoons. It
was pointed out at the time that such a step was unneces-
sary, if not harmful, and that it would be enough to let
the sport stand on its own basis. However, the bigoted
amateur party prevailed. The country oarsmen were en-
tirely against the innovation, and protested vigorously.
They now propose to form a new association in opposition
to the present V.R.A., whose most striking features are
its state of chronic insolvency and utterly hopeless future.
Consequently the new association, if started on a capital
of nothing, with an annual income of ninepence, would
have an immensely brighter outlook.
Anyhow, rowing enthusiasts need not worry—
there is no fear of rowing becoming a professional sport
at present. As an instance, the Maiden Eight at the
Association regatta, in Feb., ’96, got an entry of eight
crews, Which, at 7s. 6d. an oar (£3 per crew) gave £24 in
entry-money. The winning crew got its prizes about three
months ago—a trophy, value £2los. for each man, or £2O
for the crew. The affair was thus even worse than a
sweepstake. The association not only' added no money,
it stuck to one-sixth of the entry-fee. A man who could
make money out of such a sport, after paying his training
and other expenses, club membership-fees, and giving his
cox. a trifle as well, would be a genius.
The Vic. A.N.A. has decided to hold another
art-union in January' in alleged support of the charities.
No account is ever made of the actual number of tickets
sold to the public. The one just past probably absorbed
£7OOO of public money, of which £l7OO went to the
charities, £l5OO went in art-union prizes, the balance
being swallowed up in bicycle prizes and expenses—chiefly
expenses. Tasmania will have no more A.N.A. gambles.
It has reserved the Tight Little Island for Tattersall.
Tattersall returns 18s. in the £ as prizes. The A.N.A.
returns something less than ss. in the £. N.S.W. public
will not have further opportunities of participating in this
fool-gamble, as the Attorney-General has put down his
historic foot on the biz. Art-unions are a fruitful source
of bad debts. Some thousands of A.N.A. tickets were
sent to Westralia, but not a penny received in return.
Some of the tickets were got back after expensive tele-
graphing.
* * * *
The deadly earnestness of the Australasian
riflemen seems to have stimulated British shooting
just as Murdoch’s first team shook up British cricket,
and the effect was more immediate. The record per-
formance of the Victorian eight in the Kolapore Cup
shooting was followed by bigger individual records in the
Queen’s Prize tournament.
• * * »
Cyclist Kellow tells a yarn of a certain sassiety
rider who, in the first days of the pneumatic tyre, gave
strong indications of becoming a champion. He had
raced as a pro. with some success, but suddenly' was
missed from the training-track, and appeared there no
more. Meeting him in the street one day, Kellow asked
the of the toney one’s retirement. “Well, you
see, replied the youth, “ the guvnah objects to my asso-
ciating with the class of fellows one meets on the track.”
A year or two later Kellow set out for Coolgardie, and the
first figure he saw on entering the dusty township was
that of the late cyclist. He was clad in moleskins with
knee-strings, flannel-shirted, and was engaged in beltin"
a stubborn horse with the flat of a spade amid the cheers
and blasphemy of the aggregate local Bill. “Hullo,”
said Kellow, “ doesn’t the guvnah object to vour asso-
ciating with this class of fellows ? ”
* « * *
Golf, as played around Sydney, needs suppres-
sing. Clubs at Bondi and Randwick play across a public
road, and any pedestrian who doesn't want to be an angel
rather suddenly must watch the players, be on the alert
to dodge, and sidle over the track like a crab. For those
not quick at dodging, the safest place is close to any of
the holes : the caddies preserve their lives by keeping
near them. r °
* * * »
Vic. Public Works Department, while improv-
ing the Yarra t.y dredging and dirt-shifting, is utilising
said dirt in building the foundation of what should be
one of the finest cycling tracks in Australia—in the
adjoining Friendly Society Grounds. The present founda-
tion—chiefly clay—allows for a track 50ft. wide, banked
up to a height of 14ft. on the outside, and will go about
3£ laps to the mile. There is abundant room for stands
bars, spectators, &c., but—isn’t the day of the bike-race
departing ?
* * * *
N.Q. fish perjury. One of a party fishing
lately in the Barcoo abandoned his tackle and went up
the bank to All his pipe. A fish collared line and hard-
wood rod and made off for deep water. In the afternoon
higher up stream, another fisherman got a bite, and
hauled in fish, rod and tackle to the joy of the sorrowing
owner. 6
* * * *
An English cycle-riding teacher named Mark-
ham lately went through the London traffic accompanied
by five bicycles. He carried two across his back and
shoulders, led one in either hand, and rode the fifth
“ hands off.” Not quite so mad as the ’Murkan who rode
down U.S. Capitol steps, losing his pedals soon after the
start, and clearing the last flight at one bound. He got
out of it luckily. Ninety-five per cent, would break a
limb or probably a neck.
* • * *
The main difference between the bookmaker
and the insurance man, considered as gamblers, remarks
a Bulletin correspondent, is that the insurance man
doesn’t knowingly lay against a stiff, whereas the bookie
does, whenever possible.
* * * *
The vice-president of a newly-formed cycling
club is responsible for the following. A local cyclist
had slung his bike by a rope in the cellar. During
the night a mouse on an exploring expedition climbed
down the rope and landed on the front wheel of the
machine, causing it to revolve, and the more frantically
mousie tried to climb the more furiously did the wheel
rotate. . . In the morning a grey and gaunt animal
was discovered whirling round despite his most strenuous
efforts, and the cyclometer registered a distance too
fabulous to chronicle in this unbelieving age
*** " B »
The English track and road 24 hours’ records’
viz., G. Patterson with 502 miles, and M. A. Holbein with
402 miles, have lately been established on Dunlop cycles
and Dunlop tyres. For the week ending 9th June last
English riders won in all 618 prizes on Dunlop tyres. W
Smith, winner of the recent one-mile amateur champion-
ship at Brisbane, and C. 11. New, winner of the five-mile
scratch at the same meeting, rode Dunlop tyres. A.
Calder, winner of the Port Melbourne C.C. road race on
July 31st—20 miles in 60min. —rode a Dunlop-tyred Hum-
ber. The Dunlop Tyre’s Australian business is one of the
most prosperous concerns in the country.*
* * • •
The Austral Cycle Agency will shortly open
new premises in Sydney, next door to its present big well-
known establishment. Besides a magnificent stock of
cycles, this firm is in the van of the times with such useful
accessories as the “ Martin Silent Tool Bag,” “ The Dunlop
Mud Guard," and the “ Dunlop Carrier.” Its cycles are/
always getting first places on the racing-track, while upor if
tme road they have a most enviable reputation.* /


OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4§in.
Tre ul, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New <£ls Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
<alie TGrocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
- - THE NEW - - '
Herald BicycU-
For LADIES and GENTS.
'P'HBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbe iQtercbaQgeable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T.Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tile ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
Established 18S3. Telephone 1920.
Those about to SELECT a BICYCLE should
Call and See the
‘Pbiz’ Noj Cycles.
No matter how much you pay, it is impossible
to obtain a more perfect Wheel than the
“Phiz” at £22 10s.
Bicycles, Tricycles, and Tandems
BUILT TO ORDER.
The “Phiz” No. 2, at .£l2 10s. The most
wonderful value ever offered to the world of wheels.
EVERY BICYCLE GUARANTEED.
I. PIIIZACKERLEY,
“ Phiz” Cycle Works,
Next Town Hall, Druitt St., Sydney.
Public Notices.
Patents Office,
Sydney, 27th July, 1897.
APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT OF
SPECIFICATION UNDER THE PA-
TENTS LAW AMENDMENT ACT, 1895.
■'VTOTICE is hereby given that any person. or
J>| persons intending to oppose this application
must leave at the Patents Office, within one month
from the 27th instant, notice in the prescribed
form of his or their objections thereto.
Application No. 7408 for Letters Patent dated
20th April, 1897, of Carlo Guattari for “ Im-
provements in the generation of motive
power. ”
Carlo Guattari (throughhis patent agents, Hep-
burn and Spruson) has applied for leave to amend
the specification of the application above re-
ferred to.
For particulars of amendments see Govern-
ment Gazette of 27th July, and Sydney Morning
Herald and Daily Telegraph of 28th July and
4th August.
A. PARRY LONG,
4fl Examiner of Patents.
Patents Office,
Sydney, 27th July, 1897.
APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT OF
SPECIFICATION AND DRAWINGS
UNDER THE PATENTS LAW AMEND-
MENT ACT, 1895.
NOTICE is hereby given that any person or
persons intending to oppose this applica-
tion must leave at the Patents Office, within one
month from the 27th instant, notice in the pre-
scribed form of his or their objections thereto.
Application No. 6,975 for Letters Patent, dated
17th October, 1896, of Edgar Arthur Ashcroft,
for “ An improved process for the treatment
of metalliferous ores and products.”
Edgar Arthur Aslicroft (through his patent
agent, Manfield Newton) has applied for leave to
amend ttie specification and drawings of the
application above referred to.
For particulars of amendments, see Government
Gazette of 27th July, and Sydney Morning
Herald, Daily Telegraph and Australian Star
of 28th July and 4th August.
A. PARRY LONG,
4f2. Examiner of Patents.
M
1m
O
r
> o
otLm
F2
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy ? You say schmolce signet
tobac.co only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
Amusements.
Tbs Han>boCsrg CoQccrts
Under the Direction of John Lemmonb.
MARK lIAMBOURG,
The Greatest Pianist of the Day.
JAKOFF MAMBOURG,
The Phenomena] Violinist; Wilhelm J’s
Great Pupil.
JOHN BEMMONE,
The Australian Flautist.
TOWN HALL, Sydney, August 14, 18, 19, 21, 24 and 26.
VICTORIA THEATRE, Newcastle, August 17.
CENTENNIAL HALL Brisbane, September 7, 9 and 11.
For further Particulars, apply to
W. H. PALING & CO. Ld., Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane.
AUSTRALASIAN
ASSOCIATION.
AXEMEN’S
Seventh Grand Exhibition of Bushmen’s Skill,
To be held in
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
About
NOVEMBER 1 AND 3, 1897.
PROGRAMME.
1. CHAMPION CHOP (2ft.) of £75 ; entry, 30s.
2. CHAMPION CHOP (18in.) of £3O ; entry, 15s.
3. CHAMPION CHOP, underhand (2ft. logs), of £5O;
entry, £l.
4. CHAMPION IRONBARK CHOP, underhand, of £4O;
entry, 15s.
5. CHAMPION SAWING MATCH(2ft.) of £3O; entry, 15s.
6. HANDICAP CHOP of £2OO, in heats (18in.): nom.,
£1 ; accept., £l.
7. HANDICAP UNDERHAND CHOP of £lOO (18in.);
nom., 15s ; accept., 15s.
8. MAIDEN CHOP of £10; entry, Bs.
9. MAIDEN HANDICAP CHOP (4ft. girth) of £10;
entry, 6s.
10. AMATEUR CHOP ; entry, 6s.
11. HANDICAP SAWING MATCH of £6O ; nom., 155.;
accept., 10s.
12. MAIDEN SAWING MATCH of £l5 ; entry, 7s.
13. DOUBLE-HANDED HANDICAP SAWING MATCH
of t'3s ; entry, £l.
14. BICYCLE HANDICAP of £25; nom., 3s. ; accept., 2s
Registered with V.A.L.
15. MILE HANDICAP FOOT RACE of £l5 ; entry, ss.
16. 440yds. RACE of £lO ; entry, ss.
17. I THREE HIGHLAND EVENTS, of £lO each; in-
-18. >• eluded by' request of the Clarence River Cale-
-19. 1 donian Society, N.S.W. Dancing and Piping.
ENTRIES ALL EVENTS, with fees, close SEPTEMBER
25. Acceptances, October 16.
Entries for the Chopping and Sawing Matches must be
made on printed forms of entry obtainable from the
Secretary.
All competitors from outside Victoria allowed to enter
at half-price.
For full particulars and conditions apply to the Manager.
H. A. NICHOLS, Ulverstone, TASMANIA.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. SATURDAY MATINEE at 2.
Tl)€ (Say Parisieooe,
77
By Geo. Dance and Ivan Caryll, a most Delightful Enter-
tainment and Splendidly Interpreted by an exceptionally
Powerful Coterie of Comedians.
Plan, Nicholson’s. HSf” PRICES-ss„ 35., 25., and Is.
gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE COUPON SYSTEM A SPLENDID SUCCESS,
and the old original Salon flourishing like agreen Bay Tree.
Every person receives a Coupon giving Free Admission
at any time when accompanied by one paying patron.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 Onward.
J. MAC MAHON, Director.
HEA T R E
R O Y A I„
S Y D N E Y.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS !
it
TN€ PAUPER.”
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
SATURDAY, 7th August—“THE BRAND OF CAIN.”
Popular Prices —3s, 2s. Is, Early Door fid. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
I V OLI T H E A T R E,
Sole Lessee & Manager . Mr. Harry Rickards.
T
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Barry JlicJcards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
00 Higii-Class Pkrformkrs 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, tl Is; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rfiHE OPERA HOUSE, M ELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager . Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
BIJOU theatre! MELBOURN E.
Under the Direction of L. J. Lour.
THIS (THURSDAY) AND EVERY EVENING !
THE GREAT LAUGHING SUCCESS !
“CHARLEY’S : AUNT.”
Revived by
FRANK THORNTON and his New English Comedy Co.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls,
3s; Stalls, 2s ; Family Circle and Gallery, Is. NO
EARLY DOORS. Box Plan at Glen’s.
II EAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Melville Stoltz Director.
EVERY EVENING (at 8.5 o’clock) EVERY EVENING
CONTINUED and UNPARALLELED SUCCESS of the
FLYING JORDANS
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day sale at Bentwitch’s, Swanston-st , and at Stegmann’s
Cigar Divan, opposite Theatre.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“Tbc Sigi) of tbe CroSS.”
MATINEE Saturday Next, August 7, at 2 o’clocck.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
TXBIBITION BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Prof. Nortoo B. Sn?itb,
THE EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS,
And Australia’s favorite Horse-trainer, will demonstrate
his Scientific Humane System of Horse Education for
a SHORT SEASON, commencing
Saturday, 7tla August.
For full particulars, see Daily Paper.
CUPID HAS FOLDED
... HIS WINGS,
but he flies around just the same as of old—only more so. He has dis-
carded his wings in favour of the
“ROYAL PROGRESS,”
because he finds it faster, more graceful, and decidedly more “fetching.”
The Price is £25; Ladies’, <£26. We also have IN VI NCI BLES and
other High-grade Wheels to select from. Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Tlje ENGLISH & AMERICAN AGENCY CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (two doors from STRAND ARCADE);
And at 52 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
LATEST NOVELTY BROOCH
■ ‘ ' ■ ■ ' x ' .
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CogliSl) Nall-Plarkcd (Sold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
Value - £1 Post Free
ONE PIECE’ Studs
AND CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. PATENTED. - Unbreakable.
Actual
Section
Collar Stud
Section
Shirt Stud
.a _
c/2 Enlarged
View of
Stud.
Collar
Actual
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece’ Studs.
1. Struck from single disc of metal—no solder.
2. —Elegance and absolute uniformity of curve, attdso
q.—Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease.
The World’s Most Serviceable Studs
Solid Gold. 9-Carat. 15-Carat. 18-Carat.
Suite of 3 Studs 6 6 9/- 10/- 10/6 12,'- 15/- 14/6 16/- LB,6per Suite.
Collar Studs ... 5/- 6/- 7 6 7/- 9/- 106 10/6 12 615 - each.
Cuff Buttons . 10/- 13/- 15/- 16/- 17/6 20 - 20/- 22,6 25/-per pair.
POST FREE.
The Public are CAUTIONED against vainped-up
IMITATIONS of these Studs—clumsy—in pieces, sol-
dered together, but shaped to deceive, and sold as the
“One Piece.”
Cv/'^c
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address—
90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
USB
Spoolers.
jROVALNAW DRESSINC
FOR
i BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
j ; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC 1 lONS FOR USE
MANUFACTURERS OF . .
UQriMalled
Etpbrocatioo,
Universal Cream,
Maori Gloss,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Black Oil,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc,
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
JP.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
5
saw* c>iStlUE»j
y
ips
SPECIAL
mm
N B ill
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN’S SWEET)
&e.a&i£/' urA/>&<s
Lancet. J
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
Pubications.
G-eo. Robertaon & 00.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale So Retail Booksellers So Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celehrltlo
Original Competition.
FIRST PRIZE ... 6 Guineas
SECOND PRIZE 4
THIRD PRIZE... 2
THE PROPRIETORS of the W.A. GOLD-
FIELDS COURIER, Coolgardie, offer
PRIZES as Above for the
Three Best Original Stories
ILLUSTRATIVE OF LIFE IN
AUSTRALASIA.
All Stories sent in to become absolutely the pro-
perty of the W.A. Goldfields Courier Com-
pany. To be published or returned to the author,
as the Editor may deem it fit.
In the event of any of the tales (other than the
three prize-winners) being published, the Pro-
prietors undertake to make the author a donation
of ONE GUINEA. .
Stories should be about Eight thousand words
in length, and the manuscript must reach the
Editor of-the Courier, Coolgardie (W.A.), not
later than September 30, 1897.
HENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diabie,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Mascbera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2*. 6d. each. Of all Musiesellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
* f Friends no Longer/’
SONG by S. Mkl-
bo.urn, Jun.
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
6d. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3«1. eacli, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton Sis 00., LOSDOS,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELItOiiUNK.


Special Advertisements.
Indigestion
Loss of Strength
And Appetite.
The testimony of Mr. R.
Dennis, Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia, who was cured by Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, is like unto that of
many thousands of others. He
writes:
“It is with very much pleasure
that I testify to the great benefit I
received from using your wonderful
blood-purifier. I was a sufferer for
years from indigestion, loss of
strength and appetite, and constipa-
tion. My whole system seemed to
be thoroughly out of order. A friend
finally told me to take Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. I followed Iris advice, though
feeling discouraged at the fruitless
results of other treatment, and I am
thankful to state that a few bottles
completely cured me.”
The medicine that has cured
others will cure you.
AYER’
Bkwabe of imitations. The name — Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla—is prominent on the wrapper
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
AYER’S PILLS A GENTLE PURGATIVE
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists
stores, Perfumen
fp. or direct from
Street
HAIKDIIESSEKS A\i» WIG )I AK« KS
To tl»e Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Kinglet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns
Ra zors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers l Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.8.-We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THEJLADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
<>Bo A <>B2 George Street, Sydney.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Q. Central Board of Health has reported
adversely to the shriek of Brisbane W.C.T.U. in
wanting the C.D. Act abolished.
Melbourne Gas Co. makes elaborately
obscure explanations about the two women who
were found suffocated in a cottage the other day.
The house-father, who—poor wretch ! —had been
working in the country, came home and banged
upon the locked door, but received no answer, so
concluded that his wife and daughter were
out. By-and-bye he banged again, to no pur-
pose. Later he came back and banged some more,
and, growing alarmed, he burgled the cottage.
Then he found that his first idea was not wholly
correct, though to all intents and purposes they
had gone out permanently. They had been suffo-
cated by gas two or three days previously, the gas
having leaked from a broken main into a broken
drain-pipe, and filtered through the sink into the
room while they slept. Now, the gas co. people
explain that nobody was really responsible. The
leakage had been reported to a clerk, and he had
reported it to the indoor inspector, and as he was
unable to locate it he reported it to the superin-
tendent or somebody, and he was in the act of
gradually drawing the attention of the outdoor
inspector to it—or something of that sort —when
these two beastly sudden people went and died.
And the general attitude of the co. is that, if they
had only followed the proper routine, and given
three days’ notice in writing on the proper form
j which could be obtained at the office that they
intended to be suffocated on such a date, the clerk
would have given the form to the managing
director, and he would have laid it before the
board to be initialled and filed, and then things
might have panned out quite differently.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Unless Australia’s old friend, Flora Shaw,
of the London Times, is romancing very wildly,
she was the main cause of Jameson’s famous
Transvaal raid. Her story is, practically, that
she cabled to Cecil Rhodes assuring him that
Chamberlain was favorable to the invasion, and
thus set the whole trouble in motion, whereas
Chamberlain swears that he knew nothing about
the scheme. Miss Shaw acknowledges now that she
had no reason to believe Chamberlain was favor l
able, so there is a lot of Ananias about the matter
somewhere. Possibly Rhodes wasn’t deceived by
Flora’s cablegram, and it was only fixed up that
he might have some excuse to fail back upon in
case of need. Possibly, also, Chamberlain did
know something, but as he can’t acknowledge that
now, it may be that Flora is left in the hole by
mutual agreement. Possibly she is only in the
hole gratis to gratify her devouring vanity and to
pose as a person who started wars and shook up
empires all “on her little own.” Flora, by her
own tale, is responsible for Rhodes’s downfail, the
Transvaal raid, the Matabele war which naturally
followed, and the awful butchery which was the
natural consequence of the war. And she didn’t
get into gaol. She wasn’t even informally shaken
by the Parliamentary Committee and her bonnet
knocked endways, which seems to be the very
least that could have been done to even such a
nice woman.
NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
ontserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
*• Sauce.
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
Sf
Sr
iime-Frtlit
Juice, it is
found, forms
fa most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, "writes
so far back as Jbrj, in a treatise on Scurvy :—“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
& Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUT SI IDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
So 1 Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
C osse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents:
Messrs. VIEGOR, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
m
mil
WBKKm
U
BSBfl
m
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
s la inch and 3/ A inch Blades,
Round and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, ]O/6
Razor is True to Name-RINGS Mke a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents: HOWIE RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st,, Syd
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i-, and 2- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO, LEEDS, E!\IG
Sole Agrents for New South Wales:
TII.I.OCK & CO., KENT and IJVEKFOOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
TiGOK OF NATURE
* —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
Py Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVING X.
PRICE, 3/3; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Storiks, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola's
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koo», pnst free, Is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mai pin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, ls9d.
New Rea istic Novels:—The Serpent Tempted Her;
Decoyed ; His Last Pa sion ; Is 3d each, post free.
SHORT St IKIES OE L»vk and Frol c, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, i.y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries ok the lourt ok Na oleon I'll., illus
trated, p stf ee 2s.
Paris Sketches, hy Nordau, illustrated, post fiee 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Works in French: - I/Assasmn*t ; Le Bonnet
Vert ; Andre Ciikiner ; Is 6 I each post free, or 3 for 4s.
The Wo.m n of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid s Art ok Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, hy Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, hy Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing' all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret op Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Tellinq Hook op Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is; post, Is 4d.
Tiif. Wipe s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cla.ea'p Bools. Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aged.


HIIEIIFIIR, SESHVETTSSEUST
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEO R. G E STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tlje ALFALINC HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
Bevere case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider yob are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a irentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmijssen. Dear
Sir,— ! think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, 1 have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R, A. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R SSMUS.-bn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear -ir,—It gives me great pleasure to inform you ' hat
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the hush.—Yours very truly, B. UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness; A. F. eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Buit n writes later: “The Pills I Imd from you
were of great, benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranees near my place on the Hose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
w angarat ta (about 60 miles) next'morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their Camp next day, I found
liiin up and peggingrOUt his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to hear testimony to
ehe efficacy of your “lfaline Pile Powders, whicli cured
me afler almost every known medicine had failed. My
cas>' was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal Rind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
-Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narraudera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March loth, 1894.
Sir, I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Haoerman ,my husband', 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
N
The Alfaline Remedies have Cure*
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEM,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Iriver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured. A Lady’s Testimonial.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr * a-mussen.
1 am pleased to inform you tliat your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, nut was yetting no better ; and I shall never reyret.
trying; your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
or! my complaint, which several of my work mates can
testify to. 1 hive recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NEKVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus —PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
H gives me greet pleasure to inform you Mint vour
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all otlui reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Hear -ir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all snffereis I com" across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. - I am, yours
respectfully, Mbs. E. SM TH.
i ort Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, Having for some time been a sufferer from
cosliveness and Liver Complaint., I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of tie bowels. I can safely ree< minend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering fr(mi the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now inarriid and happy. I am, d> ay sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office. Are alia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sidney, August 12, 1892.
To Hkrr Rassmubsen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using yout
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perience an immunity from my at ack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear oomplaiuing of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to he, vours truly,
E. W. O'SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Mis*
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes ns follows:
34f> Svvunston-street, Melbourne.
Hf,rr Rassmubsen. 9,3/97
Dear -ii, It, gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affec ion of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor arid strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before tasing your Pills 1 had a great lump on the liver
which could lie felt frorr. the outside, and which com-
pletely disnppeaied as soon as I.took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Paries Range, Southern rross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your * Ifaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always lie glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to mv friends.— Yours
gratefully, JAMtS NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Xlitrr Rassmubsen. August, 1894,
Otar Sir, In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Ftidav I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, wit h the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May yon long he spared
under God to he a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmubsen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that tli«
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. I am very thankful to
you and y r our Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that i was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSM ESSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED
TWO GOLD
EDALS
» \W'
A L FaTTn fpfLLSf’
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD * MERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaiine Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long; standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
cours", 435. 6d. Tlv se pricis include all advice and any
pariiculars riqoired.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaiine Blood Cure
PiLs
Are unequalled as a ROOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BL< OD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Spicial Poweiful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills a Wonder-
ful Remedy for f outfits, Colds, ( onsumption, bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-n
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder -Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder- Boxes, 6s.
_ Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, i«. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Box> s, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranty d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
■resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
Hi RR RASSMUSS'N will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natura: Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARDING.
PERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
ftanish Botanist in Australia, Pal rons should always
obtain Remedies direct from Ids own esiablisbine t.s, as
advertised on tins page. All HER i RA-SMUSSEN S
tEM DIES can only be obtain d from Ids own Offices
and '-tranches, as mention! d.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be t;iven FREE at HERR IIASS-
MUSSEN’S offlcis, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER-all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to KASSMUSSEN
whether you send to liis Had Office or ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE:
547 George Street, Sydney.
Jfiter colonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street
Charters Towers —Royal Arcade. .
N.Z.—9l Lambton ..Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
HOWARD S Accbrdeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. I d. to 12gs., all
_ makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Mouth Organs (§ tone), from 6d.
to 1 guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOW ARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOW ARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. r Large stock landing. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
21s., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
HOWARD'S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs.; cash or terms.
aGWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
TTO WARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
11 and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTO WARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTO WARD S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
11 and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes !
O
S.ud P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoo’s Noted AccordeoQS,
o 2!" at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown
79 Hu„ter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COX ON & CO., TAd.
Not on!y SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good ’investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
Hotels.
••DRINK no LONGER WATER but use a
Sake a “ d of^ Be in a
AT
Lyoos’ Pala« Hotel,
s< 3Uth Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST
RAILWAY STATION).
TATT f. RSALL ’ s motel,
Hinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
T°M>- ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
C ° the TATTER-
TrlvellT^J^ BSALL S ' 8 the House most suitable for the
Tiaielling Digger, on account of its central position
be, n , opposite the wharyes-and its prestige P for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
N OTICE TQ MELBOURNE VISITORS.
Ki'da \taihvav S Hofei
oisr for
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE O.P.Q.
THE <SRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
‘' ST m/nL r . SYDNEY, N.S.W
Centrally Situated.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\ Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen street,
Telephone No. 1716. fIJQ.
MELBOURNE.
SB
Uf HOST FREEv^
W < ; HES ’ I CLOC /?' jEVV£LLERYB IRTriDA'A
ifelc i .^ R,STEf Ji^ c Presents
rIJiEWMAIsL- 1753177-ELIZABETri
OPPOSITE G:P.Q_—— *
MELBOURNE.
THE
QtiecQSlafyd National Bank
T TIUTT»Tit'-w* ▼
LIMITED
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act , 1863
BANKEES TO THE GOVEENMENT OF QUEENSLAND.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital...
£BOO,OOO O 0
£453,886 11 1
At the Forty-ninth Half-yearly Meeting of Shareholders, held at the Banking House Queen street
.4 * e io " d of Dire ° :
HEAD OFFICE,
To the Shareholders of Brisbane, 15th July, 1897.
The Queensland National Bank Limited.
certiSbyTh C eT„dSr? g “ lhe Report, with the Mance-sheet duly
T fSlikS f ° r t rrn H n f ' yea h end ® d3oth June last > after making provision
for Rebate on Bills Current, and Interest Accrued on Deposits and Inter-
mmable Inscribed Deposit Stock, amounts to ... £ok 425 18 0
Balance from previous Half-year ... ” "* - 34? 8 6
£19,921 15 6
As P ro , earned previous to 31st March last do not come under the New Scheme the Directors
recommend that this balance be appropriated as follows ®’ tne directors
To transfer to Contingency Account ... ... ... £ l9 921 15 g
The Loss shown for the Half-year just ended is accounted for by circumstances which will ~nf
By Order of the Board,
W. V, RALSTON, General Manager.
The Queensland National Banh
BALANCE - SHEET for the HALF - YEAR ending 30th JUN
(London Branch Accounts being included to 31st March, 1897).
Limited .
3, 1897.
JL/R. £ g^
To Capital paid up ... 453,886 11 1
„ Profit and Loss ... 19,921 15 6
» Bills in Circulation
„ Treasury Notes Deposit...
„ Interminable Inscribed
Deposit Stock, Colo-
" iaI , 1,083,845 5 0
>, ’Extended Deposit Re-
ceipts, London ... 2,711,429 8 10
473,808 6
388,300 10
322,000 0
Deferred Payments to Government-
Instalment, due
3,795,274 13 10
Ist July, 1917
„ 1918
„ 1919
„ 1920 .
„ 1921
Payable by 25 per cent, of
Profits without Inter-
est half-3'early, but to
be paid in full by Ist
July, 1921
274,998 18
274,998 18
274,998 18
274,998 18
274,998 18
1,374,994 10 0
458,331 10 0
1,833,326
2,610,770
£9,423,479 13 7
Deposits and other Liabilities
Cr.
By Coin and Bullion
~ Treasury Notes...
~ Cash Balances
~ Bills Remitted and in
transitu
„ Money in London at
call, and on short no-
tice
£
913,730
139 584
265,902
8. D,
0 4
150,181 13 7
65,000 0 0
„ Bills Receivable and all other Debts
due to the Bank
„ Bank Premises, Furniture, and Sta-
tionery
1,624,397 19
7,611,527 14
287,653 19
£9,423,479 13 7 I
Stock^h^'no?bem°created^the^London old*stfheme,^rr^^^arily^ho wn ™re^iui^red! s6^ Deposit
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT. t
To Expenses, Head
Branches ...
„ Balance
Office and Forty-eight
35,123 17
19,921 15
6
6
£55,045 13 0
By Balance from last Half-year
„ Gross Profit (after providing for interest
accrued on Deposits and .Rebate on
Bills Current)
45,347 8 6
9,698 4 6
£55,045 13 0
ttt ~, . . . r - X- RALSTON, General Manager,
statement of'the affairs ulrbotks on akVji" 1897? a true
WILLIAM BULCOCK)
G. C. HORSTMANN / Aud ßors.
c following- motions were also carried unanimously “That . o T , , .
of Shareholders be conveyed to the Chairman ” (Sir 7-' S A< “ est t^ a nks of this meeting
Board for the in servicedwhfehthey rendered* inTe to h ls coHeagues of the LondoS
Reconstruction Scheme otf the Bank ” “That a vote of the K s “ ccessf J ll carr J ,|ll » out of the recent
General Manager, and Officers of the Bank ” tbanks be accorded to the Board of Directors,
vtm
i
Is UuiversaUy Accorded the Preference on account of its
Quality, Economy and Delicious Taste.
RELIEF
from
GOUGH
a
'mtm
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cores Cou/>h
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. DAYMAN * Co.. London, **. i..
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured numerous
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxia, spinal disease,
rheumatism, and sciatica ; also of diseases arising
from impoverished and vitiated humors of the
blood, which cause scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general mus-
cular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,’
all forms of female weakness, and hysteria. These
Puls are not a purgative. They are genuine only
i name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
eo Pl e > and are sold by chemists and by Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who will
forward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or post
'ri ” r ’ one k° x f° r 2s. 9d. or half-dozen for 14s. 9d.
1 hey are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.*
FREE-ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress Violins, 7s 6d,
1 2s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and Ioss ;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s 17s
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s :
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, 75s and 90s :
Concertinas, 5s , 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 25.6 d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Twelve Months of Torture.
A CHIEF STEWARD’S STRANGE STORY
That section of unfortunate humanity who have
experienced and still experience the tortures of
sciatica and rheumatism will be profoundly in-
terested in the story of Chief Steward Ernest
Buckhold, of s.s. Menmuir (Eastern and Australian
Steamship Company). Mr. Buckhold is now in
his 51st year, and was born at Hamburg, Ger-
many. He has been seafaring for 32 years; is
well known in Sydney, and has been a householder
at Ash field and Burwood for 14 years. His con-
nection with the E. and A.S.S. Company extends
over 10 years, and he has during that time been
trading between China, Japan, and Australian
ports. His case having attracted much attention
and caused considerable comment in local shipping
circles, a press representative called upon Mr.
Buckhold at 226 George-street, Sydney. The chief
steward readily volunteered to recite the circum-
stances of his case, and Mrs. Buckhold, who was
present, assisted and confirmed her husband in the
following statement:—
“ I arrived in Sydney in May, 1896, from Japan
suffering severely from pains in the right leg. The
trouble began gradually, but increased daily to an
aoute stage. I ascribe the malady to exposure and
wet feet. The pains were first in the hip, and
occasionally shot to the calf and the foot. Owing
; to the severity of the punishment, I had
no peace or rest night or day. I could not
sit _ down to a meal, but had to lean heavily
against the table. The pain took away all desire
for food, and I could not sleep. I had to leave the
ship, and take to bed at Ashfield. I got worse,
and was bed-ridden, and in great agony for three
months from the latter end of May. My hip grew
out and the joint bone in the back protruded.
After three months I improved slightly, and was
able to get about the house with the assistance of
two sticks. But it was a great struggle to move,
and caused excruciating pain. I could not bear
to put the foot to the floor. Two months
afterwards, in September, I had to take to bed
again. ”
“Yes,” interposed Mrs. Buckhold, “and the
doctor would almost cry when he came to see him
to inject morphia. Eor 70 nights morphia was
injected ; sometimes the doctor would call as late
as midnight, and when he did not call I adminis-
tered the injection.”
“ Well, ” continued Buckhold, “ I remained in
bed till the 31st December last. It was then the
doctor urged me to go to the Camden Convalescent
Hospital for a change, and I must say the doctor
had been most kind and attentive, and tried hard
to cure me. Through being ill and out of work so
long, my circumstances became reduced, and I had
to give up house and home. I could not keep up
an establishment any longer, and came to live in
Sydney with friends of ours, on the 7th January
of this year.”
“I sa » Captain Green, the superintendent of
the E. and A.S.S. Company, and he granted me a
passage to Japan as an assistant in the steward’s
department. This was with the hope that the
change would effect a cure. Five days after leav-
ing Sydney the Australian arrived at Townsville,
and the full fury of the malady returned. I was
unable to go to the table for food, and would rather
go withont a meal than walk a short distance. The
slightest movement meant indescribable torture.
Yet, there there was no cessation from suffering
while I kept quiet. When I arrived in Japan, I
thought to take a position in an European club at
Kobe, but I found that the incessant pain in-
capacitated me for any work. I was compelled to
return by the Australian, and arrived in Sydney
on the 13th May last, a physical wreck, and a bag
of bones, and with undiminished pain. Two days
latter I met Captain H. Craig, of the s.s. Guthrie
(E. and A.S.S. Company), and he advised me
to try Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. At
the same he handed me JJ1, and told me to get the
pills at once, which I did. I followed the direc-
tions, and, after taking three boxes, I felt much
improved. I continued with the fourth, taking six
puls a day, two after each meal, with interesting
and happy results. Of the fifth and sixth boxes I
took nine a day, three after each meal, and had
four pills left when I had become perfectly strong,
healthy, and robust. I can now walk any distance
without fatigue, and suffer no pain whatever. As
for my appetite, it is disgracefully keen and in-
satiable. The recovery was gradual at first, and
then rapid towards absolute cure. I began the
pills on the 15th May, and put the unswallowed
four aside on the 14th June. I have taken none
since, for my health has been tliororougly re-estab-
lished. And this will prove it: I was called to
the shipping office to see Captain Green, and he
handed me a note for Captain Legg, of the s.s.
Thornley, at Messrs. Gibbs, Bright and Co.’s
office, Pitt-street; there I arranged to go as chief
steward as far as Adelaide, to ascertain how I
would get along on a sea voyage. Well, the work
was hard, and the weather bad, and my feet and
clothing were often wet, but I fared first-class
and suffered no ill-effects. I returned to Sydney
on the 5th July by the A.U.S.N. Company’s
steamer Waroonga in perfect health and strength.
I now feel fit for any work. ”
“Yes, I passed through twelve months of un-
speakable suffering, which I am sure would have
been averted had I known of the extraordinary
efficacy of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People. However, I trust my experience may
bring hope to the hearts of others suffering from
sciatica.”


StocJctaTcing Closing Out Cash
Sale of Winter Goods
—AT—
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
IS NOW ON.
Goods in every Department are substantially
reduced for this Closing Out Sale.
ORDERS should be sent EARLY, with a
careful description of requirements, naming J
prices wished to be paid, and enclosing remittance
to cover amount. Any change over after execut-
ing orders will at once be refunded, and
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
may rely upon getting the benefit of all reductions,
and goods nearest in price to those mentioned.
Drapery Goods of the value of £2 and upwards
that can go by Parcels Post, with the excep-
tion of certain heavy or bulky low-priced
lines, are sent by us to any Parcels Post Office
in the colony POSTAGE FREE.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank
Drafts and Cheques payable to
Finney, Isles & Co.,
Briatoano.
L 2
w
ilr
The Hit
..of the..
Season....
is made by
Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. At this
season, when
warm and de-
bilitating days
are with us,
there is noth-
ing like Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla to
put new life
into the slug-
gish system.
It sweeps away
the dullness,
lack of appe-
tite, languid-
ness, and pain,
as a broom
sweeps away
cobwebs. It
does not brace
up. It builds
up. Its benefit
is lasting. Do
you feel run
down ? Take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer's Fills, Mila but Effective .
s "•
FOR S A W-G U LiuK I'nVG, PLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
The Ta,».ite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
BKTGH3STB ERS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €n)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €njbrocatioi).
Bananaland cannot be called illiberal in
the matter of its education vote. Unfortunately,
a considerable section thereof is wasted on the
fancy fripperies of Superior Grammar-school edu-
cation. At the same time, there are hundreds and
hundreds of bush children running almost wild
and growing up veritable savages, just for want of
a peripatetic solioolmaster.
“This man,” said a Wellington (M.L.)
Benevolent Society trustee, pointing at a long,
black object that had applied for relief, “ is a
living example of how dirty a man can be if he
cares to.” The grimy apparition appeared before
the board about Jubilee time, and acknowledged,
with a happy smile which cracked the landed pro-
perty on his countenance, that he hadn’t washed
or changed his'clothes since Nov., 1896. the
board walked slowly round the earthy applicant
and took stock of him, and he took it all cheer-
fully until an order was issued that he should be
immediately scrubbed and have clean clothes.
Then he opened a mouth that was hung round
with a loamy beard, and protested that the
clothes he had on were perfectly comfortable.
He was hunted off by the board’s office Bumble on
his way to the tank still protesting, and the last
that was heard of him was a voice dying away in
the distance which complained bitterly that this
sort of thing would lead to pneumonia for certain.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Editor Bulletin, —I have read the article
in your issue for 17th July, p. 13, commencing
“ The admission of the budding poet.” Your cor-
respondent does not know what he is talking
about. Barristers never have to serve their articles
in England or elsewhere. (1) In England, they
have to “eat dinners”, and pass a very stiff
final examination for the call. It is quite as easy
for English barristers to be admitted to practise
both as barristers and solicitors in Victoria as in
Maoriland ; (2) and I could mention a barrister
who has so been admitted in Victoria some years
ago, and is in practice now. (3) As a matter of
fact, the difficulty in Maoriland is greater, because
they have there to pass a special examination in
M. law, in so far as it differs from the law of
England. And in neither province can persons not
previously admitted practise as solicitors without
having served articles, or undergone some equiva-
lent education and training. (4) As for being an
ex-footballer, (5) I can’t see the point. It would
do your correspondent good to take up football
himself. J. G. Collins.
[Mr. Collins, despite the facts, as detailed in one of his
affidavits, that he is the author of a poem entitled “ The
Wisdom-Giving Sea,” and that he has studied “ the
abstruse and forgotten science of metaphysics,” misappre-
hends. (1) The paragraph complained of doesn’t make
any statement on this matter. As a matter of general in-
terest, it may be mentioned that Mr. Collins is right as to
England. (2) This is not so. Admission in Vic-
toria is absolutely barred to English barristers pure
and simple, on account of the absence of a recip-
rocal right of admission in England to Victorian
barristers and solicitors. (The exceptional cases specially
provided for may be disregarded here.) In Maoriland, no
conditions of reciprocity obstruct the English barrister
(see Legal Practitioners Acts, 18S2 and 1883). But, in
addition to this bar against the admission of English and
N. barristers in Vic., it was thought, until Mr. Collins’
case, that the absence of articles in the Eng. and N.S.W.
bar-course was an additional chevaux defnse against their
admission. In fact, a N.S.W. barrister, Forbes, was re-
fused admission by Vic. Court on grounds that satisfied
several Eng. barristers, who had come to Vic. for the ex-
press purpose of being admitted, of the futility of
applying. But now, if this case can be taken as a
precedent, an English or N.S.W. barrister who has had
some actual experience in his profession may, by getting
admitted in a province reciprocating with Victoria ( e.g .,
M.L. or Tas.), get—if his educational qualification is suffi-
cient-admitted in Victoria. The decision is important
if that is its effect, for it will remove the rather galling
checks at present existing on the power of a lawyer to go
from province to province as the state of business calls him.
The result of the Vic. Supreme Court refusals in t.he past
has been the shutting of the door with a slam in the face
of Victorians by the courts of N.S.W., Queensland, and
W.A. It is, accordingly, to be regretted that there is no
better report of the case than the rather lame one
in the current notes of the Argus law reports. (3)
It would not be difficult to name 20 or 30 English
barristers admitted in Victoria, but not one, with the
exception of Mr. Collins himself, since the coming into
operation of the Vic. amalgamation system in 1891.
(4) Mr. Collins seems to he hazy on another point. No
person can be admitted in Victoria as a barrister only, or
as a solicitor onlv : he must be admitted as a barrister
and solicitor. (5) Now, re Mr. Collins’ reference to the
remark that he was an ex-footballer, we can only refer
him to his own affidavit as published in the Age of 27th
May last, in which he is made to state that he “had
obtained a certain amount of prowess” in gymnastics,
<< as well as in the football field, but that he did not regard
excellence in athletics as one of the chief objects of his
education." Such matters are surely of sufficient interest
in a sport-loving community to justify passing allusion.—
Ed. B.j
A Boon to Sufferers.—A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
For the first six months of 1897, N.S.W.
lost 106 people to Victoria and 704 to Queensland
by excess of departures over arrivals. On tin-
other hand, it gained 2397 from S.A.—mostly
Broken Hillites, who had formerly gone to Wes
tralia, and are now plodding back in disgust to
their own lead-poisoned town, and giving up tin
land of red dust and booms as a bad job.
iiscnsQKjfcr
K H=
MW™™
GO TO HELX-
-ILi O LAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of .14, unused, for Is. Oil.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, am
gratis.
rred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
MASCARA— HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAYAR'S CUBEBS CICARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
tlio Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
.Savarcss'e’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Aestles
w
—FOR—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
PAKKoT
Br^ng>
VoUNDC
£oUGHS (oipj
Beware of’
/MiTxrmS
HELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete aud perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of'all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
£ v. f | tiLLIUI'T Jiituo., oil). , AlSl'iiALlAN CO. )
.John Connell & Co., Ltd,
Indian Art Man<ifact6r«s.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in. to 53in. wide, 5f to 6|yds.
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 3Gin. wide, 7yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 3Gin. wide, 10 to 12yds.
in piece. Price, Rs. G/8 to Rs. 15/- piece.
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in. wide, 8 to 12yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece.
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wide.
Price—White, 4 annas and G pies yard.
Colored Stripes, 5 annas „
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 18in., length 9yds
Price, Rs. 7/.- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syds.
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Rates; Retail Prices are 5 per
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work, Sand.al-
Wood Boxes, &c., &0., Bombay and Cutch Works,
uid all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplied.
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the Ex-
change current, or reference for payment to any
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency in
India. G-. G WHITE & CO..
45 Radlia Ba/.aar-st., CALCUTTA.
rBALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Putce Watutng ; s ls. 3d. u^stod.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
jtafeT
Caution. — Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
. Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of. „the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness anditscure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
D “VM®
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surareon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE FOUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply:—Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight* noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, .in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh;
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
tattoo oil
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Blaclt, Red & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
<TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
naker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS London, are
>n each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
tre imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents O'Connell-street, Sydney ;
GEO. P, HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide.
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb,
‘ 7 Tales^)jFthe^
Convict System.”


Are you a SUFFERER &om
Influenza, Rheumatism, etc., etc.?
If so, yon will find a CERTAIN REMEDY in
Dr. WIKjIiIA.mS 9
PINK PUS s* MU KOBE.
Which Positively CURE the following amongst other ailments:
Anemia, Indigestion, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
Nervous Headache, General Debility, etc.
AN UNAPPROACHABLE RECORD l
Two Hundred Millions of Dr. Williams 9 Pink Pills were Sold in 1896.
TboGSaQdS Gpoi) Tl)o(isai)ds of locGrables (supposed) CCirgd.
Relief at Last,
THE EXPERIENCE OF A LONDESBORO
YOUNG LADY.
A VICTIM OF SEVERE PAINS, DIZZI-
NESS, AND WATERY BLOOD—AT TIMES
COULD NOT GO UP A STEP-HOW SHE
REGAINED HEALTH AND STRENGTH
From the Clinton New Era.
Miss Kate Longman is a young lady of about 22
years of age, who lives with her mother in the
pretty little village of Londesboro, six miles from
the town of Clinton. Both are well-known and
highly esteemed by their many friends. The New
Era having learned that Miss Longman had
been a great sufferer and had recently been re-
stored to health by the timely use of a well-
known popular remedy, despatched a representative
to get the particulars of the case. In reply to the
reporter’s inquiries, Miss Longman said that if
her experience might be the means of helping
some other sufferer, she was quite willing that it
should be made public. “For a long time,” she
said, “1 was very poorly I was weak, and run
down, and at times suffered pains in my back
that were simply awful. My blood was in a
watery condition, and I was subject to spells of
weakness to such an extent that I could not
step up a door - step to save my life. I
doctored a great deal for my sickness, but
without avail. At last, after having fre-
quently read in the New Era of cures effected
by the use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I de-
termined to give them a trial. The result was
that my health soon began to return and the
pains and weakness left me, and I was again
restored to strength.” At this moment Mrs.
Longman entered, and being informed who the
visitor was and what was his mission, said : “ Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are the greatest medicine
known. My daughter was so sick that I feared
she would die, and she continually grew weaker
until she began the use of Pink Pills, and they
have cured her, and she has not had a recurrence
of the trouble since.” Miss Longman is now the
picture of health, and declares that Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills are entitled to the credit. The New
Era knows of many others who have benefitted
by this remarkable remedy.
Pale and Sallow Girls .
What can be more distressing than to see a
girl drooping and fading in the springtime of
youth ? Instead of bright eyes, glowing rosy
cheeks, and an elastic step, there are duu eyes,
pale, sallow, or greenish complexion, and a lan-
guidness of step that bespeak disease and an
early death if proper treatment is not properly
resorted to and persisted in until the impoverished
blood is enriched and the functions of life become
regular. Upon parents rests a great responsibility
at the time their daughters are budding into
w manhood. If your daughter is pale, complains
of weakness, is “tired out” upon the slightest
exertion ; if she is troubled with headache or
backache, pain in the side, if her temper is fitful
and her appetite poor, she is in a condition of ex-
treme peril, a fit subject for the development of
the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks ; bright eyes and light-
ness of step will surely follow their use, and all
danger of consumption and premature death will
be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will insist
upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills upon the approach of the period of puberty,
and thus avoid all chances of disease or early
decay.
4.
Was Goiny into A Decline—
Cured.
Mr. Theodore Pare, the wrll-known proprietor of
the Hotel St. Lawrence, S. Ann de Beaupre, says :
“ I have to thank you for the restoration to health
of my daughter
through the use
of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. Her
health began to
decline; some-
times she was
feeling extreme-
ly miserable,
and at others a
little better. She
became very
pale, had no ap-
petite and was
unable to do any-
thing. I called
in a doctor, but
she did not seem
to improve under
his treatment,
and finally he
told me the
symptoms were
those of con-
sumption. At
that time a dis-
tinguished lawyer from Philadelphia was a boarder
at m y hotel, and, seeing my child’s condition,
told me that he had personal knowledge of a
similar case cured by the use of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and urged their use., I decided to
follow his advice, and purchased a half-a-dozen
boxes. When these were used there was a good
improvement noticeable, and I procured another
supply. She continued taking the pills, and her
health and strength returned daily, and before
the last supply was exhausted she was fully re-
stored to her for former health, and has since been
well and strong.”
£20,000 Would not Tempt
Him.
A DIAMOND DIGGER’S REMARKABLE
STATEMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA.
HE CONFIRMS HIS ASSERTIONS
BEFORE A J.P.
A press representative, while on a visit to Kim-
berley recently, had an interesting interview with
H. C. T Fischer, of that town, which may be of
interest to our readers. Mr. Fischer for years
was a gold digger, prospector, and diamond digger
in and around Kimberley. Naturally, during all
these years, Mr. Fischer had been leading a life
of hardship and exposure Often for days at a
time he was wet to the skin, and he has on more
than one occasion been without food or shelter of
any kind. It is not to be wondered at, therefore,
that Mr. Fischer fell a prey to rheumatism, and
that terrible malady, when it had entered his
system, took so strong a hold on him as to make
his life one long period of misery. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, however, have now thoroughly cured
him, as will be seen from the following statement,
y-tK
/t
1
which Mr. Fischer, for the benefit of suffering
fellow-creatures, and out of gratitude for the
marvellous benefits he has received from the
medicine, made to this representative :—“ It is
now about ten years ago since I first began to
suffer. At first the rheumatism used to afflict me
for only a few weeks at a time and then would
leave me, but whenever I got wet I was always
certain of an attack. The disease gradually got
worse and worse until in 1895, when I was living
at Klerksdorp, I was taken very badly with it,
and was compelled to give up work. I consulted
doctors, and used every conceivable medicine, but
still I got worse and worse. I became so bad
that I could not bear to be touched, and so
terribly weak was I that I could not even lift
myself in the bed to take refreshments, but had
to be gently raised and lowered again. Every
movement gave me intense agony. The pain ex-
tended through my arms, shoulders, spine, thighs,
knees, and ankles, in fact, I was one mass of pain.
So bad was I that I often used to shout out with
agony. My head constantly ached, I could
neither eat nor sleep, and when from exhaustion
I did fall into a doze, I never lost the terrible
pain, and my dreams were horrible. You can
imagine how bad I was when my wife had con-
stantly to attend me, and could never leave the
house. I cannot think it possible that any man
can ever have suffered more that I did. If any-
one offered me .£20,000 to go through the same
agony again that I experienced during those
eight months I would say, ‘ No, keep your money,
I prefer to be as I am.’ At last, after consulting
any number of doctors and using all the medicines
possible to think of, a friend of mine, Mr. Wil-
helm Kruger, who is a farmer living at Klerks-
dorp district, recommended me to try Dr. Wil-
liams Pink Pills, as they had thoroughly cured
him. I took his advice, and am now reaping the
benefit of it. The first box of the pills, although
it by no means cured me, made me feel so
much better that I could get about on crutches,
rnjd therefore decided to continue the remedy.
The second box had a marvellous effect. I was
able to throw my crutches away, but as I still
felt a little shaky on my legs I used a stick to get
about with. To make the cure positively certain,
I took a few more boxes of Pills, and after their
use I was able to get about as if I had never been
ill. Since then I have never had a day’s illness,
and although I have been out in all sorts of
weather, and have been soaked to the skin many
and many a time, I have never had the slightest
return of the rheumatism.” When asked by the
representative whether he was absolutely certain
that it was Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that cured
him, and nothing else, Mr. Fischer replied: “J
am certain that it was the pills alone that saved
my life; and not only have they cured me, but
they have been of marvellous benefit to mv little
daughter also. She could not walk, and her head
troubled her a great deal. She could also neither
eat or sleep, but used to lie in bed crying with
pain. When Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured me
I determined that I would use them for her also.
The result is that now she is as well and strong
as a child could be, and plays all day long as
happy and bright as possible.” Mr. Fischer’s
declaration before D. J. Haarhoff, Esq., J.P.,
M.L.A. : “I, Henry Charles Thomas Fischer, of
1 liompson - street, Kimberly, solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that the statements contained
above concerning the miraculous manner in which
cure d of chronic rheumatism by Dr.
illiams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, are the
Truth, the whole Truth, and nothing but the
Truth. I have given the account of my case
freely and at my own request, hoping that by
making the facts known other sufferers may benefit
by my experience. H. C. T. FISCHER.”
Declared at Kimberley the 21st day of January,
1897. Before me,
D. J. HAARHOFF, J.P.
+
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.
FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
This wonderful remedy is offered to the publio
with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a watery or impoverished condition
of the blood or shattered nervous forces which it
will not cure if the directions are faithfully
followed and the treatment persisted in. Dr.
\V illiams Pink Pills for Pale People are not
a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly scien-
tific preparation, the result of years of care-
ful study on the part of an eminent Edinburgh
University physician, and they were success-
fully used by him in his everyday practice for
years before being offered for general sale. They
positively cure all diseases arising from a poor
and watery condition of the blood, such as pale
and sallow complexion, general muscular weak-
ness, loss of appetite, depression of spirits, lack
of ambition, anaemia, chlorosis, or green sicknesß,
palpitation of the heart, shortness of breath on
slight exertion, coldness of hands or feet, swelling
of the feet and limbs, pain in the back, nervous
headache, loss of memory, ringing in the ears,
early decay, all forms of female weakness, hys-
teria, paralysis, locomotor ataxy, rheumatism,
sciatica ; all diseases depending on vitiated humors
of the blood, causing scrofula, swelled glands,
fever sores, rickets, acquired deformities, chronic
erysipelas, catarrah, consumption of the bowels
and lungs, and also for invigorating the blood and
system when broken down by overwork, worry
diseases, excesses and indiscretions of living re-
covery from acute diseases, such as fevers, &c.,
loss of vital powers, premature old age.
Dr. YV illiams’ Pink Pills create new blood,
build up the nerves, and thus drive disease from
the system. In hundreds of cases they have
cured after all other medicines have failed, thus
establishing the claim that they are a marvel
among the triumphs of modern medical science.
Ihe genuine Pink Pills are sold only in boxes,
bearing the full trade mark “ Dr. Williams’ Pink
. ills lor Pale People.” Protect yourself from
imposition by refusing any pill that does not bear
the registered trade mark around the box.
I hev are now obtainable of all chemists, and
from Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Queen’s
I lace, Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, or six for 14s. 9d.
hut are genume only with full name, Dr. Williams’
Pmk Pills for Pale People.
This ib an exact representation of the only
genuine package, which is in a wrapper of
white paper, printed in red. Inside the
wrapper are Dr. Williams’ Directions for
use, enclosing the wooden box or tube, which
is about two inches long and a shade larger
round than a silver shilling. In this form
alone are they genuine. In case of doubt it
is better to send direct to the
DR. WILLIAMS’ MEDICINE CO
Sydney, N.S.W.
■-


Adelaide School of Mines advertises for a
trained demonstrator in chemistry and metallurgy
at £ 2 Is. a week ! And yet 7s. a day is reckoned
the minimum living wage for a skilled tradesman
by the Victorian wages boards.
The big Maoriland dailies think of adopt-
ing the linotype, and have lately had emissaries
studying the question in Sydney. By the way,
when the linotype does go “on the razzle ” it
achieves a far more zig-zag track than the old-
time comp Instance this mysterious par. from the
Sydney D.T. :
At the Water Police Court on Saturday, before Mr.
Johnson, S.M., Richard Rafferty (34), laborer, was sen-
tenced to three months’ imprisonment for the theft of
ing on business at 163 George-street North. For assaulting
a coat, value £l, the property of Henry Wallaeh, oarry-
Joseph Levy, a tailor, residing in Victoria-street, under
circumstances reported in Saturday’s issue, Rafferty was
sentenced to an additional term of three months’ l im-
prisonment.
“F.D. ” from Melbourne to The Bulle-
tin :
The Age, in its usual fashion, mentioned that certain
of the Brunswick rioters were civil servants. It was pro-
bably only an error of memory that caused it to omit
mentioning that a goodly number of the Orangemen in
the procession, which was certainly of the forbidden
party-political nature, were also civil servants. It will he
interesting to note how many of these processionists who
belong to the secret Promotion lodge of the Yellow Pup,
which is confined to members of the public service, wi.l
be hoisted up a yard or two when the well-log-rolled re-
classification dodge comes along as promised (just before
the general elections).
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
biock in Coll ins- street, Melb., a distance of CtiOft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fanc y
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery ; 8, Pictures ; I*,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery ; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 10, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Bonk
Department, containing half-a-mill ion books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mlle
long. #
STICK TO YOUR OPINION.
HOLD ON TO
Whose Business is
MARK FOY’S,
FIXEP HARP al)d FAST ip
OXFORP STREET, SYPNEY
“Our humble province is to ’tend the WINTER FAIR,” which is now
. . IN FULL SWIN6! . .
Ladies’
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. lonpr, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
C< >.\l HI NGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, no Williiiin-sl. Only, Sydney.
Whitehead’s
TELEPHONE No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
■with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest oare being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Tri-umplx.”
This Is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in fall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), out a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special 13rand is I’rotkctkd by Registration
by the
Aipcricai) I report Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
VlniaA.li' (inill til tlic l.cniltng WarehoniM.
COUGHS, COLDS ON TH3 CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY CORED BY . .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
'THOSE vvho have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
* ferers from any form of Bronchitis; Distressing Couch, Difficulty of Breathing-,
Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne. -Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which 1 suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession 1 had to sit up. 1 write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as,in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous 1 had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and 1 steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
“Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.— J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“Mr. Hearne.—Dear Sir, -Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never coughed since the second dose. Tam truly grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. 1 persuaded a friend of mine to try it: he <j>d so, ami it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon t hat cannot he too widely known :
in fact, 1 cannot speak 100 highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
along; back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
oured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tannvorth.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Sir,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure V The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M‘BEAN, Carlton.”
“Dear Sir, —I had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely oured by it. —Yours faithfully, j. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“Dear Sir, —Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so i|uickly. It is doing
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my lied.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Aok of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. After taking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends. —Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne's Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which’ un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and ttetail by the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Small size, 2s. 6d.; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable locally.
A Sabbath Mom at Waddy .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SxJNDAT-school was “in ” at Waddy. The classes
were all in place, and of the teachers only Brother
Spence was absent, strange to say. This
was the first Sunday of the new superintendent’s
term, always an evil time for grace, and a season
of sulkiness, and bickering, and bad blood. Each
beloved brother coveted the dignity of the office,
and those, who failed to get it were consumed with
envy and all uncharitableness for many Sabbaths
after. Some deserted the little wooden chapel on
the hill till the natural emotions of prayerful men
pent in their bosoms could no longer be borne, and
then they stole back, one by one, and condoned in
hurricanes of exhortation with rain and thunder.
Brother Nehemiah Best occupied the seat of
office behind a deal table on the small platform,
under faded floral decorations left since last anni-
versary. Rumor declared that Brother Best was
unable to write his own name, and whispered that
he spent laborious nights learning the hymns by
heart before he could give them out on Sunday,
as witness the fact that he “read” with equal
facility whether the book was straight, or end-
ways, or upside-down. Brother Best was thin-
voiced, weak in wind, and resourceless and
unconvincing in prayer. No wonder Brother
Spence was disgusted. Brother Spence could
write his own name with scarcely more effort than
it cost him to swing the trucks at the Phoenix;
his voice raised in prayer set the loose shingles
fairly dancing on the old roof ; and his recitation
of “The Drunkard’s Doom ” had been the chief
attraction on Band of Hope nights for years past.
Ernest Spence had not hesitated to express himself
freely at Friday evening’s meeting :
“Ay, they Brother Best, he no more fit for
Ejurin’ out the spirit, yon, than a blin’ kitten
ook at the chest of en ! ”
“ True for en, Ernie ! ” cried Brother Tresize.
“ They old devil, yon, he laugh at Best’s prayin’,
sureli. Brother Spence come tuss, you.”
But Brother Spence had left the meeting in a
state of righteous indignation. Yet here were
Brothers Tresize, and Tregastis, and Praetor, and
Pearce, and Eddy. True, they all looked grim
and unchastened, and there was an uneasy, shifty
feeling in the chapel that inspired boys and girls,
young men and young women, teachers and choir,
with great expectations.
* * * *
Brother Best, in his favorite attitude, with one
arm behind him under his coat tails, his right
hand holding the book a yard from his eyes, his
right foot thrust well out, the toe touching the
floor daintily, made his first official announce-
ment :
“ We will open they service this mornin’ by
sinking hymn won, nought, won.”
Then, in a nasal sing-song, swinging with a
long sweep from toe to heel and heel to toe, he
gave out the first verse and the chorus, ending
unctuously with a smack of the lips at the line: —
Thou beautiful, beautiful Poley Star !
Nehemiah was a dairyman, and had a fixed
conviction that the polar star and a poley cow
had something in common.
The hymn being sung, the superintendent
engaged in prayer, speaking weakly, with a weari-
some repetition of stock phrases, eked out with
labored groans and random cries.
Brother Tresize could not disguise his cynical
disgust, and remained mute. A prayer to be
successful amongst the Wesleyans of Waddy must
make the hearers squirm and wriggle upon their
kjiees, and cry aloud. Brothers and sisters were
Ml happy when moved to wild sobbing, to the
utterance of moans, and groans, and hysterical
appeals to heaven, and when impelled to sustain
a sonorous volley by the vigorous use of pocket-
handkerchiefs ; but that was a spiritual treat that
came only on ce in a while, with the visit of a
specialist, or when the spirit moved Brother
Spence or Brother Tresize to unusual fervor,
The superintendent’s prayer did not raise a
single qualm ; and the boys of class 2 straggled
openly over the forms, pinched each other, and
passed such rubbish as they could collect to Dicky
Haddon, the pale, saintly, ginger-headed boy at
the top of the class, who was in honor bound to
dro P everything so sent him in amongst the
mysteries of the old, yellow, guttural harmonium
through a convenient crack in the back,
Throughout the service Brother Best, proud of
his new office, watched the scholars diligently,
visiting little boys and girls with sudden sharp
ra P s or twitches of the ear if they dared even to
sneeze, but judiciously overlooking much that was
injurious and unbecoming in the bigger boys of
class 2 > who had a vicious habit of sullenly kicking
elderly shins when cuffed or wigged for their mis-
deeds.
m. * ... * , , , *. . .
Tbe Bible-reading, with wonderful, original ex-
Positions of the obscure passages by horny-handed
miners, occupied about half-an-hour, and then the
superintendent stilled the racket and clatter of
Rowing away the tattered books with an authon-
t've haild a “ d invited Brother Tresize to pray
If he was great he could be merciful,
Br J °* h f. r u Tr «. s,ze made his preparations with
great deliberation spreading a handkerchief large
enough for a bed-cover to save the knees of his
sacred black-cloth trousers, hitching up the latter
*> prevent bagging and finally loosening his paper-
?? llar fr ° m the batton in froat t 0 £ lve fr « e , vent + , to
his emotions-and preserve the collar Then, the
rattl, “» of the . and shoving, the
coughing and whispering and sniffing having sub-
sided and all being on their knees Brother Tre-
Slz . e b ®S an his prayer in a soft low reverent
vo , l ( c ® tba * speedily rose to a reverberant roar,
. “ P l V G k v ? ad f ’ ab ! look down u P fja we her f- ab 5
¥. hght of Thy countenance ahlummate, ah,
this little corner of Thy vineyard ah Oh Gwad
ah ! be merciful to they sinners what be assembled
here, ah ; pour down Thy speerit upon they, ah,
make they whole, ah. ‘ Oh, Gwad, ah ! Thoo
knowest they be some here, ah, that be wallerin’
sin, ah, some that be hippycrits, ah, some that
b e cheats, ah, some that be scoffers, an’ misbe-
lie vers, an’ heathens, oh, Gwad, ah ! Have mercy
on they people, oh, Gwad, ah! Show they fires
of hell, ah, an’ turn they from the wrath, oh,
Loord Gwad, ah ! ”
Brother Tresize was evidently in fine form this
morning; already the windows were vibrating
before the concussions of his tremendous voice,
and the floor bounded under the great blows that
punctuated his sentences. As he went on, the air
became electrical, and the spirit moved amongst
the flock. The women felt it first,
“Ob, Gwad, ah ! ” interjected Mrs. Eddy from
her corner,
“ Throw up they windies, an let the speerit
in ! ” sobbed Mrs. Best.
Brother Praetor blew his nose with a loud report,
a touching and helpful manifestation.
Brother Tresize prayed with every atom of
energy he possessed. His opinion was on record :
“ A good prayer Sunday mornin’, you, takes it
out of en more’n a hard shift in a hot drive, you.”
When his proper momentum was attained, he
oscillated to and fro between the floor and the
form, swaying back over his heels till his head
almost touched the boards—a gymnastic feat that
was the envy of all the brethren—he shook his
clenched fist at the rafters and reached his highest
note. The plunge forward was accompanied by
falling tones, and ended with a blow on the form
that made every article of furniture in the build-
ing jump. The perspiration ran in streams down
his face and neck ; dry sobs broke from his laboring
chest; long strands of his moist, well-oiled, red
hair separated themselves from the flattened mass
and stood out like feelers, to the wild, ungodly
delightof class 2; and whilst he prayed the brethren
and “ sistern ” kept up a continuous fire of
interjections and heart-rending groans.
‘ ‘ They be people here, ah, what is careless of
Thy grace ; chasten ’em with fire an’ brimstone—
chasten ’em, oh Lord, ah ! They be those of uz
what go to be Thy servants, oh Gwad, ah ! an’ to
do Thy work here blow, ah, what is tried an’ found
wantin’, ah —some do water they milk, oh Gwad,
ah ! an’ some do be misleadin’ they neighbors’ hens
to lay away. Smite they people for Thy glory,
oh Loord, ah ! ”
A great moaning filled the chapel, and all heads
turned towards Brother Nehemiah Best, kneeling
at his chair, with his face buried in his hands,
trembling violently. Nehemiah, two years earlier,
had been fined for watering the milk sold to his
Ballarat customers; quite recently he had been
thrown into the Phoenix slurry by an unregenerate
trucker, who accused him of beguiling his hens to
lay from home. Brother Tresize was wrestling
with the superintendent in prayer, and the excite-
ment rose instantly to fever heat.
“ They what do not as they wad be done by,
pursue ’em, ah, smite they with Thy right hand,
oh, Lord Gawd, ah ! so they may be turned frum
they wickedness, ah. They what have better food
to they table for theyselves than for they children
or they wives, ah, they what be filled with vanity,
ah, they what havin’ no book-learnin’ do deceive
Thy people, an’ fill the seats o’ the learned, ah,
deal with such, oh, Gwad, ah ! ”
Brother Tresize was now almost frantic with the
ecstacy of his zeal. His exhortation was continued
in this strain, and every word was a lance to prick
the cowering superintendent. The women sniffed
and sobbed, the men groaned and cried “ Ahmen,
ah ! ” It was a great time for grace.
* • « *
But suddenly a new voice broke in—a shrill,
thin voice, splitting into that of Brother Tresize
like a steam-whistle. Brother Best had assumed
the defensive.
“ Oh, Lord, ah ! ” he cried, “ give no ear to they
what bears false witness against they neighbors,
to they what backbite, ah, an’ slander, ah, an’
bear malice, ah ; heed they not, oh, Lord, ah ! ”
Abel Tresize rose to the occasion. It was a
battle. His voice swelled till it rivalled the roar
of the ravening lion ; he no longer selected his
words or cared to make himself understood of the
people ; it was necessary only to smother Brother
Best, to pray him down, and Abel prayed as no
man had ever before prayed at Waddy. A curious
crowd, the Irish children, Dan the Drover, an
old shepherd, and a few cattlemen from the Red
Cow, attracted by the great commotion, had as-
seinbled in the porch, and were gazing in open
mouthed, delighted.
Tresize persevered, but Best’s shrill, penetrating
voice rang out distinctly above all. Brother Best
was transformed, inspired ; under the influence of
his great wrath he had waxed eloquent; he smote
his enemy hip and thigh, he heaped coals of fire
upon his head, and marshalled St. Peter and all
the angels against him.
The severity of his exertions was telling heavily
upon Abel Tresize ; he was dreadfully hoarse, his
great hands fell upon the form without emphasis,
he was almost winded, and his legs wobbled under
him. He pulled himself together for another
effort, and the cry that he uttered thrilled every
heart, but it quite exhausted him, and he went
over backwards, striking his head upon the floor,
and lay in the aisle convulsed in a fit.
Instantly the chapel became a babel. The
teachers ran to Brother Tresize, and bore him into
the open air, the wondering children crowding
after, and left the new superintendent sobbing on
his table like a broken-hearted boy.
EDWARD DYSON.


pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
-i.
&
m
6
m
J
V
///■■
m
r
m
//
%
■■/■
A
m
MMm
ft
“Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
j
When the Junior Partner Came .
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Things have changed a little lately
In our office in the town,
And though no one’s wondered greatly,
It has pulled our spirits down ;
For the “ boss,” with vigor failing,
Now elects to stop away,
And a partner comes in sailing
Whose commands We must obey.
Junior partners ne’er are relished
Till they overcome the dread
That, with sundry fears embellished,
Fills each clerk’s expectant head—
Fears of reconstruction drastic,
Visions of the awful “sack,”
That, with minds howe’er elastic,
Make one long to see their back.
O’er the place a gloom is hanging,
Every footstep makes us start,
And each time a door goes banging
Comes a thrill to every heart;
Yet we cannot give the reason
Why we do not feel the s'ame,
But that we’ve been full of treason
Since the junior partner came
Nothing in the place is shifted—
Not a book, or desk, or stool:
Not a ruler has been lifted,
Yet suspicion is the rule.
Not a soul’s been reprimanded,
Everything is still the same ;
Nothing has been countermanded
Since the junior partner came.
Yet we all feel discontented,
Each one irritation shows,
And we wish our much-lamented
Whilom “boss ” would “show his nose
And we shake our heads despondent,
For our thoughts we cannot frame,
But regret, with minds respondent,
That the junior partner came.
Still we cannot eease from working,
Though we don’t like Number Two ;
I f he caught us duty shirking
We would soon have none to do.
Twenty partners would not matter,
Business still would be the same ;
And much better is the latter
Since the junior partner came.
But the “ old man ” yet will linger
In the mem’ry of his men ;
Still we see him rub his finger,
Marked with ink-stains from his pen $
And his honest laugh and hearty,
That convulsed his very frame,
Made us quite a happy party
Till the junior partner came.
Well, heigho ! those times are vanished,
Methods new have got the hold ;
/And the new “old man” has banished
All remembrance of the old.
It may be the better for us
And our ardour may inflame;
And we’ll yet rejoice in chorus
That the junior partner came.
M.L.
JOHN LANARK.
His First-Born.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in the days before the dangerous cliff on
the seaward side of the “Gap,” at South Head,
Sydney, was fenced off.
The spot choSen by the young people to cele-
brate the anniversary of their wedding-day was
about GO yards from the edge of the cliff. The
little picnic for three had been a blissful success,
only disturbed by the necessity of recaptur-
ing Master Bobbie whenever he toddled away to
make a closer acquaintance with the “ big splashy
splash ” that stretched away before his wondering
eyes m sparkling blue wavelets dotted over with
white sails.
But the little fellow had grown tired,and dis-
couraged in his vain attempts to reach the big
bath that looked so temptingly near ; and when
at length he ceased his efforts to escape and lay
down by his mother’s side, she took up her novel
and, with a sigh of relief, resumed her reading.
The husband was stretched out comfortably on
his back, his hat tilted over lus forehead, study-
ing the weights for the Summer Cup. But a hearty
dinner, on a blazing day in December, is not con-
ducive to mental activity, and soon the drowsy
hum of life below in the bay, and the soothing
murmur of the summer surf on the rocks under
the cliff, had their effect. The print danced in
a purple mist before his eyes, the pipe dropped
from his mouth, and he slept—with the paper
lying on his face.
God, what a shriek !
He sat up, wide awake, and his startled eyes
took in the situation at a glance. His little boy
stood a few yards from the cliff looking back over
his shoulder at them, and his laughing eyes chal-
lenged his mother for another race. She sprang
to her feet, but the man’s hand shot out and
dragged her down so fiercely that her dress tore
away from the bodice.
“Quiet!” he said in a savage, husky tone of
command. “If you chase him over the cliff I’ll
throw you after him ! ”
The woman cowered away before his fierce
glance and hid her face in the grass. It was the
first harsh word or look she had received from him
since the happy day they were celebrating.
The man’s brain worked swiftly under the
powerful incentive of his absorbing love for the
boy. It was a more intricate problem to solve
*-han the difference between “Inspiration at 9st.,
and Surprise at 6st. 121 b.” - He had seen, at once,
that it was hopeless to attempt to cover the
ground between him and his son before the little
fellow gained the edge of the cliff. At the first
step he took the child, he knew, would run for the
coveted goal, too excited by the fun to see any
danger. His heart stopped a moment; and all
sound suddenly ceased, save the ominous droning
in his ears as, in a flash of mental torture, he pic-
tured his bonnie boy lying on the rocks under the
cliff, a shapeless heap. It was only a momentary
hesitation. The boy’s soft, musical laugh stiffened
his nerves. He was poised ready for a fresh start,
lhe mother looked up at that familiar sound ring-
ing so clearly through the still air, and cried :
Do something, for God’s sake ! ”
The man cleared his throat and called “ Bob !
Bobbie ! come here. I want you ! ”
His voice barely rose above a hoarse whisper;
out Bobbie saw the accompanying gesture of
recall, and, laughing in high glee, ran a few more
paces, looking backward all the time.
His father, moistening his parched lips, took
the watch from his pocket, held it up by the chain,
and called again in a stronger voice.
“ Bobbie, come and see what daddy’s got for
you ! ”
The little fellow stopped. The sunlight, spark-
ling on the gold cases, which the man had opened
to make the lure more attractive, arrested the
child’s attention. He retraced his steps a little
way—slowly and doubtfully, as though he had
some recollection of being caught by that delusive
prize before. Just then his mother looked up,
and, seeing her child approaching, sprang to meet
him. The movement confirmed the child’s sus-
picions, and, laughing defiantly, he turned and
ran. In a fury of disappointment the man looked
at his wife as though he would strike her.
“ Damn you for a fool! ”he hissed with savage
intensity ; and, holding her firmly by the arm, he
shouted, “ Here, Bobbie, catch it! ” and this time,
having fixed the child’s attention, he hove the
watch twenty yards towards him. Bobbie saw it
now, flashing in the sunlight, unprotected ; and,
recognising that it was a fair deal, he ran for it as
fast as his stout little legs would carry him. But,
even as he grasped the prize, he was, in turn,
clutched by his father and hugged with a fervor
that elicited a howl of remonstrance. His mother
was even more unsatisfactory in her greeting.
She only shook him by the arm, and called him a
“ bad, wicked boy.” Then she turned a reproachful
gaze upon her husband. Womanlike, she sought
solace for her wounded feelings now that the boy
was safe.
“It was not all my fault, Robert. You went
to sleep also, you know.”
“ I don’t blame you for going to sleep.”
“ Then why did you behave so savagely to me,
and use such dreadful language ? ”
“ There was no time to waste upon politeness,”
replied Robert, as he kissed his first-born and
hoisted him on to his shoulder. “I’m very sorry
I spoke so roughly; I wasn’t answerable for my
words at the moment. Forget them, my dear, and
' let well alone.’ ”
But the woman was not quite satisfied. An
idea, that was previously only a shadowy impres-
sion, had been hurried by Bobbie into a painful
certainty. His escapade had acted upon her hus-
band as the developer acts upon the picture hidden
on a dry-plate.
As the pair walked down the hill to the little
jetty where the Sydney boat lay, the woman again
returned to the subject with a tentative question :
“ You didn’t really mean what you said about ”
(she paused to control her voice) ‘ about throwing
me over the cliff. Did you, Robert ? ”
The man, fondling his boy’s chubby little fist
that gripped him firmly by the ear, replied
grimly •
“ I’m afraid I did —at that moment.”
The little woman looked up keenly at her hus-
band s face; and she noticed that the faint line
across his forehead had grown suddenly distinct.
Then she dropped behind “ to pm up her skirt.”
The boy looked back at her and, waving his hand,
cried roguishly—” Ta-ta, little mammie ! "
But his mother took no notice of him, for her
eyes were blurred with tears.
On the steamer, Bobbie accidentally wiped his
dusty shoes on his mother’s dress, and, much to
his amazement, she swooped upon him joyously
and spanked him with unusual vigor.
When Bobbie escaped he ran to his father,
sobbing out his pain and indignation in a storm
of tears. But the man remained unmoved. He
understood now; and was more sorry for his wife
than for his first-born. The child’s grief would
soon pass and be forgotten. But hers ?
Bingara, N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.
A Little Leal Life .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene : Over-crowded Manly steamer, Sunday
afternoon. A little, shrivelled-up, 5ft. woman,
who looked as if she had worked hard every .day
of her life, and yet enjoyed it thoroughly, and
evidently dotingly in love with her very good-
looking husband, head and shoulders taller than
herself, and (say) 12 years her junior. He must
have married her for her sterling qualities—she
could never have had any good looks—but if ever
unselfish love was in a woman’s face it was in hers.
There were no seats available, and he sat on
the railing at the steamer’s side. There was
something pathetic in the way she tried to get
up beside him, but she was too tiny. I overheard
them talking. He looked ashamed of himself, but
was trying not to show it. She looked as if she
were forcing herself to make the best of a bad job.
Presently she said : “I won’t ever go to Manly
to see them again. I couldn’t after to-day. Who
was it you were with ? ”
He : "It wouldn’t make it any better for you to
know, little woman.”
She : “ And me telling them so grandly that I
knew you had brought your niece down. What
a fool they must think me ! ”
He (defiantly) : “Well, I did take my niece
down one day.”
She : “ Yes, but not on that Sunday.” After a
pause, “ Well, it won’t be for long. Soon, when
you get old, you won’t want to do that sort of
thing. You will be satisfied with your own old
woman. You are getting old now, you know.”
And then the steamer reached Sydney and I
heard no more.
M.M.
One expects to find Quong Tart’s name
bobbing up ’mongst all sorts of things Australian,
but one does not expect to see it—the only “Q ”
in the index—in a work “In Tropical Lands,” by
A. Sinclair, because Mr. Sinclair’s book is mostly
Peru and S. America, and there is no Australia in
it. The übiquitous Quong is thus mentioned by
way of swaggering up the Peruvian educated
Chinaman :
This gentleman has his prototype in Quong Tart, one
of the most wealthy, benevolent and distinguished
citizens of N.S.W., whose command of pure nervous
English—only second to that of Sir Henry Parkes—makes
him an acquisition at every public meeting, while at
popular concerts he is simply indispensable ... in
the race for wealth and position not only has he out-
distanced the Scotch colonist, but he has completely
eclipsed him in his own particular line. Mr. Quong Tart
is unquestionably the best singer of Scotch songs in
N.S.W., while in Highland costume he can render the
Highland fling to the manner born.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney’.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as il
shows us exactly what to send you.)


A YOUMG LADY’S STORY.
Nsr Blood was Out of Order and She was all Run Down.
Read what Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Did for Her.
-
//
(t
•V
*
M
x.
fu
UJ
•< b f
Vv
m.
ha
A.V
l#
3
No one to look to-day at Miss Sophie Kiefer, a pretty and stylish young belle,
whose portrait is given above, and who lives at the northwest corner of Fourth and
Queen streets, Philadelphia, would imagine that she had ever been in anything but
the pink of health. Her skin is clear and creamy, her teeth are white and even, she
has luxuriant dark hair, and her eyes are large and bright, of a lustrous brown. Yet,
notwithstanding Miss Kiefer’s splendid appearance, only a year ago she was in
extremely poor health, and her blood was in a very bad condition. Miss Kiefer’s
story is best told in her own words :
“ When I began to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I was not only run down, but I was
thoroughly discouraged. Doctors and proprietary medicines both failed to help me.
My blood was disordered. But the first bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla helped me so
much that I decided to keep it up, and did so. Then, inside of a month, I began to
think that the Sarsaparilla was a wonder. It cleared my skin completely and restored
my appetite to its former condition. My general health was recovered and the third
bottle removed every appearance of disorder from my blood. Not only that, but it
left me better than ever. For several months I had been ill and complaining. My
health in general, aside from the condition of my blood, was very poor. I remember
one day, after attending a ball the night before, when I felt so miserable that I was
afraid I was going to die, almost. My appearance, of which I always took consideraj-
ble care, was the thing that worried me most of all, I will acknowledge. But as I
tell vou, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla rejuvenated me. I would take it any time in preference
to toilet preparations and skin soaps and washes, for it worked wonders with me. I
can recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to anyone whose blood is poor or whose general
health is unsatisfactory.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Only True Blood-Purifier.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Gough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
(flkpV, daughter was cured of a very heavy cold before she had
Bet ol| d bottle, when hi a weak state, and has been stronger ever
ce ‘ AJI m i' family use it now with great benefit w hen they have colds."
E. EVANS, Chapel House, Abermule.
h '** travelling many years, exposed to all kinds of weather, and
have suffered intensely with my chest. Your Lung Tonic, I am happy to
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma
IT NEVER FAILS,
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRDGt', Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. od.
and 11s., by all Chemists and Paten
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
m
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
IWs
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling alter Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chi'is, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness. Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling' Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be ■" VV IRTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion : bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the. Whole Physical Enekgy of the human frame. These
are ‘‘facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is and Us 9d each.
TALES OF THE
CONVICT SYSTEM.
Br “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
IMEick Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAT MARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
-AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND —
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, TH REE EIGHTS, IHTLLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoxa), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALBINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEKET, SYDNEY.


EPPS’S
GTEA-DETITL—OOMFOKTOKJ
COCOA
VW~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Hollow avs pills and ointment.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of the&e grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of su ferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, Lone!on, they are
spurious
/-THE-'
Ballet 6irl,
with -22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting bei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free iy->
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Ban. Highly interest-
ing ahdonginal. Post Free 16. Onlv of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDXEY.
MADAME S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ARE—
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDKTEY.
Collins
"THE BLOCK,”
S-fcx-oes-fc. TCTTT"
WortbiQgtoQ PCfijpiijg Eogioe Con>paoy.
(Australasian branch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHI NGTON
TRADE MARK-
ney, X.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ , „ ADELAIDE.
Queensland : McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. John's-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
VORTHIN GTON Pumps for all Services
in Stools.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.B.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE 00.. LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION : ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)~92 King; Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be mode at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
Tlie FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Managi
T
manufacturers & Importers
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Roekbreakers
Gates’ Roekbreakers
Roger Roils
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
Knowles' Vertical Sinking Pump.
*o*
s^saa
•dunij JSniJfuis jsapaoaH
mining I General machinery.
Knowles’ Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Na gle Engines
Roots’ Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING
OSCILLATOR r ffT T v STTTfw
riNG MACHINES. UliililM OlllUJn
Batho’s
Baking p owc g er . B
Scale of Advertising
u
Single Column ...
SuartorJy Contracts (13 insertions)
alf Yearly „ <2G insertions)
Oue Year ~ (52 insertions;
Paragraph Advertis,.monks
au Kxx'iiA mseouK'i' of i» p**.
—IN—
THE BULLETIN.”
6s. per inoh per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
I::
10s. ;>er inch per insertion, nett,
alio .yea for cash in ad Vance.
BoQQiQgtOD’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
--
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bennington's.
