

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
*
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
«. g, & 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, wnutug Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants,
1,000
10,000
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
Toixs “Orto” etnd “PyramidL” Galvanized Iron.
Caslss Kniglit Sevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
•V
>
o So
O
O
<(-?$•
<RAckArocK>
O
O
C
o
if?
o
-4
V
i *
E. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & Co.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Poston's Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, <fcc.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mathbr
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. .Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
AndL see tliat you get i-fc.
3&BS
«5
PROOF
9n eyJ?
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Eros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bllgh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta Diver.
‘COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PROOF
m
Bonnington’s Sarsaparilla, 2/6
AN ALTERATIVE, TONIC AND BLOOD PURIFIER. Removes
oores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
FOR LIVE If, STOMACH, & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. Stimulates
and ( rentes a Healthy System.
What is Health?
Sciatica,
- - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKRR, lts Victoria Paradh,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
? these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
o«°
*0
ecd>
Before viyih'ng fhe 07/ wrifeTo fhe Manager for
©rd of Tariff, (orrfjjiondence promptly attended to.
THE - -
6rosVcoorNot?l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYrJKTBY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
2?
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness -
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth,
W. Australia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide,
S. Australia.
THE WOBLD-REN OWNED
L:
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE SHEW S SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Foverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
THE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
Ih Use in the Largest arid Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L!?,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CI6ARS. PACKETS OF n FOP i_
The Bulletin
Vol 18.—No. 932. J
[Saturday, December 25, 1897.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE ROBERTSON & CO.
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin ; price, Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin, by Price Warung ; price, 25.; post-free,
2a. 6d.
MOSTYN s’TAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d. ;
posted, 2s. lod.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY’.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
IF IT ENDS IN SMOKE!
LET IT BE
ACTEO
EATING
DRINKING
SMOKING
and the greatest of these is
SMOKING
[■CAMEOS, of course.]
THE BED PAGE.
PUBLICLY the Q. Home Secretary,
Horace Tozer, is a member of
perhaps the most discreditable gang
of politicians which has ever infested Aus-
tralia ; though he does not seem to have the
knack of his colleague, T. J. Byrnes, to
bleed the province to the tune of £6491 in
legal fees during seven years, while drawing a
handsome salary as Solicitor and Attorney-
General for most of the time. Privately
Tozer is a very decent fellow, whom even his
political enemies like ; though nearly all his
statements have to be pickled in brine strong
enough to float an egg before they are fit for
use. And, as an Australian native, born at
Port Macquarie 53 years ago, Tozer takes a
strong interest in the Australian aborigines.
His official position enables him to give that
interest practical force; and “the poor
blacks ” really feel life a little better worth
living since Parry-Okeden and Meston were
specially devoted to their service. Now
Walter E. Roth, author of the most com-
plete and valuable account of Australian
aboriginal tribes ever written, dedicates to
Horace Tozer his book—printed at the Govt.
Printing Office, Brisbane.
* » * •
Mr. Roth’s name suggests a German origin,
and certainly he lias done his work with
German thoroughness. An Oxford 8.A.,
with the medical degrees of M.R.C.S., Eng.,
and L.R.G.P., Lond., he was for some time
science master at one of the Q. Grammar
Schools. In 1894 he took the position of
surgeon to the Boulia hospital, proceeding
afterwards to Normanton and Cloncurry.
He explains that at Boulia, where strictly
professional work was conspicuous by its
absence, almost his whole time was devoted
to a study of the local aboriginal language ;
and from the basis so gained he extended
researches throughout north - west - central
Queensland into the tribal dialects, customs,
rites and superstitions of the blacks. The title
of his book is ‘ Ethnological Studies among
the North-West-Central Queensland Abori-
gines,’ and it takes at once unique rank as
the standard authority on the tribes particu-
larly dealt with, and the most full and
scientific monograph in the whole literature
of the subject. To deserve such high praise,
labor the most extraordinary must have been
taken—how extraordinary only those can
know who are acquainted with the climate
and the country in which Dr. Roth worked,
and who have tried to gather information in
the field which he has so systematically cul-
tivated. Of all his pains and efforts Dr.
Roth says not a word. There is in his book
no hint of preparation, no sign of scaffolding:
you see only his result creamed to the small-
est compass and described in the plainest
language. It is a keen pleasure to know
that we have in Australia scientific workers
so modest, so industrious, and so able.
* * » *
To get criticism over, it may be said that
in becoming proficient in blacks’ language
Dr. Roth has lost touch with whites ’ : his
English should be revised for the next
edition. And it would have been better
had the illustrations been engraved and in-
corporated with the text—or the black-and-
white illustrations, at all events. It is
irritating and puzzling to have to turn to the
end of the book 438 times for 438 references,
when thought arid image might each rein-
force the other’s impression on a single page.
Nevertheless, the illustrations are only less
valuable than the letterpress of Dr. Roth’s
book. His talent for drawing does not ex-
tend to the portrayal of character in the
human figure, but it has enabled him to give
lifelike point to descriptions of hundreds of
features of aboriginal life. The 213 draw-
ings illustrating aboriginal sign-language—
which Dr. Roth is first to so systematically in-
vestigate and record —are by themselves suffi-
cient to establish his high credit as an origi-
nal student. Indeed, only musical knowledge
was lacking to our author’s perfect equip-
ment. His medical practice gave him pecu-
liar opportunities for enquiry, and his scien-
tific training showed him how enquiry should
be conducted. His book does not pretend
to be eloquent or picturesque, but as a scien-
tific document it is most admirable.
* * • *
Dr. Roth’s book is prefaced by a biblio-
graphy of his subject by R. Etheridge, jun.,
and is very fully indexed. His first chapter
deals with the spoken language of the Pitta-
Pitta aboriginals, and one respectfully notes
its wealth of inflexions. Personal pro-
nouns, for example, have three numbers —
singular, dual, and plural; every number has
three persons, and the third person has two
genders; and both of these genders are
inflected according as the person or object
referred to is (a) close up in front or at the
side, ( b ) close up behind, or ( c) at some dis-
tance away. Even this is not all, for (a) is
varied according as present or future time is
referred to. And even this isn’t all, for the
propoun has three main cases —nominative,
direct objective, and indirect objective ; and
two subordinate cases which remorselessly
carry through the three numbers, the three
persons, and the present and future tenses,
( d ) the individual from whom something is
received, and (c) the individual for whom
something is done. The bad boy who
writhes over a simple thing like Latin
grammar should be kept in to study Pitta-
Pitta grammar—just once.
• • • *
Some of Dr. Roth's numerous examples
may be quoted to show what Pitta-Pitta is
like when at home in the neighbourhood
of Boulia, W.Q. An intelligent Pitta-
Pittaman might translate ‘ Give us this day
our daily—paddymelon’ Woonje-na nuna-
na munta-na kurri tiche-linga. If he came
to Adelaide and walked in the neighbour-
hood of the hospital he would possibly
remark Pooriti munguni-maro-pityiri piti-
mulle-ka—which is equivalent to ‘ The whole
lot of the doctors were fighting between
themselves.’ The normal intoxicant at
Boulia is the famous pituri, and when a
Boulia man takes too much pituri the front
of his head deserts him as remarkably as
the cider-drunkard is deserted by his legs.
Hence TJpperi kurri mullo kunda : bilba
tarembola-la kunda-lea means ‘ Father will
not go away to-day ; he’s drunk ’ (literally—
his forehead is ‘ going ’ with pituri).
• • • •
An interesting paragraph on the Pitta-
Pittaman’s arithmetic—
Beyond four, the savage will generally speak of
everything as pd-ri, i.e., ‘a lob, a large number.
He certainly has visible conceptions of higher
numbers, and I have often had a practical demon-
stration of this fact by asking him to count bow
many fingers and toes he has, and telling him to
mark the number in the sand. Thus, he com-
mences with the hand open, and turns the fingers
down by twos, and for every two he will make a
double stroke in the sand. [This method of closing
the fingers into the palm after counting is like that
of a J apanese boy ; an English lad will generally
close his fingers on to the palm previous to
enumeration, and then extend as he calls them.]
The strokes he makes in the sand are parallel one
beside the other, and when the numeration is com-
plete, he calls pakoola for every two of them. This
method of counting is common throughout the
distriot, and often practised by the elders of the
tribe to ascertain the number of individuals in
camp.
Again—
Beyond a few months’ duration Time-when oan-
not be accurately expressed : reference is made to
some event of more than passing importance—
such as a big flood or drought, or some special
initiation ceremony, or a tribal fight, perhaps.
Very long lapses of time are called to memory by
expressions somewhat after this fashion : “ When
I was a child,” “Before the whitefellow came,”
“ Before the blackfellow jumped-up here,”
“ When the animals and birds were all black-
fellows,” represent pretty accurately the com-
parative and progressively increasing past eras of
the aboriginal calendar.
[Compare a woman’s way of reckoning—
“ When Katie was born ” ; “That happened
when Tommy was ten months old.” And it
is decided that woman is nearer the savage
type—doubtless because, congenitally and
educationally, the undeveloped areas of her
brain correspond to some extent with the
.savage’s undeveloped areas. And—for a
more fantastic analogy—the Pitta-Pittaman’s
word wunje means either ‘grass’ or ‘hair,’
and when trying to speak English he often
uses ‘ grass ’ and ‘ hair ’ synonymously.
(Curr notes the same thing regarding other
tribes.) And we have passed so far from
the aboriginal outlook that when aboriginal
Walt Whitmin writes in answer to a child’s
‘ What is the grass ? ’
. . . it seetns to me the beautiful uncut hair of
graves,
the phrase is no longer commonplace ; it has
become highly poetical. Macaulay says
somewhere that, in much the same fashion
as (according to Gilbert)
. . . Art stopped short
At the cultivated court
Of the Empress Josephine,
so Poetry stopped or flagged—with the
barbaric races. And it is locally held that,
in our civilised day, the most forcible poetry
refers to the primal subjects and impulses—
e.g., Life, Death, Love. So, query : When
we enter the imaginary world of poetry are
we really embracing savagery—endeavoring
to re-create our ancient Eden—seeking to
become like those ‘ vigorous, primitive
sons ’ who saw ‘ the green earth ... as
she was by the sources of Time ” 1 In a
word, is Poetry first and essentially a
Revolt ?]
• • • *
The subject of social and individual no-
menclature, admirably handled by Dr. Roth,
is too complex to be discussed in a para-
graph. But it may be noted that a
N. W.C.Q. aboriginal camps every night with
a lot of names like the following tied round
his neck—to wit: Patronym, Pitta-Pitta ;
Gamo-Matronym, Ootaroo ; Peedo-matronym,
Koopooroo ; Heteronym, Titi ; Geneanym,
Jiungka ; Autonym, Moorravnlulli ; Clima-
nym, Yuppieri. No wonder the aboriginals
are a ‘ decaying race ’ ! The autonym (per-
sonal or individual name) is based for the
most part on some personal characteristic.
E.g., some Pitta-Pitta names of males—
Moor-ra-waZ-fil-11—A fellow who is eternally cut-
ting sticks (from moora , stick) —a sort of whittling
Yankee aboriginal.
JfifMoon-doo-miil-Ze-if—'The chap who never
greases himself (probably an English equivalent
would be ‘ The Great Unwashed ’).
Poor-I-chi-ll—The man who makes the dust fly
in hot weather when he walks.
And of females—
Jfe-18-la—Girl as slow as a caterpillar.
Fim-a-ra —The girl who is always going away
(“ I’m going home to mother, see ! ”)
Me-la-00-te-rf —The woman with a good nose
(prized everywhere).
Dr. Roth states his belief that aboriginal
marriage-classes have riot been devised to
prevent in-breeding, etc. ; points out that
the system is not per se such a preventive,
that it does on the other hand prevent the
union of couples unconnected by blood, and
that the rule is frequently set aside ; and
argues that the object of the classification is to
regulate the proper distribution of the total
quantity of food available —since under it the
husband lives on articles of diet different
from those of his wife or wives, and their
children live on food different again.
Hence, to put it shortly, whereas in a European
community with a common dietary the more
children there are to feed the less will become the
share for the parents, in this North-West-Central
Queensland aboriginal system the appearance of
children will make no appreciable difference in
minimising the quantity of food available for
those that give them birth.
Backed by his experience and evidence, Dr.
Roth’s conclusion is most important.
* * » *
About fifty years ago Sturt, the explorer,
mentioned the existence of what he thought
were Masonic signs among the N. W.C.Q.
aborigines. Dr. Roth argues convincingly
that there is no hint of Masonry in the sign-
language which, with very rare skill and
patience, he has recorded in detail. At
Roxburgh Downs, on the Upper Georgina,
Dr. Roth was out on horseback one day with
some blacks, when one of the ‘ boys ’ riding
by his side suddenly asked him to halt, as a
mate in front was after some emus—a hen
and her young. As there had been appar-
ently no communication between the boy in
front and the boy at Dr. Roth’s side, and a
distance of 150 yards separated them, ‘ I
naturally concluded that my informant was
uttering a falsehood, and told him so in
pretty plain terms, with the result that,
after certain mutual recriminations, he
explained on his hands how he had
received the information the state-
ment to be shortly afterwards con-
firmed by the arrival of the lad himself
with the dead bird and some of her young.’
The boy in advance had probably made the
recognised sign for Stay where you are !
by holding out his arm to his mate and let-
ting it fall gradually ; then he had made one
of the signs for Emu P say by holding the
ring-finger down with the thumb, and indi-
cating the bird’s toes with the three free
digits ; then he had similarly suggested
young ones. And Dr. Roth adds up 213
signs—some of them highly complex in
common use by many of the tribes he deals
with. The root-suggestion of a sign usually
lies in some attribute or peculiarity of the
object represented. Thus a corpse is shown
by ‘ the hand, palm up, held horizontally,
with forefinger and little finger fully exten-
ded ; the idea of a dead person with his legs
stiffened out.’ Dr. Roth’s account is most
interesting.
* » * *
There are the pithiest chapters on ‘ The
Search for Food,’ ‘Domestic Implements,’
and ‘Personal Ornamentation.’ Every
N. W.C.Q. blackfellow, one learns, grows
his hair partly for ornament and partly for
use. It is nicely greased and tied up
mop-fashion ; and when the crop is
ripe and long enough the owner har-
vests it and manufactures it into twine.
So a baldhead—if there ever was one
in N.W.C.Q. —is distinctly depreciated : he
cannot grow twine for himself or his tribe.
• Except on special public occasions,
neither sex wears clothes or covering. When
he wishes to look smart the male aboriginal
dresses himself in bands of white paint
touched up with red or yellow. “The
women throughout the Boulia district may
adopt a greased yellow or red tri-linear
pattern this is put on by means of the first
three fingers dabbed simultaneously on the
paint, and then smeared sinuously along the
limbs, both upper or lower, and more or
less transversely across the trunk. The
females look upon themselves-thus decorated
as being in the height of fashion ’’—but it
is a fashion not yet introduced at an Austra-
lian Govt.-House. The antiquity of grease-
paint is further shown in Dr. Roth’s account
of corrobborees. A corrobboree may be held
simply for the pleasure given by dancing,
singing, and dramatic representation ; or it
may have tribal value and significance as re-
presenting in pantomime some incident of in-
dividual or tribal history. Anybody may
invent the simple rudiments of a corrobboree;
and good corrobborees are sold or given by
one tribe to another, sometimes in Dr.
Roth’s experience travelling upwards of 100
miles to be performed by men who did not
understand the language in which they were
composed. Dr. Roth’s account and ex-
amples are full and excellent.
* * • *
There are most valuable chapters on
‘Fighting,’ ‘Disease, Death, Cannibalism,’
and ‘ Rain-Making ’ ; and the chapter en-
titled ‘ Ethno-pornography,’ describing the
tribal sexual ceremonies, is, with its illustra-
tions, the most complete ever committed to
paper. In reference to what is sometimes
called “Sturt’s terrible rite,’ Dr. Roth com-
bats the ordinary opinion that it is em-
ployed to the end of checking population.
While admitting that no explanation is
absolutely satisfactory, he suggests that the
similar laceration of the female was
originally a matter of convenience, sub-
sequently coming to signify her sexual
fitness, ‘ and that, on the principle of
a form of mimic y, the analogous sign was
inflicted on the male to denote corresponding
fitness on his part.’ And, if this be only
a temporary hypothesis, Dr. Roth at all
events pretty conclusively demolishes the
existing hypothesis so far as his observation
extends.
* * * *
This notice of the best record of individual
experience among Australian aborigines yet
published concludes just here.


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADINC SPECIALIST) and
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
Ekiej. DSof sufferers
Secoud to Nojib in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory. -
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-emineutly at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in S Y DNJS Y,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
YOUNG Ml
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfuluess,
aversion to society.
stnpiduess, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be f'en.
miIIMUD < BID MEN.
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching hacks and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and prematura
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PMATI
Complaints. - Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without? pain and detention from business.
By this
meaus
you
can describe your
troubles to the
doctors if living
away from tbe
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-
ises, NERVOUS
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
ana. physical suffering and add golden years to
n'l'n ll e '-, *°, ensure prompt attention, forward
il by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
t' eatment of your ailment.
All Trams stop at the Door.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
jo Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address :
‘ TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABori) PljySiciaij.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
etice and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne,
llishame has become almost literally a household word;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully'.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B. —The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Muxtion this Papbu.
Medical,
Dp. SPEER,
7 York Street,
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.. 0. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in. weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward ana candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
ft^ - MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and suooess.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHH-'QURAIITB
>
• i.-' ; • c
3R ~
FULL t>IRECTIOU3I
ENCLOSED 1 / ‘J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 46 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don't Fret or Worry, bub remember that XZtxr.
SjDeer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
7 York Street* Sydney.
BOX 920.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
SULPHUR PILLS
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER. _ _
DEFINITELY CURE lIYDATId's, SKIN ERUPTIONS’
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and irl per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
O* ricordV
ts
I
o\
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord’s Essence, of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
dll the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 565. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envdope,
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS
Every Man his own Medical Adviser, 15/-; cost 45/-.
Every Man his own Horse and Cattle Doctor, 2 vols., 10/-.
Every Man his own Horse Doctor, by Armitage, 12/6 ; cost
25/-. " Every Man his own Lawyer, 8/6; cost 12/6. Every
Man his own Schoolmaster, 10/-; cost- 30/-. The Era
Formulary, or Every Man his own Chemist, 25/- ; cost 35/-.
Dr. Chase’s Receipt' Book, 5540 receipts upon everything,
13/6 : cost 25/-. Free.
R. W. SKINNER, THE NOTED SECOND-HAND
BOOKSELLER, 105 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
GOLDEN- SHANTY (collected verse and
/\ stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
»
I
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Booms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GrIBBOINTS,
j S tr « bl y-<jualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects, the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tendernessof the breast-
bone oil pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. Tins
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiuess
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires ad vice, a-nd you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of bis Celebrated Work,
in winch you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY TIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
187 ELIZABETH STftEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS Manday,
Wednesday and Saturday’
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT MOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
.. Permanently cured by new perfected scientifio
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will brain
power; when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
developed* 1 "' eak P arts of the bod y strengthened and
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
1 nvate nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide,
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special icish of the writers
only ; othemoise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
*
Mr. * H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes: —“1 can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowfulrafflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ag® 1 went from bad to
worse’; in fact lo.st all hope of ever
being well again. VVh.en I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your ad vice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Imn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Harley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my ease, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I cook your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever 1 was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whafr
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
he treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until 1 was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
7 biuwao.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ANNIVERSARY H. Jan. 26.
50,000 Subsoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
LAUNCESTON C. February 2.
60,000 Subaorlberß at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo shares in the above.
Name
Address.
s
s
Hobart 0.
9th February.
50,000 SUBSCRIBCRS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Shares in the above.
Name,
Address.
NEWMARKET IL Feb. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address ’ __
Australian C,
March 1
50,000 Subsoriberß at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, shares in the above.
Name .......
Address _
Cootaimmdra 0. February 9.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


flnthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
XJS£!
Spooler’s
jROYALNAVY DfIESSINC
FOR
I: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
I! OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
EDIRECIIONS FDR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning; and Polishing; Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING-,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &o.
JP.O. Box 183, MELBOURNE.
£
a
S 3
o
Or
o
H 3
0-
Engineers, Machinery merchants,
manufacturers’ j|gents.
Principal Agencies:
Blake’s Direct-Acting STEAM PUMPS.
Harris’ Champion LUBRICATING OILS.
Ludlow Opefi-Gate or Sluice VALVES.
Pickering Steam Engine GOVERNORS.
Fay & Co.’s WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Empire Co.’s LAUNDRY MACHINERY.
W. E. & J. Barnes Co.’s HAND, FOOT, and
STEAM POWER TOOLS.
B. F. Sturtovant Co.’s FANS and FORGES.
Mason STEAM and WATER REDUCING
VALVES.
Mosher’s STEAM SEPARATORS.
Denison’s Suspended WEIGHING MACHINES.
T.-mite Co.’s EMERY WHEELS.
Shutte’s “KORTING” BOILER FEED IN*
JECTORS.
SYDNEY: 74 CLARENCE ST.
435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
%*r
Prof. DURCOT’S MDSKAL
Speedily produces a luxuriart growth of
1 Huiron Smoothest Pace or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. The only Remedy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d.. Double Size, 10s.
S. D. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment U
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient's knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eno.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rasstnussen’s advt. on pape
27 of this issue.*
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring’s, wheels 4'ft. 4ln,
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS 30s to 90s
per set Best Quality YVAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’Saddles*
/Os. I ARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES 10s 6d BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d. ’ ‘ BOYS
Send for a Catalogue.
11. HILLIER, is s & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlerv
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc.
advert.sen.ent, I will pay freight to any port or railify station in the colony SENbFOR i CATALOGUE
Ef PWARDS'
WORLD-RENOWNED
producer # Se^torer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
w
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair heauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, eto., also
for
Restoring Grey JTair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2 ( fi and (triple 2/8 size) 4'G per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
UIncRoBERTSon s ciiEiumfi m
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath,
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE oh EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works:
- Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
. ■ ■ SP-ECIAL NOTICE - -
YY B beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying from us
v i.* „T, will save dealers' profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.o. less. We are actual manufac-
turers—not dealers.
OUR BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
8 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
oSThT o 1 and lan ?P®> £7 16s - Our Special 3 SPRING STICK
, SEAT SULK Y, silver dash rail splash-baards and lamps, £8
' Us. ®d. DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps,
*2l. ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather,
‘"eluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l.
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Bend for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Hr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr, Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD'S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should he
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit la aold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird's Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AULD LANG SYNE.
Oh ! it’s southward from .Southampton ; and she
takes the Channel gay,
But there’s bleeding hearts aboard her as she
stands across the bay, '*
And it may be just a parting where we’ve known
a hundred more,
Yet there’s breaking hearts behind her as the ten-
der swings ashore ;
And the handkerchiefs are waving, ship to steamer,
line to line,
And a wail’s upon the water in the words of Auld
Lang Syne.
Oh ! It’s misty in the Channel and it’s stormy in
the Bay,
And the lights are dropping backward as she
leaves the east away ;
And she steadies in blue water where the sunny
islands swoon,
With the sailors singing forward, and the guests
in the saloon;
And they’ll sing the old songs over from the Gib
Rock to the Line,
But they cannot drown the music of “ The Days
of Auld Lang Syne.”
Oh ! she’s round the Austral headlands and she’s
rocking through the Rip,
While throbbing of the engines drums the triumph
of the trip,
And it’s gently through the shipping and it’s
slowly to the Quay,
And the band has started playing this the dearest
tune to me,
And they’re streaming down the gangway with a
farewell to the brine,
And we leave her as we joined her, to the strains
of Auld Lang Syne.
We have heard the ringing chorus shake the iron
on the roofs,
While, outside, the bridles jingled to the stamp of
restless hoofs.
We have sped—how many comrades? from the
homestead and the hall,
Watched them fading in the Unknown to the
grandest march of all,
While some hearts were beating proudly to the
lilt of every line,
And some others nearly breaking for the sake of
Auld Lang Syne.
We have sung it o’er the last glass when the morn
was breaking gray,
Hands crossed and double chorus in the old time-
honored way;
We have sung it in our exile till the music and the
rhyme
Brought us back the brown hills’ whisper and the
nodding blue-bells’ chime,
And the old, old loves are toasted in our cups of
brimming wine
While our hearts beat out the music to the words
of Auld Lang Syne.
It has marked us many partings, it has cost us
countless tears,
It has brought us hopes unanswered from the dim-
_ ness of the years ;
It is shaded with Life’s sorrow, it is crossed with
broken bands,
And the bitterness of kisses and the grief of part-
ing hands—
But as long as Earth has music, and as long as
red stars shine,
We shall gather and go outward to the tune of
Auld Lang Syne.
WILL. H. OGILVIR.
A RELIC OF THE CATTERTHUN.
By the roll of the sea,
Where the waves wash the shore,
Where the wild billows roar
To the rock and the cave,
To the weed and the shell,
They have made them a grave;
And for funeral bell
Is the surge of the sea.
And a mat thick and green.
Thrown by Nature’s kind hand,
Has crept over the sand
And has shaded the tomb.
Faces blossom and blow
Through the mystical gloom—
Soft pink-faces that glow
In the midst of the green.
ALIOC M'KINNON.
THE UNCULTURED RHYMER TO HIS
CULTURED CRITICS.
Fight through ignorance, want, and care—
Through the griefs that crush the spirit;
Push your way to a fortune fair,
And the smiles of the world you’ll merit.
Long as a boy for the chance to learn—
For the chance that Fate denies you ;
Win degrees where the Life-lights burn,
And scores will teach you and advise you.
My cultured friends ! you have come too late
With your by-path nicely graded ;
I’ve fought thus far on jny track of Fate,
And I’ll follow the rest unaided.
Must I be stopped by a college gate
On the track of Life encroaching ?
Be dumb to Love, and be dumb to Hate,
For the lack of a college coaching ?
You grope for Truth in a language dead—
In the dust ’neath tower and steeple !
What know you of the tracks we tread ?
And what know you of our people ?
“ I must read this, and that, and the rest,”
And write as the cult expects me ?
I’ll read the book that may please me best,
And write as my heart directs me !
You were quick to pick on a faulty line
That I strove to put my soul in ;
Your eyes were keen for a “ dash ” of mine
In the place of a semi-colon—
And blind to the rest. And is it for such
As you I must brook restriction ?
“ I was taught too little ? ” I learnt too much
To care for a pedant’s diction !
Must I turn aside from my destined way
For a task your Joss would find me ?
I come with strength of the living day,
And with half the world behind me ;
I leave you alone in your cultured halls
To drivel and croak and cavil:
Till your voice goes further than college walls
Keep out of the tracks we travel!
Feb., ’97.
HENRY LAWSON.


Australia!? ProVidcQt Society.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
ALL POLICIES issued before the End of the Year will Share in the Bonus for the Year (all
Bonuses vest immediately on -Policies attaining a duration of two years). The Amount of Cash
Bonus distributed amongst Policyholders for the One Year 1896 was £428,797.
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or
through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of the profits for the year.
Directors Tlie Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.0., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. VV. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 F> IT T STREET. SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Skcrbtarv.
a
Tin's Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night advantages
which no’Other Sydney hotel can offer.- No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES:
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-atrect, Sydney.
CIGARS FRE
' Vm-Wiomwl
ryr t in
LMriJ.I lIPTF
DROP S? IN THESLOIY,IffiyS?|j
MiniiiiniiuiiiiniiiiiiujiiiiimiiiiiiHiiiiii'iiiniiiiiii
mm
lliinniililitiiiHiiiiiiimifiilliiiiiiinillli
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines,
A t Peduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home gale Tobacco Jo.,
637-639 George Street,
“ Sydney.
AND
J:
</
</
4
r
r
P&4B
! ©
BW
HU
mm
5 - i
n
IMlilffi
QIUgS
?6;
L-gd
\
**ll
Ob
*
*
PRES
RUBEROID
DAMP-COURSE.
o d
z: m
£ £
rf 2
z»
flO
AGENTS: E. Rich & Co. Ltd., 24 &26 O’Connell St., SYDNEY.
Every Variety of
m ■vpm m ©
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 G-eor ge Street, Sydney.
ts- SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. TSa
London & Melbourne
TAILORING CO.
Summer Suits, 455. to 90s.
Delivered Free to any part of the Colony.
OUR QUALITIES
ARE HIGH
AND
PRICES LOW.
OUR GOODS AND
WORKMANSHIP
SPEAK
FOR THEMSELVES.
31 ERSKINE STEET, SYDNEY.
S. M. BAUMASHE,
Manager.
PAIN DENTISTRY.
£*ll
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Aiechanical
Dentist.
r PHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teetn Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain, also
Without Pintos, by menus of Jirid<jeu’orlc,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to lit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
-88 DEtAjtxsr—sfc.„ S ydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms ; and Caf<§ open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOB
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
cecond-hand
® AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully SO per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georjre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
INSURE with an
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE—
CITY fiUTUII FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Jiuil dings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£3210, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes ■£97,763, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. .T. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. ,T. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 1 2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Tjtd. of Jjo *• ' J n.
Fidelity Guarantees.' Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, eic.
W. M ‘Mill AN, M.P., A. \V. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiey, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W-. c. E EIDEXE C3-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Toi)S lmported Leaf
tljao all the other Tobacco
Factories P£it Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Vagkee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
tiling' made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
CbaropioQ.
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cooqlieror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€Qt€Qg)ial.
Cig
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Imported). The Club Favorite
Rothschilds.
Monopole.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 932.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1897.
Price, 6d.
LONDON, Friday.—At the banquet given
in honor of Prince Henry of Prussia las?
night the German Emperor directed his
brother to make it clear to every foreigner
that a German St. Michael had firmly plan-
ted the Imperial eagle upon Chinese soil.
In order to protect German commerce and
German missionaries, any affront to the flag
or prejudice to their rights would have to.
be “met by a blow from a mailed fist.”
Prince Henry, in reply, said that lie was
animated by a single desire to preach abroad
the “gospel of the Kaiser’si consecrated per-
son,” end—in .coj.iUu.sion referred—the
,Xiispopor=« t
Tint is lager bier anci sausage talking.
/■ .?
's> xy _ei
,■*%?
J?>* .-.A'
•■s> - $V® *v
.», -v
///'&>
, ■ . Vi o, V<?
</ /«$*
-/
LONDON. Saturday.—The “Standard,” Ini
commenting upon the test, match in Sydney
between Mr, Stoddart's team and the Aus-
tralian eleven, says that international cric-
ket affords an admirable lesson in the mat-
ter of Imperial union.
Athletic legislation, the journal adds,
■works more smoothly than more pretentious
schemes.
Athletic legislation! Crick, Haynes, are
you listening 1
Squatter’s Son : “ Here! get out of this pad-
dock.” 1
King Billy : “ What for 1 Countly belonga
me. All same native like you.”
S.S. s “Yes, but I’m a white native', and you’re
a black one.”
K. 8.: “ Yucki ! Why, that one prince brother
belonga me. Lick your head off at klicket last
week 1"
°J
Our'cricket barometer again.-
GOULBURN, Friday.—An inquest was held to-
day on an infant 7 months old, the son of a
laborer named Smith. The evidence showed, that
Smith had been in gaol for three months. He
came out yesterday, and went home drunk.
While he was in gaol his wife had been unable ;
to get sufficient money to keep the family, and i
had collected bottles and rags. She earned in !
this way from 4d to Is 6d a day. The child died ;
from marasmus, the result of insufficient food, i
“The holding^
capacity of a young infant’s stomach is
about one ounce. A lazy, careless nurse
gets a feeding bottle, with a tube, so that
she can lay the child down with the artifi-
cial teat in its mouth. She puls half a pint
of the milk preparation into the bottle, and
lets the baby suck away. This keeps it
quiet, but the result is that it overloads its
little stomach and vomits. So the milk is
blamed for being bad, when, if properly
used, it was quite good.” It is very pro-
bable that merely through ignorance many
children are done to death in this way to
save whose lives their mothers or nurses
would grudge no amount of care or trou-
ble.
(c)\jn
/. v mwyrf Ju.j 1
•A useful and appropriate Christmas-box,
CRICKET AND OTHER TESTY MATTERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... R 9,
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... " b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where requited
■which you may pay try Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian pro mnce,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Directoi.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded, as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS., when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible foi m its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative oj a current event ,
will be paid, for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill. , „ „ ,
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal : — F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 llout-si., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.—TP. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside * N.S. Wales ( except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
Gs. Gd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l%d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. Gd. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Si^^xzllefzTi.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1897.
The Ghosts of ’9B.
Next year Irishmen all over the world pro-
pose to celebrate the centenary of ’9B—the
hundredth anniversary of the last great
effort and the last great failure made on be-
half of their lost cause. There are probably,
roughly speaking, some 16,000,000 Irish upon
the face of this earth. Of this number
about 3,000,000 are located in Ireland. (The
semi-alien Ulster population, which lives in
Ireland by accident, and grovels to England
by habit, and is neither distinctly Irish nor
distinctly English, is here left out of the
calculation, as being mainly foreign in senti-
ment even if it is Hibernian by birth.) The
other 13,000,000 are scattered over the
length and breadth of the earth, and are in
process of absorption by other races, so that
the Irish are almost as distinctly a homeless
nation as the Jews or the Romany tribes.
And when they celebrate the centenary of
the dead pikemen of Vinegar Hill the cele-
bration will be scattered over so many lands
that it will serve mainly to advertise the fact
that Ireland has gone to pieces—that there
hardly remains one coherent fragment of it
large enough to cause England serious alarm
—and that all which remains of the real Irish
people in Ireland is so very little that the
men of ’9B are never likely to be disturbed
in their graves- by the feet of another Irish
insurrectionary army. Probably this is not
what is intended, but it will be one of the
results of the movement none the less.
* * * *
If Australia were a nation with a Govern-
ment and a political existence of its own it
might fairly object to this foreign demon-
stration on its premises. A hundred years
of history and 140 degrees of longitude sepa-
rate it from Vinegar Hill, and under these
conditions it seems somewhat unreasonable
that the old riot should insist on rioting over
again in this country. The Irish war of
1798 is no more to the Australian of to-day
than the Philistine campaign of 700 B.c. or
thereabouts : the one is as completely
finished as the other, and the dead pikemen
of Wexford and Wicklow are just as dead as
the dead spearmen of Ashdod ; and the
Irishmen seem to be vanishing out of their
country just as surely as the Anakim did out
of Palestine. Moreover, Australia is trying
to construct out of many diverse elements a
solid Australian nation, and every time
one of these elements insists on lighting
up the torch of its bygone, old-world
rows, and the Australian Irishman rises
to reiterate his old racial hatred in the
ear of the Australian Englishman, he makes
the establishment of that nation all the more
difficult. Also, he lights up again to some
extent the slowly expiring loyalty of the
Australian Englishman to the native land of
his fathers, which also retards the process of
consolidation —and in return for this he
gains practically nothing. Nobody now
living had anything to do with ’9B. The
dead remain dead, and the pikes remain
rust, and the banners remain rags, and no-
thing but the old memories and something
of the old quarrels are resurrected. Also,
the cause of Ireland remains just where it
was. The conditions of ’9B are gone ; the
methods of ’9B are gone also ; no sane man
dreams of rallying the primitive spears again
in the Wicklow hills ; and all the possible
celebrations of the tumultuary battles of last
century are not likely to make the Irish
problems of to-day any easier.
« * • •
Yet, with all these reservations, no one
can wholly deny the right of the Irish to
celebrate their great insurrection even in
Australia. This country publicly and officially
holds carnival over the birthday of Victoria
—the last of the Guelph dynasty, and it
can’t complain if a section of its people insist
on holding a carnival of their own in memory
of the men who tried to wipe out that
dynasty. The people who yell for the
modern Guelph have no more right to be
heard than the people who yell for the men
who tried to down the bygone Guelph. So
long as Australia endures the cult of Dutch
William it can’t logically throw out the cult
of Sarsfield, and O’Connell, and Wolfe
Tone. They are both exotic nuisances, but
a country which keeps holiday over the
birthday of a fat, uninteresting, semi-
German heir-apparent at the far end of the
earth, and holds British jubilees, and makes
a specialty of fostering English loyalty, has
no very good grounds of complaint. Irish
disloyalty has as good a right to be heard as
the other thing.
* * * *
Assuming, however, that the Irish have at
least a fair excuse for celebrating the cen-
tenary of ’9B if they want to, it is not quite
so easy to understand why they should want
to. That disastrous occasion was practically
the end of 600 years of war, in the course of
which Ireland was almost continuously on
the losing side. Scotland had barely half
the population of Ireland, and about one-
half of that population the Highland
clans—held aloof, in semi-independence,
and gave practically no support to the
Bruce or Stewart lines of kings, yet
Scotland kept up its end of a 300-years’
war against England with distinct success,
and ended by sending a Scotch monarch to
reign over the English in London. Ireland,
with vastly greater resources and a more
homogeneous population, never once shook
off the English invader from the day of his
first appearance in the country. Its history
was one long failure—almost the worst
failure in European history. Also, it was one
long chaos. Even in its greatest distresses,
it never produced a soldier strong enough to
weld its warring septs into one nation.
For at least three centuries it had a fair
chance of recovering its independence if it
had sunk its internecine feuds and followed
even a moderately able leader, and it never
showed a sign of any capacity for doing so
until it was too late—and it showed very
little sign even then. Almost every other
country of Europe also had its hour of
defeat and disaster and disunion, but, as a
rule, the occasion brought forth the strong
tyrant who could weld the fragments of the
nation together again, and restore its inde-
pendence. Also, as a rule, the national
sentiment was strong enough to make the
people rally round any leader who rose to
the occasion. In Ireland the leader never
came, and the nation never made anything
like a unanimous rally till after its indepen-
dence was wholly gone. Ireland supplied
many able commanders to the empire, but,
with the great exceptions of Patrick Sars-
field and Hugh O’Neill of Tyrone, it pro-
duced hardly any for its own consumption.
* * * *
And ’9B itself was a ghastly defeat. Yet
in these days guerrilla wars were still possible
in Europe, and it doesn’t seem absolutely
certain that the Irish, despite the odds
against them, should have been so utterly
defeated. It was only a few years later that
Spain started its famous war of independence
against Napoleon, with even greater odds
to contend against, and with no better a
cause, and it made at least a better showing
at Saragossa and Baylen than the Irish did
in the hurried, scrambling campaign which
ended in that last lamentable fight outside
Enniscorthy. There was no lack of valor,
but disunion and bad leadership wrecked
Ireland then as it did consistently for 600
years before. Since ’9B the Irish nation has
scattered to the four winds of Heaven. The
battle of Vinegar Hill was almost its last
public appearance, and it has been remem-
bered not so much because the Irish leaders
did anything very great, but rather by reason
of the beautifully eloquent speeches they
made afterwards in the dock. The Scotch
Highlanders of ’45, who swept the British
armies before them at Prestonpans and Fal-
kirk, and actually, though only 5000 strong,
carried invasion into the heart of England,
didn’t drop into any beautiful poetry in the
dock, so they are practically forgotten. Still
the bravery and patriotism of the men who
led that Irish insurrection of a century ago
are worth commemorating; though their
military capacity certainly is not. And the
last episode in six centuries of failure is a
melancholy thing to commemorate, anyhow.
Also, the present time, when the Irish
patriots, plain and colored, have hardly done
quarrelling over the grave of their last
leader, and their cause has just been wrecked
afresh by internecine feuds, is no very
auspicious occasion to celebrate anything.
It is proposed, by digging up ancient his-
tory, to remind the disunited Ireland of to-
day that the Ireland of 100 years ago was
just as disunited, and that for 1000 years
back discord raged in the green island with-
out cessation. It is further proposed to
remind the Irish people who have just buried
one opportunity with Parnell, that a
century ago, when they were stronger and
their enemy far weaker, they had another
great chance —and buried that also. There
is nothing cheerful about the anniversary,
and nothing hopeful; the Irish in Ireland
were numerically stronger in ’9B than they
are now, and the English only mustered one-
fourth of their present numbers, so it can’t
be said that the prospects have improved
much in the interim. If The Bulletin
were Irish it would hold the biggest cele-
brations it could raise in honor of Patrick
Sarseield and the great O’Neill —the two
Irishmen who, in their respective eras, made
the hardest fights against the English in-
vader, and showed the most brains in con-
ducting their campaigns, and came nearest
to success. And it would let the brave but
miserably ill-conducted scramble of ’9B have
a rest.
A Court of Appeal.
The motion of Kelly, M.L.A., that N.S.W.
Parliament should appoint a select committee
“ to inquire into and report upon the system
under which persons convicted and sentenced
are released before the expiration of the term
of such sentence,” if it does nothing else, has
at least produced one interesting result. It has
moved the Sydney Daily Telegraph to rise up
and discourse at great length upon the absolute
purity of the present system, and the spotless
integrity of Ministers and law courts and other
institutions. The following is the Telegraph’s
account of how the thing is done :
There is no obscurity whatever about the system fol-
lowed. After sentence has been passed upon a convicted
prisoner, circumstances may be brought under the notice
of the Department of Justice which suggest a reconsidera-
tion of the punishment awarded. Through the agency
of the police, or through that of persons interested in
securing the release of the criminal at the earliest pos-
sible moment, or in some other way, new facts or conten-
tions bearing on the case may be placed before the
Minister for Justice. If these seem to him of such a
nature as to warrant a re-examination of the case, he
appoints a commissioner to carry out that duty. The
evidence is looked into by him, and a report is furnished
for the information of the Minister, who then follows the
course which seems most advisable. All that a Royal
Commission whose functions were limited to the scope
indicated in the motion above quoted could do
would be to explain what is here briefly set
forth. What would be of advantage, probably,
would be a complete statement of the names of all per-
sons whose sentences have been reduced by the Depart-
ment of Justice, and the reasons operating in each
instance. It is a subject for regret that the practice
followed in this matter of the remission of sentences
awarded by the Courts is of a semi-secret nature, and not
subject to the healthy influence of full publicity. It may
be believed that in every case where the Department of
Justice reduces the punishment of any criminal, it is
for the reason that extenuating circumstances in con-
nection with the offence have been established. But it
must be borne in mind that this can be far more easily
done in a tribunal where only the defence is actively
represented than in the ordinary public court. Generally
speaking, we may presume the appointment of a com-
missioner to report upon the circumstances under which
a criminal has been sentenced is a result of appeals made
by friends of the person undergoing punishment. They
naturally make out the strongest possible case for his
early release, and no such provision exists for the subjec-
tion of their representations to hostile review as in the
case of courts of law, where the Crown appears as prose-
cutor. The commissioner conducting the inquiry no
doubt exercises to the utmost his judgment in seeking to
arrive at the truth. But, where the advocacy is all one-
sided, it is obvious that to do this must sometimes be a
matter of exceeding difficulty. It can readily be believed
that very strenuous efforts are put forth by the friends of
prisoners to secure a commutation of sentence, and that,
in the absence of hostile criticism, these would be more
likely to succeed than if made in open court.
* * * *
This is a very large statement, resting on a
very small foundation. In the first place, there
is no shred of evidence that, where the punish-
ment is reduced, it is always, or even most
frequently, because “extenuating circumstances
have been established.” There is no shred of
evidence that the punishment isn’t reduced, in
90 per cent, of cases, from quite different
motives. In most instances, there is no evi-
dence at all as to the Department’s reasons ; it
may yield to social influence, or because it is
advisable to placate an influential supporter, or
sect, or secret society. If it doesn’t yield to
social and political influence, why are influential
names so much sought after on petitions, and
why are influential persons persuaded to go on
deputations ? There isn’t even any proof that
the Department may not be sometimes guided
by considerations of “ tip ” ; there is absolutely
no evidence at all that it ever is guided by
corrupt motives, but the mere secresy of the
system affords scope for every kind of ill-
natured, and possibly ill-grounded, suspicion.
Again, it is glaringly absurd to say that on an
appeal only the prisoner’s side of the case is
heard ; it is quite common for the Judge who
sentenced the prisoner—possibly after summing
up strongly against him and harrying the jury
into returning a verdict of guilty—to have his
say on the other side. There is no proof that,
in some cases, the prosecution doesn’t get all
the hearing and the prisoner practically none.
There is also no proof that the hurried and pos-
sibly overworked Minister always personally
reads, much less fully considers, the facts laid
before him in favor of the prisoner. If he does
read them, and they seem “ to warrant a re-
examination of the case,” there is no particle of
evidence to show that he invariably orders a
re-examination ; for all the knowledge the
world has to the contrary he may often simply
remark to himself that the affair is a great
nuisance, and the prisoner is nobody in parti-
cular, and the Judge who decided that he was
guilty has very influential friends, and the
game doesn’t seem worth the candle.
* * * *
A system whereby one man may secretly
refuse justice, or grant more than justice, for
reasons that possibly can’t bear inspection, is
an infamy, and it is no use saying that that one
man, selected by chance out of the miry ways
of politics, is always such an absolutely perfect
character that he would never misuse his power
on any account whatever ; men of that kind
probably occur once in a century. Again, as
already mentioned, there is no evidence that
the Minister waits for “ new facts or conten-
tions ” in every case, and there is reason to
believe that many prisoners get out long before
the expiration of their sentences without any
formal inspection of the case by any indepen-
dent commission. Also, there is the fact that
the appointment of the commissioner, when
there is one, rests with the Minister, and that
he can, if he pleases, appoint a commissioner of
the Draconian order who almost always, from
his mere habit of mind, decides against the
prisoner, or one whose humanitarianism is so
pronounced that he can almost always be relied
upon to decide for him, and that the ruling
authority can thus get almost exactly the kind
of report it pleases every time. Also, the
Minister needn’t act on the report at all, or
even let the public know there was any report,
unless he pleases. And the law gives him (pos-
sibly a man of the most mediocre intellect and
with no judicial capacity) power to decide
what is or is not a matter demanding inquiry,
and, as in Suffield’s case, he can simply state
off-hand, on his own responsibility, that the
most convincing evidence isn’t evidence at all.
And that is why The Bulletin wants a Court
of Appeal, with power to consider new facts,
to re-consider old ones, to reverse decisions
that are contrary to evidence and probability,
to reduce excessive sentences —in fact to do
openly, by the trained intelligence of men
specially appointed on the ground that they
are the best men available, everything that is
now done in comparative secresy, by an indi-
vidual who is sometimes untrained, and often
unintelligent, and always practically irrespon-
sible as well.
m * * *
Above all, it wants this most important judi-
cial function kept entirely separate from poli-
tics. In a case such as Suffield’s the Minister
has so far adhered to the theory that there is
no reason why the case should even be re-heard.
His colleagues, under the party system, are
supposed to stand by him in that decision. The
only pow'er which can forcibly reverse it is
Parliament, and Parliament can only do it, if
the strict traditions of Party Government are
adhered to, by a distinct censure of the Minis-
ter and, by implication, of the whole Ministry.
Even supposing it thinks Suffield should have
another hearing, it can’t let him have it with-
out risk of upsetting the Ministry and the
Ministerial policy, and hurrying on a general
election, and, perhaps, losing its individual
seat and its individual salary in the scrimmage,
If the Ministry decides that a prisoner whose
case has excited much public attention should
not get a re-hearing, then the party system
holds out a direct inducement to the larger
section of the House to let that prisoner
remain where he is even if it thinks him
innocent. It also holds out a distinct
inducement to another though smaller sec-
tion to get him out, even if it thinks him
guilty. A system by which anybody’s billet
and salary may depend on his conniving at a
hideous injustice is innately rotten —and this is
the system w'hich prevails all over Australia.
The establishment of a Court of Appeal with
the most extensive powers is the only means by
which the judicial function can be kept wholly
apart from politics. And the fact that it
should be kept apart from politics and from
possibly corrupt political influences, and carried
out openly instead of secretly, by men who
devote their whole time to the work instead of
by a tired politician who attends to it with
the fag-end of his weary brain, is almost too
obvious to require demonstration.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Age” Demands a Boom.
Melbourne Age has suddenly issued its ukase
to the Turner Government that it is to fix up
a “ comprehensive scheme of reproductive
public works,” and float a big loan in London,
and start a “bold forward policy.” This off-
hand decree will speedily settle the question
whether the Turner Ministry has a will of its
own, or whether it is the abject slave of King
Syme that some people allege. Hitherto the
Ministry and David’s high-handed penny paper
have kept step pretty steadily, but then during
the last three years the policy advocated by
the Syme organ has been mostly of a kind that
an honest and intelligent democratic Ministry
would naturally adopt, and the fact that they
kept step proved very little. The sudden intima-
tion that the Syme organ wants another boom
with borrowed money is the sort of advice that
no honest democratic Ministry would follow',
therefore Turner has come to the parting of
the ways, and if he has a decent backbone
he and the Age require to part company.
There is something truly pathetic in the
reasons advanced for borrowing and boom-
ing again. The debt of Victoria, as the
Age points out, is the smallest in the
Seven Provinces —therefore the present is as
good a time as any tc make it larger. Also,
the country requires many urgent works, and
they must either be paid for by more debt or
by raising more revenue, and the former is the
easier alternative. Further, Victoria has had
a good spell of economy already—and these
constitute about the whole argument. It is a


very poor argument, too. Victoria did 13
years of glorious borrowing. It is only four
years since it raised its last big loan for public
works purposes, and it is only live months since
it definitely stopped adding an annual defi-
ciency to its other liabilities. So it has hardly
left off borrowing before it is ordered to start
again. The present is only the third year out
of the last 24 in which Victoria hasn’t added
more or less to its public debt. It is the first
year in the seven that have elapsed since the
bloom went off the boom in which Victoria has
made ends meet, and, having just got sober,
the Age demands that it should get drunk
again immediately. The province has just
demonstrated, after much tribulation, that it
is possible to pay its way out of revenue and
have a small balance over—which will probably
grow to a large balance by-and-bye if busi-
ness isn’t ruined again by more booms and
orgies and bursts available for public
works, and the Age wants .it to sacrifice all
the results of these years of struggle bv
going back to its old methods. Even in heavily-
taxed Victoria it would be possible to raise an-
other half-million a year for public works.
There are various possible sources of revenue
not yet exploited—a heavy totalisator tax;
State lotteries—the State might as well be its
own Tattersall as allow a private Tattersall
to take toll of the community ; a land-value
tax on the graduated principle ; absentee tax ;
increase of fines; tobacco monopoly, and
other devices. And if the State lays itself
out to build its public works out of
revenue, and they yield even 1J per cent,
on the outlay, every year would see
£7500 added to the revenue to make the
taxation lighter. On the other hand, if .£500,000
of 3 per cent, borrowed money is expended
annually on the same works, every year
will see ,£7500 added to the expenditure in
the shape of interest deficit to make taxation
heavier. Twenty years of the former policy
would mean that Victoria would have received
.£1,575,000 revenue from its new public works,
and would have an income from them of
£150,000 a year; twenty years of the
new Syme - boom policy would mean that
£1,575,000 would have been taken from
the people to make up shortages in in-
terest, and £150,000 a year would still be
going out for the same purpose. The only way
to become independent of the borrowing leprosy
is to make a vigorous preliminary effort like
this ; the disease has gone so far that it requires
a stupendous dead-lift to start the reformation,
but once started it will become easier every
year. But if two or three years of only com-
parative sobriety is to be held as a fair reason
for another ten years of positive “ bust ” the
situation is hopeless. It is easy for David
Syme to preach the gospel of boom now ; that
fine old man is aged 70, and every man of 70
feels that the coming boom will last his time,
and acts, it may be instinctively, on that feel-
ing. But Victoria will have to stay and see out
the collapse which would inevitably follow the
proposed Syme boom and the “bold, forward
policy.” Therefore Victoria should tell its
Syme that it isn’t taking any.
X Not Married to Smith.
The following squalid item from the cathedral
city of Goulburn is a text for a beautiful sermon
on Orthodox Respectability :
An inquest was held to-day on an infant seven months
old, the son of a laborer named Smith. The evidence
showed that Smith had been in gaol for three months.
He came out yesterday and went home drunk. While he
was in gaol his wife had been unable to get sufficient
money to keep the family, and had collected bottles and
rags. ’ She earned in this way from 4d. to Is. 6d. a day.
The child died from marasmus, the result of insufficient
food. It was stated that the woman had been assisted
by the Ladies’ City Mission, but that she had been refused
further aid, as it was alleged that she was not married to
Smith.
They are not a very nice set of characters from
a social point of view—a neglected infant, a
laborer named Smith who was doing three
months, and a woman who collected bottles,
and who was, or was not, married to Smith.
For the purpose of this sermon it really doesn’t
matter very much whether the woman in ques-
tion was married to Smith or not. And even
if the Ladies’ City Mission rises later on and
alleges that the reason for withdrawing relief
in this particular case was not the suspicion
that the woman was unmarried to Smith that
doesn’t matter so very much either. The real
point at issue is that the attitude which the
Mission is alleged to have taken up is the atti-
tude of respectable benevolence in general. Its
great object is to make dead sure in the first
place that the woman is married to Smith. |lf
the woman is in dreadfully low circum-
stances, and her infant is in danger of star-
vation, orthodox benevolence regards it as
much more of a duty to save that infant if its
mother is married to Smith than if she isn’t.
This attitude is orthodox enough, but it is
hideously illogical. The only reason for saving
the life of the infant is that it may grow up to
be a useful and creditable taxpayer, a robust
arms-bearing citizen, if need be, in case of inva-
sion, an individual who will add to the popula-
tion, and dig up something that wants digging,
or invent something that wants inventing, and
who will help by his vote to throw out the poli-
tician who needs to be thrown out for the good
of his country. And, by the time he grows up
to do these things, probably no one will know
whether his mother was married to Smith or
not. There will be nothing but the absence of
a faded entry in a book somewhere to cast any
light on the matter, and there are so very many
women who are married to Smith that among
the confusion one who might have been
married to Smith but wasn’t can pass
unnoticed. Moreover, so far as the infant is
concerned, the only solid reason why its mother
should be Smith’s lawful wife is that it may
have a permanent home, and a means of
support, and a father to bring it up in the
way it should go, and when the father is
doing three months’ he doesn’t fill any of
these conditions. And, so far as concerns the
mother, the reason why she should be Smith’s
married wife is that they may live happily to-
gether all their days, and give their children a
good education and three square meals per
diem, and teach them to wash regularly, and
not to say “ blanky.” Considering the details
of the present case, it would seem that the
Mission should have been glad all over when it
heard that the lady wasn’t married to Smith—
considering what Smith appears to be like.
And yet it apparently wasn’t glad, but very,
very much shocked indeed. It has so long
been the aim of orthodox charity to make sure,
in the first place, that the woman is married to
Smith, and, if she isn’t, to get her to marry
Smith— no matter what Smith may be like—at
once, that it can’t realise at this late hour that
the ghastly respectability of being Smith s wife
may be bought too dear.
A Financial Side Issue.
A curious side-issue has arisen in connection
with the N.S.W. Probate Duties Bill fiasco.
Two or three days before the Council threw out
that measure, Treasurer Reid promised to give
the N.S.W. municipalities a bonus or endow-
ment of 2s. 6d. in the £—about <£35,000 in all,
and there was great joy in the aldermanic soul,
and large orders for road-metal were given
forthwith. Then the Council rejected the
Probate Duties Bill, and the revenue it would
have yielded vanished into air. Next, Reid
explained that, owing to this unexpected and
awful proceeding on tlie part of the Fossils, it
would be impossible to give the promised
endowment after all. It would have been
all right if he had stopped there, but, a few
days later, he rashly boasted that he knew in
advance—a good while in advance —that the
Council would reject the Probate duties, and
that was why he rushed the Loan Bill and
the estimates through first. So the situation,
on Reid’s own showing, boils down to this:
(1) He knew the Probate duties would not
pass the Council; (2) therefore he knew
he wouldn’t have the money for the pro-
mised municipal endowment; (3) therefore when
he promised that endowment (unconditionally)
he was deliberately promising w'hat he knew
would not be forthcoming; (4) and the
only probable consequence is that broken
promise was to lead the miserable aldermen
into heavy expenditure, and then leave them
in the lurch, and make them feel that the
resulting difficulties were solely caused by the
Legislative Council, and thus induce them to
vote with all their might for Reid when he
goes to the country with the abolition of the
nominee councillors (the fellows who in-
directly blocked the endowment) as his
watchword. And this is exactly how things
would have panned out if the typical
aldermen had been a moderately reasoning
animal—but then he isn’t. He is a primitive
person who hasn’t got beyond first principles.
In the main all he has grasped is that a stout
person named Reid promised the money, and
now refuses to pay it, and all over N.S.W. he
raises his voice in a wild cry, the burden of
which is “ blanky.” Whether there is or is
not any cause behind Reid he doesn’t care ; all
he wants is the coin, and he proposes to exe-
crate at the Premier’s door till he gets it.
Which certainly isn’t the way things ought to
have turned out.
+
The Coast Hospital Scandal.
The fact that the long-promised “ amelioration
of the condition ” of Sydney Coast Hospital
nurses appears to have fallen-through, induces
The Bulletin thus briefly to summarise said
condition. These young women have to be on
duty on alternate days for 12 and 10 hours
respectively ; they are allowed but half-an-hour
for breakfast and same for dinner; and—since
for them there is no remission of duty on Sun-
days, Saturday afternoons, or public holidays—
even allowing for their miserable single holiday
per month, they work these lengthy hours
amid unwholesome conditions for 353 days in
the year, as compared with the 287 days or
thereabouts of the average toiler. Now—even if,
as pretended by interested condoners of official
incompetence and pig-headedness, the nurses
themselves desire no alteration in such oppres-
sive arrangements —the rule that we should do no
man good against his will calls here all the more
obviously for violent fracture in that the man
happens to be a woman. Even if it were not a
disgraceful thing that these young women
should, by daily duty protracted to exhaustion-
point, be rendered specially liable to the
attack of such diseases as diphtheria, typhoid,
or scarlet fever, it is to the interest, not only
of the nurses themselves, but of the patients
and the public generally, that they should
have that complete one-day-in-seven rest which
experience has shown to be necessary to the
fair working-order of the human machine.
“ If you don’t observe the Sabbath,” wrote
abolition Wilberforce, “you’ll kill either
yourself or your mind,” and S.M. Herald’s
recent ungainly attempts to make out that the
nurses don’t want any Sabbath are only evi-
dence of the extent to which that print is pre-
pared to go back on its alleged principles when
it has a Governmental axe to grind. Further,
it looks like a distinctly suspicious circumstance
that Sunday Brunker was not prepared to
give the names of the two nurses who are
alleged to have called upon him to request, on
behalf of the Coast Hospital female staff, that
there be no further parliamentary reference to
the staff’s grievances. If two women really
called on Brunker or anybody else to state,
entirely of their own free will, and with any
provable claim to represent the staff in general,
that they didn’t want any fuss made about their
11 hours work per diem for 353 days in the
year, then why not give their names ? As they
had authority to speak on behalf of the staff in
general the staff can’t make things unpleasant
for them because they spoke. And it can’t do
them any harm to have their industry and in-
tense devotion to their work made public.
When a huge grievance has been before the
community for years with all manner of facts
and particulars to prove its existence, it can
hardly be brushed away by anybody’s bald
statement that two anonymous persous are said
to have said that they would prefer to have the
subject dropped.
+
The Next Reid Surplus.
Opposition-leader Lyne, of N.S.W., looking
ahead, sees with the eye of faith where the
next bogus Reid surplus is coming from. Pre-
parations have already been made which involve
possibilities of seizing upon about £200,000 of
trust funds and putting them into revenue.
Many years ago, in the primitive, cat-and-
gallows days of N.S. W., a large area of land
was set aside to provide revenue for church
and school purposes. When church endow-
ment ceased, the property became an educa-
tional fund pure and simple, and there now
stands at the credit of this education trust fund
about £200,000, the interest on which goes into
the revenue. There are also some 200,000 or
300,000 acres of land. The Church and School
Lands Bill, which went through very quietly
in the early part of this session, provides that
the said land shall be annexed bodily by the
Lands Department, and that the trust fund
shall also be seized upon. According to clause
14:
The Public Instruction Endowment account shall be
closed, and all moneys at the credit of the said account at
the said date shall be applied, firstly, towards meeting
any claims on the said account, and, secondly, towards
the erection and maintenance of public school buildings.
This is where a beautiful opportunity to fake
the public accounts comes in. The “ erection
and maintenance of school buildings ” is done
partly out of revenue and partly out of loans.
It used to be done almost entirely out of re-
venue, in the days when N.S.W. finance was
moderately honest, but those days are long past.
When Premier Reid lays his hands on £200,000
of trust moneys laboriously accumulated by his
predecessors—and Reid’s capacity for laying
his hands on things left by his predecessors is
something remarkable—there are three courses
open. The first is to pay out of this fund that
part of the bill for the erection and maintenance
of schools which would otherwise have been
charged to loans ; and The Bulletin reckons
it would be safe to bet Lyne’s immortal soul
that that won't be done, simply because it is the
straight and honest course, and Reid’s public
finance has never been either straight or honest
when it could get a chance to be otherwise. The
second course is to pay out of the fund that part
of the bill which would otherwise be charged to
revenue—in other words, to use this trust-fund
by instalments to swell the revenue and keep
the bogus surplus afloat. The third idea is to
seize the whole £200,000 or so and dump it
into the revenue all at once, on the ground that
a similar amount will be expended on school
erection and maintenance in the future, or has
been so expended in the past. Judging by
Reid’s past record, and by the fact that clause
14 of the Act is carefully drafted so as to give
him power to grab this trust-fund for purely
revenue purposes, it is pretty safe to lay 100 to
1 that it will be so grabbed, and that that is
where the next cornstalk surplus is coming
from. The next question is : If the process of
seizing the trust-funds for revenue purposes
once begins, where is it likely to end? There
are quite a number of them that could be
annexed on an emergency. The assurance-fund
under Torrens Act, for instance, now amounts
to £156,000, and, some day or other, it will
probably occur to George Reid to pass a law
setting forth that this money is never likely to
be w'anted, and that it shall be dumped into
revenue forthwith, and nothing more said about
it.
The Victorian Assembly presented itself in a
desperately mean and grovelling aspect over
the Berry pension. Turner’s bill providing
that members (who recently added £6O a year
to their own salaries) should contribute £5 a
year of that sum towards Berry’s annuity, was
rejected by 44 votes to 41. Then Trenwith’s
amendment that the old Tribune should get a
pension from the State during his few remain-
ing years was thrown out by 45 to 41. In
other words, the House decided that the ruins
of what was once the grandest figure in Vic.
politics might hustle for a living, and, if
necessary, look for a crust in the nocturnal dust-
box. But the Government evidently felt that
the old man’s pathetic figure would interfere
with its sleep at nights, and there was a half-
hour’s adjournment to talk things over. The
result was that there were still only the same
41 votes for the State pension, but 10 of the 45
opponents had either been persuaded to go home,
perhaps by the promise that their uncle would
be made a J.P., or else they had been crippled
during the conference, or else someone had be-
guiled them into the refreshment-room, or some-
thing. Anyhow, it was decided by 41 votes
to 35 that £3IOO should be put up by the Trea-
sury to buy Berry an annuity of £SOO a year—
annuities are cheap at Berry’s age. It would
be interesting to know how these 10 dissen-
tients were induced to stay away.
Sydney lawyerdom hasn’t yet recovered from
the shock to its system administered the other
day by a juryman who coolly ordered counsel
to “sit down, and don’t interrupt!”—the
enormity of which audacity broke the Judge
up so badly that, instead of ordering the mis-
creant to be forthwith broken on the wheel, he
was only able plaintively to observe that
“ really, he had never heard a juryman talk in
that way before.” The Bulletin is half in-
clined to think it was time a juryman did talk
just that way. Apparently this juror had his
ear strained to catch the evidence on which he
had to give his verdict, and when he found his
attention distracted by the inane interruptions
of a lawyer, he naturally told that person to get
out of the road. Any conscientious juryman
would have done so ; when a man has a heavy
responsibility on him, and is intensely anxious
to do justice, and the babblings of something
in horse-hair get in the road, he is apt to be a
trifle short. All the same, that conscientious
juror was fired out. The lawyer threatened to
leave the case to take care of itself otherwise,
and the Court hadn’t the courage to simply
reply that perhaps the case wouldn’t mind.
+
Dear Bulletin, —When the Public Service
Board was appointed the lower-grade gaol-
warders of N.S.W. had a glimmer of hope that
the many grievances under which they suffered
would be modified or redressed. Instead, their
grievances have been increased to such an ex-
tent as to make life unbearable. There is no
other department in the P.S. which can lay
claim to such a huge junk of injustice as the
prisons. Before the advent of the P.S.B.
warders were getting from Bs. to 9s. 4d. per
clay for 12 hours continuous duty—seven days a
week—and get their meals anyhow. This £146
a year was considered too much of a princely
fortune for a third-class warder, and the
Board enthusiastically reduced it to £129.
(A digression : Lonsdale, defied any
member of the Assembly to give one instance
where washes were reduced under the present
Government, and members had such a grasp of
the doings of the P.S.B. that this challenge re-
mained unanswered.) Then formerly warder*
were allowed an annual leave of 14 days a year,
and this has been reduced to seven. Say a
warder resides 300 or 400 miles from Sydney
and wishes to visit that city, how is he going
to do it on such leave ? His holiday term
will expire about the time his destination is
reached. In all other departments of the Civil
Service, employes who reside over a certain dis-
tance from Sydney get six weeks' leave annually;
and they don’t work 12 hours a day, including
Sunday, either. No provision is made for
warders absent through sickness ; they are com- ,
pelled to pay 6s. a day for a substitute and keep
their families, should they have any, and pay
doctors, &c., on the remaining shilling. Mem-
bers of our Assembly have shed tears over the
employes of the Government Printing Office,
who are paid for over-time ; but there is no
record of anyone raising his voice in protest
against this gross injustice inflicted on warders.
Is it any wonder the prison system is rotten ?
Warder.
Judge Baking-powder Gibson distinguished
himself during his last tour out West by some
flashes of extra-judicial commonsense. Parti-
cularly at Wilcannia, where he deplored the
fact that the Crown will not in ordinary cases
pay the expenses of witnesses required by
accused persons. This, as he says, may be a
tremendous hardship where men sometimes -
have to take their trial 250 or 300 miles from
the place where it is alleged the offence was
committed, and where live the witnesses —
witnesses who, like the accused, are not,
generally speaking, Fat Men, and can’t con-
veniently get to the court “on their own.”
Not only is it a hardship, but it may often
mean a miscarriage of justice. Moreover, sup-
posing the accused has the luck to be dis-
charged, he is permitted to find his way back
from the court-town as best he can. The other
day half-a-dozen acquitted men were thus
turned loose, almost penniless, with 250 miles
of drought-cursed desert between them and
their homes.
+
Judge Murray thoughtfully remarked at Syd-
ney Quarter Sessions the other day, when a jury
returned a verdict of not guilty in the case
against James Archibald Todd, that he thought
it was very hard upon Todd under the circum-
stances that he should have beeii dragged from
Westralia to answer such a charge. Todd had
been manager for a building, land, and invest-
ment co. in Sydney, and the allegation
against him was that three years ago he re-
ceived £lO which he did not pay over to the
co. On this allegation he was arrested in Wes-
tralia, carried to Sydney, tried, and found not
guilty last week. The Crown, of course, execu-
ted the warrant and bore the cost of the prose-
cution. But what about the not-guilty
Todd, who, according to Judge Murray,
was “ dragged ” from Westralia to Syd-
ney? As New South Wales law stands, he
may have sued the company, limited, for
malicious prosecution, but that means a pro-
tracted stay in Sydney, a recast of all his busi-
ness arrangements and prospects, the doubtful
chances of a verdict and the risk of being unable
to collect the fruits of a verdict from a company,
limited. Law-reformers have over and over
again urged the State’s obligation to indemnify
an accused in such circumstances, the State,
itself retaining a right to proceed against the
accusers, if the latter wilfully mislead. It is a
mockery of justice to turn an accused loose, as
Todd was turned, with only his stainless
character to meet the expenses incurred
through the combined action of the State and a
company, limited.
Dear Bulletin, —Extract from “ Annual Re-
port of the New Hebrides Mission of the
Presbyterian Church of Maoriland.” Dated
1897. Publisher, Weeks, Christchurch :
Two cheering features of the year. . . One is. .
The chief men have requested us to buy all, or nearly all,
their lands so as to give us power to protect them from
the aggressiveness of the French priests.
I like this kind of missionary. There was a
missionary in Maoriland some 50 years ago
called Williams. I don’t know whether he
wrote similar reports, but I do know his
descendants are alive still, and from published
returns they have 200,000 sheep in Hawkes
Bay alone, and I presume they own the land
they run on. lam going to the New Hebrides
as a missionary.— lgnotus. P.S. —The fol-
lowing words are worth quoting, as they show
the Presbyterians have somehow got a mono-
poly from God Almighty. They are on page 1
of the report:—
Everything needed for the progress and development
of God's work among the heathen will be forthcoming,
but in supplying that need God does it, and can only do
it, through us ; and in this way puts His honour into our
keeping.
He “can only do it through us.” In other
words, He is quite helpless without Us.
You see they have got “ Him ” on a string pro-
perly, so I am sure there is money in it.—l.
Ed. Bulletin, Clipping from an evening
paper :
At Balmain Police Court to-day, W. H. Priestley,
licensee of the Oxford Hotel, Drummoyne, was charged
with Sunday trading, on the 14th inst. Sergeant Hogan
and Senior-constable Burse.v gave evidence to the effect
that, on the day in question, they went into defendant’s
hotel, and saw him supply a man with a glass of beer and
hand him some money. For the defence, the publican
said that the man was working for him, and that he gave
him a drink and 2s. Fined £2, and ss. 6d. costs, levy and
distress, or seven days.
What sort of fair-play is this ? Call this im-
partial administration of the law ? I can go
openly, any Sunday, into almost any of the
leading Sydney city hotels, and be served
without compliment and without hesitation.
A law which is down on the struggling suburban
beer-puller and winks at the big city Sunday-
breaker is contemptible.-
GEO. CROWLEY.


If there is a
Gentleman in
Sydney
whose boots are as satisfactory and
as good wearing as he wants, we
congratulate him.
But there are others
Lots of others
who are not so contentedly situated,
and to them we say
Get a Callaghan Boot.
Gent.’s Tan Laoe Boots,
whole golosh, fast color
eyelets, wide or narrow
welts, straight toe-eaps.
22/6 23/6 28/6
In black,
21/- 22/6 25/- 28/6
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street,
Sydney.
THE MUTUAL LITE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT S
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084,
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary ;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life ;
an income safe beyond peradvenfure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years
and to he free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance 'policies apply to the Manager , at the
Company’s Building, Martin's Place, Sydney, or at any
of the Branch Offices—
-289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
li.j Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
03 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Queen Victoria was one of Mr. Thomas
A. Edison’s first constituents in England for
a Phonograph, and now she is to make
a record of her voice on the instrument for pre-
servation in the British Museum. Anyone who
purchases a “ Home ” Phonograph for =612 at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Can make records of peoples’ voices ad lib., and
also secure a fine selection of musical and other
records of the highest quality. The manager
invites correspondence regarding Phonographs,
Cineniatographes, &c.*
As in a
Liking
§ lass
You will see yourself in
our photographs. They
are likenesses that your
friends and relations
will recognise Wespare
neither trouble nor ex-
pense to please you.
Call and see the beauti-
ful specimens of our
work
Id<?al Portrait Q
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground FLOOR NO STAIRB.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,"l
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge-f
ment in Permanent Bromide or 1
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras J
7/6
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood ”
Lyceum “Dick Whittington.”
Royal “Jack the Giant-Killer."
Criterion. “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Ttvon Rickards’ Combined Co.
Fitzgerald’s Circus Redfern Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Wilson Barrett's Co.
Royal “ Dick Whittington.”
Buou “ Robinson Crusoe."
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “A Gilded Sin.”
Exhibition Building..... Concerts.
At time of writing Sydney was doing its
record freeze. Barring one variety show and the
semi-suburban place where the curdling shriek is
done for 3d., the whole theatrical business had
shut up bodily. Her Majesty’s hung out till the
end of the week, and then Napoleon fell for the
thirty-sixth and last time, or thereabouts. This
left the Lyceum in sole possession, and the rotund
Shaun the Post only survived Bonaparte by one
night..
* * * *
A considerable hustle sets in, however, in
a few days. Rickards’ pantomime, at Sydney
Royal, as already announced, starts to-night
(Thursday). “Jack the Giant-Killer” is to be
produced by the “greatest cast in the world,”and
it is advertised that Australia has never seen any-
thing like it, which is a tolerably stupendous
order. The Lyceum panto, of “ Dick Whitting-
ton ” was originally fixed for Friday (Christmas
Eve), but on more profound consideration the date
was refixed for Monday, which is called Boxing
Day this year, because it is wrong to box on Sun-
day. The book of “ Whittington” was written
by Francis Myers, and the heat and burden-of the
show will be supported by Fannie Liddiard, Celia
Mavis, the pretty and clever Edith Barrow, Noney
Seabrooke (formerly of Thornton’s co.) and other
houris. “Babes in the Wood ” at Her Majesty’s
is due on the same date with “ the most powerful
pantomime co. ever organised in Australia,” so
this column expects, to be tolerably full next week.
* * * *
As a pleasant relief from the howling and
desolate magnificence of too much pantomime
Frank Thornton, with Lohr as manager, resumes
business at the Criterion (also on Boxing Night)
with “Charley’s Aunt.” And as man cannot live
entirely upon even the richest and most pro-
fusely gilt kind of dramatic fluff, the news that
there will be something in addition to the
avalanche of pantomime is a relief. No report
of any proposed re-opening of the Palace or the
Opera House is to hand so far. Meanwhile,
Rickards’ deserving show at the Tivoli is doing as
well as usual, and the silver-coin enterprise at the
Royal Standard is trying conclusions with an Irish
drama called “ Wearing o’the Green.” Said show
is now in its 61st consecutive week, and, unless it
is killed by someone putting up penny opera at
the. adjacent Gaiety, it looks like lasting a good
while yet.
* * * *
The object of this par. is to notify that
Fitzgerald Bros’. “ huge combined shows ” open
opposite Redfern railway-station on Dec. 22 for a
Sydney holiday season. If the par. were built on
the same scale as the shows it would probably fill
up two whole issues of The Bulletin and
slop over on to a third. The Famous
Fitzses’ show gets larger every year, and how
on earth it moves itself along from place to place
would have puzzled Daniel Lambert. Also, every
year the lions seem to roar louder, and the tigers
grow more man-eating, and the female, fairies are
more numerous and seductive, and the male
athletes somersault over a greaterquantity of horse-
flesh. And if there is any kind of game Aus-
tralia likes better than watching a man somer-
sault over large quantities of horse-flesh this paper
wants to know what sort of drink it is.
* * * *
Toowoomba (Q.) folk are naturally proud
of Elsie Stanley Hall, the pianiste, who has
carried the name of their township, her birth-
place, through musical Germany, and has been
told by such a musician as Joachim that she took
executive first-rank while still in her teens. But
Toowoomba people have no idea of the trouble it
took to carry that name through musical
Germany. The much-policed Germans—who
register name, and age, and birthplace, and hour
of birth, and color of mother’s hair, and a whole
lot more details concerning foreign students—in-
variably spelt the O-y aboriginal place wrong after
nine tries, and at the tenth they spelt it wronger.
The accompanying photo, of Miss Hall rather
attempts to embody her charm as a young
woman; in another one with glasses and a
severe air she looks the musician and the
fraulein, as becomes a lady who lias studied
for ten years or thereabouts at Berlin or there-
abouts. But Miss Hall, if she look continental,
feels decidedly Australian; though she wants
Australia shifted alongside Europe, so that she
can breathe home air and German music together.
People used to think Miss Hall delicate —pff ! you
could blow her away ; but she inherits sturdiness
from her mother, whose unquenchable energy has
been her musical motive-force (her father is mining-
editor of S.M. Herald). And, mistress of the
piano though Miss Hall be, the piano hardly
suffices her. She has a voice, and counts
the human voice first as a medium for conveying
musical impressions ; then the violin ; then the
organ ; and the piano only fourth. _ But her
mother taught piano: and the piano is literally
part of her—the cycle (Miss Hall loves cycling)
is detachable. The young lady commences a
formal concert-season in Melb. on 9th March ;
and until then makes holiday, with maybe a little
hay between times.
* * sK*
Carl Hertz, advanced by festive Edwin
Geach, tore himself away from those shores liist
week to meet the Indian wizards on their own
ground. Hertz may be expected to advertise the
vast resources of Australia, anyhow. He got
away with a lot of money in his hat.
The first appearance of Wilson Barrett’s
company at Melbourne Princess’s impressed a
crowded audience considerably and depressed
them, no doubt, a good deal more. “ Claudian ”
(which begat “The Sign of the Cross”) was
reckoned a heavy play even in its time of novelty
when a confiding British public believed that W.
A Young Australian Pianiste.—Miss ELSIE
STANLEY HALL.
Photo., Foster Sc Martin, Melbourne.
G. Wills’s dialogue was high-class poetry. Wills
nowadays is beginning to be recognised as a
Martin Tupper among dramatists. The dialogue
of “ Claudian ” frequently bores one ; the plot is
very unreal; the earthquake is a small catastrophe
in comparison with the “ Djin-Djin ’’earthquake ;
and, to the playgoer who hasn’t been carried off
his understandings by preliminary paragraphs,
there is nothing truly admirable in the show ex-
cept its classic costuming and general air of
dignity. Almost as much might be said for a
parish beadle. But this opinion is not a prediction
of failure for the Wilson Barrett season. “ Clau-
dian,” at any rate, will attract large numbers of
rare, occasional playgoers, and many of them
will go prepared to worship Mr. Barrett. He is
the same fine, upstanding elocutionist that he
used to be, and, although not a magnetic actor
or a remarkable exponent of stage art, his earnest-
ness goes for a good deal. Certainly he is much
stronger than any other actor in his company,
judging from Saturday’s performance. Miss
Maud Jeffreys is a pleasing leading lady, pretty
and sweet-voiced, and two or three more ladies
are attractive features in a well-balanced spectacle.
“Claudian” will probably flourish over Xmas-
time and indulge in a matinee on Boxing Day.
* * * *
Harmston’s Circus and Menagerie has come
to Melbourne: — via India, Japan, and the East in
general —at a happy moment, and the Bengal tiger
is making arrangements for a long stay. Hnriri-
ston’s Circus, for the most part, is like every other
circus, but it has a few points of difference from
the average tent - entertainment, and these are
bright points as a rule. A double jockey act is
equal to the best of single jockey acts multiplied
by ten, also the Bengal animal aforesaid is larger
and more docile than any previous tiger.
Likewise a troupe of lady acrobats is an item
of exceptional toothsomeness, and the trained
Arab steeds walk upon their hind legs longer than
previous Arab steeds that were not half as good-
looking. The Warren Sisters, on the aerial
trapeze, are damsels of whom any papa would
feel proud, and their Samsonic papa is a matter
for his offspring’s admiration when he breaks a
steel chain by casual expansion of his noble biceps.
Harmston’s Circus takes particular credit for its
strict business-regard for sweetness and light in
small details. The all-round aspect of the tent is
as clean as Venus rising from the sea, or a bride’s
best petticoat on her wedding morn.
* * * *
The Opera House is j ust no w loaded up with
two shows, bnc the Biograph half of this bloated
entertainment will move to Adelaide next week.
The Hegelmanns described as the greatest gym-
nasts on earth, will make a first appearance at the
Opera House on Boxing Night.
* * * *
Two pantomimes are to happen on the
same day of indigestion. At the Royal, where
Charles Holloway and W. Anderson have suc-
ceeded to the lease, a stupendous production of
“Dick Whittington ” is promised. Maggie Moore
and H. R. Roberts will be foremost in the fray,
and the management talks of putting 300 people
on the stage to support those energetic artists.
At the Bijou the Xmas bill is “Robinson Crusoe,”
and the person immediately responsible for
the revival of the hairy castaway in question
is Miss Ada Juneen. Robinson C., it goes
without saying, will appear on a scale of
unequalled splendor, and conclude with a
harlequinade. At the Alexandra some flaring
posters announce that Dan Barry will be “ back
at the old spot ” on Dec. 27. Daniel is the one
man in modern history who has ever done any
commercial good for himself at the old spot, and
his gorgeous representation of “A Gilded Sin ” in
five acts will probably draw grateful multitudes
to the scene of their former thrills.
** * *
A few weeks back Tiie Bulletin men-
tioned that Gladstone Wright had secured the
Xmas dates at Melb. Exhibition Building, and
would run concerts there during the coming week.
Gladstone Wright hasn’t lived to see another
Xmas, but the programme which he arranged will
be given all the same—for the benefit of his
widow and the fatherless. Therefore all those
people who thought of going to one of the three
entertainments at the Exhibition Building will
now decide to attend two of the three at least for
the sake of the good cause.
In the city of Byzantium, when Constantine was
king,
There lived a gilded Claudian, enjoying of his
“fling”—
A haughty, leggy potentate, like Marcus in “ The
Sign,”
Whose fancy ran to women, also baccarat and
wine.
He chanced to come along to see some sport in the
arena,
And he took a sudden fancy to the sculptor’s wife,
Serena ;
He didn’t stick at dealings which were barbarously
shady—
She was being sold by auction, so he bought the
married lady.
Serena fled for shelter to an Early Christian priest,
But Claudian pursued her—O, the unrelenting
beast !
And, having made some comments most imperti-
nently terse,
He slew old Holy Clement, and was treated to a
curse.
The dying Christian stood awhile, and lashed out
with his tongue ;
He ordered sinful Claudian to live for ever young.
He said, “ Thy course, like baneful star across the
sky, shall blight
And wither all upon thy track,” which burst of
pious spite,
Proceeding from a Christian priest, was not
exactly right.
No matter: Claudy got the curse, and all his time
was spent
In spreading grief and misery where erst was
merriment.
One hundred years, and more, he lived, a figure
wrapt in gloom,
For if he gave a child a “ bob,” the shilling proved
its doom.
He couldn’t feed the hungry, though he tried his
level best.
With a sense of utter failure he was horribly
oimpress’d ;
The very dawgs whose curly heads he’d condescend
to pat
Would wag their tails convulsively and die upon
the mat;
And when he sought to save a girl from fortune’s
blows unkind
She loved to gaze into his eyes, so Heaven struck
her blind,
Which made her love him more and more ; things
went from bad to worse,
And all because that Christian priest had offered
up a curse.
At last an earthquake smote the place where
Claudy’s palace stood,
And gave the man his only chance to peter out for
good.
He had to choose ’twixt death and life—a life of
earthly hell;
He talked, and talked, and laid him down, as
though not feeling well,
And when he’d talked himself to death, the cur-
tain slowly fell.
This is the yarn of “ Claudian,” related from the
stage.
It doesn’t seem a sermon built to suit the present
age,
And in the sacred name of Truth the critic maketh
bold
To say that Wilson Barrett’s youth is somewhat
stiff and old,
And all the goody things he says in dull, poetic
verse
Can’t change the shocking moral tone of Father
Clements’ curse.
At Poverty Point.
Old Clown : “ Mrs. Harmston-Love’s Circus in Melb.
proved much better than I expected. Under her regime
the young lady element is far stronger than in any pre-
vious circus shown here. Mrs. Love flings into the arena
about 13 girls, the acme of health with plenty of beauty.
They are not put there merely for the gloat of limb,
mould, and bosom, but to show how physic may be
thrown to the dogs.
“Nannie” Bennett, a pretty younger daughter of the
late Henry Bennett, of Melbourne, has just cone on the
London stage, and gets a fair chance in “ The Days of the
Duke ” (says a London correspondent). The young lady
succeeded her elder sister for a time as secretary to Melba.
She is a near relation of Chief Justice Madden.
Dear Bulletin,— Somebody in “ Pov. Point” makes the
surpassingly inane remark that “Roberts’ Svengali is
decidedly pleasanter than Fax's.” A burlesque of a grue-
somely tragic performance would be a decided failure if
it were not pleasanter than the original gruesomeness.—
Fairfax.
Mine. Sterling’s well-beloved boy, Malcolm Maokinlay,
having secured his B.A. degree at Oxford, does not mean
to enter the literary world as at first intended, but will
follow tfie profession of his mother as a singer. News is
also to hand that Sterling has scored a pronounced
triumph in a song with the very appropriate title of
“ The old-fashioned girl.”
Scot Inglis got a multitude of excellent notices from
American papers for his rendering of the Duke of
Osmunde in “ A Lady of Quality.” Detroit Free Press
describes him as having “the finish and point of the well-
equipped and experienced player who not only knows
how to act but has the temperament to feel.”
On Santley’s special recommendation, Bertha Rossow,
the Melb. soprano, was engaged by Vert to sing at the
first of bis autumn concerts, the others being Ella Russell,
Ben Davis, and Santley himself. Unstinted praise was
bestowed upon Miss Rossow’s interpietation of “Caro
Nouio.”
A Sydney concert is announced for Xmas afternoon, in
connection with the Professional Orchestral Benefit Ass.
Alfred Hill will conduct, and some good talent has been
secured. On a Xmas afternoon, people are liable to go
to sleep laden with turkey and plum pudding, and the
above concert has been organised in the interests of
digestion.
The late William Terriss made his professional dbbut at
Drury Lane, in Andrew Hallida.v’s clumsy adaptation of
Scott’s “ Ivanhoe.” The show wascalled “ Rebecca,” and
Terriss had to strike attitudes under the greenwood tree
in the character of Robin Hood. It wasn’t a large part,
but it'was'highly fetching, and the actor’s reputation as a
handsome, brave, stage hero was made in one act. Ter-
riss had no early struggles in the profeshun to impair his
ardour. He passed from one showy character to another,
always adored by the women and admired by tha
men, and, after about 25 years of looking noble he
was so little aged that he ought to have held his
position until he had become a great grandfather, but for
his melodramatic assassination by a crank. Odd that the
actor who started life gs Robin Hood should get slain by
one “ Mad Archer 1 ” Terriss, although not a really fine
artist, contrived to cut a tine figure as Romeo, to the
Juliet of the late Adelaide Neilson, and it was his
appearance that subsequently brought him into Irving’s
company. His tact kept him there for a long time. The
difficulty of retaining one’s billet at the Lyceum in those
times was very great. “If you spoon Ellen Terry you get
the sack,” said Terriss, “and if you don’t spoon Ellen
Terry you get the sack.”
One or two of Terriss’s sons were understood to be
sheep-farming in Australia a while ago. Miss Florence
Terriss, who played one of the Two V’ags. for the Firm, is
no relative. The Miss Terriss is Ellaline, who plays lead-
ing parts in musical comedy, and ranks as a theatrical
beauty.
Haresfoot: “ Wilson Barrett’s following is nearly fresh
to most of those who have followed his course in England.
A star verging towards the sere and yellow, even if he
is as far from the actual sere and yellow as Barrett,
is ever careful to surround himself only with glorious
youth. The Italian Rossi was a superb Romeo, even
going on for sixty, but took care to have a Juliet much
under twenty. Molb, one of the most famous French
comedians, died of joy, because, at over sixty, a girl of
sixteen fell in love with him,”
Haresfootlnasmuch as Terriss was engaged by the
Bancrofts in 1863, I take it he would be 50 years old now,
in this miraculous age of the everlasting youth of leading
men. An old sailor, like Bellew, Terriss’s passion was
agriculture, or rather. pastoralism, and he thought he
had left the footlights for good when he took an Ameri-
can rariche. This was one of several attempts to break
auav, but they all failed; the smear of the side-scene
was on him—as a venerable shifter said of Mary Anderson,
‘ She has rubbed her shoulders agin it.’ ”


E, BELL & CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Yestas.
Aus. I PHILIPS & PIKE,
Reps ( Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“tittle fiiant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3 -
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Son® Agent,
-23!) SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Bcrax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
STOCK
ONLY
SIR JOHN
POWERS
Whiskey.
Aus. I
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Luildirijrs, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N Z.
In the Xmas Bulletin Number, published
Deo. 11, all the old favorite Bulletin writers
are represented by picked verse and stories; and
some new ones this year come to the front with a
bang. Illustrations adorn every page ; and from
cover to cover the issue is as original and charac-
teristic and Australian as it is possible to make it.
A few copies left. Price sixpence, as usual; post-
free from Bulletin office, 7d. elsewhere than to
Queensland, and to Queensland.
LAY TO YOUR BOOK.
Our Book is Coachbuilding!
DO YOU WANT A SULKY?
There is nothing like a
SIMPSON
. . or a . .
BUCKBOARD
Simpsons “EASY” is the Latest—
—the Newest
—the Best
For anything, or part of anything on wheels,
write
SIMPSON. Coachbuildek,
Cash Only. 73 King-street, Newtown.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Periodically the S.M. Herald, which loathes
everything in the shape of State Socialism, rises to curse
the Maoriland State Life Insurance Department, and draw
comparisons between it and the privately-managed
A.M.P. In its latest outbreak it compares the M.L. busi-
ness of the two institutions thus :
New Zealand
Government A.M.P.
Insurance. Society.
Funds —January 1, 1896 ... ...£2,428,245 ... £2,046,561
December 31, 1896 ... 2,591,342 ... 2,238,190
Increase of funds £123,097 ... £191,629
Death claims 87,556 ... 69,398
Endowments ... ... ••• 23,102 ... 28,208
Expenses of management ... 54,345 ... 35,920
Expenses to pre. income per cent. 21 9 ... 177
Interest on investments 124,255 ... 119,380
Rate of interest per annum ... 4'95 ... 5'55
New premiums ... 20,451 ... 18,990
Renewal premiums 230,324 ... 183,711
Provision for losses ... ... 10,500 ... 7,914
Then it adds : “ In all essential lines the comparison is
favorable to the private institution. It has a relatively
larger proportion of new premium income. The business
is managed at a smaller percentage of cost—l 77 per
cent., as compared with 21 '9 per cent, of premium in-
come in the case of the Government department. Then,
further, the interest on investments of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society was 5 55 per cent., against only
4-95 per cent, earned by the State office. As a natural
result of this greater economy in management the private
institution added £68,(100 to its funds over and above the
additions made by the Government department. There
is absolutely no point in which the Government has
managed its business so satisfactorily as the Australian
private office. If such unsatisfactory results come from
the State management of a life insurance society, it may
well be feared how much more unfavorable wiuld be the
working of a State than of a private bank.”
This is almost beyond mere representation, and
is close up to plain Ananias. The increase in the M.L.
Department’s funds was not £123,097 but £163,097.
The Herald simply makes its subtraction £40,000 wrong.
Therefore the private office had only £28,000 more in-
crease not £68,000. The new business of the State
institution was 140,395—the Herald gets it down
to £20,451 by omitting the annuity business
which forms half'of the M.L. State Department’s work,
while the A.M.P.’s annuity business is small by com-
parison. The Maoriland Government Department earns
£4 19s. per cent, on its entire funds ; the A.M.P., on its
entire funds, earns 15 2s. 9d. It gets rather more in-
terest, apparent.lv, by the simple process of getting
rather less security ; one-third of the M.L. Department's
funds is in Government stocks, which give less interest
and the best available security, while only one-eighteenth
of the A.M.P.’s funds is similarly invested. Comparing
the Maoriland business of the two institutions, it seems,
even by the Herald's garbled account, that the A.M.P.
which started doing business in M.L. eight years before
the local State institution was born—has less funds, less
business, a smaller income from renewal premiums, a
smaller new business, and a smaller reserve for losses.
And, but for the care with which the annuity business
was left out, the comparison would he even more favor-
able to the State-managed institution. Also the expenses
of the Maoriland State institution are larger in propor-
tion to premiums mainly because the premiums charged
are very much smaller, which fact is also suppressed.
If the premium rates were the same the expense rate of
the private Office would he about 17J per cent, against 19
per cent, in the case of the State institution.
The most glaring statement of all, however, is
the assertion that the State office, with an expense rate
of less than 22 per cent, upon its much lower premiums,
shows “ such unsatisfactory results.” Among private
otlCs the National Mutual spends about 25 percent.,
Widows’ Fund about 25 per cent., Colonial Mutual about
25 per cent., and Mutual Life Association about 26 per
cent, of their premiums in expenses, and the Herald
never complains that these much worse results are “ un-
satisfactory.’ Out of 12 offices doing life business in
Australasia eight private institutions cost more in ex-
penses, and nine realise less interest on their funds than
the M.L State institution, and the Herald never draws
the attention of insurers to their unsatisfactoriness. Is
the mean old organ of private enterprise game to rise up
and say something really severe about all these big
private institutions? If the condition of the M.L. Insur-
ance Department is “unsatisfactory” by reason of the
figures published, five out of the six large private assurance
institutions of this country must be in a state which calls
for very severe language indeed. Yet the Herald is
beastly respectful to all of them.
The S.M. Herald raises a very similar shriek
of horror about the evils of State-hanking enterprise. An
extract“ It is, of course, too early yet to judge of the
results of the wuirking of the South Australian State
Bank. The announcement that of £10,665 due on ac-
count of interest and instalments of principal £720, or
67 per cent., remained unpaid cannot be regarded as very
auspicious, No doubt the season is not a farorable one,
but there is reason to fear that the results will not he
satisfact.br’. On the one hand it can be Well understood
that for political considerations advances will be made
which would not be made by private individuals or public
companies, and on the other energy will not be shown in
securing repayment such as would be put forth by a more
: deeply interested creditor." To which Tiie Bulletin re-
sponds “ Certainly ! ” The private banks—the old B.N.Z.
or Colonial of M.L., for instance, or the Queensland Na-
tional, or A. J.S., or Commercial of Australia, or Colonial
of Melbourne, also the dead Van Diemen's Land, and Real
Estate, and Commercial of S.A., and Bank of S.A., the
Mercantile, Federal, Provincial and Suburban, Town and
Country, &c., &c., &c.—were all dashed careful about
(■he nature of their advances. But the wild humor of the
thing is the plaint that the S.A. State Bank looks very
shady indeed because not quite 7 per cent, of the year’s
principal and interest is overdue. If this is true, what kind
of awful condition mu-t t he A.M.P. Society be in with over
10 per cent, of the year’s interest due by its borrowers
unpaid at the end of last year, or the Colonial Mutual
wit h about 20 per cent., or any numberof other privately-
mana'ced institutions? Is the Herald prepared to say
that their condition is very inauspicious, or to suggest
that they have perhaps been making advances that a re-
spectable State institution wouldn’t dream of? And, if
it isn’t, why isn’t it?
* ♦ * *
During last year the Mutual Life Assurance
Society of Victoria and the National Mutual amal-
gamated, and the joint institution, which preserves the
name of the National Mutual, issues its first balance-
sheet. Taking it aM round, it is a rather favorable docu-
ment. The accumulated funds are £2,703,700, so the
National Mutual now ranks as the second largest life
assurance institution in the Seven Provinces, the
£900,000 which the Mutual of Victoria threw into the
business having put it £112,000 ahead of its rival, the
Maoriland Government Insurance Department. But the
State-managed office, though it has a smaller business,
has also a much lower expense rate, and is accumulating
funds so much more rapidly that the National Mutual
will have a hard struggle to keep its second place.
The N.M. last year collected =£301,638 in pre-
miums, £116,543 in 'interest, and some sundries : total
income, £419,861. Out of this it saved and added to its
funds £140,230. The rate of interest realised is difficult
to arrive at, as the accounts represent 12 months’ income
of the National Mutual and nine months for the Mutual
of Victoria (taken over at 30th December, ’96), but it
seems to average about £4 19s. per cent. Expenses
(£78,450) are a shade over 26 per cent, on premiums, or
not quite 19 per cent, on total income, which is a pretty
high rate, and no definite improvement on last year. So
far as ail the evidence goes, however, the assets are in a
very sound condition. The amount of interest in arrear
is only £4700, so evidently the condition of the mortgages
is healthy. Also, the balance-sheet is a very clear and
comprehensive document. One notable improvement is
that it now sets forth separately “ Properties acquired by
foreclosure an item of information which every assur-
ance institution should give, though some of them lie
very low in this matter. As a rule, the less interest
arrears and the less foreclosed properties there are the
better is the condition of the investments, and vice versa,
therefore policy-holders should have all information on
these matters.' The National Mutual shows £148,000
under the head of properties foreclosed, which is not
excessive in these times.
* * * *
The very latest N.S.W. land-tax muddle is the
decision of the department that, if a man bought a pro-
perty for £lO,OOO, say in July, 1896, and there was £BOOO
mortgage on it, first half-year’s interest payable in Janu-
ary, 1897, the 1896 tax must be paid on the full £lO,OOO.
In 1897, allowance will be made for the mortgage, but
until the interest falls due the department can’t see its
way to recognise that burden. Therefore, the man whose
interest in the land never amounted to more than £2OOO
pays on £lo,ooo—equal to sd. in the £. There seems no
end to lhe small man-traps and swindles in the N.S.W.
Landaninkumtar.
* * * •
South Australia has been compelled to hurriedly
reduce the income-tax exemption from £2OO to the old
£l5O, with a view to scooping in £13,000 more revenue.
Treasurer Holder cut things so dreadfully fine in his
estimates that there was no margin even for ordinary
unforeseen expenses, or for the smallest accident, or for
reducing the deficit, or anything. Then the new drought
came along, and his reputation as a financier, which was
a very poor one at the best, went bung.
Sly and Pilcher, the Sydney lawyers consulted
by the Queensland Government re the Q. N. Bank case,
report that on the facts submitted to them it is no use to
prosecute any of the ex-directors of that dreadful insti-
tution, not even MTlwraith. Possibly the facts which
were not submitted to them might have altered their
opinion—or, again, they might not. Anyhow, it would
be interesting to know what facts were submitted. As
regards the auditors, Acting Attorney-General Wilson
mildly informed the Queensland Assembly that the
opinion expressed in their case had better he kept confi-
dential “as no good purpose could be served by its publi-
cation.” From which gorgeous hunk of insolence the
countrv will naturally infer a good many things. One of
them is that the Nelson Government is still pursuing the
old policy of hush. Another is that if the Government
is legally advised to prosecute anybody it doesn't intend
doing it if the beastly necessity can he avoided. And a
third is that such a Government would probably submit a
very mild and harmless set of facts for the Sydney counsel
to advise on.
» • » *
Last week A..T.S. Bank shares (£7 10s. paid)
crawled down to “ sellers, 3s. 6d., no buyers.”
• • • *
Mathias Larkin’s estate pays a first and final
div. of 9d. and a fraction in the £. Three long beers after
the fizz of the boom 1
• * * •
George Webster, the absentee member of
the Melbourne softgoods firm, admitted in the London
Bankruptcy Court that his drawings during the past 15
years have averaged £lB,OOO a year, whilst the profits
were not more than.£lo,o()o. Australia’s commercial pro-
fits are so largely devoted to feeding fatmen in Hingland
that we can’t hope to get level with the dear oid Mother
Country on the present system of occasional insolvencies.
Apropos ’Murkan advices that the John Ena
has left Puget Sound with 2,635,611 ft. of timber for
Broken Hill—the biggest lumber cargo, which ever left
that coast—it is estinuted that, on the average, 1200 men
are engaged supplying the Barrier mines’ timber require-
ments. By the way, in the Broken Hill Junction mine,
where the ground is very friable and heavy and the pres-
sure is alwavs great, and the liability to “creeps” con-
siderable, Australian stringy-bark is now being used
underground to a limited extent. The much higher cost
of carriage of the heavier and harder wood and the
expense of working it up have hitherto stood in the way
of its employment. . , ,
It is claimed that the new B.H. Prop, fur-
naces at Pt. Pirie are the largest argentiferous-lead blast-
furnaces in the world.
* • • *
The British 8.H.-Dry Creek Smelting-works
case, just decided in favor of the latter, will cost the
British over £BOOO.
* * * *
Old Capt. Angel, whose sulphide processes have
been well known phantoms these last seven years or so,
has been heard from again. He writes that he can “ take
all the lead, gold, and silver, and nearly all the zinc from
Block 10 ore in one operation at a cost not exceeding 50s.
per ton, everything included.” He is building a furnace
near Stratford (Eng.) to show how it is done.
* » * *
South B.H. is doing a bit better work at the
mill, and underground there have been a few much-
needed improvements,Jbut things still sick.
There is going to be trouble over the employ-
ment of boy-labor on the Broken Hill mines. The Lead
Poisoning Prevention Act says that no boy under ]6 shall
he employed about mines producing lead ores, hut the
difficulty has been got over by the youngsters returning
fictitious ages. Lately the A.M.A. drew Ministerial
attention to the fact that a boy who had been injured
was, according to a certificate produced, under the statu-
tory' age ; and it was then found that he had otherwise
described himself in the register which each mine is bound
to keep Result: an order has been issued to the Co’s,
that they must satisfy themselves by insisting on the pro-
duction of birth-certificates or otherwise. As it is ex-
pected that some hundreds of hoys (and consequently
also parents) will be affected, the cos. jump at the
chance of making the A.M.A., which moved in the
matter, unpopular by promptly insisting on the certifi-
cates And the prospects of the A.M.A. candidates for
the Municipal Council are gloomier in consequence ; for
in Broken Hill, where the rating of the mines is an ever-
green question, municipal politics are conducted on
pretty clear Labor and Capital lines.
The 111 a war ra smelting works continue to re-
receive parcels of ore from different parts of Australia,
hut with the exception of those from the Junction mine,
Broken Hill, and the Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, they are
small lots, and the total is a loner way short of the quan-
tity required to keep works of their size in anything like
full swing. A thousand pities these works were not
situated on the deep waters of Port Jackson, where they
would be available by land and water carriage for the
mines of Australasia. Why Dapto was selected for the
expenditure of ±250,000 on works the chief consideration
of which is their accessibility, is a mystery the writer has
never been able to fathom, but that it was a gigantic
mistake is beyond question.
* * • *
The Sabbath tipster urges several inquirers
and they seem to be dwindling in number—to “exercise
patience.” But this cannot refer to that rich copper-
mine, North Nymagee, of which this infallible authority
says : “ There doesn’t seem anything better in the mar-
ket at present than a purchase of North Nymagees at
the ridiculous price to which they have gone. Why the
shares should fall when the shafts are being sunk and.
the mine is looking as well as ever, is one of those things
‘ no fellow can make out.’ ” It is because the show is
looking as sick as ever that the shares have dropped, and
the thing difficult to understand is why they ever went
up to four times their present price. Followers of Sab-
bath mining-tipsters, or any other sort, deserve all their
winnings—when they get them.
The Adelong gold escort returns indicate that
the Gibraltar mine is producing about 2000 oz. a month.
Why this mystery about the production of Bull-owned
gold-mines in N.S.W. when there is any production ? In
that awful list of N.S.W. mines owned by Bull very few
are producing any gold at all.
• * * *
A nnounced from England that the October return
from the Beacon mine, N.S.W., showed a profit of £l6OO
—612 tons, 7170 z. Another div. declared. Whether the
mine will last long enough to return the heavy purchase
price is a question on which local opinion— not worth
much, anyway—is divided.
* * ♦ *
Bethanga—a mine on the border of N.S.W. and
yic.—for many years regarded as producing the basest
ore in the two provinces, is now worked by an English
co. at a profit. Oct. return, 627 tons, 809 oz. gold ; profit,
£1450.
* * * *
Bear Bulletin, —Re Inverell (N.S.W.) diamonds
and for information of a correspondent in a recent issue.
The price ruling on the field for all that can be got is
from 7s. 6d. a carat upwards. The very smallest fetch
this price and sell freely on the ground to representatives
of Melb. and Svdney houses. The Inverell Diamond Co.
ships all its diamonds to Europe. This co. has recently
imported 100 tons of machinery in the shape of a washing-
plant now being erected on the ground, which may be
considered as some evidence of the apparent value and
permanency of the field. Being a private co. the price
it gets for its diamonds is known only to itself.—J.B.H.
* * * *
Rainbow and Mountain Maid Extension, Cope-
land, N.S.W.—a well-tipped mine—let on ( tribute :
“ About four tons at grass, showing gold freely.” About
time we heard something concerning the erection of a
20-head mill.
* * * *
The 100 American-modern-stamp mill working
on the Cobar Gold Mines, N.S.W., is likely to close down
pending the erection of a cyanide plant big enough to
deal with its tailings. While a devil to crush, putting
through with ease 300 tons a day, its amalgamation is no
better than the other mills of the camp, if as good.
Manager O’Gorman has gone to London to explain mat-
ters to his directors.
* » * •
Occidental mine, Cobar, N.S.W., placed under
offer for sale. Average return from some 60,000 tons,
4dwt. —mostly taken from an open cut 100 ft. deep, 70ft.
wide, arid about 120 ft. long. A few divs. have been paid,
and balance of profits earned went in the erection of
plant. Tailings heap samples about 3£dwt. Upwards of
250,000 tons of ore exposed. Intention of the buyers to
put in an entirely new system, cyanide the tailings, and
to get down into the copper region as well.
° * * » • • ■
With Xmas are coming some little crushings
from little mines in the Hill End (N.S.W.) district.
Beattie and party, Hawkin’s Hill, 23 tons, 470 z. Mullaney
and Gough, Squilly’s Flat, 33 tons, 660 z. “ They have some
more payable stone in sight, have been prospecting lor
two years, and deserve good luck.”
* * * *
Eleanora, Hillgrove (N.S.W.): “Decided to
apply for three months* suspension to enable capital to be
raised to prospect the mine.** A very sick outlook for a
mine, bought some years ago for £35,000, having a plant
costing 1 nearly as much, and which has produced a heap
of gold and antimony without thejuxury of a^div.
At last the Mt. David shareholders have it
from their manager that—“ There are rich veins all
through the main body on the 70ft. level varying from
6in. to 2ft., and by following them expect to keep the 10-
head battery running on stone which ought to crush
about an ounce per ton.” Another manager in the dis-
trict has been instructed to run the rule over the mine.
Meantime shares have fallen below 2s. for paids, and
what 1 as become of the contributing Heaven only knows.
* » * *
There were 17 fatal mining accidents in Vic-
toria from March to October of this year—a record for
recent vears.
* * * •
The old-time Snob’s Hill (Bendigo) has just had
a shaking-up, a new reef formation having been struck at
1735 ft. in the St, Mungo. The best development, on first
acquaintance, for 10 years. There has been very little
luck about Snob’s Hill since the glory of the Belmont and
Saxby departed. , * *
The two Vic. gold producers: Long Tunnel,
1949 tons, 1817 oz.; South German, 927 tons, and copper
plates, 1860 oz.
» * * •
Qhartz good enough for divs. is worked in the
New-Chum Railway mine, Bendigo, at a depth of 2930 ft.
* • * *
Some talk of Walhalla North being about to
strike the reef and send the shares up.
• • * *
Investors’ Review Wilson says of Mt. Lyell
that at a recent meeting an offer of assistance from the
Rothschilds in the working of the property was refused
adding that if the new copper industry of Tas. was con-
ducted as carefully in its development as in its inception
it ought to be able to dispense with outside and by no
means disinterested help. When success does come, he
hopes that the pioneers will not be tempted to enter upon
the danger-fraught course of floating profitable under-
takings on the speculative investor with monster capitali-
sations for their own profit. Then would come the
opportunity of syndicates and the good beginning would
have a melancholy conclusion.
The admitted cost of treating Mt. Lyell ore
(235. 3d. a ton) proves that there is nothing so very
wonderful in pyritic smelting after all.
* • * *
Tas. mineral exports for November Gold,
£23 841; gold, pyrites, £450; iron ore, £l5 ; gold, quartz,
£230; tin, £12^212; copper, £8; copper ore, £230;
blister copper, £33,268 ; silver ore, £12,043. Total,
£83,197. Beats corresponding month of 1896 by nearly
£30,000.
’ * • * *
Reported that Knox, Schlapp, Orr, and others,
have purchased over 100 acres adjoining the Tasmnnia
mine, and operations to find the lode will follow by a co
having a working capital of £15,000.
* * * •
Still another added to the list of Kalgoorlie
gold-producers—Kalgurli, 539 tons, 22450 z. Comment
needless. A 22450 z: cake speaks for itself.
• • * *
The Westralian Mining Commission, held a
special sitting to listen to N.S. W. Govt, geologist Pittman,
who gave his opinion about things in general. Talking
of expei iments in his own province, he spoke hopefully
of Ashcroft’s sulphide process, and disgustedly of the
Govt, metallurgical works. “ The trouble is,” he said,
“ that, the Govt, expects to get a man for £l2OO a year
who is capable of metallurgicall.v treating every kind oj
ore sent to him. There is no such man in the.world ;ll
there was he could make an enormous fortune in two or
three months.” Which is sense. Also, Mr. Pittman
doesn’t think much of public batteries. Which may be
sense—it depends upon several things. For one thing,
given up-to-date public batteries, honestly and efficiently
conducted, the poor prospector and miner has a show to
work his claim on his own, and is not under the necessity
of giving nine-tenths of it to the man who can “ introduce
capital ” —enough, too often, to make the show unprofit-
able, and thus shut it up.
* * * *
Some prices at the Boulder (Westralia) at the
beginning of Nov. —Beef (no mutton), Is. per lb. all
round ; cauliflower, 6d. lb. ; pork, Is. 3d. ; butter, 2s. 6d.;
water, up to £1 per 100 gals.
• * * *
Hannan’s Proprietary Development Co., W.A.
—The fortunes of this concern appear about to change.
Floated in London with £150,000 working capital; little
enough considering the number of leases it had to keep
going. After spending heaps of money, a payable lode
has been found in the Oratavia block; the prospects of
picking; up one or other of the lodes famous in other
mines are g;ood ; one lease has been floated off, others will
probably follow, as the co. has more than it knows what
to do with; shares have advanced the last few months
from 10s. to about par ; and altogether H.P.D. co., after
having passed through much tribulation during which its
promoters suffered the pangs of the damned, is appa-
rently on the eve of better things.
• * • *
In the Sir John Forrest and Lady Loch amalga-
tion, the shareholders of the former thought they bad
the best of the deal. Directors of the Lady Loch said
little, but proceeded to business. It now transpires that
the expert asked to examine the mine cabled : “ There is
practically no ore in sight in the Lady Loch entirely
stoped out above the water-level, and below the water-
level the ore is too poor to work. The rock is exceedingly
hard. I advise you to replace by new property,” And at
one time it had a market value of over £250,000, and,
according to some of the great mining authorities of the
Liars’ Land, the shares were then “as cheap as dirt.”
• * * *
Big things said of the Associated Gold Mines,
W.A., at the meeting of shareholders held in London.
Chairman : “ They had evidence of tellurides all over
their property. The average yield was 3oz. per ton, and
they might certainly look for another oz. They had
eight mines, but nearly all the ore had come from one
shaft and from one block, the Australia East. They had
received an offer of £4 each for the whole of the new
issue (125,000), but were issuing 75,000 to the shareholders
instead at £2 10s.” Geo. Brookman : “There was noth-
ing to prevent the A. Mines having, within the next 12
months, the largest producing-plant in W.A.” Horatio
Bottomley : “He estimated that the W.A. gold-output
for ’9B would be worth £5,000,000, of which £1,000,000
would be from the Associated.”
I*» * *
Once more the poor public endures the news
that “ good developments have taken place in Hannan’s
Croesus mine, Kalgoorlie.” This time the ore is very
rich, being bagged as it is broken, in fact. But the size
of the chute is not known, and, as a rule, when that is
the state of things, the chute is mighty small ! The
writer is sorry for the Croesus, forthe curse of newspaper
lying is upon it, and from this fewmines ever recover.
The end of the Anglo-Saxon G.M. Co. (W.A.)
has come with many painful revelations. Stone which
“assayed” 50oz. to the ton went less than loz. when
crushed ; the shareholders have gone down for £6000;
one of the prospectors has been found in gaol-serving a
sentence for horse-stealing ; mine and plant about to be
sold under execution. With usual luck some Sydney
men, principally musicians, got into this show, and their
enthusiasm of a few months back has turned to curses.
* * * •
A meeting of the General Gordon Extended
was held on Dee. 20 to resolve that the poor lame G.G. be
not extended any more, but wound up voluntarily—“ the
directors now seeing no encouragement to continue with
the mine.” And is the “ parent mine,” the Gordon pro-
per, preparing to meet its doom ?
Herr Schmeisser, the German State expert who
was credited with saying some rather severe things about
Westralian “ floats,” is writing a book, “Die Goldfelden
Australasiens,” treating of “ financial, economical, and
social aspects ” as well as “ geological history and metal-
lurgical features.”
0 * • * *
Royal Oak mine, Coromandel (M.L.), has pro-
duced in five months gold and silver bullion to the value
of £16,000 from only 90 tons of ore, and M.L. papers ask
why these great figures “are not wired over the earth ?”
Alas ! there are other mines there sold to Bull for huge
sums of solid cash, regarding which M.L. papers are
themselves discreetly silent 1
• * • *
Herberton district, it has been arranged, is to
have a copper-boom.
* * * •
The last gold extraction process prominently
placed before the public in London depends on the use of
bromine as a solvent, instead of cyanide. Name of inventor
not given in the long descriptions published, but Cassel,
the manager of the co. running it, made the technical ex-
planations. Few people know that the parent co. of the
cyanide process lost a tremendous sum of money in a
process by Cassel before it took up M‘Arthur and
Forrest, the inventors, and though the M'Arthur-Forrest
process is of comparatively recent date, more gold has
been recovered by it from tailings than by the use of all
other methods put together for all time.
Ed. Bulletin, — When is N.S.W. Mines De-
partment going to exercise some supervision over the
cronk public batteries, or gold-mills, that are squeezing
the life-blood out of more than one struggling field ? It
is about time the Minister ordered a “ Public Batteries
Licensing Bill” to be got ready; failing this the M.P
who introduces such a measure, with drastic provisions
against sneaking of amalgam or using oiled silver, Will
have a safe seat in any N.S.W. mining district.
GRO.


y
ORIENT
_
• "N
_
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
rsm
SYDNEY.
“ COJ&TO ” HOTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OP THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO -6d. Each.
See the name CORTO on the hands, and beware of imit
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
Bunlestin
COCMAC
THE NEW CHILD.
“I say, Cissy, there’s a chance for you to wear knickers. Listen to what it says in this
paper —‘ Since I have taken Brown’s pills I have been a New Woman.’ ”
Just as a dog, according to N.S.W. legal
decisions, is entitled to his first bite, a husband, it
" * ’ . . - *
has been ruled m the Divorce Court, is entitled to
two bites before the trouble really begins. In
other words, it seems to be held that it is only
when he has spanked the partner of his bosom
three times that she can apply f<?r a divorce on the
plea of habitual cruelty. Yet, if a man is in real
earnest, he may spank his wife quite as habitually
the first time as the third.
On a Sydney lady organ-grinder’s pla-
card in Sydney : “My husband deserted me
seven years ago. I have two children and no
other means of support.” Reads quite like a
matrimonial advertisement —and the lady organ-
struggler isn’t bad-looking either.
* * * *
The town of Kempsey (N.S.W.) sends up
a bitter wail to the effect that it is choked with
thirst and blinded by dust for want of a decent
water-supply. Good water can be obtained any-
where about Kempsey by sinking a very moderate
distance, but the Council says it can’t sink for
want of the necessary water-rate to pay expenses,
and the people want the water before they pay any
rate. Nobody in Kempsey seems to have struck
the brilliant idea of passing the hat round and
starting the work by public subscription, or of the
inhabitants turning out in their spare time and
tackling it on their own ; so the dusty town con-
tinues to parch, and it has a brick in its eye and a
thirst that fish could be fried upon.
Advt. from Sydney Morning Heeald :
T , of , do hereby caution the Public
-*-> from slandering my name in reference to ray
being married, the same being untrue. After this
date I will take legal proceedings.
Apparently, marriage is such a failure nowadays
that even a suspicion of it can blight a young
man’s prospects, and he has to defend his character
at the point of the police-court, as it were.
* * • •
A ketch, destined to carry crayfish to Mel-
bourne and Strahan, has just been launched at
Three Hummock Island, Tas. According to a
Launceston daily, “as she glided into her natural
element she was christened Lady Brassey amidst
the cheers of the spectators.” Evidently things
are looking up with the Brasseys.
* * * *
In the “ Woman’s Page ” of a Sunday
paper, by way of corollary to some sultry deliver-
ances on the subject of “Love,” a sweet little
thing is permitted to whoop over the formation of
a ladies’ cricket club because, among other
things, cricket doesn’t tend, to “arouse the
animal passions.” A notable characteristic of the
New Woman—who is also mostly the Blue
Woman—is her craving to drag in remarks about
the animal passions on all possible occasions. The
one thing which makes it quite impossible for the
public to forget occasionally that there are animal
passions is the constant unsavoury whoop of the
Blue Woman asking it not to have them.
• * * •
This item should prove of absorbing in-
terest to all defaulting congregations. Trinity
Church, Brisbane, decided a week or two ago to
reduce, its pastor’s stipend to .£2OO per annum
until the amount due to him had been liquidated.
j us t fancy making the parson pay what the con-
gregation owes him ! The humor of the thing—
the sheep shearing the shepherd !
* * * *
A hunch of simultaneous penalties in-
flicted on one man for a sequence of offences by
Brisbane (Q.) police-court, Pinnock presiding:—
Disorderly conduct, fined £2 or 14 days; assault-
A NATURAL INFERENCE.
WHIT: “ Yes, sir, my wife’s an angel?”
BLAGK: “ What are ye—widower or honeymooner?"
ing a policeman, £2 or two months ; destroying
police uniform, 55., with £llss. amount of damage
= £2, or one month ; assaulting a lydy, two
months without the option. At the same sitting,
another man, for “ langwidge,” £2 or seven days.
Again the query : how much fine is equivalent to
how long in gaol ?
* * * *
George Alfred Bean, the Vic. lands official
who got into trouble to the extent of -£790, took
the liberty, after pleading guilty, of selecting
Castlemaine Gaol as his place of incarceration.
Prisoners in general don’t have a voice in such
matters, but G.A.B.’s solicitor, for some dark
reason or other, suggested a short term of im-
prisonment at Castlemaine, and the Judge took
the hint. Bean was sentenced to two years. He
had embezzled a very large sum of money, said
Judge Hamilton, and the depositions didn t dis-
close any reason why he shouldn’t get three years,
at least." “Peopleof high character and position
had, however, come forward and made representa-
tions on his behalf ’’—therefore the learned dis-
penser of justice allowed a large discount off the
sentence. A discount for cash, as one might say.
St. James’s Budget (London) :
This is the day of comic statesmen. The statement is
undeniable, whether we laugh at or with them. Far and
away ahead of the others are the Australasian Premiers,
who for deliberate buffoonery in public speeches are with-
out parallel. Who has not heard of the girls whom they
would have kissed, or actually did kiss, during the recent
Jubilee celebrations?
And then (this is the exasperating part of the
business) the writer stops short. Which girls did
the Premiers kiss at the Jubilee, and which Pre-
miers kissed these girls?
* » * *
There are several foreigners engaged in a
certain branch of the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works who, for the most part, conduct
themselves quite as decently as the average Chris-
tian. The vagaries of one extraordinary indi-
vidual, however, are causing considerable dis-
cussion amongst his fellow-officers. Their hours
are from 9 a.m. to 12.45 p.m., and from 1.45 to 5
p.m., but the gentleman aforesaid insists upon
commencing at 8.30 or thereabouts, knocking off
ten minutes after the others in the lunch-hour,
and starting ten minutes earlier to make up for
it; what time he finishes in the evening is only
a matter for conjecture, as no one has been known
to stay late enough to find out. He doesn’t get
any extra pay for it, nor does he ask for extra
pay ; apparently he tears away at his toil night
and day simply beoause he wouldn’t be happy
otherwise.
* * * •
Sydney householders have learned that
they need not feed a bailiff who is put in to dis-
train for rent. One bailiff declares he would have
starved only he managed, without leaving the
premises, to buy two loaves of bread from a baker
passing the window. And, he lugubriously com-
plains, the householder perfumed the establish-
ment with the cooking of steak and onions three
times a day to aggravate his hunger. Another
bailiff, within the last few weeks, made a bolt to
purchase something at the butcher’s, but found
himself locked out on his return. A crisis is
bound to come if this bitter war goes on. Some
years ago a Judge in Chambers ruled that if a
bailiff is not fed by the householder he may go
out for his food, apprising the householder of the
fact that he is absent for the legitimate purpose of
obtaining sustenance, and can demand admittance
on his return. But this does not cover going out
for drinks, nor does it cover going out for more
than three meals a day. When householders
learn a little more as to their power over a bailiff
the latter’s profession will be even less desirable
than it is.
* * * *
To those in the know there’s a wealth of
wisdom in the printed announcement, “Gentle-
men canvassers only admitted,” on the doors of a
certain merchant’s office in Melbourne. The last
time a lady canvasser was admitted
♦ * * *
Half-a-dozen Adelaide doctors are ousy
calling one another liars in more than half-a-
dozen different ways ; and the worst feature
of the disgraceful wrangle is that it com-
menced round the death-bed of one of the most
peaceably-disposed men in the world—M'Pherson,
S.A. Parliamentary Labor-leader. Drs. Henry
and O’Connell were in attendance, but as M'Pher-
son wanted Ramsay Smith, the imported Hospital
physician, called in, and as Henry wouldn’t con-
sult with him, there was no option but to “ sack ”
the early attendants and take on two others, in-
cluding Smith. But a letter conveying the notice
is alleged to have been delayed between the
sender and Henry, with the result that the sup-
planted doctors came along to find the other
fellows at the bedside. And then the band began
to play.
J £* * *
Red-tape made 100 not-out in northern
Vic. lately. At Echuca, a poor devil, suffering
from malignant cancer, attempted to do what the
doctor afterwards told the Court any ordinary
man in the same circumstances would have done,
so “intolerable” was his existence. Luck was
against him; he failed, was arrested, and re-
manded for a week. But, instead of being treated
locally, he was forced to suffer the indescribable
agony of a 60-mile journey to the nearest gaol-
hospital, in Bendigo. At the end of the week
he was given 60 miles of agony back again to
appear at the police-court. Being committed for
trial at ,the Bendigo Assizes, there was, of course,
another 60 miles to do, winding up with a nominal
sentence passed by Holroyd, J., “merely for the
purpose of having him properly attended to.”
» * * •
A Melbourne detective —some weeks back
—played it very low-down upon the parental in-
stinct of the person he was trying to “ cop.” The
man who had the warrant out against him was
charged with an intention to desert his wife and
family, and his line of railway movement on a
certain day was known. So the police planted his
white-haired boy in a prominent position on the
platform of a station where a certain train would
stop, and, sure enough, the “wanted” father
(whose identity was unknown to the police)
bustled from the train to pick up and hug his
child. Betrayed by a kiss, he fell into the unsen-
timental grip of the law, and got bound over not
to forsake the missus, or something to the same
effect.
* * * *
The Avoca alleged murder is the biggest
sensation in the Isle of Morpheus. As usual in
Tas., every soul within 15 miles of the tragedy
has been assisting, the police. Blood-stained bags,
coats, hammers, axes, logs, chips, grass, fence-
rails, horse-hair, cow’s-tail-hair and other articles
have been brought in—in fact, there seems to be
blood all over the island. r i hey take their lone-
some little tragedy very seriously in Tasmania.
AS THE TIDE TURNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roll over roll, roll over roll,
The tide comes in through the mist and rain ;
Roll over roll, roll over roll,
Roll over roll on the great sand shoal,
The tide turns round and goes out again.
Roll over roll, roll over roll,
And a soul comes in from the misty main ;
Roll over roll, roll over roll,
Roll over roll and a weary soul
Goes out to sea with the tide again.
rODKILIO QUINN.
BENEATH THE TREES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the creek winds through the meadow,
And the ferns and flowrets grow,
There I whispered her a secret
In the days of long ago.
Where the river-oaks were moaning,
As they bowed unto the breeze,
Fondly there we planned the future
As we lay beneath the trees.
There one day I long had waited,
As the minutes flew apace ;
Oft I scanned the hill and meadow,
For a longed-for form and face.
Then I laid me down a-thinking,
And my mind grew ill at ease;
For her step in vain I listened
As I lay beneath the trees.
Time rolled on and wrought its changes—
’Neath the oaks I lay again ;
In my day-dreams came a vision
Of my bride with wedding train ;
And the marriage-bells were ringing,
Giving tongue unto their glee,
But, alas 1 they changed to tolling
As I lay beneath the tree.
Tolling, tolling, sad and slowly,
Not for bride, but maiden dead,
And I saw a winding cortfege,
Dark the waving plumes ahead;
Then a vision of the churchyard,
’Mid the humming of the bees—
She was sleeping calm and peaceful
As she lay beneath the trees.
GRAVITY.
Ah, dear, the love-gleam in your eyes
Exalts my soul; we seem
As twin-stars circling in the skies
Of hallowed fairy dream.
And yet ... I fear ... we must not stay !
Stars never rest at all 1
To pause on their celestial way—
Would be to risk ... a fall I
ALONE.
If you ever go astray
From the thorny, narrow way
For to better your finan-ci-al condition,
Should you chance to come to grief,
And be potted as a thief —
Well, fetch along some people of position.
That’s the time to fetch ’em,
The time to fetch ’em ;
Their “ position ” will reduce your crime ;
For an influential nudge
Knocks the feelings of a Judge—
That’s the time to fetch ’em,
That’s the time.
Whilst at liberty on bail
You must spot a decent gaol,
And the lawyer, in expressing your contrition,
Will give the place a name
Where you wish to hide your shame,
Under patronage of people of position.
That’s the time to fetch ’em,
The time to fetch ’em
O, his Honor is a sight sublime,
When he wipes away a year
Of the sentence with a tear—
That’s the time to fetch ’em,
That’s the time.
But how different the scene
If the culprit isn’t Bean !
How terrible his Nibbs’s admonition
Of the common-looking “case,”
Whose unfortunate disgrace
Doesn’t trouble any people of position.
That’s the time to catch ’em,
The time to catch ’em—
Those precepts very old and prime ;
When the culprit in the dock
Hasn’t pals who “do the Block” —
That’s the time to catch ’em,
That’s the time.


A
SNAP-
SHOT
The
Victor
Camera
<2l/-
Tbe
Duplex
Corners
i
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page 18.
9
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
XJOSE’S CELEBRATED
" EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; used with mar-
vellous success in the London Moorfield Eye Hospital.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-
street, Sydney. Open all Night—also Sundays
and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout,
Austral in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOI7NTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QXJAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.-
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Melbourne Leader tells a
little tale of a Chinaman at Ballarat
whom the local lay-reader had res-
cued from the bonds of Confucius
and converted into a bright and
shining light. He continued to
shine, till one day the preacher
called on him, and, to his horror,
found him grovelling before a small
brown earthenware Joss just as of
old. The Mongol’s explanation that,
being in the vegetable line, he had
to keep one small god to kick when
it didn’t rain, was not regarded as
satisfactory. There is a great theo-
logical question involved in that an-
ecdote. The Mongol kicks his god
when the drought is very bad, on
the assumption that the god is to
blame. The Aryan, being more en-
lightened, asks his god to kick him,
on the ground that he is to blame
himself. He also professes to kick
himself, and calls it having a day of
humiliation. And, so far as the
evidence goes, the rain seems to
keep off with equal liberality either
way.
* * »
Holdar M. : “An experience.
Being taken ill suddenly, the other
evening, writer dropped into a
chemist’s to inquire the address of
a reliable adjacent doctor. The
pill-person supplied the informa-
tion—the doctor lived several blocks
away—and, glancing at his clock,
hurriedly directed this scribe to an
opposite undertaker’s, explaining
that the coffin-inan’s telephone must
be used to detain the medico, who
usually abandoned his patients at
that hour. This was duly nego-
tiated, but, despite the successful
issue, there is another Sydneyite
whose cheery optimism has sus-
tained a severe shock.”
» • *
The further North you go, the
harder becomes the task of finding
out a man’s religion. Scene—Rock-
hampton District Court. Witness is under inter-
rogation. “Are you a Christian?” “No, I’m
a cook.” The devil sends cooks. The witness was
allowed to affirm, but was not sworn.
* * * *
A aolemn church court was held in the
chapter-house at Melb. Anglican Cathedral the
other day, and Bishop Goe sat heavily in judg-
ment on an afflicted brother—said brother being a
suburban parson accused of taking whisky for
his stomach’s sake, to the great detriment of his
head. The reverend was found guilty of being
afflicted with alcoholic silliness in the pulpit, and
saying “ hie ! ” all through the service, and dot-
ting the prayers with the same verbal short, sharp
shock. The Bishop read the arid parson a dry,
gritty desert of a sermon on the fearful sin of
thirstiness, and the unspeakable iniquity of yield-
ing to it —a sermon calculated to drive Job himself
out on the ancient burst—and then sentenced the
fallen reverend to three months’ suspension. The
Photo., Window & Grove, Eng.
Mr. WILLIAM TERRISS (recently murdered in
London) as Jack Medway in “The Union Jack.”
Bishop also recommended prayer. Has the effi-
cacy of prayer ever been tested against a raging
whisky thirst ?
* » * *
Coolgardie advt. :
mllE Lady who sailed into my shop, close-hauled on
-*- the port-tack, rum laden, rolling heavily, and
making about three points leeway, please leave ad-
dress, and the canvas bought will be delivered.
THOSE SILKEN BONDS .
HARD-UP JOHNNY : “I beg your pardon, sir, but could you
oblige me with the loan of half-a-crown? I am not a
professional beggar, as you can see. I’m an English
gentleman, and the son of a”
B EASTLY COLONIY: “No; I can’t lend you a stiver! ”
HARD-UP JOHNNY : “ Well, demme if I ever saw such a beastly
impecunious lot as you Australians are !”
A Bendigo (Vic.) man, who recently at-
tempted suicide because of his poverty, survived
because the poison he took was so grossly adul-
terated as to be practically harmless. This is
playing it low down on a person in low circum-
stances.
* * * *
Almost the first news that reached Eng-
land re the disastrous Victorian hurricane was
conveyed in a letter to the Times, in which
“ Samuel Ballarat ” begged for Bull’s charity to
help in rebuilding the blown-down tabernacles.
The parsons won’t allow Australia to become
independent and self-reliant. They are always
writing to some foreign nation to state that this
country is a crawling, tattered mendicant, and
that coppers and old clo’ and broken victuals will
be thankfully received. It is mostly the imported
parson who does this, and that is one reason why
this paper loathes the imported parson with a
great loathe.
° » * * *
A Sydneyite tells how, when re-
turning from Melbourne Cup in a rail-
way-carriage with seven other devils
like unto himself, the “blue” story
business was in full swing till at Wagga
the entrance of a parson caused a sud-
den silence which the holy man was
evidently at no loss to understand.
“For,” said he, with a twinkle in his
reverend eye, “ fire away, gentlemen—
don’t mind me ! Out of the pulpit I’m
only a man ! ” And then, to encourage
them, he deliberately told about the
fullest-flavored yarn any of these eight
devils had ever heard in his life.
» * •
The private undertaker should
and must go. The whole hideous exist-
ing burial system is a gross libel on
civilization. The ghastly unseemliness
of building an industry upon death and
making coffindom commercial has long
ago brought about, in Paris, the pompes
fuvAbres system, whereby the munici-
pality—while ready to inhume the rich
man with any gorgeousness desired— is
also ready to give a decent free burial
to the poor man. Once more—a “matter
they manage better in France ! ” “ Let
the dead bury the dead ! ”
* * *
Wanganui (M.L.) Chronicle
advt., Oct. 27th :
TT/" ANTED, by a respectable man, situa-
' ' tion as married couple on farm or
Btation. Apply, &c.
* * •
Cooktown to Cairns (per Beacon
mouthpiece): “ Why are the people of
Cairns so conceited and impudent ? Is
it because they export a few green
bananas grown by Chinamen and have
a number of Japanese houses of accom-
modation in their midst ? ” This is
really pretty. Now, Cairns, your turn !
• * *
Absolutely the most conclusive proof of
Scottish lack of humor was the protest lodged
against that alleged Sassenach calumny at the
dinner of the Melb. Caledonian Society. The
cudgels were taken up by a lengthy cleric named
Nesbit, and, with a gravity worthy of a hanging
or a burial, he solemnly proceeded to argue out
logically that the Scotchman was really a humor-
ous person. Nesbit was followed by other per-
sons mostly called Campbell and McPhairson,
and nearly all possessing red hair, and one and all
loudly denounced Sydney Smith as a vile slanderer,
and offered to prove in six rounds or thereabouts
that they were really the funniest dogs who ever
had a jovial dinner together. After another hour
or two’s grave and bitter argument about their
own funniness, the matter dropped with a fear-
some thud.
* * * *
The most original suggestion made to the
Vic. Law Reform Commission was by a person
from Briagolong who proposed that gaols should
be abolished, and in place of them there should be
a punt which is “ to have holes in the bottom with
plugs to suit the gravity of the offence.” When a
prisoner is convicted he is to be put on board the
punt; the plug mentioned in the sentence is to be
taken out; and if he doesn’t reach the shore
before the punt sinks it is his own funeral. Pre-
sumably the offender would have bricks attached
to him to prevent him swimming. The witness
recommended this procedure strongly on the
ground that it would force the criminal “ into
onest channels, ” and unless he was remarkably
smart in getting the punt ashore he would cer-
tainly be forced into some kind of channel. Any-
how, there is something attractive about the idea
of “ plugs suited to the gravity of the offence.”
* * * *
There are no points about being a “ lady ”
“»•*£ r,,
A CO °K and LAUNDRESS wa n ted (hotel),
hotef Country). A LADY HELP wanted’ hotel!
country.
* * * *
“In Memoriam ” advt. from an Auckland
(M L ) paper
Abel. —Slain by his brother Cain when in an envious
rage, Abel, the second son of Adam, about the year of the
world 25. Inserted by a distant relative of the family
living in Maoriland, a.d. 1897, and as a crowning Auckland
“In Memoriam.”
. anx.ous mourners.are advised to read care-
vers y e Is e te thf 23rd “ contalned ,n 11 Samuel xu from
verse k> tne zara.
The passage m question tells how David bore up
when his child died, and is evidently meant as an
appeal to the public not to break down completely
over Abel s amen e pegging-ou .
In a recent
somewhat smell-
ful jury case tried
in Sydney, there
was some diffi-
culty in obtaining
counsel for plain-
tiff. The brief, to-
gether with the
fee, £l2 3s. 6d.,
was sent to a ju-
nior and impecu-
nious barrister.
After reading it
he expressed to
his pals the opin-
ion that it was
“toostrong.” He
then asked at least
half-a-dozen of his
friends—also im-
pecunious—if they
would hold it—
not, be it under-
stood, ontheusual
terms of half-fees,
but they could
take the brief and
all the cheque.
They refused, de-
spite his assurance
that the case
would not go into
court. After all,
it is a matter be-
tween himself and
his conscience
only whether a
barrister will hold
a brief or not in a
“ shady ” case.
On this page appears a photo, of William
Terriss, the English actor, who was stabbed at the
stage-door of London Adelphi the other evening,
and died 15 minutes afterwards. Terriss was a
kind of combination of Bland Holt and George
Rignold, and made many a thrilling melodramatic
exit as the hero who is prepared to suffer any-
thing imaginable for the sake of England, home,
and beauty. Pity he couldn’t collect applause
and advt. for the most thrilling exit he ever made
—but Manager Death inexorably refuses recalls.
Nevertheless, Terriss’s was surely an ideal
end for an Adelphi actor. The crack-brained
assailant at the stage-door, the long, thin knife,
the two hasty blows, the blood bubbling on the
pavement —whose brain could devise a more
effective situation ? Terriss was 48; the best of
his life was over ; maybe—who knows ?—he would
have chosen things so. It turns out that the mur-
derer, Prince, alias “ Mad Archer ” —who struck
in revenge for Terriss’s supposed refusal to help
him to relief from a charitable fund—was really
about to be so helped on Terriss’s recommenda-
tion. The mistake doesn’t matter to Terriss.
* * » »
A slab of high-grade Masonry or Buffalo-
ism, from a late issue of a Christchurch (M.L.)
daily
After all the Sir Knights who had petitioned for the
two sections had been obligated and perfected in the
mysteries of the Degree of Grand Inspector 20deg. and
Grand Consecrator of G.W. 30deg., the following officers
were duly installed and invested by the Most 111. Grand
Master, assisted by 111. Bro. Pagni, 33deg., Grand
Annalist, and 111. Bro. F. Silver, 32deg., Grand Orator :
111. SirKnt. W. Gifkins, 32deg., Sub. Dai.; 111. Sir Knt.
W. Were, 32deg., First M.vst. ; 111. Sir Knt. Hullett,
3ldeg., Second Myst. ; Sir Knt. Jackson, 31deg., Orator;
SirKnt. O. S. Bingham, 30deg., Secretary; SirKnt. J.
Ferguson, 30deg., Treasurer; and Sir Knt. Hopking,
30deg., Grand Expert. The ceremony was impressively
conducted by the Most 111. Grand Master and Grand
officers, and a vote of thanks to them was carried
unanimously.
And yet, on the first night of the “French Maid ”
in Sydney the writer saw a Most Illustrious
Thingumbob go into convulsions when the gen-
darme disguised himself as “ Sir Lord Mayor
Smith.”
Maoriland public institutions appear to be
run j n a cheerful, beery, holiday fashion. As an
example, a lunatic got aitfay from a North Island
asylum, and not only was there no particular effort)
made at his recapture, but no one even thought it
worth while to mention the matter to his relatives,
About a fortnight after his vanishment they heard
of the matter and demanded that a search should
be made, but, getting no satisfaction, they
started a hunt on their own account. In the
course of their investigations they dragged a very
old remains out of the Oratia River. It wasn’t
their lunatic, but the debris of an ancient patient
who had wandered away from an adjacent bene-
volent asylum some time previously, and whose
disappearance also hadn’t been reported, on the
general ground that it wasn’t anybody’s business.
At latest advices the lost crank was still missing.
* * *. *
One well-known “matrimonial agency”
now advertises that it “ negotiates amicable and
equitable settlement of domestic differences,
lovers’ quarrels, and other disputes ; preliminary
fee, 2s. 6d.” It is gratifying to know, anyhow,
*** ?> « an amicable settlement that is negotiated,
m j n d. But The Bulletin wonders what kind of
ambassador is kept on the premises to conduct
these delicate negotiations. He will naturally be
elderly, and it seems safe to bet that he will be
fatherly and bottle-nosed, and that he got into
that line because he had been unsuccessful in the
coal-canvassing business and didn’t get on any too
well m the oleograph trade. W hen the gilded
youth of the period has had an unfortunate dis-
agreement with his best girl at the ball in the
gilded bowers of Potts Point, he can get this
minion f or a preliminary fee of 2s. 6d., to call on
her, and send in his card, and tell her that lie has
come to talk things over with her. And then he
win presumab]y &eathe a good, strong, ancient
brea ( h on to t 4 premises, and remonstrate paren-
tally and affec tionately. Anyone who wants to
understand what the romance of love really is
should try the experiment of getting his future
HEREDITY.
P HRENOLIGIST: “ Language moderate ”
MRS. ' AWKINS: “ Well, take yer horrid, nasty, dirty pencil outer the kid’s eye !”
wife remonstrated with for 2s. 6d. by the decayed
missionary of a matrimonial agency. The girl
who can stand being advised by a depressed
elderly stranger, who has a few notes about her
principal faults and failings in his hat to refresh
his memory with, is either very deeply in love or
is of so mild a disposition that it is quite safe to
risk matrimony with her.
* * * •
The manager of a telephone - exchange
abroad has been telling an interviewer some expe-
riences of his switcb - attendants. Australian
attendants have experiences, too. One instance—
from a city where the exchange-practice is for the
person who rings-up to call the wan ted-person’s
number, whereupon the attendant calls up the
latter, and connects the two, tapping the line a
minute later to ascertain if the callee has answered
the ring: A lady had been for years trying
ineffectually to land a husband for her eldest
daughter. At length, there were prospects. A
hint was given by a mutual friend that, if the
daughter attended at the friend’s house on a fixed
afternoon, the fish might be hooked—anyhow,
facilities would be offered. The desperately-
anxious mother couldn’t wait until the daughter
returned home, so the arrangement was that the
result should be telephoned. Fortune was kind,
and the fish bit; and no sooner had he floated out
with the hook in his soul than his mature darling
rushed to the ’phone and rang vigorously. But
ma was preoccupied, and answered the exchange
slowly. At last, however, there came over the
wire in a woman’s voice the expected question,
“Got him yet?” “Oh, yes, ma. It was just
lovely. And he wants it so soon. And he went
down on his knees,” &c. Then there was a shriek
of laughter and a prompt disconnection. It was
the switch-attendant asking the stereotyped ques-
tion as to whether the ringee had responded yet.
* * * *
A favorite dodge of the Vic. J.P. when
facing a prisoner whose respectable parentage,
dress, and connections make it advisable that the
law should look on him with its blind eye, is to
impose a tremendous sentence with the option of
a trifling fine. “It is most painful to see a young
man of your rearing in this position ; but the law
is no respecter of persons, and it is necessary to
stamp out such practices ; <£l or three months.”
m m * m
Superscribed upon an all-sorts shop in a
small Southern town
Always on Hand—Temperance and Summer Drinks,
Cod Liver Oil, Keroseane, Neatsfoot Oil, Caster Oil,
(draft), Linseed Oil, Methilated Spirits. Only the best
kept.
Small wonder that the temperance portion of that
community is taking in consternation to the old
original poison.


Liverpool apd Lopdop
,£lobe IpSdrapce Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds,
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
hndoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Drectors :
Walter Cumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 4c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
&
)
Food
j^'M'youd?
nWH
® 0 ®0
>
Ranji.’s Pet Peculiarity.
The Indian prince has been discussed from a
great many points of view, and when he returns
to Sydney many new and interesting things per-
taining to him will no doubt come to light. All
great men have their peculiarities that make them
differ more or less from the general run of people,
and Ranjitsinhji, prince, cricketer, and ladies’
man, is no exception to the rule. His pet
peculiarity, however, is the great care he takes of
his health. This is where he shows his good sense;
no one can take too much care of that precious
gift, health, it is just as well to get aid sometimes
in doing this, and Bile Beans for Biliousness will
help you more than anything else. They are the
par excellence of medicine, used for years by the
best physicians in America. They come to Aus-
tralia with a reputation of success with the busi-
ness man, the mechanic, and capitalist there.
Bile Beans are nature’s remedy, and, as the price
fjr a small box is only they are within the
reach of all, hence their popularity. Bile Beans
for Biliousness will be found useful in the follow-
ing ailments Constipation, Headache, Liver
and Stomach Trouble, such as Indigestion, Ful-
ness After Eating, Eruptions of Gas, Heart Pal-
pitation, Dizziness, Buzzing in the Head, Sallow
Complexion, &c. They are also a Cure for Piles,
Diarrhoea, Female Ailments, &c., Debility, Lack
of Physical Tone, That Tired Feeling, &c., &c.
Obtainable from all chemists, price per small
box or Is. l£d. per regular size. Don’t take any-
thing the chemist says is just as good, but apply
to the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co. (Australian
branch), 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 21, 1897.
Mr Dear Myee—
In the attenuated grand-stand throng, at Rand-
wick, on Saturday, most of the English cricketers
were present, but, as a rule, they modestly con-
cealed themselves from view in the business part
of the lawn, and Ranji lurked inconspicuously in
the ring most of the time. No ne%v notions in
tailoring were displayed by the visitors ; grey and
brown tweeds—the Englishmen are fond of brown
—of unremarkable cut and be-ribboned straw
hats were the mode with them. Among the few
women present, Mrs. Morris stood out in a blue
frock, with a meandering white pattern. Several
leagues of lace adorned azure muslin on a tall,
well-dressed wearer. The toney portion of the
stand held six, all told, but as a great majority of
sassiety was getting married, and away honey-
mooning last week, the almost unanimous absence
was accountable. The chief excitement of the
meeting was the stern official closure on the
wicked brotherhood of “ tick-tackers.”
Cricket fever was raging virulently all over
Moore Park on Saturday afternoon, where the
players were so thick that the various matches
were mixed up, and looked as if they would have
to be sorted out at intervals and the teams untied
out of hard knots. The little boys seemed to be
playing noughts and crosses over each other’s
pitches, and the bats excitedly clashed and
jostled together for want of elbow-room. Experi-
enced bowlers of 13 in single-wicket matches were
dealing curly ones with such science that they tore
their shirt sleeves bodily out at the shoulder, and
batsmen shared the bat and broken leg-protector
in turn. By the side of these small skirmishers
the flannelled, double-wicket, grown-up games
were very dignified. Cricketing flannels can bear
much style. Test-match costumes were under
microscopic criticism from the ladies’-stands,
which verdicted in favor of the Englishmen.
Their flannels were better cut, or else the wearers
could stand at ease better. Australians can re-
cline gracefully, but if they stand for any length
of time they become floppy.
The baby in arms is quite a feature nowadays at
all outdoor gatherings. Mothers carried minute
infants about the members’ stand at the cricket-
match, and at Randwick the minimum age of ad-
mittance was lowered to a few weeks in one
or two instances. The modish mother usually
ignores her infant, but now it seems to be fashion-
able to take up one’s children literally, for the
“pram” is not used when baby is brought out
socially. Fathers always fight shy of prams. A
man propelling a baby-buggy presents an abject
sight and seems to know it. No husband but a
hen-pecked one would wheel a pram. The book
of pram etiquette has yet to be written. At
present the correct thing is to take the vehicles
out into the most crowded Ways and charge indis-
criminately at the public’s shins. Naturally the
shinned multitude gives way to passion, and the
pram is one chief reason why the public isn’t
going to heaven.
A weird and blushful experience befel lately a
starchy, Grundified lady travelling in Rivenna
with her two charges—girls of 1G or thereabouts.
She was taking a flask out of a glittering array in
her expensive travellingbag for just one little nip in
the train when the flask tipped up and deluged the
immaculate night gear lying folded in the bag.
The girls sympathetically suggested holding it out
of the window to dry, and the whiskified garment
fluttered in the wind accordingly. A rude man in
the next compartment, observing muslin flapping
vigorously against his window pane, put out his
hand and caught at the flying frills, and then
began a struggle between the dignified lady and
himself for the garment, both'pulling their hardest
until an extra wrench gave the man possession.
At the next stopping - place an indignant and
crimson matron peremptorily demanded and got
her property.
Several hundred people sweltered by invitation
in Paling’s hall of mirrors, on Thursday evening,
to welcome back Elsie Stanley Hall, the returned
and grown-up musical prodigy. The guests were
mostly long-haired and musical, with a fair
sprinkling of child-geniuses. Herr Kretschmann
shook his shaggy inane in triumph, as it was a
night out for his pets. A boy-violinist and a girl-
pianist performed satisfactorily, but I sometimes
wish that an age-of-consent were established for
musicians and no performers allowed in public
under the years of 92. Elsie Hall is a shocking
example to prodigies, for she is a phenomenon
who hasn’t gone wrong in the training but has
developed into an artist. She played twice, and
stood around the rest of the evening in a pale-
green frock, holding a bunch of pink flowers and
backed up by her proud parents. Beside Renee
Lees and Cyril Monk, the clever children in the
room included Freda Millar and Connie Usher,
and, counting in the grown-up celebrities, the
room was fairly bristling with talent.
The Town Hall concert, on Saturday evening,
attracted a fair-sized audience who were genuinely
interested in Elsie Hall, and wanted to hear her
play, but didn’t enthuse over her or place her on a
pedestal beside Hambourg—probably because most
concert-goers are of Elsie’s own sex. The youth-
ful piano-player tackles her work in a business-
like way, and plays as well as a woman need play ;
she has taste and tenderness, delicacy and discre-
tion, and her music is calm and soothing. She
doesn’t embark her soul on the storm-tossed
billows of passion which many women-performers
do in imitation of some masculine ideal. Were
she to surge up and down in the manner of “ the
young sn.i-god of the ivory keys ” she would only
weakly imitate male strength and lose, in the
hurly-burly of sound, all her feminine qualities of
?race and refinement. How beautifully she
played “The Bees’ Wedding ! ” And it is a feat
to perform one of the “songs without words ”
without recalling a flavor of bread-and-butter and
a memory of early-morning practice by candle-
light at boarding-school.
Yachting, as an afternoon pastime, was greatly
favored by the Naiee members of the “Royal
Divorce” co., who thus had many opportunities
of gazing at our Beautiful, while dodging the
flying-jib, or whatever the huge beam is called
that threatens to club you on the head if you
don’t get out of the way fast enough.
Dress causes a fluttering anxiety to particular
yacht-masters, and “ scratchy ” boots are forbidden
on the highly-varnished decks. The possibilities
of a charming yachting-costume lie altogether
around white or blue serge, and a plain cap, wind-
defying, and with no top-hamper to be flattened
by the jib aforesaid. I saw an absurd woman, in
a yacht, holding on with both hands to a three-
decker hat, with every sort of contraption in the
way of trimming on it flying in the breeze, and a
fancy muslin dress adorned with multitudinous
little rags of frills. As she sat there, she looked
like a French hen blown sideways.
The mind-curing sect in Sydney has taken a
room where it holds weekly a superior kind of
religious service—very soulful and yearning, but
as dull as old-fashioned church and not as com-
fortable to sleep through. The followers of the
cult chant at intervals a sort of litany by uttering
in bee-like murmurs “God is love,” “God is
terewth.” This continual buttering-up of the
Deity got on the nerves of the men in an artists’
workshop above, and once when the murmurs
arose, the scoffers held noisy races on chairs and
pounded on the floor with sticks to such a loud
extent that one of them was suddenly stricken
with remorse. He went downstairs and apolo-
gised for the tumult, explaining to the astonished
leader of the bee-humming cult that they had
been laying carpets in the upper chamber.
The frock-trade flourished exceedingly last week.
Three fashionable weddings—Miss Enid Mac-ar-
thui;’s, Miss Lizzie Marks’, and Miss Trickett’s—
coming in one week at the tail-end of the year,
caused a vigorous outburst of purple and fine
linen among the guests. White was conspicuous
at all three bridal parties, and the bride at the
Onslow-Macarthur ceremony glittered with many
diamonds, and wore a low-cut gown to church in
court stylo. Also the bridesmaids had diamond
brooches given them by the groom, and His Ex.
souvenired the occasion by sending along a valu-
able ring. Miss Marks (Mrs. Hunt) also had the
regulation yards of satin billowing behind her in a
court train, and her gown was particularly gor-
geous with embroidery. The points about the
dresses at all three weddings were baggy bodices —
the pincushiony figure is now out of style ; narrow,
beady belts—you can think they’re genuinely
jewelled if you’re imaginative ; and much inser-
tion—the object of which is to enable the audience
to look through and ascertain that the dress of the
moneyed Australienne is made up on expensive
and highly-colored silk.
Stage frocks this Xmas time will be fascinating
confections, and many of them are original and
are made up from local designs. For the Lyceum
production the gowning has been artistically
designed by Bert. A. Levy. He has planned for
Fannie Liddiard, as Dick Whittington, a series
of “ principal boy ” costumes which sartorial
glories include a black and white satin suit and
culminate in a royal-purple triumph. Miss Celia
Mavis, who sang sweetly with the Braey opera
co., is billed for Alice, and is to wear a
white satin of ankle-displaying length (the
skies would fall before a panto. “ principal
girl ” wore a long train) with an eye-arrest-
ing design in bright velvet. A pert little black
frock peppered with pink spots and topped by
fan-shaped muslin cap is the maid’s dress for Miss
Noney Seabrooke. A dancing-dress of pink muslin
is like a sunset cloud with two blue rifts in it, and
the bright red frocks with white fixings to be
worn by Lilliput dancers have the regulation
Yule-tide aspect. For the transformation fairies
some iridescent butterfly-wings and filmy gauze
are provided. In the Lyceum panto., the Little
Boy at Manly will appear for the first time on
any stage.
Kowalski has been improving his shining hours
in Paris by composing a brilliant and fireworky
piano-piece, called “ Etude Eolienne ” (Schott and
Co.). At first glance the piece seems to contain
insuperable physical difficulties, but a little study
gives away the fact that when the first bars are
mastered the struggle is practically over. Henry
Walton, whose “What misfit have been” has
been popular here lately, has prettily set some
dainty verses entitled “Loved Lenore ” (W. H.
Glen and Co.) Lenore is always being gushed
over, somehow. Paling’s Xmas Annual contains
fifteen numbers, each of which has been epidemic
here during the last twelve months. The com-
positions which are dignified by capitals in the
index are “My Dad’s the Engineer,” “ Dorothy,
Gavotte,” “Washington Post March,” and
“Dannie Murphy’s Daughter.”
A rather smart move in connection with
charity scrambles is unloading unsaleable tickets
to likely buyers on the last post the day before
the fair. A note accompanies the pasteboard
bundle to the effect that unless the tickets are re-
turned by first post on the date fixed for the show,
the holder will be considered to have bought them,
and will please write out the necessary cheque
without a murmur. Many an unw'illing “patron”
has been cornered thus.
The failure of a certain professional tenor’s voice
is said to have a romantic cause. About half-a-
dozen years ago there was in Dublin an athletic
doctor whose wife, according to rumor, wor-
shipped at the shrine of the tenor a great deal
more than the occasion called for. The doctor
was enraged, but for some tune he lay low and
waited his opportunity. Finally, a quarrel even-
tuated, and in the course of the unpleasantness
which ensued the injured husband throttled the
singer so effectively and so exactly in the right
place that he stopped the nightingale’s warbling
for ever. His professional knowledge guided his
powerful fingers, and the great voice was gone
from that moment.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Glen and co. (Melb.) have lately issued a Xmas
Federal music-book, likewise three other books—
Numbers 49 to 51—of their nimble shilling series.
The Xmas edition, in a grass-green cover, is a
family-partyish assortment of well-known ballads
and dance pieces. No. 49 contains a dozen or
more sacred songs. No. 50 offers old and reliable
sentimental ballads, and other useful articles —
Boccherini’s perennial minuet, for instance. No.
51 is a collection of 22 student songs with choruses,
arid should appeal to all youthful vocalists who
like to make the welkin ring, whatever the welkin
may be, and provided some one else isn’t using it
at the time.
At the Town Hall, one very hot night last
week, about 100 sweltering citizens came
dawdling along to a concert and entertain-
ment in aid of the Gordon Institute. The concert
yielded some nice singing by Ida Osborne and
plump Napoleon Boffard, and some more singing,
which was as indifferent as the efforts of the fair
accompanist. The entertainment ranged from
juvenile fancy dancing to a decent amateur per-
formance of ‘lci on Parle Francais,” an extra
item being an exhibition of acrobatics by Gordon
Boys. Two well-matured boys and a luckless
youngster were the artists, and when the ill-fated
urchin had failed in half-a-dozen attempts to do a
difficult ‘ act,’the audience observed with sorrow
that his elder colleagues were very likely to give
him a physical reprimand when they ‘ got him
outside.’ In fact, they nearly smacked him in
public.
“ Wilson-Barrett, as Claudian, to my mind,
rather resembles a churchwarden. Also, some-
thing bland and domelike in the expression of his
forehead distinctly recalls Mr. Pecksniff as
drawn by ‘Phiz.’ Possibly he has just trained
his back-hair to suit his present high-minded role.
No doubt Claudian’s spotless white tunic with its
innocent low neck and short sleeves helps to call
up ideas of a large-sized, dignified cherub, but,
anyway, it’s fortunate that a decollete corsage ivas
fashionable amongst the men of old Byzantium.
Otherwise prefect Wilson-Barrett must have
hidden from our gaze his arms and shoulders,
which —as is put in the report of the dead infant
in the river—are well-nourished.
“ Miss Maud Jeffreys, that glowing brunette, as
a farmer’s lovely daughter with long raven hair
veiling the ripe fruitiness of her blended orange
and lemon colored Grecian draperies, brightened
the stage like the sun - kissed cheek of a
peach-mango. Later on, a blind, lovelorn wan-
derer wrapped in soft, clinging grey hood and
cloak, she stumbles into the clutches of the boldest
and baddest of her three admirers, a dried-up
Tetrarch of Japanese appearance. This caitiff
promptly hales his ‘little grey dove ’ off to a
dungeon, and treats her to an unpleasant ten
minutes. Finally, things smooth themselves out,
and Miss Jeffreys, in a snowy ‘Mercia ’ costume,
closes the dying eyes of her new love and takes on
again with her old one.
“ In Byzantium, a spotless ‘Mercia ’ frock was,
apparently, looked upon as the correct garb to
die in. The injured wife of the prologue also
‘flees indignant to the shades’ in a garment of
this description, and looks very pretty en route.
Nowadays one occasionally hears of moribunds
who order pink linings for the bed-curtains and a
rose-shade for the night light, and in America, I
am told, journals of fashion for the dead, treating
of up-to-date shrouds, novel winding-sheets, etc.,
are published regularly. In the same country, so
they say, there are hairdressers and manicurists
who earn their living by attendance upon corpses.
“ To go back to the luckless heroine of the pro-
logue, her troubles arose through having been
knocked down to the wrong man at the slave sale.
But it was all her own fault. Whatever made
her wear that fetching white and green? And
why on earth didn’t she affect a squint or develop
epileptic symptoms so as to choke off undesirable
bidders and keep her price down in proportion to
her husband’s means ?
“ Lord Richard Neville and some friends saw
the play from one of the boxes. Napoleon Boffard
with a bougainvillia in his button-hole was another
landmark in a bright-looking circle. Several self-
respecting white brocades were worn, and enough
lace was heaped on theatre-wraps to trim christen-
ing robes for a foundling hospital.
“Just now, ‘College’ speech-days, school
demonstrations and Kindergarten displays go on
all the time. A tremendously ‘ puffed ’ sectarian
seminary for girls got off its annual self-glorifica-
tion in Melb. Town Hall, the other night. Three
thousand guests had been invited to the enter-
tainment, while first-class refreshments were to
be had for the grabbling by the swift, the
pugnacious, and the strong. Lady Brassey,
displayed in triumph on high, gave out the
prize-clocks, rackets, and similar expensive
pupil-baits to winners, and was further utilised
for advertising purposes by a glaring flashlight,
by means of which her Ladyship was photo-
graphed. grey hairs and all, surrounded by smirk-
ing teachers and the trophy-laden school dux.
“ However, wear and tear notwithstanding, the
Governor’s wife and daughter shared between
them all the grace, deportment, and style on the
premises. Somehow, few Australian schools turn
out graceful pupils.
“ A rather recent marriage-notice reminds one
of a hard-fought will-case, in which testator’s
children litigated against the Salvation Army.
The bride of t’other week is the pretty youngest
daughter, whose ears, according to allegations in
court, her fanatical old pa once boxed on solid
theological grounds, thereby precipitating one of
many family row's.
“An honest, wholesome-looking thing in the
way of illuminated addresses hangs in the tea-
room at Cole’s Book Arcade, Melb. It was neatly
got up in honor of the reappearance of ‘ Ole King
Cole’s ’ formidable wife, after her trip to Yurrup,
and it expresses the employes’ general opinion
that the boss and his helpmate are a deserving
couple, in language quite suited to the occasion.
An address that suits the occasion is almost as
rare as a dead raven.
The new Lady Clarke, now emerging from
mourning seclusion, is already in great request as
a patroness of good works. The other Saturday
she opened the Ministering Children’s fair at
Myoora (Mr. Robert Harper’s residence) in a neat
little speech, looking like summer, meanwhile, in
a gauzy white gown with filmy black-lace designs,
applique here and there.
“ At this season of green flowery gardens owners
of landed mansions win for themselves the ap-
proval of the righteous by loaning their lawns for
one afternoon to promoters of open-air charity
fairs. There are attendant bothers, of course, in
the shape of trampled grass and unprofitable
juvenile visitors, who, for sixpence admission,
purchase a full shillingsworth of wanton mis-
chief. However, there is no crown without »
cross. The worst time is in the preliminary
struggles, when everything is in confusion and the
hot, cross ministering angel and the maddened
good Samaritan rage all over the premises getting
things ready. And no one can look more utterly
washed-out and haggard at 10 a.m. in a glaring
garden than a danced-to-death society damsel.
“ To one of these gatherings, not long ago, came
the Highest and Mightiest of local Potentates,
early in the forenoon, to bring along an alleged
curio, or something. There he stayed, offering
good advice and falling industriously over things,
until lunch-tiine, when he suddenly gave his hosts
to understand that, rather than trail all the way
home for a snack, and back again to open the
show, he’d stay where he was and take pot-luck.
Then there was a hurrying in hot haste ; for meals,
maids and everything else had been brushed aside
in the interests of the Good Cause.
“ Anyway, even without an exacting Good Cause
on the premises to complicate domestic arrange-
ments, the Great Man’s advent might have been
taken just as seriously. The most unlikely house-
holders sometimes keep the body under, gastro-
nomically speaking; and an extra mouth to feed
in more than one gilded hall of Toorak is as un-
welcome as in some poor little up-country parson-
age. And you know what that means. Recall
his reverence’s shabby dining-room, where the
chance visitor, blundering in unexpectedly at
dinner-time, yearns to kick himself black and blue
when he surprises the disconcerted shepherd and
his lambs browsing on bread and treacle, or
‘golden syrup,’ as the proud little shepherdess
persists in calling it.
“ Unrelieved white is, if possible, more gener-
ally worn than ever by children. Bonnets and
hoods of all varieties have given place to broad-
brimmed white washing hats, much more popular
with the youngsters themselves, as less stiff and
stuffy about the ears. These muslin flops, thank
goodness, offer few laundry difficulties, and even
the fussiest, if attacked with a goiffring-iron and
a masterful spirit, can be re-crimped to perfection.
“ Now that sailor suits for small boys have been
succeeded by Russian blouses, fond mothers trick
out unhappy urchins to an extent impossible with
the brief boyish jumpers of yore. The skirt of the
prevalent tunic lends itself to kilting and similar
abuses, also velvet sleeves, frilled collars, decora-
tive belts and dangling curls are on the increase.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
A Brisbane (Q.) larrikin fell overboard
from a river pienic-boat, be having his pipe in his
mouth. When rescued, he still had the pipe
firmly teeth-gripped. “Thank God!” he said,
“ it’s a blooming eighteen-penny one ! ”
Since the big fire, the Melb. papers have
received through the post evidence of the exist-
ence of more cranks than Yarra Bend and Kew
could hold put together. Not a day has passed
without somebody “with a few iats ” sending
along 50 or GO pages of foolscap written on both
sides, and showing how the whole of the over-
hanging-walls of the burnt buildings could be re-
moved without the slightest danger to either
workmen or spectators. One bright genius advo-
cated the wrapping of a big belt all round the
outside of Fink’s buildings, and its gradual tight-
ening until the whole structure collapsed grace-
fully inwards. Another pointed out that the only
certain method was by fixing up 24 captive bal-
loons, from which laborers could be suspended by
ropes around their waists to pick the walls down.
A third held that, on a date to be fixed, the popula-
tion of the city should go up country and a fewintre-
pid souls remain to blow up the damaged buildings
with dynamite. A loyal person, however, had a
better scheme than this. He didn’t require a
general exodus—only a clearance of the popula-
tion in a certain line. Then the Ruperts-
wood battery was to fire shells and bombard
the ruins to dust in no time; thus, conclu-
ded the writer, “ showing, in this year of re-
joicing, that Australia possesses the hands willing
and the guns able to sweep out of existence the
caitiffs who would scorn the throne of England or
the person of our beloved Sovereign.” The rest
were woeful and lengthy expositions of engineering
—masterpieces of which the writers alone held
the secret. The only one with a spark of origin-
ality was the humanitarian who asked that a
clause be inserted in the demolition contract mak-
ing it mandatory for all workmen to wear padded
clothes, so that if they fell 9 or 10 storeys they
would bounce up from the roadway uninjured.
But there was no justice in the land, and none of
the inventors got a show.


• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
s
J. H. SQUIHJS & CO.,
Photographic Stock PcalgrS,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY
MAGIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New JPochet Kocldlc, price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM tor 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed.
Send for Price Lists.
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
| Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W. BALCHIN, Auett, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Queen Victoria was 36 years a lone widow
on Dec. 14.
Two arrivals in Sydney by the Monowai
last week were Miss Hugchaby and Mr. Jau-
krodger.
Melb. : “Gratifying to note that Mr.
Joseph Symes, our grand old local Atheist, has
got back to his old Lyceum Hall.”
Among 90 candidates presented to Brisbane
(Q.) Bishop Webber, the other day, for confirma-
tion, was a gentle youth 74 years of age.
Cardinal Moran says that his grandfather
was very nearly hanged in the ’9B rebellion, and
that two of his grand-uncles were shot at Vinegar
Hill.
Nellie Wilcox, the Vic. girl who won the
Cobden Club’s gold medal for an essay on Political
Economy, is a 8.A.. and a teacher at Fitehett’s
Ladies’ Methodist College, Hawthorn.
A subscription has been started in aid of
the widow and family of the late Labor-leader
M'Pherson (S.A.), members of the Ministry each
subscribing £5. It is needless to say that M‘Pher-
son died poor.
The risks of mining. One Vivian was
killed at Broken Hill the other day. In the last
year or two, this young man’s father, his uncle,
and his uncle’s adopted son have all been killed in
the same mine.
When in England, Brisbane’s coadjutor-
Bishop Stretch was told : “You speak English as
well as we do ourselves.” (Stretch is Australian-
born and bred.) He replied : “ I should be sorry
to think I speak English as badly as some of your
people do. ”
Thomas Rustin, the oldest native of Par-
ramatta, died in the old borough, the other day,
aged 84. He had never been out of the County
of Cumberland, and was born within 100 yards of
where he died. Hughey Taylor, aged 75, was also
a native of Parramatta.
A recent sheriffs advt., in Brisbane (Q.)
Telegraph, discloses Ue fact that the Q.N. Bank
had obtained a writ of fi. fa. against the adminis-
trators of the estate of the late Judge Harding.
The deceased Judge had a big overdraft with the
bank, at the very time that he sentenced the
Union prisoners to three years’ penal servitude !
Melb. : “Chancellor Brownless, of the
University, was not much of a scholar. He ought
to have got the billet when Moorhouse died as suc-
cessor to Redmond Barry, but some kind of
sectarian row—something about a dry bone or a
prophet or the toe-nail of a saint—v ept him out.
Moorhouse was angular and impracticable, and
Brownless sailed in triumphantly when he had
gone. Then the Pope promoted him from a sort
of knight to a sort of nobleman. ”
NO AMBITION.
S QUATTER 'Hello, swaggy—want a job ?”
SWAGGER: “ Thanky-humping bluey’s quite hard enough work for this child!”
After all his begging, Anglican Bishop
Webber can only announce £6185 collected (only
£4347 paid) in England and elsewhere towards the
Brisbane (Q.) Cathedral-fund, out of £33,000.
Balance to be cadged, £27,000. Queenslanders
haven’t contracted the disease of laying their
nickel watches on the altar.
S.A. Premier Kingston was bashed on the
bead with a stick, last Saturday, in the principal
street of Adelaide, by a man with two wooden legs.
Curiously enough Kingston is more frequently
assaulted than all the other six Premiers put
together, yet he is about the most unpromising of
the lot to have a rough-and-tumble with. Either
Turner, Braddon or Reid would be easily mauled
by any ordinary-sized person, whereas the man
who starts out to bash Kingston is always wrecked
in one round.
Three or four well-known Melb. city men
—Murray Smith and James Gregg (of M‘Ewan
and Co.), in particular—are taking an interest
in the artistic work of one Harrisson, a self-taught
amateur painter, who has earned his living
hitherto as a sailor on coasting steamers. A
sample of Harrissou’s talent, a pretty Tasmanian
bay scene in black and white oils, hangs in Mr.
Gregg’s office.
Duncan M‘Bride, of Broken Hill notoriety,
announced, at the Melb. Caledonian dinner, the
other day, that the parent who sent his child to a
State school was nothing but a pauper, and was
not only pauperising himself, but his child as
well. The stodgy Barrier magnate is evidently
not aware that the parent pays for the school. It
takes very little intelligence to make money, ap-
parently. seeing what adull Highlander M‘Bride, is.
Mat. O’Shanassy, whose dangerous illness
was lately reported from Melbourne, is big John’s
second son, but as his elder and younger brothers,
John and Kevin, are long since dead, lie is the
only male survivor of the O’Shanassys. The
great O Shanassy hoped to establish a family seat
at Tara, near Hawthorn, and found a fine Irish
family with a hereditary estate, but son Matthew
cut up the property, and now the O’Shanassys
have no definite abiding place in the land.
In an appeal for subscriptions in aid of the
Balaclava veterans, the money - bag editor of
Illustrated Bits gives us a typical sample of
the “ superior ” English affected by some London
society editors :
Many of them are very fine old men indeed, and it is
looked upon as a national disgrace that they should need
food —as some of them actually do at times.
Marvellous ! Poor old millionaire Tyson is also
old indeed, and needs food at times. Who doesn’t?
Some time ago a Maoriland legislator was
missing when his vote was much wanted, and it
now transpires that he was detained by a black
eye. He was pounding his wife preparatory tc
going to his legislative duties, when his son came
home, and nearly murdered the old man, and tore
most of his clothes off, and rolled him into the
back yard. And the reason why he didn’t roll up
to save his country at a certain division was that
he was lying low in the shed, and didn’t know
whether it was safe to come out or not.
H. : “Who is to be Chancellor of the
Melb. University? I would plump for Premier
Turner, despite his ignorance of useless know-
ledge. Of course, if he is to be Premier for ever,
it would be no good, but of course he won’t. He
would be just the man to succeed a capable
financier like Brownless. Further, and more im-
portant, he would go in for a real university, the
top-stone of National Free Education. Failing
him, I would like to see Attorney-General Isaacs
in the robes sanctified by Barry, Moorhouse, and
Brownless, as a grand demonstration of Liberal
Thinking ; but, for Heaven’s sake, don’t let us
have the everlasting Madden.”
Dear B., —Oh ! yes, Lady Munro is
“ really a nice, quiet, modest woman,” as a recent
paragraphist puts it. The last time the writer
saw this gentle female she was holding a whole
bar in check with the business end of an empty
bottle, and, in the midst of a holocaust of shat-
tered glassware, was defying the united force of
two policemen and the landlord to “ put me out if
you can ! ” —B.
Wales’
friends are
not cursed
with modes-
ty. For in-
stance, Som-
ers Vine,
boasting to a
Brisbane
press inter-
viewer : “ I
have, per-
haps, seen of
Australia as
much as, or
more than,
any half-dozen
men in the
ivarid have
done.”
HARD GASH.
Scene—Outside an old clothes shop. Two boys (Jew
and Gentile) lighting.
OLD JEW (from the doorway): “Ikey, my boy, v’y
don’t ye go for ’im foller ’im round?”
LILLE IKEY: “ I can’t, fader; I’ve got my foot on a
penny he dropped!”
“ Uchter John Mark Knox ” (Earl of Ran-
furly, and Governor of Maoriland). Sounds like
an Orangeman’s benediction.
Political definition by “ Timi Piripi ” : G.
H. Reid —a discounted politician whose optimistic-
prophecies of glad adiposity have proved in the
event to be but the morbid secretion of a national
dropsy.
A good many years ago a Queensland civil
servant was convicted of embezzlement and
served a term of imprisonment. It has since
transpired that the real embezzler was another
man in the same office, and arrangements are
being made very secretly indeed for compensating
the ill-used official, on condition that he raises as
little dust as possible. A new investigation
would be awkward for the people who mismanage
the department, and the Crown law-office, which
prosecuted the wrong man, and the Crown wit-
nesses who swore against him, and quite a lot of
other people.
“ The lot austere that ever seems to wait
upon the man of letters here.” A Dunedin Stab
correspondent writes that Mr. T. Bracken has
been lying upon a sick bed for many months past,
and is now in very poor circumstances; it is the
opinion of his medical advisers that he cannot re-
cover. He is concerned about the future of his
only son, a lad about 10 or 12. The correspondent
would like the public to know that while lying
upon his sick bed and turning over what he must
do, Mr. Bracken contemplates, by the help of his
wife, bringing out a New Year’s Annual, contain-
ing short papers and poems of his own and others.
In August, ’97, just before Q. Premier
Nelson’s departure from Europe on his return to
Australia, he was represented as saying : “I was
most agreeably surprised to find Sir Thomas
M Ilwraith in such excellent health. His intellect
is as keen as ever,” &c. And now Nelson says
that MTlwraith is “on a sick-bed, penniless, bed-
ridden ; could not write a line or sign his own
name.” Also Nelson says that he didn’t say
MTlwraith was in good health, but there is not a
word about the identity of the grievous liar who
said that Nelson did say it. And it seems strange
that MTlwraith’s dreadful condition should have
been kept so dark that no one in Queensland
knew of it till Nelson mentioned the matter—so
very dark, indeed, that the painful story rests
even now on Nelson’s uncorroborated assertion.
The rumors of Drury’s mock-burial revive
an old Toowoomba story. Thirty years ago the
Brisbane - Toowoomba fine had got as far as
Murphy’s Creek, and a contractor who was much
behind in his payments received a large advance
on his contract from Government. Immediately
the advance was received the aforesaid contractor
very conveniently died. The Toowoomba P.M.
refused a certificate of death, when application
therefor was made, on the substantial ground that
he had had a drink with the alleged deceased (on
the day after his reputed death) at a little pub.
some distance down the fine. The funeral, how-
ever, took place when the P.M. had been convinced
that it was a case of mistaken identity, and was
largely attended by sorrowing navvies who hadn’t
been paid. ... On petition being made to the
Col. Sec., the grave was afterwards opened, or
perhaps the adjacent grave was opened by mistake,
and a substantial log of wood found in the coffin.
The dead man, or some one very like him, flour-
ished for many years after in Maoriland.
If it is really true, as stated, that Brassey
dreams of becoming Governor-General of Aus-
tralia with a yacht in Sydney Harbor, the elderly
maritimer must be quite incapable of recognising
unpopularity when he sees it.
Old George Dibbs says that he is done
with public life and will stick to “the safe
anchorage where his old bones are resting.” Any
kind of anchorage with a decent screw attached is
better than being a derelict on the lee-shore of
politics.
The very biggest mistake of the late ex-
Judge Windeyer’s life was committed at the trial
of Francis Abigail, for whom G. H. Reid, now
N.S.W. Premier, appeared as conn-el. On that
occasion Reid dared to “ face-up ” His Honor and
resent various of his brutalities ; in fact,
his smilingly-delivered, venomous retorts
lashed the Judge into ill-sup pressed fury.
Reid was then but a struggling barrister;
the world had not yet discovered in him a
political planet. But his day arrived at
last, and, having sized-up Mr. Justice Win-
deyer as a public danger, he took the earliest
opportunity to shunt him—by refusing to
grant him extended leave of absence unless
he agreed to resign at the end of his vaca-
tion. That was how Judge Windeyer came
to leave the N.S.W. bench.
In the early days of Bendigo
“ Billy ” Brown, now a Melb. ornament of
the law, was delving in Golden Gully and,
having gone to work like a new-chum
right in the track of a watercourse, the
first shower found him in danger of being
flooded out. Hardly had he succeeded in
diverting the stream before, from an adjoin-
ing shaft, came fearsome objurgations in
broad Scotch, and presently unto Billy ap-
peared an object attired solely in a corn-
sack with holes in the bottom for head and
arms, and two hairy legs appearing under-
neath. “If ye dinna drap that beezness,
mon, a’ll bash ye’re heid for ye! ” said the
tenant of the sack. The stream was again
diverted, and the Scotchman having been
baled out peace was restored. “ I suppose,”
said Brown at the recent Bendigonian ban-
quet in Melbourne, “ that corn-sack must
have had something to do with Sir John’s
subsequent successful management of the
Bendigo Corn Exchange.” The man with
nothing on but the bag was old John
M‘lntyre, K.C.M.G.
The boots at a far Northern pub., up be-
yond the alligator line, is brother to Archie Forbes,
great war-scribe.
Premier Seddon’s titles haunt him persis-
tently. Recently a bush Mayor started reading
an address to him thus: “To the Right Hon.
Richard Seddon, P.C., Hell Hell D.”
Jane Tate, who strikingly embodied the
great virtue of Thrift, died recently in Melbourne.
The exact date of her death is uncertain, for
various reasons. The old lady—she was 74 —had
fired out her only daughter and her daughter’s in-
fant from motives of economy, and lived alone.
Also, she died alone, in an economical fashion, on
a chair in the kitchen with ,£614 in her possession.
When the baker who called round with her soli-
tary loaf had noticed her sitting in exactly the
same attitude for four days in succession, he pro-
ceeded to investigate—otherwise her death might
not have been discovered till next year’s income-
tax paper came round. Anybody might imagine
that Zox and Walter Madden and Harper would
have attended the funeral to express their appro-
val of a lady who was Thrifty to the bitter end,
but they didn’t.
Fred Croft, an old-time Sydney solicitor,
was a rare mimic. Particularly good in imitation
of Dr. Lang’s voice and Doric accent. One day a
scandal was buzzed around. Dr. Lang had been
heard damning the waiters in the Brougham
Tavern, Pitt-street. A dozen shocked and horri-
fied feeders at the one o’clock grub fight had
heard the reverend gentleman, in an inner apart-
ment, use language such as had never before been
heard outside a Parliamentary refreshment-room.
And, of course, the doctor soon heard all about it.
“What did I say?” he asked quietly. “You
d d the waiters, Dr. Lang, and said the steak
had been fried in hell, and the potatoes dug from
the pit of Tophet.” “Anything more?” “And
you said the beer was only fit for a Chinaman.”
“ Did I say that ? ” “ Yes, sir.” “ Ah, well, it
was not me that said that. Because, ye see, I
never use the word Chinaman. There’s no such
word. I always ca’ the eestimable creatures
Chinnese.” And that settled it. The doctor,
who believed in the Chows, invariably referred to
them as “Chinnese.” And, this remembered,
everybody realised that the source of the trouble
was Fred Croft. Croft was a native—of Irish
parents. A good fellow, who loved wit and
whisky better than work, and so went under.
The career of Graham Berry (who, by the
way, inserted the fatal “ Sir,” for the first time,
on his election posters last October) should act as
an awful warning to A.N.A. debaters, lodge secre-
taries, and other youthful orators ambitious of
Parliamentary fame. Berry threw up a pros-
perous grocery business in South Yarra to orate
on a gin-casein Paddy’s Mart-et, and though his
orating ultimately led him to Premiership, Agent-
Generalship and the Speaker’s chair, there is little
doubt but that a man of Berry’s ability would
have worked that South Yarra grocery into some-
thing better than all put together long ere this,
and would have had no need to accept help from
anybody in his later years. A glance at the his-
tory of nearly every politician, prominent, mediocre
or vapid, forces home the same conclusion—that
the sensible man drops the game as he would a
cobra di capello. Like athletics, politics are very
fine for a few years. It is soothing to be made a
lot of and to be “Mr. Jones, the member for
Smith’s Curse,” just as it is to hear the crowd out-
side the boxing-hall remark: “ That’s ’im that
knocked the Nipper out in six rounds,” as you
pass. But one inevitable day it is the Nipper’s
turn, and then, instead of being “ Australia’s
Champion ” you are merely “ a pugilist named
Jones.” And that day is just as sure with the
politician as with the pug, and is even more har-
rowing in its consequences.


“ THREE
GOOD
Madk in England.
THINGS ”
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Worcestershire
Pure English
Pure Malt
Sauce
Pickles
Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.
Holbrook’s Sauce HAS BEEN AWARDED MORE Prj.2o MedalS
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES !
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook's Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN. AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
MR. F. TRESCOTT, of ALICE-ST., NEWTOWN
near Sydney, who SUFFERED from SEVERE
INDIGESTION, writes
“ Two doses of Loasby’s Wahoq relieved me, and by the
time I had taken half a bottle I was entirely free
from pain, and have been well ever since.”
Xjioasby’s *' WAHOO, 7 '
2s. 6d. Everywhere; Post Free from
Loasby’s ‘ Wahoo ’ Manufacturing 1 Co. Ld
171 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
FRANZ JOSEF .
FIX.SEK! ER.
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
Business, Robbery, etc .
According to more than one rumor, there has
Oeen a good deal of retail gold-mine robbery in the Queen
Margaret district. Shareholders might do worse, per-
haps, than swap places with some of the unde: ground
toilers. The div. that you can pick up for yourself is a
dead certainty, anyhow.
* * » *
The poor old S.M. Herald has never been
remarkable for its strength as a mining authority. In
a recent interview with one Elphinstone, from New Cale-
donia, it puts things with the usual amount of clearness.
“ An analysis from a crushing yielded results that were
satisf ctory beyond all anticipations. A percentage of
the crushing yielded gold at the rate of 440 z. to the ton.
He has brought with him a specimen of copper ore re-
turning 620 z. of metal.” And then that Elphinstone
intends to get off at Adelaide for the express purpose of
buying a “ jigging machine.”
* * * *
The Spartans were accustomed to pardon a thief
provided his larceny were carried out in an ingenious
manner. A Spartan pardon would certainly have been
awarded a certain Centralian thief who successfully pur-
loined a miner’s gold, the other day. Said miner had
gone to sleep after securely planting his trousers contain-
ing £25 under his pillow. In the middle of the night a
long needle was thrust into the skin of the sleeper’s foot
and then withdrawn. Imagining himself bitten by a
snake, the man rose, rushed out in a frightened hurry for
help and came back to find his trousers-pockets turned
inside out and his money gone ! ! Not too bad for Cler-
mont !
♦ » » »
Of all the Westralian banquets held at the
Savoy and the Hotel Cecil last year none excelled in rare
wines and flowers of oratory that given to Frank Nicholas,
the “ expert,” when he was unselfishly cutting his holiday
short to get back to the first crushing of the Armadale
mine, the great prospects of which he glowingly fore-
shadowed. Some busybody now resurrects his speech,
and prints it in parallel columns with that recently made
by the chairman of the mine. The Bulletin has already
given Nicholas’s end, and agrees with the chairman that
it is almost impossible to realise, in view of the beautiful
picture he drew, that the mine has proved an awful
failure. “ You all know how ho rushed away from here
to be in time for the crushing- (Wo do, alas 1 we do 1).
Well, he never turned up at the crushing, and never
returned to Coolgardie. His not going back put your
directors in the greatest difficulties. VVe had no one to
represent us, and everything was more or less a chaos,
and at the present moment, though we are not insolvent,
we are very hard-up. Our money has been muddled
away, has been misspent, and has been mixed up with
other things in the Coolgardie management in such away
as to bewilder the directors.” Concluding, he remarked
that they had so many reports in favor of the mine, and
so many others against, that he hardly knew what to ad-
vise. The Bulletin’s advice is, never to regard such a
position as a dilemma. Good reports of mines are seldom
THE BUTCHER'S SON.
(Sunday-school picnic.)
LADY TEAOHER (to small boy): “ Will you have a sausage-roll, Johnny?”
JOHNNY: “No blooming fear ; my father gave the sausages !”
rrue—unless you happen to know and respect the men
who make them very well indeed—but bad ones are
hardly ever anything except solid truth.
* « • *
A learned counsel, addressing the Vic. Full
Court in the recent big ore-smelting case, spoke of
some ore being under “the bed”—of the smelter, or
whatever he was talking about. Whereupon one of the
learned Judges remarked, with a learned air, that it was
not usual to put the ore under the bed.
* * * »
Where does the recent rush of ancient gold coin
come from ? Within the last six months it has been diffi-
cult to change a fiver in Sydney without getting at least
one ancient curiosity in return. The writer changed a
fiver recently for three sovereigns and four halves ; dates
1827, 1844, ISSB, 1863, 1375, 1885 and 1890. Apparently
some bank whose reserve is getting low, has dug out a box
or two of coin which has lain undisturbed in the vault for
a generation.
* * * *
A Port Darwin correspondent to The Bulle-
tin :—“There is a general improvement in local mining
returns, but I am of opinion that this country can only
be developed, so far as mining goes, by white labor, with
which and an intelligent style of working success would be
almost a certainty. The Chinese (who are working a
large number of claims) do not mine— they simply burrow
and stop sinking at water-level. I may say that I came
here partly on your advice (in a par. of Sept.,’96) from
Broken Hill, and have ho cause to regret it, as I have
been in good work ever since. You then predicted a gold-
boom here, and I think that with honest work and treat-
ment the local claims here would quickly and amply
verify the opinion.”
9 * * »
Now that the fine for selling railway-tickets in
N.S.W. has been raised to £2O, and scalpers have been
several times fined in that amount, they are beginning to
cry off sales, but the traffic in tickets would seem to go
on just the same, as witness these advts. from two issues
of S.M. Herald :
TjtOUND, Railway Ticket to Forbes ; owner can have
*- by paying expenses. Apply, eto.
EOUNI), Second-class Ticket, Wagga. Owner have
same paying expenses. Apply, etc.
|SOUND, Second-class Ticket to Temora. Apply, eto.
Second-class Ticket to Young. Reward.
Apparently you don’t offer a ticket for sale now; you
only offer to return it to the real owner for a considera-
tion.
* * • »
Between September, 1896, and September, 1897,
the gold held by Australasian banks—which pretty nearly
represents the gold in the Seven Provinces—decreased
£3,512,000- despite the fact that £500,000 in gold for-
merly held by the Q. Treasury was banked during the
year. Therefore, all the gold which Australasia pro-
duced and four millions more went away—mostly to Eng-
land—during the year. Victoria lost £1,100,000; N.S.W.,
£1,500,000; and" Westralia half-a-million. Victorian
banks now hold £7,300,000 in gold as security for
£28,800,000 of deposits ; N.S.W., £5,900,000 gold as
security for £28,900,000 deposits. Another such year
would leave things as bad as they were in 1893.
» * * *
The brotherly relations between the Miners’
Associations of Bendigo and Lucknow are “strained.”
Smarting under what he had oalled a splendid victory,
tlie Lucknow secretary wrote to the Bendigo people ex-
pressing some pretty strong sentiments concerning them.
The Bendigo branch felt hurt : for hadn't it, after think-
ing over the matter for a couple of months, just sent
on a strike donation ! To fling the letter in the w.p.b.
seemed inadequate. Besides, there wasn’t any w.p.b.
So the branch voted 2d. for a stamp, and sent the letter
back with scorn.
• * * *
A London syndi-
cate had a crushing at
one of their W.A. pro-
perties which went only
3dwt. Then the syndi-
cate wired out: “ Let
her on tiibute while
we float.” The manager
in W.A. wired back:
“Can’t—all the blacks
have left the district for
annual corrobboree;
white men not on.” The
mine is now applying
for an indefinite ex-
emption.
* *
Further drawback
scandals down South
will shortly be made
public, in which not
only Victorian houses,
but firms in Maori-
land,. Westralia, and
New South Wales are
alleged to be implicated.
» *
Ten thousand
pounds will not cover
the duty and fines
which a certain wealthy
Australian firm will
shortly be called upon
to pay on “errors”
alleged to have been
made on its part dur-
ing the last seven years.
It is, moreover, quite
on the cards that a
number of other highly
respectable importers,
in the same line of biz.,
will be called upon for
“ explanations.”
» *
Premier Forrest
promises Esperance a
visit to see if a railway
is warranted. Also
says he is pleased at
the Norseman gold-
returns, and if he can-
not favor a railway, he
will, at any rate, pro-
vide for better means
of transit than those
now existing. The
gradual climbing down
of Forrest over the
Esperance railway is
promising.
* *
Aluminium coins
are imminent in U.S.A.
The lightness of alu-
minium is a big point
in its favor, as against heavier copper or bronze,
though its resemblance to silver makes fraudulent use
very possible. The vast difference in weight, though,
should obviate this objection.
* » • *
Auckland brokers who paid =£soo for a seat on
’Change only 18 months ago, spend their mornings now
studying the “Wanted” columns of the Herald, and some
of their confreres make an honest living digging gum.
When the boom (?) was on, you could have pegged out
anything and floated it in a single morning. In one case
five companies, all registered and complete, owned indi-
vidually and collectively the same hundred acres. And
the hangers-on to the Exchange—the man who used to
write mine-managers’ reports for half-a-crown and a
SHE KNEW WHERE SHE WAS HURT.
SAMARITAN: “Shall I get you a drop of brandy, miss? ”
MISS: “ N-no, thank you; but you might et me a packet of pinsQ!”
drink, and the man with a private telegram from head-
quarters which he would show you for a drink alono—
where am dose peoples now ?
* * * *
N.S.W. postal authorities are at present investi-
gating a matter concerning the use of obliterated stamps.
Former postal-marks have apparently been very cleverly
effaced by some chemical preparation, and the only means
of detecting the fraud is by taking the stamps off the
letters, per medium of steam, and examining where the
print of the steel date-stamp can still be traced.
* * * *
From a N.S.W. and Yio. mining manager now
at Menzies : “ I came over here to take the management
of two mines-vone a 14oz. one; the other from 4oz. to
soz. I thought it too good to refuse. I have been three
months looking for the 14oz. reef, but have not suc-
ceeded yet. I will give my attention to the 4oz. to soz.
mine when I can find it, but, so far, it is also missing.
Many of the mines here belong to Adelaide co’s, and I
have seen enough to warrant my deepest sympathy.”
• • • *
More exposures in connection with the W.A.
Trading Corporation, the boss industrial “cat” concern
of that province. The official receiver told a story of how
100 per cent. div. was paid on the strength of a cable
from the manager to send out 100 tons of galvanised-iron,
which iron, instead of selling at the huge profit alleged,
never sold at all; that the div. was only a bait for a new
prospectus with a view to enlarging the capital from
£20,000 to £500,000, and that the co. seemed to be driven
by one Goodman, whose predictions of the millions that
would be earned when the Automio gold-saver got to
work were remembered in sorrow. The shareholders
were too broken up to express surprise when the O.R.
explained that Goodman was the man who was selling
the machine to the co. So far it is not known who sent
the cable to the manager asking him to wire in time for a
meeting—“ Transactions enormous, continue shipments
steadily. I expect the profits to be £25,(100.” The blame
would doubtless rest on the Man Who’s Dead, only nobody
connected with the awful concern has died lately.
• * * *
One theory of the N.S.W. Savings Bank trustee
entanglement is this : Manager Dibbs has been largely
requisitioned of late for small loans on mortgage by the
small people to whom the banks grant a grudging
overdraft at 10 per. cent, or so. These big private
banks hold close on £1,000,000 of Savings Bank funds, and
Dibbs’s idea was to call in this money and put it out at 5
per cent, or 6 per cent, among the small borrowers
referred to. Reid swells the Savings Bank Board of
Management by the addition of more private bank
directors, who will probably checkmate Dibbs, and
retain the “ pull ” the private banks now enjoy.
Suffield is still in his living grave, and the
N.S.W. Justice Department is jumping on him
with all its feet to make him fit that grave.
Suffield is a victim not only of Windeyerism, but
of Government by Contradiction. Both N.S.W.
political gangs, the ins and the outs, are interested
in justifying the actions of their respective Minis-
ters of Justice. A pamphlet fully dealing with
this monstrous wrong has just been published.
Post-free from The Bulletin office for 7d. in
stamps.
Hibernian C.M.Gr. Duffy was asked in
Vic. Assembly, while piloting through a Post-office
Bill, to define what “a packet” is technically.
Hansard reports the following gem of a reply :
Mr. Duffy stated that a packet was a packet— that was
to say, it was something that happened to be a packet,
and did not happen to be anything else.
One Otto, in most ways a very ordinary
German drunk, put up a record the other day in
Adelaide by being the most hopelessly dirt-
caked individual the local police had ever run in.
He was in too high a state to be taken into the
police-court, which is something, considering that
the average police-court doesn’t stick at trifles,
and had to be sentenced in the yard.
The just-published memoir of Dr. Wakley,
London coroner, and founder of the Lancet, says
that a surgeon had obtained a fine new corpse
from a church graveyard by night. He dressed it
in a long overcoat, with a travelling cap, and
carried it alongside him in his gig. Stopping at a
pub., the landlord fetched out refreshment. Boni-
face : “Won’t your friend have any? ” Doctor :
“No, damn him, he’s sulky.”
“The Suffield Case,” a 64 pp. pamphlet
containing the evidence at the police-court and at
the trial in this notorious case, with a commentary
and plan, is now published. Post-free from
Bulletin Office, 7d. in stamps. Proceeds, after
expenses paid, go to help Suffield.
At Katanning, W.A,, there is said to be a
phenomenon in the shape of a well about 20ft.
deep and called the “Night Well,” for the reason
that it only has water in it at night-time. It is
near no river or known flow of water, and yet at
night the water flows in and during the day it
flows out again. Why ?
When the head of the British branch of
the Rothschild business was “approached ” on the
subject of leading the Chosen People back to
Palestine he said, “My friend, which would you
rather be, King of the Jews in Jerusalem, or Jew
of the Kings in London ? ”
The Bulletin will be glad to receive, for
publication, from all quarters, tersely-expressed
comments on the Suffield case—which it regards
as involving one of the most cruel injustices ever
perpetrated by law in Australia. The case is
forcefully set forth in Mr. A. G. Stephens’
pamphlet, published by The Bulletin and post-
free from this office for 7d. in stamps.
A well-known M.L. medico had been at-
tending the two-year-old child of a particularly
virtuous Scotch woman for a considerable time,
with a steadfast determination to “ pull the kid
through.” One morning he reined up at the gate
and saluted with a jaunty, yet anxious, “Well,
mother, how’s the nipper the day ? ” “ Oh, docc-
terr,” was the answer, “the Loard hae gi’en, an’
the Loard hae ta’enaway.” “And,” added the
doctor, viciously and blasphemously, “damn the
Lord !! ” A few weeks afterwards this medico
was introduced to the Bishop of Wellington as
“Haw, haw, Bishop, you know—the man that
damned the Lord ! ”
Sir John Everett Millais, Bart, (new
edition), is only nine years old. The boy, whose
father died a month or two back, is the third
holder of the Millais baronetcy within —well, how
long since the painter of “ Bubbles ” was appointed
President of the Royal Academy in succession to
Lei ghton ?


Soft Car? v/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per J4-clozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0, or Stamps, 5/0.
\
\ery Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BMOTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Scene : Queensland police-court. Drunk
of previous night is hauled up before the P.M.
and pleads guilty. “ What did you get drunk
on ? ” queries the magistrate. “ Beer, your
Honor/’ “Fined ten shillings.” Second inebriate
comes forward, and, in reply to some question,
answers “ Whisky.” Fined five shillings N.B.—
The P.M. was Scotch.
The Aurora Borealis in Sydney ! w hen the
electric-light is playing on Father Xmas and the
bear in Markus tobacconist window, Hunter-
street. Here smokers can learn the glad tidings
that Father Xmas is extra kind this year ; they
can see him offering them Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes while the bear carries the famous Otto
de Rose.*
One significant incident of the Wragge
Kosciusko expedition was the losing of their most
precious packet. The packet had been carefully
lodged with the scientific instruments, and there-
fore the losing of it spread dismay throughout the
party. What else had shifted out of position and
gone astray in the rough-and-tumble of the ascent?
The party to a man turned back —except one man,
and he drew forth from his pocket what all
desired—Cameron’s Our Chief Tobacco.*
W. H. Wigzell, of 110 William-,st., Syd-
ney, hairdresser, hairworker, wigmaker, and per-
fumer, is known all over Australia as a lead-
ing man in his line. He imports direct from
London, Germany, and France ; and one of his
1 jet specialities is hairwor ing. Nearly all the
wigs for the production of “ Tommy Atkins,” at
Sydney Royal, were supplied by W. H. Wigzell.
Ladies and gentlemen with scanty hair should
write W.H.W. lor particulars. In this hot,
moist weather ladies would save a great deal of
trouble by buying one of WigzeU’s naturally
curly fringes.*
Thus Albany (New York) Medical
Annals : “ Philadelphia presents the latest
curiosity in gastric pathology. A patient who
suffered from gastric (stomach) disorder for more
than five years, and had tried many lines of treat-
ment without success, received from his physician
medicine which, acting as an emetic, brought up
thirty-six lizards two to three inches in length.
The attending physician, who vouches for the
truth of the story, believes that the lizards, as
spawn, gained entrance into the system w’th the
well-water, and that the ova were developed in
the stomach. As the symptoms have not entirely
disappeared, the advisability of gastrostomy is
being considered.” Which recalls to this disbe-
lieving red rag how a Twofold Bay Jonah stand-
ing sft. high, was recently delivered safely, after
a soap and glue emetic, of 746 whales, each 90ft.
long.
ENGLAND MADE FAMOUS
by Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes, manufactured
in Liverpool from choicest Virginia tobacco. No
perfume or admixture.
THE NAVY ON WHEELS.
(Sketch in George ■ street, Sydney.)
The “Guinea Gold” cigarettes” of
Messrs. Thos. Ogden, Ltd., Liverpool, Eng.,
gained a medal and diploma of honor at the recent
Brussels International Exhibition.*
Hot weather ! whew ! thirsty weather !
The weather that makes us all feel as dry in-
wardly as a brick-kiln or bakers’ oven. Want a
cooler ? Call and have one—healthful, delicious,
invigorating, from the big fountains at Washing-
ton H. Soul’s. The best drinks for Xmas-time,
and only 3d. 1*
“ A pastor prayed for rain. It came down,
killing all the lambs in the adjoining county. The
owners sued him, and got damages.”—Amer.
The RIGHT HON. GEORGE THORN,
Ex-Premier and Veteran Parliamentarian,
Emphatically Recommends the use of
Warner’s Safe Cure.
The eminent Queensland veteran statesman
needs no introduction. No Parliamentarian is
more generally or favourably known throughout
Australasia than the Right Hon. George Thorn.
All through his brilliant political career he has
advised and spoken boldly in the interest of the
people whom he has faithfully served, and now
expresses pleasure in again advising, and his
years of experience and acknowledged discretion
give weight to his utterances which cannot be
questioned nor ignored.
Parliament House,
Brisbane, Nov. 26, 1897.
“It gives me great pleasure in renewing my
testimonial respecting the efficacy of Warner’s
Safe Cure. Since I gave you the last testimonial
I have recommended the medicine to many
friends, and they one and all say they have de-
rived great benefit from it, especially those suffer-
ing from kidney and liver troubles.”
[Hon.) George Thorn, M.P.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.
The name and goodwill in connection with the word “Dunlop” having been acquired from the Dunlop Cycle Company
Limited makers of the famous ....
S/A
t
r AX
£s/A
Wa
SCS
VS
VS
/s.
by the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company Limited, in deference to the wishes of Dunlop Tyre customers, we have
decided ....
TO
adopt forthwith the name of Ariel Cycle Company Limited, as makers of
The design, quality and manufacture of Ariel Cycles will be identical with that of the
Dunlop Cycles, whilst all the many World’s Records, etc , and Testimonials belonging to
the Dunlop Cycle Company, and made on Dunlop Tyres, will apply with equal force to
the Ariel Cycles, and the
ARIEL CYCLE COMPANY LIMITED
(Late Dunlop Cycle Company Ltd.),
Head Office: 116 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
(Signed)
Manager.
Tlie Austral Cycle Agency Limited.
Head Office : 139, 141 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne; 391 George Street, Sydney.
Depots at Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Charters Towers, Warrnambool, Launceston, Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on US.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Jones-Smith: One dull; t’other old A.G.W. :
Will use one of them, anyhow. T’other uncertain
Steel Penn : “ The Two ” not quite up. Still you seem to
have great possibilities. Try apain—in a metre that
hasn’t so many angles and convulsions and with a more
cheerful subject ... F.C. enquires: “Who was Sarah
Sands, after whom a Melb. hotel is named E. St. Clan :
What do you mean by saying “ it marred the temper of
my thews,” for instance?. ...Pom Pom : Thanks G.H.O.
(Victoria): You aren't the bard who swims—only the
alleged hard who should have been drowned J.D.
(Wellington) : Dirty and stupid Goondi: You seem to
he in an awful rage about something ... Fact : Received.
Hesketh : Will publish shortly Max : Must have
names, dates and particulars before can do anything. A
vague unsigned accusation about a swindle done some-
where, sometime, by somebody, is quite useless ... Iron-
bark : In answer to your complaint that 130 deg. of sun-
shine wouldn’t account for the effects witnessed “ On Our
Selection ” in B. of Nov. 27, “ Steele Rudd ’’ suggests that
it might have been the thermometer—theirs wasn’t a
very good one—“ il was one we found.” A.J.V. : Bit
stiff ...Lyrebird : Vacant as a hole in a flower-pot
Paratoo: You poetically bury the bushman, and we
Erosaically cremate your poem R.H.E. : Staff too busy
ashing contributors to ascertain “ if a colored man was
hanged from the yard-arm of a British warship in Sydney
Harbor in ’91.” Disgusted : Your failure to appreciate
yarns is probably connected with your incapacity
to spell words of four letters ... Hoponi : Nicely-trimmed
corpse—and nothing else J.F.D. : Verse wants
buoyancy W.H.E. : Rubbish-heap Aleo. : Still
below the mark. Might use “Cocky” if brightened
a bit. C.S.M. (Fiji): Bald incident in stereotyped
phraseology. Not within miles of Bulletin grade
LanceT. : Will print Alice M‘K. : “Tender” will do.
J.C.H.: Geo. Giffen was born in Adelaide, S.A., 27th
March, 185!) .... A. : Surely MTlwralth wasn’t fool enough
to be always losing. Where is his credit balance?
Saloa : Yes, there’s something in you, but vou haven’t
learnt how to let it out yet K.O. (Q.) : Journev pro-
bably too much for “ The Invalid ’’—expired immediately
upon arrival Skurry : Ode odious Wallaroo: Too
flabby W.A.A. : Dies away at finish E.D. : Neat
little pearl-handled yarn ; Bulletin wants buck-horn
R. M‘D. (N.Q.) : May use some ; best one quite unprint-
able. Manuals on subjects mentioned too numerous to
specify .... Ink : Haven’t, an inkling Bendee :£3 a
week for your soul! Not sure the devil had the best of
that deal Nebine : Expected nothing from a “festive
season” yarn—and got it! Vyle : We spell you with
an “ i.” A.D.D. :To hand .... H. M‘o. : Good idea,
but needs a much more “ fetching ” picture to carry it
Station Hut: For heaven's sake put a light to the poem
and burn the hut with it .... F.L.P. : How many people
are killed by mail-carts in Sydney? C.F.O. : Unprint-
able W.T.G. : That’s all right T. Chapman : “The
Billiard-Marker’s Yarn ” is out of print, but will be in-
cluded in “A Book of Bulletin Verse ” to be published
next year H.J.M. : Wondering if we’re game to print
even one Lanee (S.A.): Try a diet of pickles solus for
six months, and see if the gush will go ... Styx : Far too
stygian. E.W.S. : You accuse the officials of fraud and
corruption—by name—without dates, details, oath or
anything. If there’s libel-trouble, you stand to lose
nothing; we may be asked to pay anything up to £20,000,
and sent t 0 P aol in default. Make a sworn statement,
a nd send it to a member of Parliament. If there’s anj^-
thing in it, he can talk; he’s privileged E.A. : “Ann
Chambers, you say, “ was a respectable girl, and there
) vas n °thmg against ner—so her statement was entitled
carry conviction. Yes, but, on the other hand,
"! as a respectable man with nothing against him,
®e ni s statements are, at least, equally entitled to credence.
More, Suttield was much older than the girl, and his good
reputation was of longer standing P.M. : Don’t like
“Back.” Grafton: No literary value John W. :
“ Glass of Grog’’ has too much water in it Dave K.:
Not new Mildred: We shouldn’t dream of “flaying”
a 'J 8l ! cb a modest effort D. Capo : Too green.
fer' e m He vvas n H™ iT an cases are dif-
rerent, we was a bon in an ass s skin—you are merely
the ass in the lion’s! Allesnik : Two used ; rest too
long, and too much dialect... . Mary W. : Sorry, quite
unsuitable. ... F.T.W. : We forgive'you this time—but
pfot foresbiu'pd & pw 6 . hke cViat again. .. .y.T.F. .
?’ for^ailed_.Planet : Orb.t croi.ked and tnangu-
Af L V- No flavor NSC • “ ‘
?t v W Awi
Armni-entiv written wifi, guished. Cock-sparrow.
i?,i- *' a, T . • VriLV’ii l '- - -^ o * anlefor hiero-
SaTheTniasd .1 F D •
s . orv w l n 7 q newer trenVmoni 116 b J jt ,? uob an a d
“pjhes" won’t rhvme with iike?’ >,rdon Mnv
n Ji keB ’ V V M « ’ Nelt^ r
p-Vevae littilimnS" (‘cost in Bulletin this
M s W • Some natlios hut^aVdbn^verv’Trn^ 6 ' •
v™ .henH handling very crude ... Con :
Yoor Ste &
ssnr« to^. w t*' , Jrr us,
A * J v %-an : Received. Many thanks ’ ...Ohas. si: The
SSSSS
£ outh who ran a «’ay to sea not in our line C. J.T.:
Please 0001 y° ur brain A -H. : Wants interest “Man
0 f Streaks ”: Declined lteklaw : Babyish Esperance:
Unsuitable Hermes ; “ Little Bay ” not up; pars. flat.
M.F.K : Did /on write It out ol yonr own head?
1 w ; t.R.M, ? o.,»ideHn E “Arbltr..
f “ O'-Vl V«»ir woman! t SSL Your
& ,ave A.T.W. . Don t touch patent-medicines or
You can’t be treated by post; but if
you come to Sydney we II recommend aquabhed man ....
'* : I ean latula ]T j"’ V'vre's' a 1 w A 0
a,,d ut -Got. of Maori land’s S. Island was afterwards
«ov. of St. Vincent, Lieut-Gov. of Leeward Is., and Gov.-
A?ax ° f CL'ievaiiee too rTfl "7 i G ° V ' of Mam ’itius .....
v ™ tn Jv l 6 '? V - e a man wh ? f ets
q ° ,in m a p. P 0 hshmg- u p«his grievance before
sending. M.A.U. . V on say “Graham Berry has
dr avvii i'35,000 from the Vic. Govt.” Wouldn’t £17,000
be a great deal nearer the mark?. Mount David : You
"' IS,I " S t 0 'i' ake f," t -, CSe beau^ f , u "y libellous statements
i'l'TaV'"- *
. k | : f . j J. i ul i',n' l . n P hr , ,!J 3 - bl , a,lk -' f < ?? Ih ,’ , aI , K ? that ?
, .I It! tbiam Tha lu t b ‘ vi "" Thfn
and shadow? i ' "M&y OourtsWp” de
dined. Other may do .... Louis M. : “Surmised” pass-
»We. Timothy: Moderately good; but the parody that
"'ould go in Bulletin would have to be immoderately
ROod Berd : Attacks upon established conventions
TTAJnVvnWiHMfp’ 8 ® that ’ B .,!’,h e . cas ;? st
Km
Y< . ve evidently “been there.”... Fred M. B. : Sorry
none up to our mark Ad.: Verse, pretty trifle. Parson-
yarn clumsy and muddled W.P. : Well, the Waterloo
hero must be buried somewhere P.J.D.: Latest statis-
tics, 92,450 more males than females E.G.C. : Some
good lines and good thoughts, but the “ bush grave ” is
too hackneyed. Try again Coniquat: Do you seri-
ously allege, on your colonial oath, that 250 tons of grog
reached Mildura’ in one day, for local consumption?
Phil S. : Mutton joke. Also, mutton-headed joke
Juvenis : One verse is sufficient shock at present:
Years have passed, and all I had are gone or swept away
My turn will come without a doubt—the day I cannot say,
But there is a wish I have been wishing ; it is to see the
Heavenly sight,
And I hope that God will spare me, and make me one
great Light.


HELL TORMENTS.
To the Editor of “The Herald.’’
glr,—ln reply to “Fldei defensor." I would
say he does not know what he is talking about,
and Christ never made tlts.stat4ment.he attri-
JbUtes to Him.
At a quarter past four the mercury
went to the highest of cbe day, 107 de-
grees.
The temperature stood at 106 de
grew when we wont to press at 4.30.
At. Gaunt’s at four o'clock the record
was:— Run, 150: shade. 108.
Quite the most "thrilling event in the past
term of the Presbyterian Ladies' College
has been the formation of a cricket club.
There is do question about the importance
of the innovation, as both the principal
and the head master at the distribution of j
prizes yesterday gave it eoqsiderajjje .pro-'
.©inence in their roDarta. ~ ’ /
GT/Km. t'" 1
■ft" ,tt« <*' -•
„ /TQ
1‘ I y ( r- 1 /[
>
• f We ci -
M
l*-Ho/- > ~~=> <=»
, yi y
"*«./- yy /, *?7x. / / - ' i-neq/o/ ,
7 4e ; V /- S J
an e n'tei-i'rxqr CO* I,l ' '
Sir George Turner may take it from us that'
The statesman who hopes to
make Victoria prosperous and progressive
a&ain must not keep his hands too
tt&htly on the purse strings and his
3yes fixed upon the cash book. Money is plentiful,
and can easily be obtained by the State at
3 per cent. Victoria has not appeared in
the London money market as a borrower
for some years. /
-
A SEDUCTION CASE. v .
.Mf. Justice 11 nod. In summing up, said
Dr course they would have to remembei
the position of the parties. They were not
in a high class of society. He said so with
no desire to hurt their feelings. But he
.wished to point out that a pound or two to
a person in moderate circumstances was
more than £10 to a rich person. When
dealing with wealthier people they would
give higher damages, because that would
more truly represent the position of the
parties, but if they gave the same to a
poor person as to a rich person the compen-
sation would be much greater to the one
than to the other. They could award the
plaintiff damages a# compensation for her
injured feelings, for the disgrace to her
.family, _________________
_
Jfot
toucA A>m- ,
Aatfe an o~tAes- /i/jfA,
O?cA ~t/77ie— .
A £ !Lxs/~ ~/o
■/Ae- oK.
AAa,/" ok,/'
-/Alcorn?
9/ /Ae <>*- /S c
The result was that the eonlmis-
,rfion. is put in possession of the fact that
“a good manj' of these extra, feis,” to use
: the words oj one of the members, “go into
the pocket® of officers of the Crown, who
do the work in Government time.” It ap-
pears that at present, when a judge of the'*
Supreme Court, under the County Court
Act, orders a commission to take the evi-
dence of .an absent witness, the perquisites
to tbd judge’s associate amount to six
guineas. It was held by a witness that if
a County Court, judge were allowed to j
order the commission, this ' tidy figure l
c-ould be reduced to about one guinea. Mr. ■
Pirani was especially desirous of obtaining ]
an answer to his query—-/‘Why should the*
public pay these fees to officers, whose 1
salaries they already pay through-the can-
sohdnted revenue?” but it was ndt readily
'forthcoming.
Dr. Thornton has written to the London
“Times” appealing for IWIp to rebuild the
churches in his diocese vHjich suffered by
the recent hurricane.
STORM DAMAGE AT KJIILL.
£col'i!
C{ /~Q, ~* C ~I'ZA. S CI // Cl ?~l
s/2 oft s <3// hoi'll. // ’/c e
yjut~ P
MELBOURNIANA.


SKETCHES AT THE
BENNSTT DVIRCE
POCETINGS
VrkjS. .
1 n fi-T r,
.
VV*£gg 'W&lfyin&l
op>
A Coc* Dft>M T~
ck° °f/
1 1) fg Qfg.^»
Yf^x&k
m V-'f
<UiU v^
ft.
11, Vb'fcrtV
Ge^
(OJJHS &X- ~° -& f " H P "^
I
SKETCHES AT THE BENNETT DIVORCE PROCEEDINGS.


——« — . -
•ft
• "
t' ' . ‘ 'idnS
mn
:■ ii:
—_—
HHPj
Telephone, 26 KOQARAH—connected with Sydney Exchange,
Tlxe J Llck House Hotel,”
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes. LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH, On the Banks of Botany Bay.
t ttviitt „ ■■ ■ THE FAVORITE health resort. .. .
LOFTY BEDROOMS, and Luxuriously FURNISHED DRAWING ROOMS, READING ROOMS, BILLIARD
ROOM and BATH ROOMS.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties carefully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private Dinners,
eto., a Speciality. Grand Hatl will accommodate 600 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric
and Hot Salt Water Baths (a Sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints), onlj r one minute's walk from hotel. Fishing and
Boating;; also, splendid Stabling Accommodation.
Terms: From 251- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
“LICK HOUSE HOTEL,” or 1G York Street, Sydney.
m
SS
■
m
MM
THE WORLB’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
TJniteti Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE-Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LAUNCISSTON— IIebIey Button.
Has No Ribbon.
Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particulars of l'ree Trial.
Adams’s Hotel and Marble gar
I
i
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
w
Hotel and Cafh have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an ad vantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
ZRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Xo cortio tives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTEIi M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manages.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Puddiug.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
4 ?,Hl' pOSeS “glided. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed, llie proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article and canreconi-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent m the preparation of a good Cus ard Giveit a trial
* . . M P / op li. e l?, rs , : OOpDALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG. ‘
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
&appy is the IVCciii who hcts & Grood. "Wife j and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soyer’S Baking Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbifygtoQ H.SoOI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
158, 160, and 268 Pitt-stre et, Sydney;
Church-3treet, Farramatta.
AND AT
NOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all.
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates ;
lakes pictures 2J x IJ‘; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, Gd.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter; takes
plates 4.]in. x 3 jin. (jp.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWKEYS, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates Bin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. ‘ Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amatmr ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to Bin. x 4in. Price,
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d.
DRY PLATES.— “ VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. ;
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d.; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions' are carried out.
A
Snap'
Shot.
/ s
9 m
HARRINGTOH & CO., LTD.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
.. . MERCHANTS,
66 Klli\iGr STREET,
See Our Advertisement on Society Vuye.
s'srxsaxTE'sr.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
or PIANOS »
TSj€ Finest at)d Largest Ward>o(iS*
IN
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYE) KI EY.
POKER MACHINES
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
CIGARS FREE I
CENT.MICK SIWIMOMS
DROP 39 IN THE SLOT
mum
inniiiniiiHuniiiiiHiniHini
iitniflii
Also.
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LTST OF CIGARS
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, C 4N ,r I
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY, ’
WILLIAMS.
—-AND—
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, YIOLETA LA
PAROL A, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA
ALPINA MANILA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
<?£? Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.


to LA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA HUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
leeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
I
-
O
iTTT—|il>
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th S ptember, 1897.
“To MESSRS. FISHER & C(
“Gentlemen, —
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it.—Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
FISHER’S TOKTIC
—IS THE —
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO ’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwadb & Co.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CipbrocatioQ-
T)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being: sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
Bs. 6d , 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
D ts-UUE*£
$ , A
i A
SPtCIAU
w Li.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE 9
2s
Si*
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT,’
It Is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENOS ‘FRUIT
qat T ’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case ot one ot
my friends SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent “embers of the faculty By
the use of ENO’S * FRUIT SALT he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALIH , he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, andean partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. 1 find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING —I remain yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— [From the late Rev. % W. Neil , Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
WEADACHE and Disordered Stomach. —“After suffering for nearly
H two an?a LTyearsfrom SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENOS FRUIT
SALT ’ and before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of roOD and now lam RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that’have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.
The effect of ENO’S * FRUIT SALT ’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT.'’
mthout it, you have been imposed on by a WOR THLESS mutation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
u
WARRANTED
Finest Ifand-ipde BRIARS.
VICTORIA ■ A.NI* TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
"280 AP COMPETITIONS
i?K fin IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE —.
dytJ f W Far SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each ef the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman's Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers ... £• Is* »
Cloth Bound Books £lo®
'GHTSOAPf
mr does
* ' "A WOMAN
'LOOk OLD
SOONER THAN
SE.ND THIS TOP PORTION
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to
BURGESS BftOS.j HOBART.
J. McKENZIE & CO., LAUNCESTON.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
~ ' ■ (LIMITED).
I ; 11
mm
■ i
PURCHASERS OF ALU CLASSES OF
Gold, Silver, [sad $ Copper Ores $ products.
WOEKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake lllawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST VIJRNACS! SMELTING.
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, -BULLION REFINING, etc., etc
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemosik, Metallurgist, late of Broken llill. Ihe favour)],
situation of tlie works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled taci 1 l rl »
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ore,-, o a i
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on ar/rc etiient of .A.ssays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JO'IN HI'WELL (la,e<:e "‘’ l ' al Ma,lagcr ° f Broken 1101 Pr °l ,rietary Uine) ’
, Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buiuhnqs, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY,
V-
Id
14?
o
IT
MASCOTTE
MASCOTTE
TOBACCO.
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR ST EA in
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
rxplos’ons Impossible
Always Ready for Use
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
8? CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Established Over 50 Years.
FOR SA.LB :
Collins’ American AXES, 4ld. to 6d. ; slightly touched,
365. doz.
Mixed PAINTS, 3d. lb. . ■ ,
Single Breech-Loading GUNS, 30s. ; Double Breech, 40s.
British BULLDOG REVOLVERS, 6s. each.
CHAFF KNIVES, Is. each. CHAFF-CUTTERS, £2 10s.
HAY COLLECTORS, 30s. each.
42 U 17g. WIRE NETTING, £22 10s. per mile.
Bamboo BLINDS, 2000 ft., 21 Black Pipe, 7d. per foot.
7in. Centrifugal PUMPS, £22. Yellow Ochre, ss. cwt.
Cross-Cut SAWS, Is. ft. ; PITSAWS, Is. 3d. ft.
SANDPAPER, Bs. ream, lxx COKE PLATES, 135.;
lxxx, 15s. ; slightly touched.
Parsons’ Green, White, Black PAINT, 14s. cwt.
Walker’s HORSE-NAILS, Id. lb. ; Globe Horse-Nails,
slightly touched, 2d. lb.
HAMES, Is. pair. Octg. STEEL, 20s. ton.
Screw AUGERS, Jin., 6d ; fin., 9d ; lin., .Is ; Hul ls 3d.
Hav KNIVES, 2s 6d each. Flax Engine Packing, 56s cwt.
INDIA RUBBER, 56s cwt WALL PAPER, 2Jd. roll.
AXLE GREASE, 2s 6d doz. 21b. packages.
Blacked BARBED WIRE, £lO ton „ Q .
Platform SCALES, 4cwt., £4 ; Scwt., £7 ; 10cwt., £8 each.
ONE of the LARGEST STOCKS of IRONMONGERY in
AUSTRALIA, at the CHEAPEST PRICES.
John Macintosh & Sons,
307, 321, 276, 280,
PITT AT, SYDNEY, NS W.
Pubicatlons.
m
/2S
:
[LLANS
'ABSOLUTLY
jhe*Best.
"tßev Contain
7" PIANO SOLOS
) PLANO DUETS
) TOCAL DUSTS
l SONGS Lb?
USTS
I Pf^EE
Sunlight Year Book
FOR
1898.
Price (id: ... Post Free lOd.
(Well worth half-a-crown).
,'iijy Paces, handsome red-cloth cover. Full of more solid
and valuable information on all kinds of subjects than
was ever given for Sixpence before. Contains new story,
entitled “ Burger’s Secret,” by the celebrated author.
Conan Doyle.
ALEX. LINDSAY, Bookseller,
53 Pitt Street-, SYDNEY; and all Booksellers.
Iftw*
SENCTO5 ENCTO F °
Watson Ferguson&Co as
BRISBANE . JGj
MCATALOGUE tfixk
yjSjgJJor SURPLUS
PRICES
Qeo. Ftotoertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leathei
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
I‘ holographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
Diamond song book.
600 SONGS, WORDS, & MUSIC, complete,
the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between- the covers of one book. National
Songs of Every Country, including war, patriotic, comic,
sentimental, and other songs. Many old-time favorites
long since out of print, and cannot be had elsewhere.
Complete list of the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful
book will be sent (post paid) throughout Australasia for
Postal Note, 2s. 6d., from ANGLO AM. PUB. CO., Box
1163 G.P.0., Sydney. Stamps, 2d. extra. Agents Wanted
11 ALES OP THE CONVTCT SYSTEM, bj
1 L Price Waning-. Is, 3d


Mens Sana in Corpore Sano.
And especially WOMENS.
Fair England gives us CRICKET;
Auld Scotia gives us GOLF ;
Australia gives us BILLY TBA,
Bv which we play ’em both.
tf “Cornstalks,” then, would “hold their
own ! ”
Their every rival beat !! !
Let them “ train ” upon GRANUMA,
, “The finest of the wheat.”
If Sweethearts, Wives and Mothers,
A vigorous race would see !
Make your Grocer stock GRANUMA
And THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA!
—From “Bards of the Wood Blocks
NCW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ESTABLISHED 1845. PURELY MUTUAL.
■A.B3et 3 - - £38,513,664.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA
(With Power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, &c.):
Thk HON. SIR JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
G. C. WESTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia:
76 F itt Street, Sydney.
P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE
‘ OUR CHIEF,’
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAT
POINTS
S.A. Labor leader M‘Pherson’s dying
message to his party consisted of two words:—
Stick together."
One result of the Reid Government’s
theatrical effect in shutting up Parliament imme-
diately the Leg. Council had rejected the Probate
Duties, is that the two Bills for the exclusion of
aliens go overboard—for the time, anyhow.
Q. Govt, has paid barristers and solicitors
inside and outside the Crown Law Department
a'-mt <£36,500 for work done during the years
t * in addition to the regular salaries
of Attorney-General and Crown Law officers !
David Syme ordering Premier Turner to
float a loan and start a big public works policy
suggests Uncle Cattermole insisting that the Rev.
Robert Spalding shall ‘ go it.” Turner doesn’t
know how to go it. He never went it in his life.
N.S.W. Public Works Committee approves
of the spending of only .£15,000 to renovate pre-
sent Parliamentary buildings. Down goes one of
Reid’s big brick-and-mortar ideas. What is the
chance for his other scheme—the Sydney exhi-
bition ?
Tas. Assembly wants badly to revert to the
£lOO per annum payment for members. During
the dismal days of retrenchment, the honorarium
was cut down to £5O, and the Council openly
acknowledges that it would like to take off the
other £5O also.
Labor-leader M‘Pherson survived by just
one day the passage of his resolution, proposed six
years in succession, that in future the sale of
►State lands should be entirely stopped in S.A.
All the members of the Ministry voted in its
favor, the majority numbering 27.
After four years of toil Griffith, C J.. has
presented the Q. Assembly with a draft code of
criminal law and a Bill to establish the code
Old “Nevermind” quite needlessly told the
House that no action would be taken on it this
session, but, next session, he might—er well
never mind.
“ How do you propose to brand the furni-
ture ? asked the Victorian Board chairman of
an expert witness. “ High would burn in some
prominent place C for Chow, haitch for Him-
ported, and U for Us. ’ And this same Solomon
lately polled a respectable number of votes at a
municipal election.
John Bull is
miscalled. His
family name is
John Smith.
Brisbane
(Q-) bakers were
raided recently
for selling short-
weight bread.
One was found
with 70 light
.loaves, another
with 67, and an-
other with 26.
■ This was the first
raid made on
Brisbane bakers,
.and it suggests
that they have
been having a
good time at
their customers’
expense. The
trio were fined in
various
amounts. If a
starving man
stole a 21b. loaf
out of a baker’s
shop, he would
get a short shrift
and three months
in gaol. The
boss baker, how-
ever, can steal
brpad from his
customers whole-
sale, and he only
has to pay to the
State a small per-
centage of his
stealings.
“There is ordy a thin line,” remarked a
Brisbane daily last week, “dividing the average
Queensland Democrat from the average Q. Con-
servative.” Isn’t so ridiculous as it looks. The
line in question is probably the tropic of Capricorn
(thin enough, in all conscience), which certainly
does effect the separation referred to —for nine-
tenths of Q. Democrats are on the north of it, and
nine-tenths of Q. Toryism on the south.
A big London syndicate, with one Lord
Kilmorey at the head, has secured the right from
S.A. Gove, to construct an outer harbor at Largs
Bay. A few years ago S.A. Parliament would
have shut down on any private monopoly of the
kind, but apparently even democratic Kingston is
weakening a little.
S.A. legislator King O’Malley read a
whole leader from The Bulletin of Sept., 1896,
as an argument in favor of his Testamentary Dis-
tributions Bill, and it is duly embalmed in Han-
sard. Kingston, who had previously pronounced
against the measure, voted for its second reading
after hearing the article.
Ex-Speaker Bird, of Tasmania, has man-
aged to keep clear of the railway syndicate busi-
ness to a much greater extent than many other
prominent members of the Assembly. Conse-
quently the ancient politician may have a chance
again, mainly because some of the younger politi-
cians smell so badly at present.
Premier Reid promises to submit the ques-
tion of Freetrade or Protection to a straight-out
vote at next general election. Next problem:
Who will draft the question to be put to the
electors? The local option ballot-paper, for in-
stance, is so.drafted that one important aspect of
the case is not allowed to be voted upon at all.
The Turner Government announced that
it would not vote any money for the representa-
tion of Victoria at the Paris Exhibition. It also
said it would push its Charities Bill through to
the bitter end. Then the almighty Age ordered
that Victoria should be officially represented at
Paris, and that the Charities Bill should be laid
aside for the present. And the Turner Govern-
ment has knocked under on both points.
Vale, M.P. (Vic.), over-reached himself in
his little. Bill aimed at the yellow alien, particu-
larly in the clause requiring every person wishing
to hold a Crown grant or a miner’s-right to be
able to read and write the English language. The
crushing argument against him, however, was
that of Johnny Isaacs, who described the Bill as
“ malignant and un-British.” The spectacle, of a
Hebrew demanding that things shall be British is
interesting.
Melbourne Age doesn’t seem to have
broken the news at all gently to its former idol,
Turner, that it wanted him to chuck up all his
financial traditions and go borrowing on a large
scale. The ukase just came down with a sudden
whack like a dead cat into the midst of Bel-
shazzar’s feast. It was thrown at Turner’s head
at the end of the session, too, when there was no
time to slew round gently and gracefully. Alto-
gether a painful situation.
N.S.W new smuggling law provides that
the offending party shall forfeit the smuggled
goods, pay a fine equal to half their value, and
also pay the evaded duty. This, though looked
upon as severe, is mild in comparison with the
smuggling laws of N.S.W. in past years. In 1842
the Fair Barbarian ran 4000 gallons of contraband
spirits ashore at Broken Bay, and the Sydney
firm of merchants which engineered the fraud was,
on conviction, mulcted first in the spirits, valued
at .£3OOO, next in fines amounting to -£ll,OOO, and
finally in <£looo law costs —total .£15,000.
PLANTED.
STARE SCHOOL TEACHER (giving a lesson in hygienics) : “ Now, Robert, why
should a plant never be put in a bedroom?”
ROBERT: “ ’Cos mother always finds it."
TEACHER ( in astonishment) : “ Whatever are you talking about?”
ROBERT ( darkly) : "Dad says so. ’E alwis plants his money in a ’ole in the
chimley now—l seen him !”
S.A. Parliament was prorogued on Dec.
11, and Kingston thus completes his fifth suc-
cessive session of office, during which time he has
not had to face a single no-confidence motion. In
the recent session, owing to the Opposition’s
trackless wilderness of conversation, only two
important Acts were passed, one for closer settle-
ment and the other for the suppression of the
street tote man.
The Maoriland Old-age Pension scheme,
after getting through the Lower House, met with
heavy weather in the Leg. Council and foundered,
This should mean gory war, but whether the
Seddon Government, with its various other trou-
hies on hand, is in good condition for a stand-up
fight just now with the House of Moth arid Rust
is uncertain.
A COOL CA RD.
“ Mr. Reid, in reply, stated that he left Sydney for a
quiet week, to spend a short holiday up in the hiyhlands of
the Monaro, where the thermometer went below freezing point.
It was just the place for him, as he wanted to be frozen so that
he would keep for coming election.” —Daily paper.
Q. District Court Judge Paul: “A man
may have a watch worth about ss. If, in
the police-court, he values it at £2O the magis-
trates there believe him, and send the case to a
higher court.”
Rumor hath it in M.L. that Agent-General
Reeves and Premier Seddon will shortly change
places, Reeves taking a turn at running the State
coach in Wellington, while Seddon floats a big
loan in London. It looks a pretty thin lie, any-
how.
The Parliamentary friends of the Queens-
land squattah have worked their oracle by em-
powering the Govt, to extend for five years certi-
ficated leases in “settled districts,” the Land
Board to issue the required certificate. Foxton
wasn’t game to put this proviso in his Land Bill,
but he hinted that the House of Snooze might.
And it did, per medium of Norton, M.L.C., and
Minister Barlow. Norton moved the amendment,
Barlow accepted it, and the Chamber of Aged Fat
carried it with gouty enthusiasm. Then the
Assembly, in fear lest the whole Land Bill would
be lost without it, timorously consented.
Once more, the seventh time, Vic. Parlia-
ment has granted “Gnat” Levi, M.L.C., a twelve
months’ extension of the time within which he
is to get down to work on the Cape Patterson-
Kileunda junction railway. Every year for eight
years this concession has been pleaded for on some
flimsy excuse or another, and every year it has
been conceded with a solemn assurance that the
House would never do it again—never, never !
The leviathan is now supposed to be pur-
suing the British investor in his native lair, with
the intention of putting salt on his tail, and the
further extension is granted to enable “ Gnat to
come up with his quarry.
A sample of milk and water sedition from
the Pratoda (Indian native paper):
Spirited men show by their actions what stuff they are
made of. There are no people on the earth who are so
effeminate and helpless as those of India. We have
become so callous and shameless that we do not feel
humiliation while we are laug-hed at by all nations for
losing such a vast and stod-like country as India. What
manliness we can exhibit in such a condition is self-
evident.
Then the British Government intervened and
settled the mild Indian hash of that native editor
with a sentence of penal servitude for life. As
the champion of oppressed nationalities Bull is a
magnificent slab of hypocrisy.
The weary Adelaide Hospital row has
broken out anew. This time Dr. Morrison, one
of the imported juniors, has resigned owing to
disagreement with Ramsay Smith, the imported
senior physician. The former is handicapped by
the support of the Register, which has taken up
his cause, but the public is very tired of the
whole thing. The miserable Hospital curse even
blighted Labor - leader M'Pherson’s deathbed.
Three days before his death M‘Pherson, as well as
his friends, expressed a wish that Dr Ramsay
Smith should be consulted, and a heated press
correspondence over a point of medical etiquette
broke out and was still raging when the patient
died.
Supposing Turner refuses to follow the
Age’s sudden orders to borrow money and have a
vigorous outbreak of public works, that paper’s
best alternative will be to run Gillies for the Vic.
Premiership again. A paper that wants some-
body who will borrow money couldn’t find a better
god than Gillies. Old Duncan would borrow the
globe at 3 per cent, if he could get it.
The wind and the whirlwind.
Dr. Barnett, in his 24th annual re-
port on the Westralian lunatic asy-
lum, at Fremantle, writes of “the
almost incredible increase in lunacy
during 1890. ” From 36 in ’95, the
admissions jumped to 90 in ’96 ; and
“would have much exceeded this
number but that, in December, there
was not room for any more male
patients, and frequent applications
for admission had to be refused.”
So the dryblovver who has gone off
his head while chasing the reticent
speck has to gibber outside now,
pending further arrangements.
O’Malley, M.P., moves in S.A.
Assembly to establish a system of
fines graduated according to wealth.
There is an element of common-sense
in the idea. When a millionaire, for
instance, gets drunk and drives furi-
ously around the city, he would,
under O’Malley’s system, be fined
.£5OO, and the working man who
simply fills himself up with assault,
battery and tanglefoot would pay the
usual ss. If the law’s idea is to get
level with the offender then O’Malley
is distinctly right ; ss. fine is a seri-
ous inconvenience to the poor man
and none at all to the rich one. If
the law’s idea is to raise the wind
then O’Malley is right again ; if a
drunk is worth, say, £lOO,OOO, taking
only ss. from him is a hideous waste
of good opportunity.
Is an M.L.A. who has a long-
standing overdraft in a privately-
owned bank a free agent in Parlia-
ment when the advisableness of es-
tablishing a State Bank is under con-
sideration ? And, in the same matter,
are politicians who are also large
shareholders and directors in private
banking corporations, disinterested
parties ? Both Houses of every Aus-
tralasian Parliament carry benchesful of bank
shareholders, directors and overdrafters
Pat. Perkins, M.L.O. (Q.) : “Our courts
of justice are places of rascality, immorality and
scoundrelity.” This language comes under the
head of slangwhangity.
In 1884 the average pay of the Vic. civil
servant was £ 121 ;in 1891, £l3O ;in 1897, £125.
All Turner’s economy, therefore, hasn’t brought
the average rate of wages quite down to the pre-
boom figure.
The S.A. Licensed Victuallers’ Bill was
under consideration, and the assistant Parlia-
mentary drunk—not the regular senior drunk—
came into the Chamber much obfuscated. He
lurched up to an Oppositionist, a rank teetotaller
and very pious, and sat on his lap. “ Whatsh
goin’ on ? ” “ Oh, the Licensed Victuallers’ Bill.
The clause as to searching without a warrant. A
necessary proposal, and I hope you will vote for
it.” “ Watsh ? Do you iheansh to ashk me to
vote for searching every per-hoti without warrant
(hie)? Where would hi be (hie)? I’ve got a
pubiic-housh inside of me now ! No, shir. It’s
mterferensh with (lue)—freedomsh of snhjeck,
shir ! ” Defeated by one vote.
Brisb. Courier’s Thursday Island corres-
pondent wires, on Dec. 17, that: —
Hongkong flies to 2nd December, just to hand by s.s.
Airlie, sl ate that an agreement arrived at between Russia
and Germany initiates a new policy in the far East, which
most seriously affects China and Japan, and incidentally
affects Great Britain and Australia. It is stated that
under the agreement Germany will be allowed to retain
Kiaochu Bay, and ultimately annex the whole of the
Shantung province, while France is to acquire Formosa
and the Fokien province, the alliance coalescing to over-
awe the Japanese. The lion’s share, however, is to goto
Russia, which proposes to annex Corea, Manchuria, and
the whole of the north-eastern portion of China down to
the borders of the province of Shantung. The China
Mail says:—-“The British Foreign Office was dulv ap-
prised of these extraordinary proposals some davs'ago,
and w'e in Hongkong may be soon spectators of one of
the most tremendous upheavals in far Eastern politics
that has occurred during the past century, quite over-
shadowing the wonderful evolution of Japan as a modern
Power and the exposure of Chinese impotence.”
Sydney Telegraph, of December 14 :
They know that the watre-earners of Victoria have for
a quarter of a century been trying practically to benefit
themselves by keeping out imports and developing local
manufactures, and failing in a manner which cannot be
explained away. The plain reason why they have failed,
in spite of the great artificial stimulus given to industry
and business of various kinds by a wildly lavish system of
borrowing and an influx of foreign capita! such as this
province (N.S.W.) never experienced, is because the pro-
tection of employers is not &e., &e.
According to Coghlan’s statistics (“Seven Colo-
nies,” page 325), the net public and private foreign
borrowings of N.S W. are £102,000,000, against
Victoria’s £85,000,000, and it is the Freetrade
province that has always lived and boomed on a
“wildly la ish system of borrowing” and an
“influx of foreign capital.” In fact, Coghlan
shows that N.S.W. has even been borrowing from
Victoria and S.A. When the Telegraph rises in
defence of Freetrade and shoddy, there is very
little in the way of inaccuracy that is too strong
for it.


JOHN HUNTER
FOR.
| harming
'orrect
omfortablo
ressy
urable
p
perfect
opular
leasing
JUST LANDED, a Choice Assortment of GENTS.’ BUTTON and LACE
BOOTS ; hand sewn ; Best Quality ; Moderate Prices. Every pair Guaranteed.
THE CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
mr Branches Everywhere. ' ' •
R. : “ Touching ‘6xB’ and his assertion
that you want the bard who swims to complete
the Australian bard-team. ‘Gx 8’ apparently has
overlooked or forgotten or passed by on the other
side the bard who does nothing at all.
The bards who ride and walk and drive
Are plainly common oafs ;
The boss bee in the hardic hive
Is he who simply loafs.
There was a bit of a dust-storm on the
Barrier (N.B. W.) the other day, apd, to prevent
the Broken Hill traffic on the railway being inter-
fered with by the drift-sand, gangs were kept at
work along the most exposed parts. Not that
this is a record. Twelve months ago on a Dar-
ling River station they had to go out and dig up
the troughs before the sheep could be watered.
And a netted fence, being first banked up by
“ rolly-polly ” (a round bush which breaks off at
the ground when dry and is whirled along for
miles), was in one section totally submerged by
the same storm.
H. Hillier, of 135-137 Sussex-street,
Sydney, owing to great increase of business, has
built large new premises at Melbourne-street,
Concord, Sydney ; and, having to pay no rent and
being a large direct importer of materials from
England and America, he is able to sell the highest
grade vehicles at much less than competitive
market rates.*
An American correspondent of S.M.
Herald once more calls attention to the futility
of half-measures in fire-prevention. There are
only two ways of rendering a building really fire-
proof : “ Either we must discard wood altogether,
or treat it so that it won’t burn.’’ That wood can
be rendered absolutely incombustible has been
shown by an experiment mentioned some time ago
in The Bulletin, and concerning which it is now
further asserted that the heat resisted by the
woodwork of the cottage dealt with was sufficient
to melt the window-glass and fuse the nails in the
walls.
When it is borne in mind that the Orton
case in the Court of Common Pleas, to gain
possession of the Tichborne estates, lasted
only 103 days, N.S.W. Attorney - General
Want’s portentous figures in theM'Sharry arbitra-
tion case can be better realised. The Attorney-
General stated the other night that the plaintiff s
evidence in that latter case occupied 143 days and
the defendant’s 92 days. The Orton case cost the
Tichborne estates ,£92,000 —but numbers of wit-
nesses were taken long distances in that case.
The Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’Alliance,
King-street, Sydney, have, a Xmas show of un-
rivalled novelties purchased in London and on the
continent by expert buyers. Space will not per-
mit details; a glance at the window indicates a
splendid selection.* 1 "
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,”
says
Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself, it is a
nice clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and DatidriS, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
BesT Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i-, 216 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, S' ores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD.,
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n., £l2 12/-
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins-st.,
Melbourne.—
AGENT FOR F. BESSON & CO. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
TH€ NATIONAL CASH R€<SIST€R.
Saves
Time!
Saves
(||orry!
m
~~ i;?:
pi
raw
Work !
Saves
raoneg !
Suitable for Any Business.
Prices from £5 to £OB.
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager for Australasia.
»Earning
\ivoid
IMITATIONS OF
Presto
I
:~l>m
l m
L -''/ -n 'V.T'i'
W .' y sfeV«>
was
won
at
the
Austral
Cycling
Carnival,
Melbourne,
by
Riders of
Dunlqr Tyres
including
the
Great “Austral Wheel Race,” £2OO.
Won by J. Carpenter.
THE LIFE of a Bicycle is in the Tyres and Rims—
and if these are not of the best quality, the
machine will run dead and heavy.
GUARD against this by riding DUNLOP TYRES
fitted to DUNLOP-WELCHRIMS, and you
will be delighted with their SPEED.
First in 1888 ... ... Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at
Swanston-street, Melbourne ; Franklin-street, Adelaide ; King-street
Perth; and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.’W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every .£1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over =£lo
4d. per month for every pound over =£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Business Announcements.
Before Starting
-
r
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Jtemedy for Sea-sickness.
lE®' - Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2a. 6d. and 4s. Gel. ALL COLONIES
Also at the
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollabra,
H
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra
H
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on .easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
B
H
OWAKD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from 6d.
tol guinea,great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
H
H
H
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25g5.; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver ; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
cuttings & Combings
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wgz'fl,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List.'*'
Prompt attention'giyßn to Country Order*
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
, Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
r*l ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
!_ Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60.000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,706,590 12 10
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 43,409 7 2
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: JohnGrioe, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett, Esa.; Anarew burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... .. £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY .. ... 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. .. 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THF. —
Queensland national Bank,
** LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 455,361 17 7
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 proteoted under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.1.A.Q.;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THEL-
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. £2,074,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L. A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thon ley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.O.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Sishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
XL f _ _ _ g».» is noted for its Prompt
I QIO VO 11J( P3IJy and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital. ..£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOELIE.
Agents in London and throughout, the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'i
GEELONG I
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Friday, December 24, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Friday, December 31, 5 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, January 4, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, January 4, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 8, 2 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, January 4, 5 p.m.
No transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Friday, Dec. 24, 5 p.m.
Konoovvarra, Tuesday, Dec. 28,5 p.m.
Leura. Friday, Dec. 31, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Friday, Dec. 24, 5 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, Dec. 28, 5 p.m.
Leura, Friday, Dec. 31, 5 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIK It ENT FAKES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, comer George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under: —
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
<s& h AND
—VIA—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TaESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
TJ STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
ATTtT/TE- AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists,^Melbourne*''
Melbourne Ore Testing Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. Melbo6ro3.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., ME LEO URNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from
Friday, December 24.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melbourne)
Friday, January 31.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. „
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Friday, December 24.
-
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Friday, January 31.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
January 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Tuesday,
December 28.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. INI- Goy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN —Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
jP assengvr A cconirnodution, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown.
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS oo CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
fassage Money irom l. jt to .co< ms. nniun mokc™
jduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
irope, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the colonies. *The
S. P.R. Luitpoid and following steamers will call at.
•emantle instead of Albany. J. MERGELL, Genera)
jent, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. MEW YEAR GIFTS.
ONLY VISIBLE DEMONSTRATION CAN CONVEY AN ADEQUATE IDEA OF
ST3ES’^W-A.3E& , 37 13 A. «£& GO’S
MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION
OF SUPERB AND CHARMING NOVELTIES
NOW ON VIEW AT THEIR
sypN EY BNP MELBOURNE ESTABLISHMENTS.
EVERY VISITOR TO EITHER OE THESE CITIES IS COUDIAELY INVITED 10 CARR AND VIEW SAME.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2a.
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
B£in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, £si
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
No. 590.—150 t. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
m
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artisti
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6(L
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; J-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15et. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
7?4in., £1 Is.
Ladies’ A 1 BERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 2s.
15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15et., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,;
1 Diamond, 2 Rabies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
Es
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
niiiilllllllllHlllllllllllHli
Very Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
This design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
xg
mm
NBH
mm
K ik.
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes —10in., £2 ; 12in. t £2 10s.; 14in., £3 6s.
m
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold, £8 10s.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ct. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
9ct. Gold, £1155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. Sd.
Ladies' ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
15ct. Gold, £1 17s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 5s
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
B%in. by £s 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 589.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 ss.
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
m
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d
Q>
W
No. 687.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE. The elegance, variety, and extent of on/ stocks of EINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS, have never been approached.
Over Twenty Thousand Pounds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishments are a complete constellation of brilliancy and a panorama of artistic show. Everything NFIW, ELEGANT, and
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound.
George-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


Packets
Is.
mnm
<3-0 TO HELL-
]GOLAN]) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, tor Is. Cel.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Yindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
At the Austral meeting Dunlop tyres won
£561 out of a total of £616, excluding- pacing prizes.
First, second and fourth men in the Austral rode Dunlop
tyres.*
• • * *
J. Gargurevich, on Dunlop tyres, established
new world’s grass records, the other day, on Melb.
Cricket Ground. The mile was done in 2inin. 11 3-sseo.;
the five miles in 11 39 1-5 ; the 10 miles in 23 45 2-5.*
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Dep6t for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
Mr. John Hunter is simply booming this
Xmas with his warehouse and seventy-five shops ;
and an inspection of the City Boot Palace and
other big places bearing his name is a revelation.
All sorts of boots and shoes, in all shades of tan,
and all grades of black, at prices which at once
commend themselves to everybody; while the stock
of summer mercery, scarfs, bows, hats and caps,
makes a most striking effect upon the onlooker.
The Australian Boot-King, as Mr. Hunter was
styled in London, is now sole agent for the famous
boot-manufacturer, Otto Herz.*
Newman & Snelson,
. . The Governor’s Chemists . .
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have eclipsed all other Headache Remedies with their
New Specific. Safe, sure and speedy. 10 doses by post, 1/1.
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous.
Does Not Stain Linen.
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &0.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,"
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell'S* King-Street Coffee Palace," situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor » - * GEO. W. ELLIS.
GRIEFERDORFF’S
‘KEPRO.’
TESTIMONIAL.
Maldon (Victoria), 21st September, 1896.
I have much pleasure in stating that the Smith
German Gold Mining Company has used Griefen-
dorff’s “KEPRO” to paint the inside of our
Cyanide Vats to save the timber from absorbing the
cyanide and gold liquor. We are pleased to state
that we found it admirably suited for that purpose,
and can safely recommend it to others.
W. B. GRAY,
Managing Director South German G.M. Co., Maldon.
\ LSO useful to Squatters for COATING
A Waters Tanks ; Electricians and Chemical
firms for COATING Acid Tanks, and all users of
Casks and Wooden vessels. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Agents,
ALFRED LA WHENCE & CO.,
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
o*^
f op°
RED BIRD.
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch— 64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and )
Depots j
Everywhere.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
THE GREAT AUSTRAL WHEEL RACE WON ON
A RED BIRD IN RECORD TIME.
A proof of Red Bird speed is the fact that Kellow,
when mounted on a “ Red Bird,” won the great
Austral Wheel Race from 15yds., in the record time
of 4.29. This season, although Kellow started from
the 30yd. mark, he could not win his. heat in 4.50.
The officials also know the advantage of being mounted
on a Red Bird, as they invariably grant a rider longer
start when mounted on other machines. We have a
great surprise in store for all for the ’97 and ’9B
seasons. Agents, be quick if you want the selling line
for the coming season.
THE RED BIRDS ARRIVE SHORTLY.
These are the melancholy days,
Because —to put it straight—
We’re raising the dust with which to buy
The Red Bird of ’9B.
Be on the square in doing business. It won’t pay to
be crooked. To-morrow the undertaker may find it
necessary to put you in his ice-box.
The strength of the Red Bird is now such an estab-
lished fact that many swear their frames cannot be
broken. A well-known newspaper ink-slinger has
ridden an 181 b. Red Bird racer over the roughest
roads for more than a year past, and, although he has
jumped ditches and kerb-stones without number, the
little wheel runs as sweetly to-day as the day it was
purchased. A short time ago the same scribe, mounted
on this wheel, was seen taking home two friends —one
on the handle-bars, and one on the rear forks.
The Red Bird is, therefore, entitled to its reputation
as the wheel which never requires repairs.
Much has been said of the shady dealings of the
trade in connection with the late Austral Wheel Race.
You never see Red Bird agents running after crack
riders and offering all sorts of inducements to ride
our wheel.
We don’t have to. Red Bird cycles are sold because
of their reputation for being reliable and thoroughly
high-grade; it is, therefore, unnecessary to offer ex-
travagant sums to crack riders to ride them.
TO THE 1897 AUSTRAL.
After the Austral is over,
After the track is clear,
Straighten my nose and shoulders,
Help them to find my ear.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Test-match scores—England, first innings, 55i ;
Australia, 237 ; Australia’s follow-on inninsrs, 408; Eng-
land, for one wicket, 96. Victory for England by nine
wickets. There has been some Bulletin controversy as
to whether the kangaroo does or does not put his tail
between his legs. If he does not, it is suggested that
the present is a highly suitable occasion for beginning to
put.
• • • •
Iredale —the Knight of the rueful countenance,
as an English paper called him —expresses a solemn ex-
pert opinion that Stoddart's team has its best chance
to win test-matches in Sydney, and its worst on “ the
faster wickets of Melbourne and Adelaide.” For per-
versely nonsensical prophecy, the cricket expert is not
much inferior to the average professional authority on
rowing. Against Iredale’s “opinion” we have the hard
fact that an English Eleven has been only once beaten on
the Melbourne ground within the past 14 years, whereas
there have been several Hinglish defeats at Sydney. The
men (Lord Sheffield s) who lost their game on the' M.C.O.
ground were also beaten at Sydney, whereas they knocked
up a big score on the fast Adelaide wicket and won easily.
If a fast wicket isn’t in favor of the faster batting team,
then 99 per cent, of the people who take an interest in
cricket know nothing about the history of the game.
Where the Britishers have a disadvantage is in the hot
weather usually associated with the fastest Australian
wickets (that’s Maclaren’s opinion), but even the heat
doesn’t interfere with Ranji, The Bulletin reckons.
* * * •
One finds it difficult to remember that Briggs,
fourteen years ago, was chosen to play for All England v.
Australia on account of Ins batting. Subsequently, when
he made his first appearance on the Melbourne ground
with a Shaw-Shrewsbury team, the little Lancashire lad
rattled up 96 or so in sensational style. His leg-hitting at
that time was quite brilliant.
* * » *
The test-match excited great interest in Lon-
don. Reuter’s, who have a special along with the team,
sent messages “every five minutes” at certain stages of
the game. This is rather better than “ every hour.”
* » * *
Bruce fully agreed with his omission from the
test team. “ I have had my day and am quite satisfied.”
A medico says that Bruce has a bad liver, and often has
gone on to the field seeing two wickets and two balls. All
the same, be is now in first-rate batting form.
* » * *
Two quotations from the Argus report of the
third day s play may be left to offer their own suggestion
to the reflective mind. “There was not a large atten-
dance when the match was continued to-day, for when
five of the best Australian wickets went down for 86 runs,
there were few sanguine enough to believe that the game
could again be made interesting.” . . . “With the im-
proved form shown a renewed interest in the game may
be expected to-morrow, and the Sydney enthusiasts will
flock down again.” It is always worth remembering that
an Australian public does not flock worth a cent to witness
a dire defeat of the local talent.
• * * •
S.S. : “ I was much amused at the different
manner in which the crowd before the Argus office and
that before the Age viewed the falling of the Australian
wickets on the Tuesday of the first test-match. The
Argus crowd was Imperialistic and jubilant; the
Age asse mill age was Australian, haggard, depressed,
partly blasphemous, but mostly burdened with emotions
too strong for words and too deep for tears. I believe the
ignominious defeat of the Australians in every test-match
would bring the Australian republic nearer by a quarter
of a centurv.”
• * • *
“ Bails ’ (Melb ) writes : “ Cricketer Charles
M’Leod can at any rate boast with confidence that his
name will be handed down to posterity. I can hear far-
removed descendants of present generations of cricket-
lovers quoting and discussing that ‘ run-out ’ in the First
Test at Sydney of Stoddart’s second team, in Dec., ’97.
Already, the reports of ‘ M'Leod’s Misfortune ’ have been
clipped and pasted into a thousand note-books. And the
most noteworthy part of the whole business is that ex-
pert cricket-scribes, who had time to look up the rules
and think, support in his wrong decision the umpire,
who had to decide a rare nice point on the spur of the
moment. In cricket, as in many other thing's
a rule has often to be read in conjunction
with other rules in order to extract its full
weight. Now, an argument in support of Phillips’s ‘out’
decision, which has been advanced by very many keen
and constant cricketers, is this—that, as a man can be
‘ run out’ off a no-ball, the minute M‘Leod left his crease
the ball, not having gone into Storer’s hands, was in play,
and that therefore Druce and Storer in combination
effected an indisputable ‘ run out.’ You’d be astonished to
hear the names of the leading Victorian cricketers
who hold this view. That it is ingenious is the
most that can be said for it. But apply the no-ball rules
to this case and we find that M‘Leod was given ‘ run out’
(mark the ‘run’) off a no-ball, he.having left his crease
because he thought he had been bowled, and not because
he was ‘ attempting to make a run.’ A batsman can only
be out from a no-ball when he hits it a second time with
the intention of scoting, or when his wicket is put down,
he being out of his crease ‘ with the intention of making
a run.’ Wherefore, in this case, M‘Leod was not out.’’
* • • •
The first man in Australia to make remarks con-
cerning Charley M‘Leod’s second - innings experience
which were really worthy of the occasion was his brother
“ Bob,” the ex-international player. When the facts were
posted outside a Melb. newspaper-office, Robert com-
menced a series of well-considered epigrams which caused
the thermometer to rise to 108 in the shade.
* » * *
Dear Bulletin, —As you truthfully observe in
“ Answers to Cor.” there is usually a deathly quiet when
the Britisher is beaten on his own dunghill. Whereas, of
course, there is wild enthusiasm for the victors when any-
thing Australian comes off second best in this country.
—Rats.
• # * a
Maclaren can’t possibly maintain his recent
batting form during the next three months, unless he is
equal to the W. G. Grace of auld lang syne. And Mac. is
not the only one likely to slow down presently. All the
English “cracks” have now shown a bit of their best
with the exception of Wainright and Stoddart. The tall
Yorkshireman, who is credited with scoring a couple of
three-figure innings in a county match, has, thusfar, an
Australian average of only 21 in first-class cricket. And
his bowling figures (not reckoning the unfinished second
innings against S.A. at Adelaide) are 0 wickets for 146
runs.
• * * •
In interprovincial matches up to date Clem Hill
has a better average than any of the Englishmen.
Ranji’s average of 105 for 7 innings (once notout) is ten
points better than Hill’s, but, then, Ranji is not English.
• » * *
There is small doubt that George Giffen has
sound logic behind him when he refuses to play into the
hands of the Sydney and Melbourne ground people. That
Australia has little chance of beating the Britishers with
a team some of the local members of which work at their
business on even the morning of a match, is very evident,
and the only chance would be for the Australian authori-
ties who are engineering the team to take their eleven
in hand and find the money to keep it together at
cricket, and nothing but cricket, until the so-called test-
matches are over. This would cost money, and as cricket
is very much a secondary matter as compared to “ gate,”
it is not likely to be done. To continue to call contests
between men in the height of training and a scratch
eleven “ test matches is a misuse of words, and the
public, as per usual, writes itself down an ass in assisting
at such shows, at top prices, in tens of thousands.
* * * *
Had any man said 15 years ago that Garrett,
Charlton and Ferris would form portion of a N.S. Wales
representative team in 1897, that man would have been
considered a poor prophet. Such is the case, however,
and it really looks as if the province is in a very bad
cricketing way. M’Kibbin also forms part of the team,
but apparently his days of usefulness as a bowler are
gone. Last year he played a fine bat, but he appears to
have gone off completely in that department of the game
also. However, if the oldsters mentioned above do not
come off N.S.W. need not despair, as it can then give
Harry Hilliard and a few of his generation a show.
* • * *
Vic. “country cricket week,” during which
several districts piayed each other tournament-fashion,
with a view to discovering any talent that might be
hiding under the bush, brought no new bowlers of any
promise to light. The highest score was made by A. I>.
Freeman, of the Midland district, whose 221 had only two
flaws. G. Mackay, in the same innings, made 196, and
the total was 594.
• • • •
The Stuckey family of West Melbourne recently
provided a cricket record that is not likely t.O be beaten
this side of many Christmases to come. The Stuckeys
are whales for sport —cricket especially-—and in one day
Harry was 206 (not out); George, 72 (not out); Bill, 73
(notout); and Albert, 25 (not out). As if this were not
enough for one household, a cricketing sister chips in
with 70 (not out). Which all tots up to a little bill of 446
for no wickets to the credit of the Stuckey procession.
The Stuckeys are stickers.
* * » •
It is either a feast or a famine at Brighton,
Sydney. As a rule, the stewards are hard to rouse, but
at the trot last week they made up for short-sightedness
in the past by wiping out the whole bilin’, barring the
winner, Silver Cloud. Good old Brighting.
* • * »
£54 was the totalisator dividend paid on a
trotting-race last month at Winton, Maoriland.
• * * •
Dear Bulletin, —One “Surcingle” appears to
have been imagining vain things when he wrote you—
“ With brightening times the V.R.C. has shifted back
'secretary Byron Moore’s screw from £9OO to £lOOO.
Meanwhile, the bulk of the employes are neglected,
though some were cut down as far as from £2 2s. a race-
day to £1 ss. under stress of the boom downfall,” &c., &c.
None of the figures given are correct. The secretary,
who doesn’t get t9OO, has not been replaced on the £lOOO
mark, and, as for the “ employes,” they don’t get paid by
the race-day, but by the week, and they have not been
forgotten. On the contrary, they were duly remembered
a few months ago, and are now getting about the same
wages as of yore. Moreover, they object to the insinua-
tion that the secretary is an officer to look after his own
interests before considering the needs of the rank and
file. There now !—True Bill.
• • • «
Randwick on Saturday, as per usual, had its
full share of surprises for the racing public. Old Whaka-
watea let race-goers know that he is still alive by starting
at 15 to 1 and winning the Christmas Handicap ; and
then Virginius filled the fielder’s cup of joy to overflow-
ing by starting another 15 to 1 chance and winning the
Nursery Handicap. Loch Maree, the only favorite who
won anything, carried off the Trial Stakes ; and Ikey Mo
rejoiced for the rest of the day, the other winners turning
up in Crysolite for the Hurdle Handicap, at 7to 1; Bona
Fide for the Criterion Handicap, at 7to 1; and Voyou for
the High-weight Handicap, at 4 to 1.
• * » •
Whakawatea’s win of the Christmas Handicap
at Randwick, on Saturday last, lends interest to the news
that his two-year-old brother, Prenez Garde, comes to
Sydney early in the new j’ear.
* * * *
The Christmas-box of the A. J.C. to the multi-
tudinous “Flat” patrons is a boon of the right sort
Too long have the Flattites been in the hands of the
welshing and balancing fraternity, who, now all bookies
have to be registered, will find their occupation gone.
The big number-board will also prove most acceptable.
To complete their reforms, cannot the committee cause to
be issued threepenny or sixpenny cards, with numbers
and colors, as the elaborate shilling book is a bit too
“stiff” for Leger and Flat frequenters?
• • « *
For Boxing Day the A. J.C. has out a first-class
bill of fare, and, given fine weather, a big crowd is sure to
be seen at Randwick. The valuable Villiers Stakes looks
like falling to Mr. Hordern by the aid of El Norte, whose
most dangerous opponents should be Wenlock and First
Mate. Sweep considerations will almost certainly cause
a big field to come out for the Summer Cup, which
will probably fall to Coil if he can beat Cravat and Loch
Leigh, who both look well in. The handsome little
Essex (Sweet William—Myall Queen) reads like a good
thing for the rich December Stakes.
* • • *
That popular N.S.W. sprint, the Carrington
Stakes, has secured good entries, and when ’tis all over
Precaution will likely be found to have repeated her last
year’s triumph. In the event of this flier being not quite
ripe, Mr. Hordern may secure the prize with either El
Norte or Astronomer. Tatt.’s Cup looks well for Voyou
if he can stay, which is probable, looking at his breeding
(Bendigo—Barley Water); and, of the others, Bonafide
and Coil appear to have the best chances.
• • * *
The much-despised A.J.C. Derby-winner,
Charge, ran sufficiently well in the Newcastle Tatt.’s
Cup to show that he will still have to be reckoned with in
the best company, and with a fair weight the Sydney Cup
may be within his powers.
« * * *
In removing from the Randwick enclosure last
Saturday those gentry of the “ mysterious movements,”
known to the racing fraternity as “tick-tackers,” the
A.J.C. executive seems to have exceeded its powers.
However obnoxious these signallers may be to knowing
owners, a tick-tacker has as much rieffit to tap the top of
his head with his racebook as the lordly owner has to
doff his cady to the passing damsel of his acquaintance.
* * * •
N.S.W. Colonial-Secretary Brunker’s statement
that he is powerless to suppress shop-betting is queer
reading on the face of it. The police-court records show
that the police, when they care to move in the matter,
can always get a conviction against the tote shopkeepers
—that is, on the east side of Pitt-street. (The leviathans
on the west appear to have a strange immunity from
raiding by the gentlemen in blue.) Then why not keep
on persistently convicting and see what will come of it?
* * * *
About three years ago the V.R.A. was on the
verge of bungdom, and just as it looked as if its little
schedule were ripening for the file, an enterprising secre-
tary ran the risk of prosecution and got up a wholly
illegal sweep on the Melbourne Cup. By dint of hard
work and good luck this sweep was an immense success,
and the unpaid energy of this one man dragged the
association from the doors of the Insolvency Court and
gave it a few pounds to start life again. It started by
blewing those pounds as quickly as possible in interpro-
vincial trips, and since has been steadily running into
debt again with the persistency of a land-boomer.
* * * »
The English jury which brought in a verdict of
accidental death at the inquest on Croot, the pugilist
recently killed in a boxing-match in London, showed
more common-sense than is possessed by the average
jury. The very fact of the police watching a boxing-
match without interference, unless the termination is
fatal, would imply that the contest is not illegal. The
almost isolated case of the death of Croot, a man abso-
lutely unknown in Australia, was cabled out, whilst a
man might be killed or maimed for life in a horse race,
bicycle race, or football match every day of the week
without the wire being brought into requisition. The
officials in a properly-conducted boxing-match should be
no more liable to arrest in the event of a fatal termina-
tion than the stewards of a jockey or bicycle club. If
illegal, the police, who invariably take as much interest
as the civilian in a good fight, should stop the contest at
the outset, or else be gaoled with the crowd as accessories.
* » * *
The pugs, are determined to claim that body
found at lilondyke. As it obviously isn’t Slavin, they
now declare it to be the remains of a brother of Joe
Choynski.
* • * *
Gov. Brassey played a very mean joke on the
boys of a big Melb. school, last week. Presiding at the
annual speech-day, uncle Tom gave the usual words of
advice, and, after extolling the team’s success in the
cricket-field, he said : “In conclusion, I desire—um, um
—I desire to offer—-yah, yah—to offer” —(The boys
craned forward expecting a big gold cup for the best
batting average, or a presentation bat for the highest in-
dividual score) —“to offah-um—l desire to offah my
sincere thanks—um, um—for this—yah, yah—generous—
um—l may say reception.”
Don Walker has returned to a Beeston-Humber
and Dunlop tyres.
Goulbum (N.S.W.) Ladies’ Benevolent
Society says it did frequently assist the woman
whose husband was in gaol and whose baby died
of starvation ; and denies that aid was ever re-
fused on the suspicion that she was unmarried
to Smith.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
A tragic incident has just happened off
the Tas. coast. The captain and mate of a coaster
quarrelled, and during the struggle the mate
stumbled and fell overboard, dragging the skipper
with him. A boy, the only other hand, could not
stop the drift of the craft, and for an hour and a
half watched the two men swimming side by side
after their constantly retreating vessel. They
then disappeared.
The monster Norddeutscher s.s. Friedrich
der Grosse, 523 ft. long by 60ft. beam, has yet
115 ft. room to spare, fore-and-aft, in the Suther-
land (Sydney) graving-doek, and 24ft. athwarfc-
ships.
“Pressman” (Melb.) writes; “Let me
lay a little tribute on the grave of the late Anthony
Brownless, Chancellor of Melb. University. He
was a great favorite with interviewing scribes.
No matter how much the old man might be suffer-
ing—and he suffered at frequent intervals for
years before his last lying-up—he always received
the news-nuisance with a fine old-time courtesy ;
affably willing to answer one question or a dozen,
and it was not the cheap, ordinary hunger for
press-mention that prompted him. He was a fine
old gentleman. I drink to his memory to-day in
brown sherry.”


hew mm of hmo
The Polypathic Institute
and its Remarkable Work
in Melbourne.
WITH ABSOLUTE CERTAINTY OF
LOCATING DISEASE, ITS CURE
BEYOND REASONABLE DOUBT
IN ALL CASES.
That the so-called “ Old ” and “New schools”
of medicines have fallen woefully short of satisfy-
ing the demands made upon them by the thinking,
reasoning, and progressive public, is a thoroughly
well-known fact.
The old or allopathic “ school ” is accused by
the “new” or homeopathic “school,” or the
“ Eclectics,” or third “ school,” of using rough or
unpleasant methods, and unnecessarily large doses.
The Allopaths, on the other hand, accuse their
competitors of both so-called new schools, of
double dealing, ignorance, and the use of remedies
which possess absolutely no virtue or healing
power. In view of this fact, the layman who
may be afflicted with disease does not know whom
to trust. The physician and scientist, who,
realising to the fullest extent the gravity of the
situation, have given their entire time and atten-
tion to the improvement of this condition of
affairs, have called their system “ The Poly-
pathic,” recognising first the great men who made
possible their work, who discovered first the germ,
and next the remedies necessary to their destruc-
tion and a full restoration of health of the patient.
Thoroughly familiar with the science of medi-
cine as taught both in the old and new schools,
they bind themselves by no code beyond that
which should govern every right-thinking man in
his intercourse with others.
They dare use unfettered judgment, and, !
separating the wheat from the chaff in all depart-
ments of medical knowledge, treat diseases of all
kinds as they deem best by this' very progressive
system, or according to the methods that their ex-
perience has proved ; the most efficacious, no
matter in what school they may have had their
origin.
On Saturday, Nov. 28th, the Polypathic Medi-
cal Institute, having leased the entire building, 84
Collins-st. (residence formerly occupied by the
late Dr. Youl, coroner of Melbourne), opened its
doors to the public, and since that time there has
been a constant incoming and outgoing, not of
irresponsible and novelty-hunting individuals, but
among the number might be seen many of our
most respected citizens, all seemingly anxious to
test a system that from the comment of both press
and public, wherever known, to be decades ahead
of all other known methods for the cure of all
long-standing chronic diseases. Not only does
the civilisation of the nineteenth century very
decidedly protest against that of the eighteenth,
and asserts now that the men who pur-
sue 'this high calling should not only have
rare mental endowments, but that they shall have
that natural trend of mind that makes the care of
the sick and the victory over disease the grandest
of all achievements of life to them. The import-
ance of correct diagnosis in all cases is well under-
stood by all the world ; that Mr. Hall possesses
this talent to a remarkable degree no one who has
consulted with him will deny.
Here begins the very first starting point of van-
tage with the Polypathic school of practice, for its
chief exponents are men who from a natural and
overpowering sympathy with all forms of disease
and suffering are able to determine by quickened
sense, surely and with determination, the exact
cause of all that makes life a burden to thousands
all over the land. The highways of medical
practice are strewn with the wrecks of wrong
diagnosis, with the going out of innumerable lives
because of improper location of disease, far more
than from the use of remedies of themselves hurt-
ful. H. *re Polypathy plants its foot firmly down
and deelares that not alone the instinctive, keen
sense of its consulting chief should be taken as a
finality, but that what he determines is the real
trouble, with all the causes that led him to the
clear conclusion, shall be placed before the full
faculty of the institute and his judgment meet
their approval.
The grand and distinguishing first step, then, m
this new system, is the accurate and absolute de-
termining of that which is and is not at war with
the natural current of your life, and when that is
done to find the means of quick and sure removal.
This environment of the several schools has been
from the very earliest years down to a recent
period the one insurmountable bar to the strong
and sure battle with an enemy that should never
have been considered unconquerable, because in
the light of the wisdom of these later days nearly all
forms of disease, if cared for in proper time, will
yield to the scientific and natural treatment of the
most advanced scholars, who use with a strong
hand all the agencies that are now happily within
■our reach.
The Polypaths go into the vast fields of medical
properties, and find in each that which in certain
conditions never fail, and they accept and adopt
in accordance with this clear principle and apply
with that confidence that long experience has
taught them to be well-nigh infallible. Bound
down by no special school of simple theory, having
no special system to maintain, they enter the
realm of Polypathy, and apply to your special case
that which science and intuitive knowledge has
taught with unerring skill to be specially designed
for you. They enter the field of surgery and rob
it of much of its terrors by proclaiming that many
cases heretofore placed under the knife of the
operator now yield to the later discoveries, and
are eradicated from the system without shock .or
danger, reducing the necessity of using the knife
by more than one-half from what was absolutely
essential in even recent years by the old system.
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting the
good and rejecting the bad in all systems ; it has
formulated special treatment for itself m all
chronic cases ; it prepares its own medicines, and
applies them in the light of nineteenth ceffl" y
S e success attending this new system is almost
raculous, but it is in accordance with natural
d applied science, and wins its constant vic-
•ies over disease because of the true following
t of that which natural ability and the highest
velopments of Medical Science has shown to be
re and true. All sufferers are welcome to the
[lest investigation of the
FDTG4L INSTITUTE, of 84 Collins Street,
ELBOURNE Wm. HENRY. GAZE M.D.,
S.A., Lond., &e.. &c., is Physician in charge.*
Riders Appreciate
a Bicycle they can depend
upon in every emergency-
This is one of the reasons for the overwhelming: ....
popularity of-
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES.
Another reason is that the name, Massey-Harris, is a . . .
guarantee of high quality and fair treatment.
MASSEV-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
BKANCH DEPOTS' 291 Bourke Street, .Melbourne, 355 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane ; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
l Outvie every effort for the production of i
\ natural perfumes. A
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
? oi >d Stre^
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
fW COMMENCING BOXING NIGHT,
LYCEUM GORGEOUS PANTOMIME.
DICK WHITTINGTON UP TO DATE.
150 UPON THE STAGE 150.
An altogether new and original version of the famous
story of Dick and his cat up-to-date, up to Dick, and up
to the most exacting requirements of the vast Lyceum
audiences.
The same Popular Prices —25., Is. and SIXPENCE.
J. and C. MACMAHON.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Managing Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO NIGHT (Thursday, Dec. S 3) TO-NIGHT
Grand Opening Night of the First Pantomime of the
Season,
JACK, THE GIANT KILLER.
The array of Talent engaged for Mr. Rickards’ first
pantomime is the talk of Sydney. PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Book seats at Paling’s. First Matinee, BOXING DAY,
Dec. 27. Early Doors and Booking, Sixpence extra.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
GIGANTIC XMAS ATTRACTIONS.
*,* First Appearance in Australia of the Great ***
3 Kellino Family 3
Absolutely the greatest gymnasts and acrobats living.
New Holiday Programme by
COLLINS & ATHAS, CHAS. DILLON, D. H. CASTON,
J. W. WINTON, and the whole of our Great Double
Company. 2s 6d, 2s. Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
The opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
GORDEOUS XMAS HOLIDAY PROGRAMME.
First Appearance in Australia of the Celebrated
HSGrXi £SIVEAWS.
The acknowledged champion Flying Trapeze Artists and
Athletes of the world.
First Appearance in Melbourne of
JOSEPH — THE WALDRONS ETTIE
Supported by the entire strength of our Double Co.
2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
JpRINOESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
Wilson Barrett Season. Wilson Barrett Season.
Every Evening the Famous Play,
“ CLA.TTDIA.2XT.”
A Success of Enthusiasm from Beginning to End.
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies'. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
H
ARMSTON'S GIGANTIC CIRCUS AND
ZOOLOGIA OF WILD AND PERFORM-
ING ANIMALS.
LOCATION : PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
A CYCLONIC SUCCESS!
EVERY EVENING.
Matinees Every Wednesdays and Saturdays.
R. Love, Manager; Col. C. B. Hicks, Representative;
Joe Brown, Press and General Agent.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
SUPERB XMAS PANTOMIME.
DICK WHITTINGTON.
MAGGIE MOORE supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Prices as Uusual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Acting Managers—For Miss Maggie Moore and Mr. H.
R. Roberts, Mr. Percy Ward; for Messrs. Holloway and
Anderson, Mr. Jas. Hardy. '
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
BACK TO THE OLD SPOT!
Commencing MONDAY, Dec. 27 (Boxing Night).
Dan Barry’s Dramatic Company
In the Romantic, Vivid, Absorbing Stage Story of
Christmastide in Old England,
A. GILDED SIKT.
Dan Barry’s Popular Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
■DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the management of Miss Ada Junen .
IST" Commencing BOXING NIGHT, 27th December.
GORGEOUS XMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
EVERYTHING UP-TO-DATE.
H. C. Ward General Manager.
FITZ-GERALD BROTHERS’
HUGE
COMBINED SHOWS,
INCLUDING
Carl Hagenbeck’s Zoological Circus.
A TRIUMPHANT AND INSTANTANEOUS
SUCCESS.
THE LION AND ELEPHANT ACT
sensationT~~|
EVERY EVENING, at 8 O’CLOCK.
LOCATION:
Opposite Redfern Railway Station.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
Day Shows—Wednesdays and Saturdays.
The Splendid Band under the conductorship
of Herr Von der Mehden.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COMMENCE BOXING NIGHT COMMENCE
Frank Thornton—“ Charley's Aunt.”
Undoubtedly the Greatest Success ever Produced.
It ran for over four years in London. The Record Run
of the Record Reign.
THE SUN NEVER SETS ON CHARLEY’S AUNT.
3s, 2s, is—Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is. No early doors. No
extra fee for booking. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Theatre Closed for Pantomime Rehearsals.
REOPEN BOXING NIGHT, 27th DECEMBER, 1897.
The grand, original, comical, spectacular pantomime,
Babes in the Wood; or, Bold Robin Hood and
His Merry Men,
Will be presented on a scale of Extravagant Splendour.
Plan, Nicholson’s. EP” PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
T*OOK OF INATUKF
* * —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, la;
post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Mole Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. _ _
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heftameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is; by post Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free 8d-
Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, la 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor6. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free Is 3d. F
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—-Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cliea'p Book Depot.
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
TbeStiffieldCase-
To Newsagents & Others.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage.
Just Published. Price Sixpence.
Wholesale on Application.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
KING OF
CYCLES.
Price,
£l2 10s.
TN€ ROAP
THE MOST WONDERFUL VALUE EVER OFFERED.
SPECIALITIES.— WeIdIess Steel Tubing through-
out, Gear to Order, Handle-bars 3 shapes, Oil-retaining
Barrel Hubs, Frames 24 and 26 inch.
CATALOGUES POSTED. EASY TERMS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
“ Fhiz ” Cycle ’Works,
DRUITT STREET (Next Town Hall),
SYDNEY.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy am i iwi pr ri a i •
Duplicate parts always in stock. imi~c.ni .
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F- MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
o
VER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BICYCLES.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4£in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
Carbide TGrocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
..CLEARANCE SALE..
Iljolf American High ]|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE I
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. IST Everything fancy but the price.
English «| American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
MACK LIN
LENLEY
L.X.IMLEY
c ADBANT
130ULEVA ;D a. .
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
SG3 CE A HENCE SXItEET, SIDNEY.
" DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Hotels.
mm
HEN
1
**</'’**
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL,
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Pay, or 2 Guineas per Week.


Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient
Consumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It has long
been the most popular and successful
anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere approved and
recommended by the Faculty. It
soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays
coughing, and induces repose. As a
family emergency medicine, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral takes the lead. For
the relief and cure of croup, whoop-
ing-cough, sore throat, and all the
pulmonary troubles to which the
young are so liable, it is invaluable.
No household is quite secure without
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. O. Ayer Sc Co.,
LOWELL, MASS., U. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
O®” Beware of cheap imitations. The
name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral —is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
I
Ladies. -call and
see our CHISAP
.11 A ('H INKS, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s Gd weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc. —■—
! S. ROWLEY Sc CO,,
ROYAI ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
SMiS
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents In Australia for
STURTEVANT’S FANS
FOR BLOWING, EXHAUSTING,
VENTILATING, &c.
MINING MACHINERY
and MINING SUPPLIES,
—INCLUDING
Dick’s Celebrated Frue & other Vanner Belts.
Please A ote Our New Address:
74 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
435 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
[PcafOcss
and HEAD
NOISES
i Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aijral Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
an(l the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3 To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very g-ood patterns, 12/6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Biding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Biding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Beady-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Bugs,
13/ti. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STBAIGHTFOBWABD WITH our CUSTOMEBS.
It will pay you t Write or Call Upon Us.
'i®"' Though our Premises have been Destroyed by
Fire, business will be carried on as usual at 14 and 10
BUSSELL ST., and 234 FLINDEBS ST. All communi-
cations to be addressed to 30 ELIZABETH ST., where
our Temporary Offices are situated.
XMAS PRESENTS AND NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
THOUSANDS OF VERY LATEST NOVELTIES.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
18c. La Parisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Buby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
Send size of finger by a piece of wire or a hole in card-
board. We have 1000 other designs of flings in Stoclc.
18c. Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/-.
Buby or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 60/-.
20 Other Patterns
from 10/6 pair.
CURB CHAIN AND PADLOCK BRACELETS,
9-carat Gold,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-.
CHILDREN'S—
-16/6, 20/-.
15-carat Gold,
£2 10s., £3, £4, £5.
CHILDREN’S—
-37/6, 42/6.
English Hall-Marked, Highest Finish, secured with Safety Chains.
u
9-carat 13/6 Pair.
15 „ 27/6 „
20 Other Patterns
from 10/6 pair.
WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCHES.
Silver-Mounted ... 4/6 eaoh.
Gold-Mounted ... 13/6 „
LINKS.
Silver-Mounted ... 4/6 pair.
Gold-Mounted ... 13/6 „
(3
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s., £5,
£7 10s.
Quality, Finish, and
Durability Guaranteed.
Post Free.
Hall-Marked Pearl Gold Set,
2 BIRD BROOCH, 17/6 Each.
Remarkable Value.
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE VALUE, £1 Each.
NEW
Pendant Brooch
with Amethyst Heart,
P-Carat, 10,6
15-Carat, 12, 6
9-carat, 23/6 Pair.
16 „ 42/6 „
Silver 6/- ~
9-carat, 22/- Pair.
15 „ 37/6
NOTE Ora. Only Australian Address—
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WOKI.M.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES,
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Proprietors I
tiuock &
Sold In Bottles, 6d., iand a/- each.
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SVDNKV.
THE
Plum
P(D
THE
‘ Plum*
(1 EN 1 LEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know trie exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
i g! n g| e R ;lzor ) in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post ]<ree to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
i"ST ROYA-Xj W ARRAKrT of APPOIWTMEIIsrT -to
“ the QUEE]\r. »
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE ”
Schwepp
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“ SCHWEPPE
SODAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f*
Infants
m
Benger’s Food Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.
A Wellington (M.L.) family (writes
“ Basto”) went to church one Sunday when it had
been raining for two days. The parson preached
about God—the gloomy, cruel, vindictive brand of
Him, and on returning home the family were con-
fronted with about twenty tons of adjoining cliff
which had slid down and piled itself up against
the house, smashing in walls and windows, and
nearly shoving the whole concern over. Father
and mother looked on in mute despair, till their
six-year-old cherub explained: “I know! —it’s
that horrid God ! ” And yet people want the
Bible in State schools.
Dear Bulletin, —In a New England town,
the other day, I was accosted by a new arrival
with, “ Oi say, mister, kin ye tell me where’s the
Town Pump? ” I said “Yes ; but I daresay you
may get a drink of water at any of these houses.”
“Wather! Oi niver dhrink wather. Oi only
want to see how me watch is gettin’ on.” I
directed and followed him. When he arrived at
the Pump he straddled out his legs like the
Colossus of Rhodes, put his arms akimbo, and
had a good steady look at it. Then he pulled out
a watch, had another good look at it, slapped his
thigh vigorously and said, “ Right agin.” I went
up to him and inquired what o’clock it was.
“ Well, sor, ’tis widin the black av yer nail av tin
o’clock.” His watch was a Waterbury, and some
complicated humorist had told him that the safest
way to keep it in order was to consult any Town
Pump.—Allesnik.
A sad man distributing illustrated pam-
phlets for a sudden-cure medical co. in a Melbourne
suburb had an active and unhappy five minutes
one day lately. He had insinuated under a
door a thrilling tract all about the young man who
doesn’t feel well, and his symptoms, and the 700
complaints he has probably got, and was depart-
ing with a clear conscience when a furious house-
holder charged down upon him, and assaulted him
in ten places, rolled him in the gutter, dragged
him in the dust, kicked him, bit him, and tore his
whiskers. And then, whilst the tract-distributor
leaned faintly up against a fence and bled, the
citizen shrieked blasphemy in o his unresisting
ear, and promised him twice as much agony if
ever again he dared to deli ver an unchaste pam-
phlet about young men who have “ symptoms
akin to the above ” on the sacred hearth of a vir-
tuous husband and father.
Dear Bulletin,—ln a Sydney denomina-
tional school, Billy Smith is reading the Bible, and
comes on something which to the average sinful
mind, looks interesting, whereupon the watery-
eyed teacher orders him to stop and commence
a-gain on next page. The class giggles, and at
first opportunity turns back and reads the pro-
hibited matter. Sometimes, in his hurry to
avoid full-flavored passages, teacher stumbles on
even spicier intelligence, and the class giggles
some more. Teaching Bible to a juvenile class is
like galloping in the scrub after dark. The only
really logical sectarian I ever came across was a
German pastor who hung out temporarily in a
Sydney suburb many years ago. He took the
Scriptures as they came, and waded through
everything with the seven-league boots of faith,
and even when he arrived at the most awful par-
ticulars he beamed on them through his big blue
spectacles and read right on. His church was just
getting popular when he left, or was fired out.—
J.F.D.


7
EIIEiRJR, IFL-AJSSHVIITTSSIEISr
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GSORGS STREET SYD IST EY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALIN€ HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has mncli pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elirabeth-st., Melb.
tear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Aifaiine Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn. —Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Aifaiine Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Aifaiine Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. HUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Feker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near mj r place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
dootors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
f
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Kasmusskn.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
SydLney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Aroadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.— You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using you»
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear oomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to he, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the laiver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Mist
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9/3/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussbn. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussbn. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALIKE REMEDIES.
SWUSSBT
m
fflm
>'~-v
in
ALFA LINE PILLS!
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD t» NERVES.
:• AWARDED
TWO GOLD
MEDALS
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfalinc Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfalinc Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy lor Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, whioh a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant curs
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS>MUSSEN 19 the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
oblain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERR RAfcSMUSSEN’S
HEM DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Branches.
Herr Ea HEAD e olFicE: 547 George Street, Sydney.
Inter co lonial
Branches :
| Queensland -
1 New Zealand :
l 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
r Brisbane—l6o Queen Street,
j Charters Towers —Royal Arcade.
South Australia :
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street.
Victoria :
Melbourne—l6o Bourke Street.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Fremantle —Henry-street, next corner of High-st.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’a Chambers, Hannan-st.


you Don’t
Want Pbysic.
main more
Work more
eat less
Worry less
and Drink
UJolfc’s
THE ONLY REAL
Schnapps
Eire worth
Ewing.
BUY
WHOLB
BOTTLES.
PUREST
LIQUOR.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets se'nt'upon deposit
or nood reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
The Last of Six.
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
Made with extra strong, double rolled Method B JbSh Siepensee with'the use of loose
2h£‘ES :iSy h ioin°.r Mader d tigf..r°a" tb.‘Cd end. Any sire B.Lu.d can be set up in two
minutes. No tools required to fix them. ©#t. gj n> gft. Bft. 6in. 4ft. 6in.
, „ 25/- 27/- 28/- 30/-
French, lin. posts, very strong “ *" oa/. 32/6 35/- 37/6
Half-Tester, lin. posts, do. do. .. ••• •••
SPRING WOVEN WIRE MATTRESSES.
No. 0, The Alert, close woven single wires
No. 1, The Sydney, wide woven double wires ...
No. la, Extra close woven double wires ...
No. 2, The Perfection, close woven, with 11 bands
No. 3, The Trusty, close woven, with 14 bands
No. 7, Folding Stretcher, double wires...
2ft. 6in.
6/-
7/6
8/-
8/6
10/-
10/-
3ft.
6/6
8/-
8/6
9/6
12/-
11/-
3ft. 6in.
71-
8/6
9/6
10/6
13/-
12/-
4ft. 6in.
8/-
9/-
10/-
12/-
15/-
13/-
[ton CLUBS, HOTEL*.
-BAR RACKS,
SCHOOLS.
'hospitals A OTHES
INSTITUTIONS.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS
MARK A SPECIALITY OF MANUFACTURING
Purified, Healthy Bedding, and Superior Woven Wire Spring
JULfltt I*BS8(58
which give satisfaction, and that is the kind you want 1
AljTj we ask.
Trv us for your Bedsteads, Bedding, Kitchen, Dining,
and Bedrooin Furniture, Austrian and American Chairs,
Java Kapok, Horsehair, Feathers, &c., &c.
Country STOREKEEPERS and DEALERS.—Now is
timp to ReDlenish your Stock. Do not hesitate,
K ffi a°nd E sS or Write for our New Wholesale
with LARGE STOCKS to give you just the kind of value to dr ® are Cheap,^uylreely" 8 Ours are* always
know you are alive. Let us talk the matter over with you. see signs oF’getting busy. Begin now by
Cheap and Saleable; population must '"orease. Do not delay until e f tabl > hed more than 30years
sending us your orders. You are somebody s customer , why not ° l ' , . , j v pro gress. The above facts are
on the same spot. No change of firm. No failures, nothing but contmued and steady progress,
certainly evidence of merit and fair dealings.
John. Lawler cl Sons,
608, 610, 612 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FAOTOIUES-No. 4,6, 8, and 10, UNION LANE.
•Q 9 ‘SNOHdH'IHI
Established 1860.
HUB S marvellous MIR RESTORER
*33
*
w
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every ease where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
t im%. £
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
An Australian lady, now residing in England, says : “ Truly, Mr. Holland, my hair
is a walking advertisement for your Hair Restorer. It gives me pleasure to recommend it
everywhere I go. All my friends who are using it through my recommendation speak most
highly of its wonderful hair-producing properties. It is so pleasant to use too. And it
keeps the head free from scurf.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT. It
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, 3IELBOUMNE.
BSMIDT'S REFRIGERITOR.
. . FOE . .
Keeping Butter, Meat,
Milk, etc., COLD,
The Hotter the Weather, the Cooler
it is, as the evaporation of water is
greater. No ice or chemicals re-
quired. 6in. x6in., 35.; lOin. xBin.,
65.; 12in. x lOin., Bs. ; and upwards
By post, Is. extra.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
and 422 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
TANGLEFOOT
her^ er !J l
ends
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
Fly paper.
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. L W. THUM CO.,
MICH., U.S.A., ,
M’f’t’rs.
Sold Everywhere.
PILES.
mHE Advertiser having suffered for years from Piles and
-L tried all sorts Of ointment cures, which only gave
temporary relief, accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can.be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Mote for 55., to pay for advertising, &c., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address—
D. C. DAVIS, Rockhampton, 1 QUEENSLAND.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER 6RATAIS
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, I
and enabii g the consti- 1
tution o resist climatic
iniluence3.
Invaluable in all cases off
anaemia, Influenza and 1
general debility;
iighly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil-1
dren.
LANCLT ** A beautiful and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “/*
the good effects of iron without producing const •- 1
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
l hiacAen the teeth .
1 Sold by Chemists all the world over.
Dr. L
Medical,
General
. L. Smith’s Medical Almanac
—Contains—
Useful, Family, Agricultural, Horticultural and
Information. PRICE 6D.i *« Booksellera
“WHAT IS LIFE?”
AND the alleged humorist replies—
“lT ALL DEPENDS ON THE LIVER.
If
vour Digestive Organs are out of order, then life is not worth living : your food fails to nourish you; y ou J gets
; with jaundiced complexion and cadaverous look you begin to anticipate your destiny -you wish you were d d..
... MINERVA DIGESTIVE ...
is a speedy, infallible, and pleasant remedy for all troubles arising out of indigestion, and as such is recommended by the faculty.
Dr. CHURCHHILL PURCELL, L.K. & Q.C.P.1., L.M., L.R.C.5.1., 13 Jamieson-street, Sydney, says:
“After carefully perusing the formula, I have given MINERVA DIGESTIVE a thorough trial in v
tt cages, i am pleased to say that in every instance it has given me entire satisfaction. In one obstinate
« case of indigestion, accompanied by hiccough and sickness after eating, its action was specific.”
IWin £*r*T7S» TIIO-GStive is a purely vegetable preparation consisting of a number of remedies, each of which has a specific action upon the Liver, Stomach
Mmerva Ljl & esulye P y Prescribed doses immediately after meals, it will assuredly stimulate the liver, cure constipation, tone up the bowels so
the P-per L* of bile, a’nd purify the blood. Of all Chemists throughout the Colonies.
TVTinAfra Tonic is now so widely known as the greatest of all modern restoratives, it needs but scant advertisement. A phosphorised iron syrup, it shows
MmerV \l?a“ 1 by enSng tie bfood, strengtheninf the nerve, increasing the secretion, stimulating the brain, fe te It
nf Rev Dr O’Hara/ Private Secretary to His Eminence the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney; Mr. Hart, F.R M.S., Melbourne, Mr u Sullivan,
Member in N.S.W. Parliament for Queanbeyan ; Mr. Haynes, Member in N.S.W, Parliament for Wellington; and many others in equa y r p
positions. Of all Chemists throughout the Colonies.
Minerva Specialities in Pills embrace
Minerva Liver Pills (Pink), Aperient; Minerva Compound Iron Pills (Yellow), for the Blood; Minerva Little Nerve and Brain
Pills (White) —Nerve and Brain Tonic.
A Reminder as to Minerva Peptonised Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil.
This now is the RECOGNISED REMEDY in all cases of CONSUMPTION, RICKETS,
men are pretty well unanimous in pronouncing it the best Emulsion that has ever passed through their hands. As witness, Dr. Ek , , members
Visitirig Physlciln ThMmere Consumptives ; Dr. Davidson, Hon. Medical Officer Balmain Children’s Home; Dr. Kane, Bourke ; and many other members
of the Profession whose names are household words.
Sydney Depot: 56 Margaret-st. Melbourne Depot: 231 Elizabeth-st
Adelaide Depot: 98 Currie-st.
Brisbane Depot: 3 Darragb’s Buildings, Queen-st., or Taylor & Colledge


Stocktaking Closing-Out Sals
—AT—
FINNEY ISLCS & CO.’S
WILL BE COMMENCED ON
The 3rd January, 1898.
GOODS in EVERY DEPARTMENT are
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED for this
CLEAR!NO-OUT SALE.
ORDERS should be sent EARLY, with a care-
ful description of requirements, naming prices
wished to be paid, and enclosing REMITTANCE
TO COVER AMOUNT.
Anv Change over, after executing Orders, will
be at once refunded, and COUNTRY CUS-
TOMERS may rely upon getting the benefit of
all reductions, and goods nearest in price to those
mentioned.
DRAPERY GOODS of the value of £2 and
upwards that can go by Parcels Post, with the.ex-
ception of certain heavy or .bulky low-priced lines,
are sent by us to any Parcel Post Office in the
Colony, POSTAGE FREE.
Goods are thus Delivered to all parts of the Colony
AT BRISBANE CLOSING-OUT PRICES.
During Closing-Out Sale it is often useless to order from
samples. When once lines are sold, they cannot be re-
placed. In sending samples, therefore, a first, second,
and third choice should be made in each instance, and, in
the event of all being sold, authority should be given for
us to substitute the nearest. In substituting goods, our
best judgment would be used in selecting the nearest, both
as regards pattern and price.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank Drafts, and
Cheques payable to
FINNEY ISLES & CO., BRISBANE.
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free front
Starch and Cane Sugar*
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
HAIItI»KI<>M?EtS ANI» WIUMtKMtS
To (lie Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Uroquisrnolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
varh'v of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mil ors. Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Macl.in ry, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO thejladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
080 A 68!J tJeorgc Street, Sydney.
Vour Life or that Si Gal et tobacco !
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEIL A CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
rrALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
L Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
“ I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (ill.
Sole Agents :
m
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st,, Sydney
A BOON to SYDNEY.
I®
SI
L-
L° *T li^£ s
We
FOUR
BY THE
Centennial Insect powder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MEG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
TREE'
TO ALL
IMENj
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life." So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that n akes it
all plain may be had 1 y writ-
ing. posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bliffli Sts.. Sydney.
si
X
TTT»
s
&
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth.
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of
Parasites-
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE,
CAUTION. —Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
SI
1
I
e
PAKRoT
Brand'
£Wp%
Ift,. Oitroß/
3PLAINS VoONDC
(oV6HS (OLPS £c
[Beware op ■*
/MITATI°AiS'
MELBOURNE.
mfih
POST FREEv^>»
VlwrcriES-Clocks-JEv/ELLERY-BißTriowp*
WEDDiNc Z PRESENTS
H NEWMAINI-1755177-fLIZARFTri 5T*
OPPOSITE G:ROr
MELBOURNE.
■Qotialla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
TBacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
' ] gocl a, 11 a, Uaras
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, ST ONE V.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind uvrills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
n€AFNESS
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisibly Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
David graham $ C°-
. HAVE OPENED THEIK . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
—H —
—H — StiltiOgS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular Clothing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address
73 & 75 XING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
-\7IOLINS, 7s 6d, 12s 6(1,
v 22s 6d, 30s, 37s (id,
465, 60s, 90s, and 105 s ;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
645, 755, 90s, 1355; Auto-
harps, 12s6d, 21s, 255, 355;
Aceordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
17s, 18s, 25s and 30s; Cor-
nets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s. “Os and 90s; Banjos, best, 63s and 90s;
Zither Banjos and 90s; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang Month
Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash , or Is. iverhhj. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges. Send for our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
J. ALBERT & SON. 118 King-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
'<^o
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOHCHITIS,
DIABRHffiA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLUS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLORODYNE. J never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, .scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man Electricity.
Our E'ectric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS .WEAK-
NESSES in* 1 11 stqges, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that vou
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOB
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - J3X.
which, in most cg,ses, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS ,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Ncnfo6S WeakQeSs • - -
AND
Ccrcbro-SpiQal Piscas?&,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or,.if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writino.
Dargo : “ How Higgins is gaining weight
in Yic. politics ! Apparently destined to become
the leader of the Democrats, he may equal Higin-
botham yet.”
Mrs. Smith was in the habit of retiring
when Mr. Smith did not reach here by 11 p.m- —
leaving Mary, the housemaid, to wait up for him.
After a time Mrs. S. became suspicious, and
determined to wait up herself. At 1.30 she turned
all the lights out, and was about to camp
when she heard someone at the door, and, going
on to the mat, received the whispered query—“ls
that you, Mary ? ” Imitating Mary’s voice, she
whispered back “ Yes,” thinking she would lead
him on a bit in the darkness and find out things.
Then she pulled back the bolt, and he murmured
from outside, “Go into the diningroom, Mary.
11l hang my coat up and be with you in a
minute.” She went, and he shortly followed into
the dark room and sat with her on the sofa, and
flirted in a most pronounced manner And kissed
her times uncountable. “Now is the time,”
thought she, triumphantly, ‘‘to let him see what
he has been doing.” Upon which she got up and
lit the gas. , . It was the policeman. Mrs.
Smith is now feeling most unsettled, and the
vigilant officer is simply bursting with know-
ledge.
“A.” to The Bulletin :
Visiting a friend on a recent Sunday, I saw, from his
window, the side-door of a Sydney hotel getting in its
fine work. All the morning a number of rum-soaked
women and their “ blokes " went out and in the side-door
aforesaid as freely and openly as if it had been week-day.
Occasionally the ladies—with an eye to business—would
ask a passer-by to join them in a drink. At intervals a
couple would pair-off and go to one of the ladies’ houses
near by, and come back to the pub. to resume the chief
business of the day, getting as drunk as possible ; for the
intermittent solicitation and prostitution seemed to be
performed more as a habit, or as a means to raise money
for more drinks, than from any other evil intent. Won-
dering at the impunity with which all these indictable
crimes were carried on in broad daylight on Sunday
morning, I enquired, and found that the publican was an
ex-policeman, and wouldn’t be summoned for breaking
the law in any case. This policeman had retired
oompulsorily. He used to get paralytic drunk
when on duty oftener than even a policeman is
allowed to do, so our good Government fired him out.
He at once invested in the pub. ; and now, by the
kindly aid of a God-fearing Ministry, he helps to keep
holy that blessed Sabbath, for the honoring of which
Brother Brunker declares he is answerable to a Higher
Power. But, maybe, Brother Brunker and Co., so long
as they catch the atrocious criminals who sell bananas
and ginger-beer on Sunday, can afford to pass over side-
door spreedom.
Dr. Candiottis (Candiottis, the Greek),
when at Back Creek (Vie.), was called upon to
make a post-mortem examination. The subject
had broken his neck. The doctor took off his
head, and set it on a shelf, throwing a cloth over
it. Then he cut up the remainder of the poor
devil. That done, and the trunk sewn up and
placed in a coffin, the Greek made his toilette and
went to dinner at his hotel. After soup a calf ’s
head was placed on the table. The doctor started.
“H—ll and Horror!” he ejaculated, “that re-
minds me ! ” and he left the room hurriedly. Pre-
sently he returned, a broad smile on his handsome
face. “ What was it ?” asked the bank-manager
languidly. “ Nothing, nothing,” answered Can-
diottis. “ You see, 1 have to-day cut up our poor
friend who breaks his neck—and the devil! —it
was not until I see our calf head there that I re-
member his head on the shelf there. So Igo back
to restore it to him. Yes.” Calf’s head wasn’t
popular that day.


■A- RIDDLE FOR YOUNG AND OLD. Wily do
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
Resemble MERRY CHRISTMAS ?
Because they both bring CHEER AND COMFORT TO THE HOME. The following cases of AN/EMIA,
NERVOUS DEBILITY, LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA, and INDIGESTION have been Cured by this
Famous Remedy, after HOSPITALS and DOCTORS had signally failed.
Indigestion and Dyspepsia
Vanquished.
Globe-trotters assure us that foreign travel,
change of air, scene and diet, generally effect a cure
in the case of the unhappy victim to dyspepsia
and indigestion, but that something more than
th ise is needed is proved by the interesting story
of Mrs. Marietta Beaumont, of 183 William-
s'reet, Sydney, who had been for years a martyr
1 1 the above distressing complaints.
A reporter, calling at this lady’s residence,
found Mrs. Beaumont a fascinating young lady,
who readily volunteered to give full particulars of
her travels, her sufferings, and her remarkable re-
covery.
“ We have heard, Mrs. Beaumont, that you
have only lately returned from Japan, where you
went in search of health and recreation ? ”
“It is quite true. I have had a most charming
experience, and am rejoiced to state that I now
feel better than ever I did. It is 12 months since
my medical attendant advised me a change of air,
for the condition of my health had been such as to
cause my friends considerable anxiety, for I was
in a very low state. I had suffered for a long
time from dyspepsia, and began to fear that my
heart was affected, for it would beat violently
upon the slightest exertion ; so' I determined to
follow my doctor’s advice, and seek fresh fields
and pastures new.
“ I left Sydney by the Changsha, one of the
China Navigation Company’s boats, and, after
‘ doing ’ China, proceeded to Japan, which is a
most wonderful country. The climate suited me
Jt
A
5?
to a nicety. Before leaving Australia I was
advised to take with me a good supply of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale Peop’e. I vvas told
that the conditions of life in the East are such
that a reliable tonic is imperative.”
“Who advised you to take this remedy, Mrs.
Beaumont ? ”
“ A lady friend of mine who had taken it with
great success, and who is a firm believer in its
virtues. I feel convinced that it is to Dr. Wil-
liams’Pink Pills alone I am indebted for my re-
storation to health and animation. I took some
two dozen boxes with me, and the possession of
them enabled me to perform many a kindly
action, and the gratitude of a young Japanese
gentleman, to whom I had presented a box of this
marvellous preparation, will ever remain firmly
impressed upon my memory. I cannot conceive
how it was I first became ill, for I have always
taken plenty of outdoor exercise, particularly
horse-riding, of which I am passionately fond.
However, I, determining to give Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills a fair trial, commenced taking them
the day after I left Sydney, according to the
printed directions. After the first two boxes I
felt a great change for the better, and gradually
increased the dose to three pills after each meal.
I think I have taken in all ten or twelve boxes. I
now feel as though I needed no further tonic.
“ Speaking for myself, I can certainly say they
are a wonderful invention, and I consider that the
thanks of the community are due to the genius
who discovered this happy remedy.”
Bidding this sprightly lady adieu, the reporter
took his departure.
Pale and Sallow Girls,
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth ?
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeak disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents and guardians rests a great re-
sponsibility at the time their daughters are bud-
ding into'womanhood. If your daughter is pale,
complains of weaknesses “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion ; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side ; if her temper
is fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
of the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks ; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and/'premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughteraoaking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills upon the approach of the period of
puberty, and thus rymid all chances of disease
or early decay.
A Physician’s Failure.
SEVERE CASE OF ANAEMIA CURED.
“ Can it be the same girl ? ” Even the milkman
asked the question of a lady in Siltertown, at the
East End of London, whose daughter, in less than
a month, had undergone so marked a change in
personal appearance as to be barely recognisable.
“ Yes,” said-the mother, “this is my daughter.
You would not think she had been at death’s door,
would you? But it is so. Like most of my
children, she was strong enough and healthy up to
a year ago, when she began to droop and 101 l
about, and couldn’t work, didn’t eat, and hadn’t
any inclination to do anything. Her father and I
had lost one daughter, a fine young woman, and,
as I said, seeing this one going the same way, we
were dreadfully upset. We sent her to the sea-
side, but she came back as bad as she went—the
same lassitude and both of movement. Then she
began to get worse, and we had the best doctor
we knew of. You can’t see anybody die
before your eyes without doing something to
save them. He came, and came, and kept com-
ing, and she took medicine; but with all his skill
and care she did not appear to be any better,
and we got tired of it.
Anaemia, or bloodlessness
he said, was the disorder
that was killing her.”
“And then what did
yon do ? ”
“ We didn’t know what
to do. We were ready,
in our despair, to try
anything, when I came
across a piece of news-
paper, which described
something exactly like
my daughter’s symptoms
and the cure of the person
who was suffering them
by Dr. Williams' Pink
Pills for Pale People. So
we laid our heads to-
gether, and her father
like now.”
“ She does not look like an invalid now.”
“ No, indeed. It is the result of this wonderful
medicine.”
Mrs. Peacock (whose address is 4 Randolph-
street, Siltertown) went on to say that, a fortnight
after commencing the new treatment, her daughter
was better, and, in less than a month, everybody
was remarking the improvement, so marvellous
was the change. “ I only wish I had known of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills when my other daughter
was bad,” she added, “and then we might have
saved her.”
4.
A Locomotor Ataxia Cure in
Sydney.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS SCORE
ANOTHER GREAT VICTORY AFTER SIX
DOCTORS HAD FAILED.
“ Some six years ago,” said Mr. Jarvis to a re-
porter, “I was skylarking in the Natatorium
Swimming Baths, in Pitt-street, Sydney, when
my feet slipped, and I fell over the pipe through
which the steam is pumped to warm the water.
My head struck the concrete floor, and my legs
were hurled across the pipe, my flesh being
shrivelled and singed. I fell insensible. When
I was lifted up the burnt flesh from my legs was
torn away by the heat, and left adhering horribly
to the pipe.
“ For sixteen weeks,” continued he, “ I
w
%
was unable to leave my bed, arid when at
last I rose I was not the same man. I am a
boilermaker, you know, and the work is exces-
sively hard. Still I endeavored to keep
pace with demands. One day, however,
whilst engaged in a refrigerating chamber, I
caught cold in my back through entering in a
heated condition. This pulled me down still more,
and I became weaker than ever. Ultimately I
was forced to abandon my trade of boilermaking
at the Atlas Engineering Works. Looking around
for something easy, suited to my feeble condition,
I commenced collecting accounts for a butcher at
Glebe Island. I was, however, becoming seriously
incapacitated, and would sometimes be confined to
bed two days at a time. Later on I had to lay up
three days running. Tiien suddenlyiny sight be-
came affected, and I could never see correctly.
When money was being paid to me I’d always make
mistakes, and I continually saw ‘double.’ I'd
have one shilling in my hand and I’d see two there,
and so on. Becoming weaker and weaker, with
failing sight and faltering step 1 took to my bed
altogether. The doctor pronounced it an advanop
case of locomotor ataxia, and I was refused ad-
mission to the Sydney Hospital, as my trouble was
said to be undoubtedly chronic and incurable. I
was, however, given my tram fare, and an order
on the Director of Charitable Institutions for ad-
mission to the Liverpool or Rookwood Asylum.
But instead of that I tottered home, to spend 12
months of agonising existence in my bed. I lost all
power of walking, and my body became absolutely
dead and immovable from the waist downwards.
Day after day I lay awake restlessly counting the
weary hours, with my helpless legs drawn close
together. Then my wife would come and shift
them apart for me. Sharp pains shot continuously
across my waist. My sight had failed me, and
then another fearful disaster happened. I lost all
control over my bowels and bladder, and the con-
tents of these organs would be suddenly evacu-
ated without any will on my part. Every bit of
feeling in my legs was gone, and pins stuck in
would cause me no pain. I was frequently dizzy,
and my palate was paralysed so that I had no
taste in my mouth, and could never tell what I
was eating. Not that I ate much, for my appetite
wholly disappeared, and I had no desire for food.
The whole of my interior organs were also para-
lysed, and the tips of my lingers had no feeling in
them. My medical adviser told Mrs. Jarvis that
I would never work again, and that, although I
might last some time, I would possibly never be
able to use my legs. He did all he could to ease
my excruciating agony with opium and morphia
pills, but as my malady was the dreaded locomotor
ataxia, of which no authenticated cure had ever
occurred, he was forced to regard my plight as
hopeless. I tried every patent medicine without
success, and I also bought an electric battery and
applied it, with the same result. I thus gave up
all hope, and drifted on in a sea of darkness and
misery for a period of twelve long months.
One day, however, I saw the case of John
Marshall, of Hamilton, Canada, reported in an
American paper, and I noticed that he had been
nmrvellously cured of my very complaint by Dr.
Williams’Rink Pills for Pale People. Jumping
at a straw, I resolved to try them, and did so.
Then, and not till then, did a magnificent and
astounding miracle take place. I improved visi-
bly. First my appetite returned, my sight was
restored, the waist pains faded away, and I could
taste what I ate. Then, gradually, feeling re-
turned to my limbs and to the points of my fingers.
I could run my hand over my legs and feel the
contact. My lower limbs were no more like
blocks of insensient wood ; my will-power in-
creased ; my veins had warm biood infused into
them, and I was delighted to find I regained con-
trol over the use of my bowels and bladder. I was
able to leave my bed and walk across the room
with a stick and sit on the chair. My improve-
ment, though gradual, all the time steadily in-
creased, and a little later I was able to walk the
length of the lane with a stick, whilst now I can
move about the house without that aid. Altoge-
ther, Mr. Jarvis continued, “ T was off and on in
bed for two years, regarded as a chronic case by a
Government medical officer, and told I could
never recover. Yet here I am,” he said, with a
laugh, ‘‘as well as I was five years ago, and still
on the improve.
“ I’ve had hundreds and hundreds of visitors,”
he explained, “ since my cure was published, and
Mrs. Jarvis and I have been kept busy going to
the door.” “ Indeed, we have,” reponded the
lady, laughing. “ During Jubilee time, when all
the country visitors were in town, we held a regu-
lar reception, and Mrs. Jarvis could hardly do
any housework, so numerous were the eager en-
quirers who poured in from just after breakfast
till nightfall. I answered them all the same, and,
no matter whatever they said, I recommended the
pills to them. Many have taken my advice, and
have since been cured. We received dozens of
letters also, anci replied to them, and in the same
tone. I can’t say too much for the pills ; they’ve
done all Ive told you. They’ve saved my life,
and my wife and I consider Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People to be the most wonderful
medicine of the age, with no exception.
‘ M r - J- S. T. M‘Gowen, M.L.A., the leader of
the labor-party in the N.S. W. Assembly, has
known me from childhood, and no man was more
astounded than he when he heard of my recovery.”
Thanking Mr. Jarvis for his interesting chat we
bade him and his cheery wife “ Good morning,”
as well as the little baby that waved her hand i'n
farewell to us-
Lookingupa well-known and reliable medical
authority, “The Practical Home Physician,” a
book of over 1100 pages, we found what four of
the most renowned doctors in the world—Doctors
Lyman, Fenger, Webster Jones and Belfield—
have to say about locomotor ataxia, which is a
disease of the spinal cord, characterised (princi-
pally) by the patient being unable to control his
legs thus frequently he steps backward when he
wishes to go forward—and also by a loss of con-
trol over the bladder and bowels. These four
celebrated physicians unanimously state : “There
are as yet no authenticated instances in which re-
covery has occurred from this disease, whieh is
always of long duration. A fatal result must
always be expected.”
In the face of such facts, so much the greater,
the public will say, is the merit to be attached to
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
_ ♦
Sciatica Surrenders.
It would be difficult to conceive a more tho-
roughly typical son of the soil tha-n JVIr. Samuel
Coe, of Strathpine, about 14 miles from Brisbane.
Yet that man was in the early part of May last
bent double with pain, racked night and day with
the tortures of Sciatica ; he could not walk, he
could not ride, and life was to him a veritable
burden. He had been a sufferer for a year, and it
seemed to him that there was no hope on this side
of the grave, when he read of and tried Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. To that medicine Mr. Coe
unhesitatingly ascribes the credit of the change
effected in his condition. Hearing of his case, a
reporter journeyed out to Strath pine to hear from
his own lips the story which he very gladly and
very thankfully tells to others. When met by the
reporter, Mr. Coe was riding auseful-looking bay
horse, sitting him comfortably, and presenting no
appearance of ever having been an invalid.
“I called, Mr. Coe,’' the reporter said, “to
gather from you some personal confirmation of
your letter to the proprietors of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.”
“ Well,” was the reply, “ I am sure I am very
glad to do that. Every word in the letter is cor-
rect.”
“ I would like to ask you for some details,” said
the reporter, “ of the history of your case.”
Mr. Coe then went on to describe his first attack
of sciatica, but, first of all, dismounted from his
horse, and stood by the roadside in leisurely style,
with the reins thrown loosely over his arm. “ I
was in at Sandgate with a load,” he said, “in
May, 1896, and, all of a sudden, something came
over me which I thought was a paralytic stroke.
I was scarcely able to move. A neighbor stopped
me and asked me to help him with a bale, but I
told him I had a paralytic stroke, and could
not do so. I got home, and was very bad.
I was bent double; could not walk as far as
that tree (indicating a tree about a dozen yards
away) if you gave me a million pounds;
could not mount a horse or sit on one, and
had no sleep. I went to doctors (naming three
prominent Brisbane physicians and two at Sand-
gate), but got no relief. Some of them wanted
me to go to the hospital, but held out no hope of
being able to help me. The disease made an
old man of me. I dragged along for about
twelve months not only with pains down my hips
and legs but all up my back. In May last I read
of Dr. Williams’ Pills and obtained a box. The
first box gave me relief. I felt the blood shooting
in a warm stream through the affected parts, and
before I had taken many boxes I was out of pain
and able to go about my business.”
Lest his case should be taken as singular, Mr.
Coe said : “ There are others at Strathpine who
have been cured with these pills, and no doubt
they would give you their experiences. At any
rate, you can ask any of them about my case.
They can all tell you of the great change there is
in me.”
It is little wonder that Mr. Coe looks upon the
Pink Pills medicine as something to be warmly
commended.
After Nine Years of Suffering.
Mrs. Sarah Reid, of Bowen, near Wacrera
Wagga, N.S. W., writes :
“ I must tell you of the great value derived by
my daughter from the use of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. She had been under dif-
ferent doctors for a period of nine years. I tried
all the patent medicines I thought would suit her
case, but without any effect. A neighbor one day
showed me one of your pamphlets, and I decided to
A.
pve your remedy a trial, though I assure you with
little hope. I cannot tell you how delighted I was
when I found that my child started to pick up
with the first box. I continued on until three
boxes had been consumed, when the cure was per-
fect. I cannot speak too highly of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and I firmly believe them to be a good
medicine for young and old. You can make what
use of these statements you think fit.”—l2th
April, 1897.
D* WILLIAMS’
INK
ILLS
LE.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are not like other
medicines, and their effects are permanent.
Nothing else is so prompt in pulling up the sys-
tem when, from some temporary depression or
otherwise, tone is needed. They have cured
more than 75 hundred oases of diseases arising
from impoverished blood, such as anaemia,
pale and sallow complexion, muscular weak-
ness, depression of spirits, loss of appetite,
palpitation of the heart, shortness of breath,
pains in the back, nervous headaches, loss of
. . . memory, earlv decay, all forms of female weak-
ness, hysteria, paralysis, locomotor ataxia, rheumatism, and sciatica, scrofula, rickets, hip-joint
diseases, chronic erysipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs.
Ihe genuine pills arc sold only in wooden boxes, about 2 inches in length, in a white wrapper,
with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, printed in red. They are ne*?er sold in
bulk or from glass jars, and any dealer who offers substitutes in this form should bo" avoided. In case
of doubt it is better to send direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Oueen’s-ehambers,
<2ueen s-place, Sydney, enclosing the price, 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for 15s. .’id. These pills are not
a purgative, and they contain nothing that could injure the most delicate.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
AS AN ESS is
FULL OF MEAT,
MARK FOY’S
Rcpl't? Witl>
Seasonable Benefits.
CTOTT ai)d HOAR 6
(ESTABLISHED 12 YEARS),
AMOVED TO LARGER PREMISES,
Martin Chambers,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
""REMINGTON
TYPEWRITER
OUTNUMBERS as 3 to 1 the COMBINED FORCES of COMPETITION.
It Keeps Pace
with every discovery in Typewriting Machines, and combines every known
improvement up to date.
Ip all Speed Contests
the REMINGTON has come out “top.” Why? Because it is so easy
to manipulate, the mechanism being more simple than on any other Type-
writer.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Ask for VELTEN . .
/ /
MIEDIXERRAKTEE
As Supplied to
The Messaqeries Maritime*
Company.
LASER B€€R.
The Australian Artists’ London
Exhibition.
Dear Bulletin, —The trustees of N.S.W. Art
Gallery are presumably now busy adjudicating on
the pictures sent in for London exhibition—thanks
to Miss Walker’s £750 subsidy. It is unlikely that
any considerable influence on the future of Aus-
tralian art will be exercised by the exhibition.
The English public is not an artistic public, in the
first place. In the second place, inasmuch as it is
artistic its standards are higher than those to
which the rank and tile of Australian artists can
yet hope to attain. In the third place, the very
elements of outre attraction and bizarre suggestion
which appeal, and have always appealed, to the
Englishmen are absent, and necessarily absent,
from any pictures representative of Australian
life and Australian scenery. Our alleged wealth
of nationa] individualisation and local color in
flora and fauna is of the meagrest. Our so-called
Australian types constitute less than a handful,
and they are gathered chiefly from House of Com-
mons reports on convictisrn and the pages of Bret
Harte. What literature we have that doesn’t
voice an immigrant’s wail for the joys of other
days and memories of lands oversea, is saturated
with the spirit of the West Pacific Slope. The
familiar flora of Australian poets generally stops
short at the wattle-blossom, with occasional
benevolent patronage of the “ everlasting ” gums ;
and, at more recent dates, eagerly enthusiastic
references to the waratah and the flannel-flower.
The mosquito is the most popular representative
of Australia’s world of active life. The kangaroo,
the wallaby, the emu, the dingo, the ’possum, and
the “gohanner” are ordinarily taken up with
a languid literary, and by no means
accurately-informed, interest by those writers
who wish to give a soupyon of native raciness
to the laborious lucubrations compiled within the
sound of the chimes of the Sydney Post-office.
But how many of our “ local colorists ” know Aus-
tralia as Richard Jefferies knew England—as
nearly every English poet worthy of the name
knew rural England? And again, is this vast
unknown realm varied enough, individualised
enough, to be interesting to the uninitiated, to the
mere English outsider ? All in our scenery which
is characteristic of Australia, and which Austra-
lians learn in time to love, is repellent to the
Englishman, the foreigner, the' lover of lush
greens and vivid tints; who detests grey and
gloom save in the vault of heaven—the only place
where it is not characteristic for Australia to mar
its pitiless blue or its scorching copper with the
trail of a single cloud. Of course, in speaking of
Australian skies, no reference is made to the lit-
toral, but to the vast spaces of the continent
which stretch across the saucer-like interior from
coast range to coast range, north, south, east, west,
• * • •
It is a commonplace of criticism that art can
never attain national dignity without possessing
the vitalising principle of national sentiment.
With the genuine nativity of an Australian nation
will be born also the genius of its expression in
whichever of the sister arts may be most akin to
its spirit, best adapted to the voicing of its aspira-
tions ; and there are those who think that Aus-
tralia, like England before her, will find that
utterance of the national soul neither in painting
nor in music, but in poetry. Nature in Australia
is too vast and intangible for symbolisation on
canvas. Such of landscape painting as has been
hitherto essayed by Australian artists is an
attempt to express in an abstraction that genius
of weird melancholy in which Marcus Clarke
finds the dominant note of Australian scenery,
and it has succeeded only, save in two or three
notably exceptional cases, in presenting fairly
faithful photographs in oil of a barren and soul-
less reality, treated absolutely from the objective
standpoint.
« * • •
In what of pictorial art we can achieve we have
no brilliant social life, no quaint costumes, no
graceful eccentricities or majestic barbarisms of
architecture, no Old World fanes or Eastern
temples. Our towns are but second-rate copies of
already familiar types. Our scenery is secretly
stern and desolate. In the coastal mountains and
gullies much that is richly tropical abounds, but
there is little that is distinctive. Our history re-
cords little that is impressive or ceremonially
dignified, and a great deal of what we regard as
typical of Australian life finds a counterpart and
a predecessor in pioneer America. Australian art
is a misnomer.
FRED. J. BROOMFIELD.
South Australia has 2250 absentee land-
holders who come under the operation of the land-
tax, and they hold land with a total unimproved
value of -£4,101,054. Apparently, the S.A.
absentee-tax isn’t quite large enough. Similar
information about Victoria, N.S.W., Queensland,
Tasmania, and Westralia should be interesting, if
it were only obtainable.
Dear Bulletin, —lie staying powers of
whites in bad climates. Nearly every Northern
“ Lizard ” (old, dried-up miner who can’t sweat)
is an importation. Natives are conspicuous by
their absence from bad tracks—the average native
being too lazy (constitutionally). I beg to differ
from “ Scotty ” re strong, robust men being best
fitted for heat. My experience in West Africa
and Panama was that weedy, sallow, lazy men
outlasted the athletic sort, who were generally
wrecked if not killed by their first dose of yellow
fever. I put in 17 years between the two places
mentioned, and my weight is—and always has
been —8^st. —C.J.T.
Vic. Scripture Education League is dread-
fully afraid of the referendum. “ This question
of Scripture teaching,” it says, “is not one for the
electors generally to settle, but for the parents.”
The league recently caught at this last logical
straw, and clings to it desperately. The bachelor,
the benedict who has no children, and the father
whose children are grown up, are to be debarred
from voting according to the theory of the Scrip-
ture leaguers. If this contention is reasonable, it
is a rank injustice to exact taxes from these people
to pay for the educating of other people’s children.
“No say, no pay.” Sometimes the bachelors
have children : would the league give these a vote
for their sins ? Sometimes a married man thinks
he has children, when, in point of fact, he hasn’t.
This is another matter for the league’s most
serious consideration. It would be scandalously
unfair for one fellow to vote on the strength of
another fellow’s qualification. Altogether the
latest contention of the pietists opens up a very
difficult and very delicate question, a proper set-
tlement of which would lead to the disruption of
many respectable families.
Nil Admirari.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sydney Public Librarian Anderson is back from his
jubilee holiday (on full pay, and £200 expenses) and is
represented as giving the astonishing information that
the cataloguing of his library is comparatively well up to
date. Also, Mr. Anderson is reported to be graciously
pleased to approve of the British Museum. “ The British
Museum commanded Mr. Anderson’s admiration on
account of its fine body of experts and its valuable
work.”—Ex.
Sated at home—of wife and children tired —
The restless soul is driven abroad to roam:
Sated abroad—all seen but naught admiredr—
The restless soul is driven to wander home.
—The Rejected Addresses.
The gentleman from Sydney stood
Before the peerless Taj Mahal :
Said he, “ I’d praise it if I could,
But, on my word, I see no call.
We’ve buildings of as dazzling hue
In Sydney, N.S. Doubleyou.”
A fortnight later, on the Nile,
While yarning over sundry drinks,
He said, with patronising smile,
“ Well—yes, I rather like the Sphinx j
But we have older things on view
In Sydney, N.S.W.”
In course of time he reached Marseilles,
And thence by train to Gay Paree :
The gentleman from New South Wales
Admired fair Prance —judiciously;
And nice comparisons he drew
With Sydney, N.S.W.
He praised the Boulevards, and he thought
The Arc de Triomphe fairly built,
But when the Louvre’s halls he sought
The picture-frames had too much gilt:
“ A fault, sir, that I never knew
In Sydney, N.S.W.’*
In London, I regret to say,
His expectations were destroyed :
He got there on a rainy day
And, naturally, was annoyed ;
“ Call this rain ? Why, we have more dew
In Sydney, N.S.W. 1”
He half-approvbd of Paul’s huge fane,
And liked the “cops ” upon their beats,
But all his hopes were dashed again
When he beheld the London streets;
Traffic was nothing—people few
To Sydney, N.S.W. !
He went to Chatham, where he saw
A fifteen-thousand-ton ship glide
From land to river; but no awe
Could touch the man from Sydney-side :
“ We’ve bigger ships. I promise you,
In Sydney, N.S.W. ! ”
He travelled East, he wandered West,
To note the marvels of all lands,
And, though Le sometimes felt impressed
By wonders wrought by other hands,
His pride perpetually grew
In Sydney, N.S.W.
At last he died and reached the Gates
Of Paradise—all gold and jewels—
Where Peter at the wicket waits
To let in those who keep the rules.
(I grieve to say there are but few
From Sydney, N.S.W.)
St. Peter held the gates ajar;
The traveller was drawing near,
And, ev’ry now and then, a bar
Of lovely music caught his ear :
“ I never heard that song—it’s new
To Sydney, N.S.W. ! ”
He saw the Everlasting Halls ;
The Streets of Gold ; the Crystal Sea ;
The splendid flowers; the jasper walls ;
Then muttered discontentedly :
“ I’ve seen much better flowers that grew
In Sydney, N.S.W.”
St. Peter shut the Gates —aghast.
“ Good lack ! ” quoth he, “I’ve lost my bet!
We thought you might be pleased at last
With this—but, no—so out you get!
Here ! take your wings ! ” Then back he flew
To Sydney, N.S.W.
Perth, W.A.
E. NEWTON M'CULLOCH
S.M. Herald geography :
Kerr looks very well after his long holiday, and will
always look back with pleasure to the trip. Amongst the
different countries visited were Copenhagen and Scot-
land.
Yet Australians grumble at British geographers if
they happen to refer to the “ city ” of Coonabara
bran or the “ continent ” of Woolloomooloo.
They brought me the new “ Austral Eng-
lish Dictionary.” “Thank’ee,”
I said, and gladly grabbed the thing . . .
“My country ! WHAT ! NO ‘ BLANKY ’! ”
An analysis of the contents of the gizzard
of a hen killed at Opalopolis. N.S.W., revealed—
one threepenny-bit, one bone overcoat-button, six
metal trouser-buttons, two brass-headed tacks
(fin.), about sdoz. metal sprigs (for boots), and
sundry opal-chips. The old lady suffered no in-
convenience, and contributed her daily egg to the
breakfast-table up to the last.
Miss Experience Guilford, of Blue Hill,
Maine (U.S.A.), in June, ’47, vowed that she
would not speak for 50 years unless allowed to
marry her own particular “boy.” She was not
allowed, and she kept her vow. In June of this
year, the half-century being up, she invited her
friends to a big spread, and, dressed in her 50-
years’-old wedding garb, arose to make a speech.
To the utter horror of herself and her friends she
could not utter a sound, her vocal organs having
withered away from disuse. No hope of cure.
The scientific basis of the story is all right, any-
how.


Ladies First.—lf you come to Sydney to spend
your Xmas, be sure and leave your measures with our
dressmaker for future reference. Gentlemen next.—Our
tailors will be pleased to take a correct record of your
measures also, for future reference. Ladies and gentlemen
unable to call in and personally select their requirements,
please write, and we will send you what you want, de-
livered free to your door at Sydney prices, if the parcels
post reaches your district.— Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street only, Sydney, between Market
and King streets. (No charge made for registering
measures).*
The ONLY G
iVLE
Tx
%
m
X
REPUBUQUE
& F. PEARS
'X2
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Sartor Resartus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mother used to tell us that Uncle Jim had heaps
of money and land. His house, she said, was
built in the middle of a lawn overlooking the
Castlereagh. Then she’d peep through the
window at Maloney’s kids thumping each other
and splashing in the open sower that ran at the
back of our fence. Mother always harped on
Uncle Jim’s place when the hot weather came
round ; perhaps it was because the six of us were
packed in one back-room where stifling heat kept
us awake at night until Carry hit on the idea of
splashing water on the hot iron roof and pretend-
ing it was rain.
How we envied Uncle Jim’s kids !
One day I put a shilling on the “ tote ” and drew
a dividend of £2 10s. I gave mother half and
cleared out to look up Uncle Jim. After b ittliug
up the line and tramping for a week, 1 found
myself near the Castlereagh, at a place called
Brannigan’s Hole. A swaginan showed me a big
beast of a paddock, and said I’d find Jim Sloan's
house if I followed the gully. I kept a sharp
look out for the lawn'and river that mother used
to speak about, but the thick scrub hid everything,
except a streak of mud and some rocks at the
bottom of the slope. A couple of girls came from
a slab hut and leaned against each other.
“ Uncle about ?” I said, carelessly. They shifted
their feet cautiously, and leaned harder.
One of them said, “ Gram.”
“I’m your cousin,” I said, sternly. “ Where’s
Uncle Jim ? ”
They separated like acrobats, and approached
gingerly.
“Are you Ned Sloan ? ”
I nodded, and looked at them curiously. They
wore divided skirts, with tapes at the knees. I’d
seen lots of swell girls dressed that way, and I
took it as a matter of course.
Uncle Jim received me coldly, and refused to
speak for two days ; so I slept on the verandah,
and lived on bits of meat that the girls smuggled
from their own plates. By and by he softened.
“ Got any cash ? ” he said.
I showed him ss. I had earned on the way up.
He looked at it sorrowfully, and brought out some
counters and a pack of cards. We played “ Nap,”
and I bought the counters at 6d. a dozen. He
stopped the game when I owed him 30s.
“You oughtn’t to play when you’re broke,” he
said tartly. “I don’t suppose you’ll ever pay
me.”
I shuffled the cards uneasily and pointed out
that they were all marked.
“Marked.” He jerked himself back from the
door. “D’ye think we could keep anything in the
house unless we marked it. Them tramps would
lift the Almighty’s photograph outer the family
bible if it wasn’t marked—everything’s marked,
even the kids.” He pocketed the ss. sourly and
refused to speak the,whole day.
“Fine girls of yours, Uncle,” I said‘at night.
He looked perplexed and scratched his head.
“ Gels ! who the h 1 said they were gel~ ’
They’re young men ! ”
I apologised humbly. He cut me short.
“Don’t let ’em hear you, that’s all.”
“You might get them a more suitable rig,” I
ventured, “and prevent unpleasant mistakes.”
He beat back the flies and wiped his hot face.
“It’s a flash rig-out for ’em I’ll admit, but I
didn’t choose it. I on’y took what was sent.
Last year a cove with a waggon camped here ; he
was sick ’n’ your aunt nursed him ti.l he died. I
collared th’ waggon ’n’ horses to cover costs. I
almost wish I’d let it alone ; th’ whole traveilin’
shop was packed with rolls of creton Stuff. Me
’n’ th’ kids turned ’em over roll after roll ’n’ they
were all the same pattern—sort of liver-colored
background splashed with pimples. It made three
of us sick. If there’d on’y been another color or
two —a dash of blue or green—it would have kept
th’ bile away, but th’ same pimply stripe ran
through th’ whole outfit. We lined th’ shed an’
stable with it an’ two of th’ horses died. Your
aunt made a stack of dresses an’ quilts, an’ last
week she covered the floor with it. One day your
aunt sees a paper with a bloomer pattern in it, an’
that settled the kids. You couldn’t make pants
out of it. I tried. But it’s the very stuff for
bloomers. The kids hadn’t a rag on ’em before.
It’s splendid stuff for th’hot weather; if yer like
I’ll get yer aunt to make— ”
“No, thanks,” I said, hastily. “These pants
of mine " ill do for a bit.”
One day lie gave me a load of palings to carry
down to the creek, lie was training for a fight,
lie said, and didn't want to strain the muscles of
his arms. Uncle Jim was a great democrat. He
always told us that if the Governor ever came up
to the selection he’ll get treated like any other
man ; but if his Excellency affected side or came
any dog-tricks he’d be led out by the ear.
Uncle Jim reached the creek first, and when I
came up he was crouching under the willows with
the sweat of rage streaming from his face. I
dropped the palings and looked into the creek. A
large white body was turning and turning in the
muddy depths; the small eyes were half-closed,
and the plump fists locked across the stomach.
“ It’s our breakfast-water,’’choked Uncle Jim.
“ But the man’s alive,” I said. The little eyes
in the water looked at me reproachfully, the fat
hands paddled and splashed until an oily smear
followed the huge bulk under the ferns. Uncle
Jim got up and heaved a paling within an inch of
the wet bald head.
“You—you poisonous waterspout; come out ! ”
Uncle Jim stood on his toes and called him names.
The fat man eyed us scornfully and squirted water
over his body.
“ Go away,” he said ; “go away, you impertin-
ent scarecrow. How dare you interfere when I’m
swimming.”
Uncle picked up a big stone.
“ Come out of my water or by G —d I’ll sink
you ! ”
The fat man floated on his back in sheer
bravado. Uncle took a long breath and said
“Ah” and “Oh” quite viciously. The man
swam a neat side-stroke, and drove the water be-
hind him like a wheel-boat. Uncle ran back to
the house to unchain Crib. The fat man paddled
to the opposite bank and went behind a tree to
dress himself. I watched him with sudden in-
terest and commenced to whistle. He had the
loveliest clothes in the world—soft doeskin pants
that unfolded like velvet. A chain drooped from
his drab waistcoat a chain that would have
bought the selection over and over again. He
took a silk hat from under a handkerchief and
placed it carefully over his ear; then coughed
once or twice, and eyed me severely.
“ Well, you young cub, where’s that impudent
Bcoundrel who assaulted me with a paling? ”
“ Gone for the dog,” I said, cheerfully. “You
just wait till Uncle comes back.”
He smiled and fixed his spotless shirt-front.
“I’ll wait, by all means.”
Just then Uncle Jim came up, with Crib pulling
on the chain.
“Where’s that bladder of lard?” he said,
earnestly. “ Where’s th’ cow that spiled th’
breakfast-water ? ” Then he stopped, jerked the
chain and sat down.
The fat man settled his tie calmly, took up his
cane, and approached the water’s edge. “ I’ve a
good mind to thrash you within an inch of your
life, you dirty, unspeakable cocky ! ”
Uncle Jim dropped his head ; and Crib—Crib
the terror of tramps—slunk away and grovelled in
the dust.
“I’m very sorry, sir”—Uncle Jim was apolo-
getic all over—“ I’m sorry if I’ve said anything
offensive. You are at liberty to swim in my creek
any time you like. You see, sir, I’m worried with
beggarly tramps, an’ I’m not answerable for what
I say. I’m sorry, sir.”
I never noticed till then how dirty and ragged
Uncle Jim looked ; his gaunt limbs seemed to
shrink into his clothes.
“I should think so, you ragamuffin,” The fat
man placed a hand on his stomach and addressed
himself tome. “He might have knocked out my
brains with that paling.” He felt his stomach
again and repeated it. “He might have knocked
out my brains.” Uncle looked round helplessly
until his eye rested on Crib. He rose up fairly
quivering with rage, and seized a paling.
“ So you came down here to bite that gentle-
man, eh, you scrubby mongrel! you vile rat-
catcher ! You’d have bitten that gentleman,
would you ! ” And he hammered Crib until ho
lay over and kicked. The fat man watched him
half approvingly, half contemptuously, and
strolled across the bridge that led past the
selection. I dodged back and waited under
the thick scrub that lined the fence.
Then I thought of to-morrow’s breakfast-water,
and the oily smear, and the red pimply body, and
when the silk hat shimmered above the bushes I
biffed it a stoush with three feet of paling. The
effect was awful: there were sounds like a trac-
tion-engine, a wind-instrument and a cow.
Uncle Jim rushed up and nearly throttled me.
And when he had done throttling me he threw me
out.
I got home again somehow, but I didn’t like to
spoil the beautiful story we had lived on so long.
So I said that Uncle Jim’s mansion and lawn
were just beautiful, and the Castlereagh was
always flowing, and that Crib was a St. Bernard.
And as I didn’t know what to do with the pimply
fat man with the shiny hat I said he was the
member for the district, and a frequent visitor at
Uncle Jim’s.
ALBA DORLAN.
A Spiritual Difficulty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ And you forgive me, Stephen ? ” The dying
woman raised herself on her pillow. “God has.”
“I forgive you,” he answered, huskily.
She smiled, looking upward from her narrow
pallet. Stephen Wood, the pure-living man,
envied the faith of the dissolute woman who had
been his wife. Strange how it is just the “vilest
sinner ” who is most easily assured that he may
return to the fold.
“ And you will follow me '! ” she whispered, as
her thin fingers picked the threads from the cover-
let ; “ we’ll be perfectly happy then, Stephen, as
in the old days—when I was—good.” Her voice
broke away.
Ist He did not answer. It was enough that he
must linger on in this den of infamy till she
breathed her last.
• • • •
But his heart was heavy as he left the building;
heavy, not for the death he had witnessed, but
with a sudden dread of the hereafter. He had
always loved that wretched woman ; assuredly he
had forgiven her now ; but the sensitiveness that
had shrunk from her touch, even as she lay dying,
could not realise a heaven where he and she might
be friends once more. With the remembrance of
such foul wrongs there must be restraint —even in
Heaven. He paced the crowded streets, won-
dering.
Hitherto Heaven had solved his spiritual diffi-
culties, and he had an instinctive faith that he
would not be deserted in this new perplexity.
Simply he wondered which of the “ brethren ”
would be “ called ” to say the word in season.
A vigorous slap on the shoulder.
“Stephen, old boy, is that you?”—and the
dreamer’s slender fingers were crushed in a heavy
grasp. “ Haven’t seen you for an age, old fellow.
By Jove! I don’t think I’ve had a proper talk
with you since that time I pulled old Grubby’s
chair away, and left you to get the caning for it.
Remember, old boy?” and he laughed vigorously.
“ Yes, I remember,” said Stephen shortly.
Another time he should have been pleased to see
his old friend. To-day he only wished to be among
his own people, who would solve the problem.
“And you vowed never to speak to me again
for being such a sneak. And yet here we are
talking and laughing, good friends as ever. Ah !
yes, it was a big thing to us at that time; but,
now we’re men, we simply laugh at it, sim-ply
laugh at it.”
“Yes, I understand,” said Stephen Wood, and
a sudden light shone in his face.
He walked on with quick steps, not heeding his
companion’s flow or talk.
“That’s how it’ll be in heaven,” with secret
exultation ; “ it will not be forgiveness and recon-
ciliation at all. Life will be so large there we’ll
simply laugh at our blackest earthly sins as men
do now at the escapades of children—laugh at
them, ridicule them.”
Logie that would not have commended itself to
the brethren, but it comforted the sore heart of
Stephen Wood.
Maoriland.
CONSTANOE CLYDE.
A Sydney importing firm recently received
from China the subjoined desperate attempt to
carry the English tongue by assault
We cultivated Kou Lo and all kinds of Hyson Paw-
Chung from the country and elected the fine buds,
artificial of arts, to pay attention to examined, being
secented and fire sufficiency, and prepared fragrant and
tasleness will unchangable for a long t ms, great different
from another shops. The patrons tasted and recoynise
the name of FookYun Kong Ho and Cheung Loon'g Ho
Kee no blunders will made and no branch Our shop
situated in Kwong Tong Proviance Chow Tau Chui of
Ho Nam Canton.


A WELL-KNOWN CYCLIST
Regains Health and Strength by the Use of the Great
and Tonic, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. He
Sends his Portrait, and Writes as Follows:
r
■ a
xc >
y s
Gentlemen : Being a racing cyclist and consequently having to
go through a severe bodily test in way of training I was, after a longterm
of constant practice, entirely run down, and had decided to abandon the
track for awhile, but having heard a great deal as to the blood-purifying
and strengthening qualities of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I determined to give
it a trial. I am glad to say that I have been greatly benefited by the
medicine, so much so that I am again able to go on the bicycle track,
and can recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to anyone suffering from loss of
strength and weakness of the system.
Yours respectfully,
Frank Watts, Sydney, New So. Wales, Dec. 29, 1896.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Strength-Giver and Blood-Purifier.
IISF‘ See that the name— AYER’S SARSAPARILLA— is on the wrap-
per, and blown in the glass of each bottle. Accept no other.
Visitors to =
- Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £] per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
GOUT
Readers of this paper should
know that to effectually cure
Gout the great thing to do is to
eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause
of the malady, and nothing
does this so effectually as
Bishop’s Citrate of Lithia. All
doctors prescribe it. Of all
Chemists in two sizes. A Book-
let on Gout sent post free on
application.
Inventors and Sole Makbra—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, E
CURED.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office : King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Company.
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near DniiU.-sfcreet.
Goods Delivered to and Srom every Suburb t Daily.
Special Vans any hoar/- Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Wagons. Customs Entries Passed.
~ WHKX YOL' BUY ; ' ~
Eu<‘<tli/]>tn*i Oil
BUY THE ...
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEJIJSTS.
Nxs.w. ao-kxts : Msssrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
, O’ConnelJ-street, Sydney.
Taswaniax Eucalyptus bu, Co. Ltd., Hobart.
or Extract,
BEST.
HOTEL
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Terms :
{
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
CPjK»inf e,&e-
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H K S1 MSim. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. CU3XNSLAND,
should note that the
. . Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spttoious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
pmm
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly i emove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
ire “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is and 2s 9d each.
X j ?
3S
I
■/
I
W
JUST CAUSE.
“I think Mrs. Specie wants a divorce.”
“ Why so ? ”
“ She has induced her husband to engage a lady typewriter.”
LEA AND PERRINS'
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL. WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUC
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO E, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3tl.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
jgr~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S I’ILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these errand medicines have not jeen
recognised bv thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
The Ballet girl
With 22 Racy Illustra-
tions, depicting her
Theatrical and-Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Xs.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid.
Post Free, Is. 6d.
‘On the Diggings,’& Other Tales of the Golden Fifties.
ILLUSTRATED. POST FREE, Is.
To be had Only of
3VEA.I3 A.1V1132! PAKrZA,
BOX 913, G.P,0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF—
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDKTEY.
•• THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, 3VE J=J3L»-fcSOTT -fc-tUVTJfc-!.
iOgtoi) P6n)pii)g Eogipe Conjpapy
Simpson Brotliers.
(Australasian Branch.)
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, X.S. W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-streefc, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stook.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies)the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)—92 X’.ngf Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
Note.
DEPOTS (Refreshment)—92 King - Street and
AFTERNOON TEA.
-Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
A-Sexa-te* JSverywlxcsres. H. PATES OX, MANAGER.
u
FRUE CONCENTRATOR
(with NEW “LIP FLANGE” BELT)
■
Is distinctly the leading machine of this class,
and there are probably more “ Frues” sold to-
day than all other vanners put together. Users
are cautioned against being led into purchasing
machines which are represented by unscrupulous
dealers as being “ just as good as the Frue.”
There are worthless imitations in the market.
Genuine Frue Vanners are now all fitted with
“ lip flange ” belts, and are only obtainable from
the undersigned, or their lawful and authorised agents.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
PRICES AND CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILL ator
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Baiking p ow( | erß
v insolvent estate £
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price fcS, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, Very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5
each, complete.
& Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
8 Single-barrel Breeoh-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £6, reduced £2 7s 6d each, complete.
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £4 15s each, complete.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price £l5,
nchester C ver y best qua f ty ( highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced > 3 15s.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
BoooiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
W ILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. ©d. per bottle.
Boi)oio2toi)’s Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver.
Is. a Box.
