

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY".
Louis Roederer s Champagne.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. <3r> WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
, DRYSDALE—
-56 and 91 YORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Orb 99 and. “ Pyramid” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Casks Knight Sevan’s Cement.
BRISCOE
- iFRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
30
rf
<RAck'aJocK>
<^B
4 iSfe
*+
j.
V
R. A. HERYEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydnbt.
GIBSON, BATTLE &. CO. (
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions; Boilers, Pumps.
Huston’s Patent Ecoentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by RusTON,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln,England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-lIOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Matiier
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
SYDNEY, and SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
AGENTS
FOR
[. ay A
lIN
1
1
.jmtjf i/
This Steel, which is of the highest quality,
is fast displacing every other brand on all
the leading fields throughout Australasia.
Price, £3O per Ton.
Before viyiting the Of/ write to the Manager for
Qrd of Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
lieimon’s Hotel,
TJrnder Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE - -
(SrosV^oorHot^l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYD3XTEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
77cU//uAd
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World’s Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government).
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Toronto Hotel,
Lafce
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
jasr Poverty Poiutera
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
KOBA.H.T.
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Press and Verse by Bollietin writers; Is. Sd.
ported.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W,
FROSSRRP’S crvour CKSRRS. PRCKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol. 18.—No. 923 j
[Saturday, October 23, 1897.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


<Jt
EORGE ROBERTSON & CO.
jDIIXVIOUi> 06 vV/.,
Geo kgk Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY'S .-TORIES (from The Bclle-
TIN ; price. Is. (3d. ; posted, 1-. o<l.
TALES OF THE OL • REGflflE (.new series, from Tub
Bulletin,', by Price Waning ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d. ■ „. .
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; puce, 2s. 6d.,
posted, 2s. Kid.
Write to us for any Boole or Magazine you want.
G. STEPHENS,
ITERARY AGENT.
J
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
“npHE BULLETIN” PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY ; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
THE CALUMET...
in the palmy days of the North American Indians was a symbol of peace.
The fragrant weed—crude, but still fragrant was appreciated just as much
by the savage of that day as
CAMEO CKSARETTCS
are by men of taste in our day
THE BED PAGE .
About the middle of last century there was
born to a decent Scottish laboring family a
son whom they called Robert. His surname
was Burns, and he lived to write verses—
many verses ; and very many verses have
been written about him. He uses his own
name as a rhyme in the Dumfries election
ballad—
O, that my e’en were flowing burns—
but he did his countrymen grave injury by
using up the rhyme as a name. Had he
called himself Gurns, or Murns, or Durns, it
would have been far easier to make verses
about him ; and an immense burden would
have been lifted from the pen of a nation
which rhymes, as it jokes, ‘ wi’ deeficulty.’
* * * *
But a graver injury has been done by
Burns’s countrymen to Burns himself. He
was a capable fellow, and he probably knew
pretty nearly how good or how bad his verses
were. Further, he knew pretty nearly how
much he had borrowed from the verses of
others. The average Scotchman does not
know how good or how bad Burns’s verses
are, and he does not know how much Burns
plagiarised. So he frequently says, even in
his sober moments, that Burns is the greatest
poet that the world has seen—which is non-
sense, as Burns would tell him were Burns
alive. The effect of such over-praise is to
arouse antagonists who unduly depreciate,
and in the strife between bias and anti-bias
the truth usually escapes through a cracked
argument and is lost altogether.
* * * *
Burns was just a lively, hearty fellow,
with a knack of rhyming, a lot of sense and
humor, and some susceptibility to pathetic
appeals. But he had not a first-rate poetic
brain ; he was perhaps not sufficiently cul-
tured or sufficiently meditative for a poet;
and he was physically too healthy to rise to
exalted planes of imagination. His verses
are the product not of genius, but of ener-
getic, exuberant talent.
* * * *
You can divide writers into two extreme
classes—those with bad-quality brains and
good-quality bodies, and those with good-
quality brains and bad-quality bodies. The
man with the first-class brain has never
energy enough to make the most of it ; he
produces by fits and starts, but what he
produces makes a mark. The man with the
first-class body has never a brain to corres-
pond (that is, he has a brain to correspond ;
he has probably a healthy brain ; and good
writing comes from a brain unhealthy, over-
stimulated) ; he produces much, and nothing
of value. Between the extremes lies every
variety of mean. And the statement applies
in all fields of artistic achievement.
* * * *
Burns was of the Shakespeare type—the
type of extense, not incense, energy—the
type with a fair brain and enormous force—
with an engine requiring 100 h.p. and a
boiler supplying 300, or 500, or 1000 h.p.
The liver of such men is a physiological
poem better than any they ever gave to
literature. What beautiful bile Shakespeare
must have had !
* * * *
But Burns was not wise: he blew
off steam in all directions : he was a
Man Who Couldn’t Keep Still. And so
susceptible ! The Muse is jealous of a wife—
and Burns asked her to live in a harem ! The
girls liked Bums, too, at least as well as he
liked them. No wonder—he was a fine-
looking fellow ; he had ‘ the look and the
leg ’ which Droz’s aunt demands, and ‘ the
spirit of a man, not of a louse,’ and ‘ a fine,
takin’ way wi’ the sex ’ —‘ that sex the most
amiable of the works of God.’
Their tricks an’ craft hae put me daft,
They’ve taen me in, an’ a’ that ;
But clear your decks, an’ here’s the Sex !
I like the jads for a’ that.
His verse had charms only second to those
of his person—the Kilmarnock volume saved
Mrs. Dunlop (so she said), from ‘ the mad-
house or the grave.’ But the lass who, as
Burns declares, first drew song from the
chaos of his breast, was not satisfied with
woful ballads to her eyebrow. And think of
all the lasses that came after ! If Burns had
been half as good a man he might have been
twice as good a poet. He reverses Jean
Ingelow’s case : her poems are her legiti-
mate children, his illegitimate children are
his poems.
* * * *
And Burns was a type of his nation. The
Scotch are the least poetical of the nations
allied as Great Britain and Ireland, but they
have the highest illegitimacy rate. Two and
two make four.
* * * •
Burns amuses and interests, but he can
rarely elevate or inspire anyone save a
Scotchman. Burns inspires a Scotchman
less because he is a poet than because he is
Scotch. ‘ For the people who like that kind
of thing, that kind of thing is precisely what
those people like.’ Burns seems to stand for
the shrewd common-sense, the droll mother-
wit of his nation. He fits his unimaginative
countrymen, and they fit him. The average
Scotchman is not impressed by poetry.
While the poet’s eye is rolling in a fine
frenzy, the Scotchman is calculating what
is the value of the frenzy at sixty days’
sight, and wondering if he can secure a dis-
count on the strength of auld lang syne. In
business hours, anyway.
* * * *
But the Scotchman is impressed by Scotch-
ness. Burns appeals to hereditary patriotism,
to fond memories of childhood, to ancient
honored customs. And his Doric stirs the
Scotchman’s soul—or brain, rather—evoking
the lively impressions of youth in all their
vigor. His homely verse suits homely minds;
and his lack of novelty and subjective stimu-
lus makes him all the more acceptable to
people who want, not new or elevated ideas,
but their own old, ordinary ideas set in new
and attractive form. That is, most of Burns’s
verses are rhymed commonplace, and there-
fore popular. If they were miracles of
ethereal exaltation, like Shelley’s, they would
be unpopular, and poetry.
* * * »
Burns was an earth-born, not a heaven-
born poet: he was stimulated by earthy
hopes, fears, joys, sorrows : his verses are
earthy—he never soars to the empyrean, but
always hovers round the local scene, girl,
hypocrite, topic, legend. Burns is the
Scotch Villon, and Villon the Scotch
Burns: no one in literature has ever loved
women or hated priests in quite the same
way as these two men ; and honest hearts
naturally cleave to them. But it is one
thing to say Burns was a fine fellow : an-
other to say he was a fine poet. Burns
the man is always more worthy of interest
and admiration than Burns the poet: it is
the man in his poetry that compels affection.
He appeals to every man’s manhood : he
hated shams and lies; he loved drink and
the lasses ; his words were bonds, his oaths
round Doric ones, his thoughts pure messen-
gers sent straight from heaven—but it was
Venus’s heaven, not Mary’s.
* * * *
The Burns of the popular Scottish imagin-
ation is a kind of fetish, which every Scottish
editor has whitewashed until hardly a bit of
the divinity’s true skin is visible. Burns the
drunkard. Bums the rake, Burns the writer
of bawdy songs, is carefully toned down in
his own supposed interest and for the sake
of the alleged morals of his nation. His
editors’ injunction is the photographer’s
‘ Look pleasant ! ’ and they make him look
pleasant by as far as possible divesting him
of character and individuality. But—shock-
ing to relate ! —there has been recently pub-
lished an edition of Burns which not only
puts no whitewash on, but even takes some
off! Great has been the consternation in
the camps of orthodoxy. Yet Henley and
Henderson still appreciate at a little
more than their worth the universal claims
of the poet. The criticisms are still
screwed up a peg or two because of their
reference. The ‘ Centenary ’ editors are
influenced in spite of themselves by the
Burns mana —by the thought present all
the time at the back of their heads
that they are dealing with England's envy
and Scotia’s pride. But their illusion
seems the least that is possible to
Scotchmen. They call the lap-dog for
which Burns wrote an epitaph ‘ a lit-
tle beast’; they talk of ‘the cad in
Burns O Sacred Haggis !—and expose a
billet-seeking democrat writing slushy verses
in honor of Lord President Dundas. For
though Burns was a sturdy, independent
fellow, he had an inherited respect for titles
and dignities. He crawled unwillingly,
maybe ; yet sometimes he did crawl in fact
and in rhyme, liberally greasing patrons or
possible patrons from excess of gratitude or
in hope of favors.
* * * *
The chief value of the ‘ Centenary ’ edition
lies in the evidence it provides for exactly
estimating Burns’s rank as a poet. It has
always been known or guessed that he was
scarcely ever a completely original writer ;
but detailed proof was hard to come at.
Burns’s friends and relations, with intent to
heighten his reputation, deliberately de-
stroyed many of the old ballads from which
he borrowed; some of his material was
lost in the process of years ; some,
probably, is still suppressed by the holders ;
and some has remained unknown in various
collections. By dint of brains and industry,
Henley and Henderson have placed Burns’s
plagiarisms more clearly before the world
than ever these were placed before. They
were particularly fortunate in discovering in
the British Museum the Herd MS., of which
Burns made large use in compiling the songs
attributed t© him. And the conclusion justi-
fies the long-standing suspicion that Burns is
BURNS largely because the average reader
doesn’t bother about notes and commentaries.
* * * *
The ‘ Centenary ’ Burns is issued in four
volumes, of which three are published. In
the first two volumes —containing the Kil-
marnock book, the additional Edinburgh
poems, and posthumous pieces—there are
doubtfully ten lines that reach the elevation
of thought and style demanded from the
best poetry ; and two-thirds of the matter
is worthless in the abstract, and only
valuable or interesting because penned by
Burns the man. The remaining third dis-
plays Burns in his true poetic colors —the
most genuine Burns there is—employing his
astonishing energy in describing homely
scenes like * Hallowe’en,’ or in dashing off
humorous pictures like ‘ Tam O’Shanter.’
Burns’s mind was very alert and shrewd
within its range, but its range was singularly
narrow. His lack of imagination kept him
from soaring far from his facts—he is always
a tethered goat grazing in an objective circle.
It is true that Burns’s virile heat often simu-
lates imagination, and songs like ‘ Corn Rigs ’
—husks which Burns built round others’
kernels—may be classed as poetry ; but not
with the highest poetry.
* • * *
This early Burns is the most original
Burns there is, but Burns was never original.
His earlier poems are Fergusson plus his own
vitality ; his later poems represent his own
skill and taste plus the vitality of a hundred
unknown balladists. You can parallel nearly
every masterpiece of Burns with a master-
piece similar in kind, and as good in degree
(though not always in extent) by Tannahill,
or Hogg, or Ramsay, or Cunningham, or
half-a-dozen others. Burns never put more
humor in five verses than Alexander Ross
put into ‘ Woo’d, and Married, and a’.’ He
never put as much pathos in a ballad as
William Hamilton put into ‘The Braes of
Yarrow,’or Allan Cunningham into ‘She’s
Gane to Dwall in Heaven.’ He never put
more tender sentiment in a song than Hogg
put into ‘When the Kye Comes Hame.’
‘ The Siller Gun ’ is as good a bit of descrip-
tive verse as any but two or three by Burns.
Certainly no Scottish poet approaches Burns
as a satirist. But his characteristic virtue is
that he blew others’ sparks to fire. By dint
of his versatile energy he summed up and
excelled the achievements of a dozen poets,
on a dozen lines. He ploughed with other
men’s ploughs in many ways, in many fields,
and often cut the deepest furrow of all.
Other poets show different sides of the Scot-
tish nation : Burns is like Shakespeare—he
comprehends all sides. And his irresistible
vitality dings his poems into the universal
mind.
* * » •
The early Burns survives as proverbs sur-
vive—because his language is a pithy, vigor-
ous concentration of what every Scotchman
thinks and feels, and continually needs and
wishes to express. The later Burns survives
in virtue of the ability with which he milked
other men’s cows into his own bucket. The
songs attributed to Burns have always been
considered the most intrinsically poetic part
of his literary legacy. Yet the slightest con-
sideration would have shown how unlikely it
was that Burns should write verse in his
fresh and ardent youth and poetry in his
weary and embittered maturity. As a
matter of fact nearly all that is best in
‘ the songs of Burns ’ never belonged to
Burns at all was never conceived by
him, never written by him. Burns the
songster was an inspired vamper, tinker,
mender, and little more. For the most
part he never claimed to be anything more.
He was employed, or employed himself,
to supply words to collections of Scottish
airs—just as a pantomime-writer supplies
‘ words and songs ’ —and he got them some-
times out of his memory, sometimes by re-
search like Walter Scott’s among auld wives
and out-of-the-way neighborhoods, some-
times from his head. Sometimes he im-
proved his originals; sometimes he didn’t ;
but the words were vamped to suit the airs,
and that was the main point. The
collections for which he wrote were
in essence musical, not literary ; and
the words were no more meant to be
criticised alone than a frame is meant to be
criticised without a picture.
* * ♦ »
But throughout the work, almost with-
out exception, the old balladists show
by far the livelier imagination and the
firmer touch. Burns’s poetic judgment
when he made his collection was excel-
lent ; but his poetic faculty was much
impaired, and the highest kind of faculty
he never had. The results of a critical
survey are startling. The original Burns
pieces contain for the most part the dull,
stilted, artificial sentiments of his letters.
The freshness, the spirit, the truth and ten-
derness—nearly all that makes the songs
worth prizing, Burns usually borrowed as
he went along. The two best lines in
‘ Scots Wha Ha’e ’ are not Burns. ‘ Auld
Lang Syne ’ is not Burns. ‘ Cornin’
through the Rye ’is not Burns. ‘ We’re a’
Noddin ' is not Burns. The beautiful ‘My
love is like the red, red rose ’ is not Burns.
And so one goes on. Of 252 songs in the
collection attributed to Burns, 36 of the best
contain so little of him that they should be
forthwith struck out of his book. About
104 are more or less vamped—generally
more—and practically do not belong to
Burns either. The remaining 112 comprise
those which are indubitably by Burns ; or
which cannot be traced to other sources ; or
which, though based on older models, have
been rebuilt or all-but. And these 112 are,
with some notable exceptions, the weakest
lot in the whole collection.
» * * *
This notice, of course, does not profess to
deal thoroughly with the adequacies and in-
adequacies of Burns ; only to hint how far
the true conception of him is removed from
the conception which is legendary and Scot-
tish. In any case hapless Caledonia need not
mourn for laurels reft and banners torn.
The credit which is taken from Burns is
merely transferred to Scotland.,


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
m. \to
H
DR. WALLACE,
Tlie tried & trusted
Fries dsol sufferers
Second to Hone in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
Ana get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED;,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy hut less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in S Y DNiCY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
YOUNG MEN,
If you are troubled with,
pimples, basbfuluess,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be e'en.
MIDDLE-AGED & OLD NEK,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
wiihoufc pain and detention from business.'
By this
menus
you
cau describe \ our
(roubles to the
doctors if living
away fr m the
city and unable
to come lo their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
•our valuable tren
■ ises, NEItVoUo
ANO PKIVATW
OISE A SEs, post
■free on an plica-
ss .
tfICvSP
All Trams stop at the Door.
tion. A perusal of tliem mialit save manta mental
and itliysical Mitering and add golden years to
vour life. To ensure p-ompf, a ie"tion, forward
Tl by mail.'mid full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces.-ary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
FREEMAN and WSLUCE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Con-ultiug Booms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
Truths, the plain facts, the old secrets,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing 1 how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
EREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABorij PbySiciaij.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
.almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in ait acute or chronic case of long standing-, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases thsCt have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequemlv accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. I n justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthful y stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston's Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully,
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a oa eful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
so men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.U.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
M bntion this Paper.
Medical,
Dr. SPEER,
20 York street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
'MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
IEF” MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. Th - Rest Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETIIY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
JOHN DURANT*
US-??!
'I
JPHee4fefterflQK..
FULL directions!
ENCLOSED? J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4: 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street, Sydney.
LAMES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD.
Fee. 10/-.
ppropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Red fern Street,
REDFERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Mistress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tabl-ls are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and r 1 per Pox (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
O' RKCORD's
,SSt»» cE <>? F t-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unurecedenl'd success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength 10 the must shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra Painph ets 'free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Alien's for Aus'i alasia— Perry <fc Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street MELBOURNE
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. S^fo°”,r Pe S
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
XL storiesl. Is. 3d
Medical,
Dr. Gibbons
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Rooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. G-IBBOUS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every ca :e undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very puresb
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday,
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
perfect mmol
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
'' permanently cured hy new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored hy our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don't
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All canes are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so> at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherunse secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters a«d particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
fa
.SsS
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes:—“l can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being-well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted tc
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. ' For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
PI
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen, —l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what/
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in yourhands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
70iuwao


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
2nd November.
Melbourne 0.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name.
Address „ ...
Melbourne 0. 2nd November.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me I Shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
• • «
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(JET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Unfversal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USB
pooler's
I^OONE*^
wmimMESsut
FOR
! BBOWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
l OF AIL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning: and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers op
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING-,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops) Saddlers, &c.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/fe each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 5/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS,
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
we are the eheapeStln Aus-
tralia for all Bair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz^ll;
110 William Street, ~~
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe
Prompt attenbiongiven to Country On!«Tfc x
B&SS6U.aJUUUUUmQjtnSQ
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
TS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTIHG PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have. LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality
Nervous sufferers will find
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s
27 of this issue,*
it worth their
s advt. oh page
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s-
per set. Best Quality YVAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. | Ladies’ Saddles
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s, 6d, BOYS 1
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Tamer Wheels, Spring's, etc.
Saddles for Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “11. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one, do so. Is
advertisement, I will pa3' freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A
saddles used in the
' you order from this
CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS nr
FisjsSt at)d Largest Waref)o6S?
IN AUSTRALIA.
.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, <£3s.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDN EY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of
i *
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin d, Complexion.
Or. MACKENZiE'S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying- ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake
certifying to its liarmlessm ss, purity, and beautify dip qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: "I find Dr Mackenzie's
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, s, Denman Street, London Bridee too
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and ail Imported Fruits
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold .
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird's Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
WasbiQgtoi) H.SoOI &Co.,msp.s.,
THE PITT STREET DRUGGISTS,
Hold a Large and Varied STOCK of GOODS in General,
and DRUGS in particular.
Do You Doubt It?
You need not. We run no one-horse show ; it is the LARGEST
RETAIL DRUGGIST STORE ON TERRA EIRMA.
Of course, you believe us!
Yes ! we are not jesting. But our business is run upon solid lines, at a
large outlay. WE ASK EOR SUPPORT.
Inquire of Your Grocer for
A. SOYERS BAKING POWDER, at 6d. per tin. Take no other
and do not be persuaded that any other brand equals ours. It is
not in .the same running.
SPARTAN TONIC, the invigorator of the age, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle
YAALA, for INDIGESTION. 2/- per bottle.
SOAPS, SPONGES, PERFUMES, &c.
I rescriptions b aithfully Compounded. Correspondence Invited.
158, 160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Clmrcla-atreet, Parramatta.
AND AT
Various Verses .
M.L. Agricultural Dept, expert Barker
says cancer in meat is not nearly so common as is
generally thought, and adds that cancer has six
victims among vegetarians for every half-dozen
among cannibals. or meat-eaters. Nor, he con-
tends, is cancer contagious between man and man
or beast and beast. But, then, so many people
make broad assertions, while nobody can tell you
anything really definite about the cause of cancer.
ROMANCE AND COMMERCE.
[FOR TUB BULLETIN.]
Heart-young and true ! In long-dead and rotten
springs
A youth I knew whose soul shone like an eye.
And his day-dreams gave him wings over mean
and sordid things—
Oh ! my memory’s ear can hear him as his clarion
song he sings—
Oh ! woe that such a youth should die !
Heart-high! head-vveak ! And so he sang his
theme ;
Pure of purpose, he, and chivalrous of thought;
In his eye Hope’s gallant gleam, and the world
seemed all a dream,
And life’s turgid sewer-channel was a lotus-preg-
nant stream,
And not anything was ever sold or bought!
Beauty was his world 1 And the bright Septem-
ber leaves
Never withered in the summer nor grew shaded
with the day.
Oh ! the tales young Fancy weaves—ere Time and
Place are thieves—
When the nearest signs of death are the glowing
golden sheaves,
And the grass is living even in the hay.
Nature told ! He heard the growing of the clover,
And the rustlings of their courtships from the
grasses lush and deep !
Unto him, like any lover, would the Bush herself
discover,
And the Earth gushed roses under, and chrome
the Sun threw over ;
And the Mysteries sang their depths to him in
sleep. •
Dead is the soul! To me now no star sings !
No Heaven-born chords are struck upon my
heart!
No more the high hope springs, but the world of
commerce flings
Many gifts in compensation for that Height it
never brings—
Now the Temple is the money-changer’s mart.
Randolph Bedford.
POSSESSION.
What in the world can take you from me now,
Wholly and solely yielded unto me ;
! So, with my lips, X seal it on your brow,
The bond whereof but death may make us free !
Tor you are mine though all the world said nay,
Nor lightly won, nor lightly lost shall be ;
Yet who could part us, taking you away,
Since taking you were taking half of me.
Love !—like a boat wherein the oarsman dreams,
Drifting at mercy of the changing tide,
Until a hailing voice from sleep redeems
The dreamer, and he makes his light craft glide
Swift on its way—l drifted long alone
Till through my slumbering soul your strange
voice thrilled
Like wind in airy harps. The magic tone
Passed, but my soul awoke, resolved, strong-
willed !
Trom that far hour with firm, unwavering eyes
Upon the object of all life —your love—•
I strove to gain it; yea, the starry skies
To win your heart I would have sought to move!
But now when all I ever hoped is mine,
Mine, only mine, ’tis all so dear and strange
I almost doubt, and fear to make a sign
Lest I should wake and all my dreaming change
To those dark, desolate days ere love was known,
When sad, with empty heart, I lived alone.
Ah, if it be that eyes and lips and ears,
Deceived by some wandering fantasy,
Should find, alas ! this dear face, wet with tears,
This tremulous mouth curved so beseechingly,
And low voice as of purling pebbly streams,
Dissolve like night-mists when the sun at morn,
High on the peaks, doth shame them with his
beams ;
Melt like a strain of music lightly borne
By fitful winds, that ere it can declare
Some strange new meaning, dies upon the air !
So, heart of mine, once more say o’er the words—
The little broken words and trembling sighs—
That fluttered on your lips like nestling birds ;
Love, let me hear them, gazing in your eyes,
And know that after weary noons that waned
In famished nights, our lips may feast their fill
Of kisses, and in circling arms constrained
That we may lie for ever if we will.
Yet one more kiss ! This is my day of days,
Unknown of death, though every other die;
Your love has crowned it with immortal bays,
Within my heart for temple set on high.
Mine, only mine, again and yet again
I say the words that seem so weak to hold
Such wondrous weight of meaning clear and
plain ;
Mine, only mine, till all our days are told.
Yea, though life’s fire be fallen to dull embers,
Bed flame will glow whenever love remembers !
ZADIG.
ACELDAMA.
Thirty pieces of silver, the price of the innocent
blood !
What can we do with the reeking coin, too vile
for the gutter-mud ?
We will take it and add to it, daily, the fee from
some woman’s shame,
The profit from childten’s labor, or the price of a
tainted name.
We will buy us “ the Field of the Potter we
will sub-divide—and then
We shall blossom and burgeon as landlords—as
Lords of the Land —and men.
But—the “Field of Blood ”no longer ; too much
would the words reveal!
Let us call it on poster and inset the “ Township
of Judasville.”
Let us gather the tithes and the rentals—the
wages of death and sin ;
With rack-rent and lease and mortgage—“ to bury
the strangers in ! ”
Maoriland.
EDWARD TREGEAR.


Australia!) MCitCial p ro yid€i)t Society.
Established 1849.
Th. 01d« Mutu.l UteA„»r.nc, So** A E - yBEY YEAR !
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, U .1.A., D.i. ~ • •
Annual Income . ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually largepreserves) amounted to *A38,7»7,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about *,830,000.
*X—«* Offlce, 3T PITT STMCT,. SYDNEY.
Hotel
42/6perdm/&apu/ards
iraumv&OF AU /AEALS AND ATTENDANCE
Aovtbalia
JHiW\ M?or^
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENT'S by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality;
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from <£3 3s. each.
MOUTH' HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
I":'.
l PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP * .
Gold, Silver, [cad m Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEI very Variety of
TEA ’
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
m- SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Summer Suits! Summer Suits!
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
H>£ Lofydoi) & Tailoriog Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have one of the Largest and most Varied Stock of SUMMER SUITINGS in the City-
Call or send for Patterns and Measurement Forms.
*F SUI TS— 45/-, 50/- to 90/- TROUSERS— I2/6 to 25/- *£*
All Goods delivered FREE to any part of the Colony.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED. S. M. BAUM ASHE. Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-Street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
rjMfE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
1 with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
•Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Jiridf/euwrk.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSLTLTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 King-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
MELBOURNE CUP
VISITORS should STAY AT
FEDERAL PALACE
HO rp!T.,
u
31
M ELBOURN E.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms; and Caf6 open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOB
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
■SVTEW FURNITURE
■» (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
r ____ Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman: The Hon. See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildhiffs, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £97,763, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Ratis.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING,. Secretary.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
i FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
Hon. J. P. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 12,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring- £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.*
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. lOmp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. llassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
C|g YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- DEIiZDIR-lIDG-IE! & CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 ToqS njore Imported Leaf
tbao all tbe other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th dune, proving the Quality of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yaokw Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cbaropioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Coi)q(isror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€i)tei)i)ial-
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite
Rothschilds.
Monopole,
Bonanza— 4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Rcnistered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a News-naner.
VOL. 18.—No. 923.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1897.
Price, 6d.
d?//^ SVT'fI S-'ff- <Sa zyi^~
yfotissf/iaferj tv'rec.k.ecl S)fea.*ppr ■-''''?///fy*)
Jet?re fared<£y /turner
h?//^ o. //^e.
/AIL yr
//V f
wrv <& *&*
(r% %&&%%*
FIF- **
< ,cK *C. ~ Jawhone
SS EHJ) proposed 100,000 as the. .minimum
Federal Vote, and. finally Premier Rbid
offered to compromise' on 80,000, which
figure was accepted by a huge majority.
See j
fiaik. oy T&de’S-afto')
—7% is iss-uc - -»rf|fu|
tp&ZZ^
PtX /
- Juyou
. jure Ca/ffa/y Mat your <ffiy> /rar/M
c& Jn/7T yeoessory eoy/olryyt
-
( £pr?/f2cafp CapyrHPcfJ
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Biuletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ~
Half-yearly ... ... ••• ° n H f;
Quarterly... ... ... 0 o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Oflice Order, Postal Aote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. . .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. •
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copy right by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or’ Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. —11 A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— F. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with .2s. ’2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. fid. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1897.
Groing Back on Federation.
Very unobtrusively a combination of parties
lately shunted a measure through all its
important stages in N.S. W. Assembly, which
greatly reduces, if it does not quite destroy,
the present chances of Federation. The
measure was fathered by Levien and Neild,
both hardened parochialists of the old school.
It passed its second reading by a majority
of 19 —a very mixed majority made up from
all political classes. If any one of the three
parties had opposed it in dead earnest it
would certainly have been lost, but no one
was in dead earnest. Premier Reid voted
against the second reading as a matter of
form, but afterwards assisted in carrying the
measure through. Also, the Government
carefully left the matter open, and brought
no party influence to bear against it. The
bulk of the Freetrade party took the hiht
conveyed by this attitude, and went with the
anti-Federal cause. Lyne, See, Willis,
Crick and other Protectionists did likewise,
and the bulk of the Labor members present
followed suit. There are hardly more than
two or three politicians in the present New
South Wales Assembly who venture to say
openly that they are against Federation
in every form. But in a House of
73 members there were no less than
46 who grabbed enthusiastically at the
best chance they could get to strangle
it on a side issue. And unless the measure
gets lost in the Leg. Council—which, con-
sidering the narrow, parochial instincts of
that Chamber of Fossils, is wholly unlikely
—Federation, so far as New South Wales is
concerned, is probably dead—very dead in-
deed, and utterly deceased.
* * * •
The question was such an unobtrusive side
issue that it passed almost unnoticed, so far
as the community was concerned. Accord-
ing to the provisions of the Federal Enabling
Act, when the Federal Constitution is finally
drawn up it is to be submitted to a popular
vote in each province. The people are to
accept it or reject it—to give a straight
“Yes” or “No.” If New South Wales
decided to enter the Federation it was to
give a majority of affirmative votes, and the
affirmative votes must also number not less
than 50,000. If there were 49,999 votes for
Federation and only one for Provincialism,
still Provincialism was to carry the day,
which was giving the old order of things a
pretty long start over the new one. Poli-
tician Levien, of Quirindi, asked the Li aise
to make this bad state of things immeasur-
ably worse by requiring that more than half
the electors of New South Wales must vote
in the affirmative before anything could be
done, which, as it is only on rare occasions
that much more than half the electors take
the trouble to vote at all, meant making
Federation absolutely impossible. Jawbone
Neild proposed 100,000 as the minimum
Federal vote, and finally Premier Reid
offered to compromise on 80,000, which
figure was accepted by a huge majority.
* * * *
This was an utterly gratuitous breach of
faith with the other provinces and an act of
the meanest treachery on the part of the Reid
Government and everybody else concerned.
N.S. Wales entered into the Federal move-
ment on certain conditions laid down by its
own Parliament. The 50,000 minimum was
one of these. It is agreed in the Federal
Enabling Act that there shall be no Federa-
tion—so far as that Act is concerned—unless
three provinces, of which New South Wales
must be one, concur in the union ; the in-
clusion of the oldest and most populous pro-
vince is set down as an essential. The other
provinces Vent on with the movement be-
cause the adhesion of New South Wales,
under the provision for a minimum affirma-
tive vote of 50,000, seemed reasonably pro-
bable ; if it hadn’t seemed reasonably pro-
bable, they would doubtless have saved the
time and money and worry expended upon
the matter. Therefore, when New South
Wales goes back on the agreement under
which the whole business has been conducted,
and puts a huge additional obstacle in the way,
it is committing a gross and shameful breach
of faith. If any other province had done this
it would have mattered comparatively little ;
the proviso that New South Wales must be
in the Federation, if there is to be any
Federation at all, makes it matter a great
deal in the present case. The parochial
politicians who constituted the majority were
not only doing their little best to make
Federation impossible as regards their own
province, but as regards the other provinces
also.
♦ ♦ * *
In Victoria it is provided that 50,000
affirmative votes are required before the
Constitution is accepted, and, allowing for
the difference in population, this is equal to
a very little over 55,000 in New South
Wales. Tasmania fixed 6000—equal to 48,600
in New South Wales. Westralia also speci-
fied a minimum of 6000—equivalent to
55,000 in the mother province. South Aus-
tralia fixed no minimum at all; in that pro-
vince, if only three votes are given—two in
favor of Federation and one against—the
Federal Constitution will be accepted. But
in all the provinces which enacted a' mini-
mum an effort was distinctly made to keep
in line with the New South Wales minimum
of 50,000, and the mother province has
gratuitously departed from the common
agreement, and deliberately laid itself out to
give provincialism a longer start in New
South Wales than it has anywhere else.
* * • •
The one argument assigned in favor of the
change is that “for Federation to be a suc-
cess it must at least represent a reasonable
number of the people. ” It is somewhat late
in the day to decide that 50,000 is not a
“reasonable number.” Also, the whole idea
is one-sided and absurd. There will be two
issues placed before the people—Federation
or continued Provincialism. By the original
proposal, if 49,999 people voted for Federa-
tion and one for Provincialism that one would
have his way, and the 49,999 would count for
nothing. Also, if 49,999 voted for Federa-
tion and nobody voted for Provincialism, the
49,999 would lose and the nobody would win.
Yet hardly one politician was straight and
honest enough to say that the two ideas
should start fair, instead of the parochial one
getting 50,000 start—now increased to a
start of 80,000, and that it was quite as
essential to show that Provincialism “ repre-
sented a reasonable number of the people.”
If the present generation of Cornstalks had
ever deliberately accepted and enacted Pro-
vincialism by a majority, then there might be
some reason in assuming that they want Pro-
vincialism until they give definite proof to the
contrary. But they did nothing of the kind.
Provincialism came to them without any
acceptation on their part, and when the
Federal Constitution is put to the vote it
will be the first occasion on which they have
had a chance to say whether they want
Provincialism or not. Therefore the two
questions should start from scratch, and
there should be no minimum at all. If out
of 270,000 voters only ten vote for Federa-
tion and only nine against it, Federation
should be carried ; there is no more reason
to assume that the 269,981 electors who
don’t vote are in favor of one idea than of
the other, as they never formally accepted
either idea before. It would be quite as
logical to suggest that Federation shall be
carried unless 80,000 electors vote against it,
as to put the matter the other way about.
It is a noteworthy fact that not one of the
advocates of the 80,000 minimum, or any
other minimum, proposed applying the same
principle to local politics. Levien, of
Quirindi, who asked that there should be no
Federation unless more than half the total
number of electors voted “yea,” holds his
own seat by the votes of one-third of the
electors only. Neild, who demanded a mini-
mum of over one-third the total number of
electors, holds his by the votes of just about
one-sixth of his own constituents. To elect a
politician it is sufficient if two electors vote
for him and only one against; to pass a new
law, however momentous and however little
the people have been previously consulted
about it, it is only necessary, so far as the
Assembly is concerned, that 11 members vote
consistently for it with only nine against, so
that their joint numbers constitute a quorum
of 20. Consequently, the minimum which
the House applies to itself is only one-third
as large as the one which it declares to be
essential in the case of the Federal refer-
endum. And the members who declare that
a minimum of 80,000 affirmative votes is
essential to the acceptance of a Federal Con-
stitution reckon that there is no need for any
minimum at all when they are out in quest
of the loaves and fishes at a general election.
* * * •
The Bulletin believes that the votes in
favor of accepting the Federal Constitution
will enormously outnumber those cast for
Provincialism. At the same time, it does
not believe that there will be 80,000 affirma-
tive votes. And it is fully convinced that
Lyne and See and Crick voted for the
second reading of the Bill, and that
Reid and Brunker, while not openly
supporting it, didn’t throw the Govern-
ment influence into the scale against it,
because they believed just as The Bulletin
believes, and because they want to see Fede-
ration go down without taking the responsi-
bility of openly opposing it. At the election
of Federal delegates, the total number of
voters was about 144,000. On that occasion,
the Cardinal’s candidature roused up the
Holy Roman vote, and the Orange and mis-
cellaneous Protestant vote naturally rose in
opposition, and the sectarian issue dragged
large numbers to the poll who would other-
wise have stayed away. The Freetrade
party rolled up to show its strength by
putting the Government candidates as high on
the poll as possible. The Protectionist party
rallied round its group in order to show by its
vote that it was a great power in the land.
The Labor-party put up ten of its leaders,
and gathered up all its strength to demon-
strate, indirectly, that it was also a great
organisation, and one to be treated with
respect. The personal popularity of the
candidates brought them votes ; their per-
sonal unpopularity brought votes to other
candidates. Then the mere joy of the scrim-
mage counted for a great deal, and the
abstract question of Federation accounted
for the rest. But at the vote for or against
acceptance of the Constitution there will be
no sectarian issue, no rolling up to show
the strength of parties, no Cardinal, no
Orange racket, no Protestant demonstration,
no element of personal popularity or un-
popularity, no canvassing by individual can-
didates, no advertising, very little stumping
of the country, no scrimmage—only the
abstract question of Federation and nothing
more. And even though 99 electors out of
100 are in favor of Federation, the chances of
30 out of every 100 rolling up to vote for it
are very limited indeed. Even at the great
and glorious riot of the general election the
Reid party didn’t muster 80,000 voters all
told !
The latest Financial Joke.
Last week Premier Reid, of New South
Wales, placed his several th financial fiction
before the Assembly, and with a blush less
countenance told the House that he had
“another surplus.” Also, he added, that he
saw his way to have still another surplus at
30th June, 1898. Nobody else that The
Bulletin has heard of ever soared to such
heights of magnificent inaccuracy as Premier
and Treasurer Reid when he holds up his
great, obvious deficiency—which sticks out like
a bowsprit and refuses to be concealed—and
quotes the amount of the year’s revenue and
expenditure, the latter being conspicuously the
larger of the two, and then'tells his hearers
that the surplus is so distinctly visible that
they can’t help seeing it. Reid’s gift of in-
accuracy is beyond definition. It is too childish
and too wildly comic to be called lying, and not
quite childish enough to be called senile decay.
It isn’t finesse ; finesse is mostly inaccuracy,
but uninteresting inaccuracy that is bowled
out on the spot isn’t necessarily finesse. Also,
it would be rough to call a thing deception
which is too weak to really deceive anybody.
• » * *
The present cash aspect of Treasurer George
Reid is as follows : For the year ended 30th
June, 1897, he says that he received £9,291,986,
and that he spent £9,505,408. These amounts
don't wholly agree with the figures published
in the Government Gazette' but G. Reid
states that they are the final amended figures
with everything complete and brought up to
date. They show that for the year he spent
£213,422 more than he received, and Premier
Reid says that they clearly demonstrate a sur-
plus of £120,092. For the next year, ending
30th June, 1898, he estimates that he will re-
ceive £9,331,467, and that his expenditure will
be £9,392,082, which, by the ordinary rules of
subtraction, leaves another deficit of £60,615,
but Premier Reid describes it as a surplus of
£59,477. This isn’t ordinary Ananias ; it is a
great special gift of the kind which enables a
man with burst boots, and an antediluvian hat,
and no collar, and no buttons, and no socks, to
assert positively that he is Rothschild, and
look as if he believed it himself.
* * * •
In view of the fact that Premier Reid has
solemnly claimed to have a surplus at every
financial -statement he has made, the following
statement of his actual receipts and expenditure
is interesting. The figures for 1895 and ’96 are
taken from the Government Statistician’s re-
port (Statistical Register, 1895, pages 350
and 351) ; those for ’97 and the estimate for
1898 are Premier Reid’s figures supplied last
week :
Expenditure. Revenue. Deficit.
1895 (half-year) ... £4,844,299 £4,478,515 £365,784
1896 9,524,343 9,059,607 464,736
1897 9,505,408 9,291,986 213,422
1898 (estimate) ... 9,392,082 9,331,467 60,615
£33,266,132 £32,161,575 £1,104,557
These figures show the revenue and expenditure
for the years covered by the estimates of the
Reid Government, when set forth on the “ cash
basis ” which that same Government intro-
duced. That is to say, they show the actual
income and the actual outgoings for each year,
and the result is a total shortage of £1,104,557.
Further, the figures show that the Reid Govern-
ment has always spent more than it received,
that it always had a deficit while asserting
continually that it invariably had a surplu's.
*
There is another way, however, of showing
the figures—not the real “cash basis” way,
but the alleged “cash basis” way which the
Reid Government adopts. By this process the
net receipts are put on one side of the account
and what the Government calls the “expendi-
ture properly chargeable to the year ” on the
other. This arrangement shows the expendi-
ture fairly enough for the half-year ended
June, 1895, and for 1897 and 1898. For
the year June, 1895 to June, 1896—when the
“cash basis” dodge was introduced, and all
bills owing but unpaid at the beginning of the
year were charged back to the alleged “Dibbs’
deficit,” and all bills owing but unpaid at the
end of the year were carried forward to next
year, and the system of permanently carrying
forward about £600,000 of unpaid accounts to
next year was first introduced—it does not
show the expenditure fairly. In 1895-96 the
Reid Government, by the introduction of its
new “cash basis,” carried forward about
£600,000 of its debts, and a somewhat similar
sum has been permanently carried forward
ever since, which has relieved the visible
expenditure of that amount. Still, even
by its own elaborately “faked” devices,
the Reid finances pan out very badly. The
following are the net revenue and the net ex-
penditure chargeable to each year, as set forth
by Premier Reid’s own system of book-keeping.
The figures for 1895 and 1896 are taken from
Coghlan’s Statistical Register for 1895, page’
328. Those for 1897 and 1898 are Reid’s
figures of last week :
Expenditure. Revenue. Surplus. Deficit.
1895 (J year) £4,709,821 £4,558,569 £151,252
1896 ... 8,899,514 9,237,585 £338,071
1897 ... 9,505,408 9,291,986 213,422
1898 (estimate) 9,392,082 9,331,467 60,615
£32,506,825 £32,419,607 £338,071 £425,289
338,071
Net deficit £87,218
* • * *
These are the returns by the Reid Govern-
ment’s own system of keeping the accounts.
They show three deficits against only one sur-
plus, and they show a net deficit of £87,218.
Yet in the face of this the Freetrade party’s
blatant man of fat claims that he always has a
credit balance ; he alleged a while back that
his name “ would never be associated with a
deficit,” and his servile press follower, the
S.M. Herald, added that he had “faithfully
kept his word,” which is something beyond the
average in the way of unscrupulous support,
even from a very servile organ. Yet even the
very inferior results shown above were only
arrived at by desperate cooking of the accounts.
In 1896 the process of carrying forward all the
unpaid accounts was introduced, and the
reduction, for that year only, of the
expenditure set down as “ properly chargeable
to the year ” from an average of £9,500,000 to
£8,900,000 shows that a saving, on paper, of
about £600,000 was made in this fashion. In
other words, it appears that about £600,000 of
the year’s accounts are now regularlj’ left unpaid
and carried forward, and the year when this
dodge was first devised naturally shows a great
reduction in expenditure. By altering the end
of the financial year from December to June
the Reid Government collected years’
revenue while only paying two years’ contri-
butions towards the deficit (paper saving,
£75,000, as shown in Statistical Register,
page 329), and a little over two years’contribu-
tions to the various other sinking funds (saving
on paper, £33,000, as shown in Register,
page 351). Further, it collected two years’ in-
come-tax in one year ; and it has borrowed
largely and has spent more than half its borrow-
ings on entirely unproductive works, many of*
which were formerly charged to revenue. It
has cut down the road and bridge vote by fully
£IOO,OOO a year below Dibbs’s average (the
average at which it claimed that Dibbs was
starving the road and bridge service) and made
good the difference mostly with loan money.
And with all this it has had four big deficits on
the cash basis system, and three deficits (in
years) on its own system.
* * * *
In addition to the usual blank assertion that
his glaring deficit is a surplus, there is not
much in Premier Reid’s latest financial state-
ment. Among other things, he says that, com-
paring the Customs revenue for the year ended
30th June, 1895, with that for the year ended
30th June, 1897, he has “ relieved the taxpayer
of an annual charge of £828,000 ” a year. As
there is no return in the Government statistics
for any year ending June, 1895, but only for an
odd half-year, this statement is difficult to dis-
prove, but if the financial year ending Decern her,
1894, is compared with the one ending June,
1897 y Premier Reid hasn’t relieved the tax-
payer of that amount. He also says that his
expenditure is “£9,500,000 or £1,000,000 less
than in 1892,” when the Dibbs Government was
in power, but, as the net expenditure in 1892 is
set down by Coghlan (Statistical Register
for 1895, page 351) as £9,931,000, instead


of the alleged ,£10,500,000, thiß is evidently
another pleasing fiction. Otherwise the
N.S. W. Financial Statement for 1897 was a
very mild document. There was no “ piece of
cold iron for Protectionists to chew,” and the
alarming state of Victoria under Protection was
only mentioned once. Usually, it crops up at
least two dozen times.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Victorian Election.
The Victorian election gives the Turner Govt,
a majority of more than two to one—a bigger
following than that with which it started busi-
ness three years ago. It is very rarely indeed
that a Ministry holds office for the full term of
Parliament and then gets back by even a small
majority, and still more rarely that it gets back
by a bigger majority than its original one. As
a rule, after three years the public is fairly
tired of any Ministry, and is willing to try
almost anybody else for a change. In the pre-
sent case the Opposition only scored one success
worth mentioning. Of the fifteen new members
only one is a declared Tory—the unspeakable
Duncan Gillies, who got in for Toorak by an
immense majority. Probably Duncan will be
of more value to the Tory party than a dozen
rank-and-file men ; the Stomach crowd wants a
leader to replace the doleful Scotch MTntyre
and the lamentable Godfrey Carter. And,
though Gillies can’t construct a new Bill, or a
new idea, or a budget, though he is guiltless
of compound addition, and he never had
a policy in his life, except a policy of
drift, still, as an Opposition leader he is a
man of some value—or at least he used
to be. The Labor-party loses Prendergast
and Barrett out of its 13 members ; apparently
the former’s declaration of gory war against
the Turner Government led to his undoing.
Old Graham Berry lost his seat for East
Bourke by a bare 185 votes ; in the scramble of
six men after two seats the veteran was left by
a pair of younger and more active Liberals.
Francis Longmore, another democratic veteran
who deserved better luck, was ejected at Dan-
denong. Baronet O’Loghlen comes back to
Parliament after a long absence. He and
Gillies are the two fossils that returned, and
they were probably elected to make up for the
evanishment of Berry and Longmore, the two
old men that departed. It is by no means
a good exchange for the country ;■ still
O’Loghlen comes back as a professing Liberal,
and the fact that he knocked out the
unspeakable Thomas Bent is much to his
credit. In the interests of political decency,
any country would owe a debt of gratitude to
almost anybody who helped to keep out the
squat, ignorant and splodgy Bent. Max Hirsch
was among the lost, so the great Freetrade re-
vival is again unavoidably postponed-. Pro-
bably the men who could best be spared out of
the new Parliament are Gillies, the beauteous
and vacant Percy Chirnside, Jonas Levien
of smellful Mildura, Murray Smith, Staugh-
ton, the aged punster Zox, and Frank Madden.
The fatted Tories of the eastern suburbs gave
Madden 1812 votes, while the Liberal who was
highest on the list scored 601. And The Bulle-
tin’s valued poet, Randolph Bedford, got but
152 supporters, and manfully lost his deposit
in a good cause.
«
Freetrade and High Prices.
Melbourne Beacon, the little paper issued by
Max Hirsch in the Freetrade and importing
interest, publishes an article in which it is
strenuously maintained that the price of many
articles of food is higher in N.S. W. under Free-
trade than it was under Protection. The
author of the article is Lonsdale, M.L.A., of
N.S. W., and the Hirsch organ prints his state-
ment with pride as an “ exposure of a portion
of the concocted mendacity dished up ” by
Protectionists. A sample :
Mr. Carroll states that Freetrade has reduced the price
of N.S. W. produce immensely, a statement that is abso-
lutely false. Produce has been brinvina: a higher price in
this colony ever since the duties have been off. The fol-
lowing prices quoted are actual sales, and average
Onions. ' Potatoes. Butter. Bacon. Wheat.
1894 1894 1894 1894 1894
9Jd.
1895 1895 1895 1895 1895
4/9 cwt 2 17/6 12id. 43d. 2 9
1896 1896 1896 1896 1896
8/9 3/6,0 IOJd. 5/d.
1897 1897 1897 1897 1897
9/9 3/14/6 14jd. ski. 4/9
The quotations here given are sufficient to show the abso-
lute untruth of the statement made. They are taken
from a produce-merchant’s books, and are actual sales,
before and since the duties came off. (The duties were
removed on December 31st, 1895.)
This is a truly interesting result. In 1895
N.S.W. was a protected country. At the
beginning of 1896 the duties were almost en-
tirely removed, a lot of revenue was sacriliced,
the country was informed that it would gain
immensely by getting cheaper food, and that a
load had been removed off the back of the con-
sumer, and that the evil system which arti-
ficially increased the price of food and thereby
reduced the purchasing power of the workman’s
shilling had now vanished like a bad dream.
And here is the spectacle of the most infuriated
Freetrade paper in Australia rising to prove
that under Freetrade the workman lias to pay
more for his food than he did under Protection.
Consequently, the burden isn’t removed but in-
creased, and the purchasing power of the
shilling is diminished, and after sacrificing
much revenue in order to give the consumer the
blessing of cheap grub he hasn’t got it after all.
Also, the paper seems actually proud of all
this, and says distinctly that the statement
about produce being cheaper, and the consumer
being relieved from the crushing burden of
high prices, is a lie. Considering how the
Beacon man has labored for years to prove
that Protection is robbery beause of the dread-
ful way it raises prices, this is a very sad fall-
ing-off.
Fog.
The Victorian National Ass party went into
the election waving the usual hazy and inde-
finite banner, and came out badly licked, as the
party with a platform of misty platitudes
generally does. This well-known and widely-
unrespected organisation went down to attack
the Turner Government in its stronghold with
a platform of one item and five dense fogs, as
follows :
(1) Federation and interprovineial Freetrade.
(2) Opposition to dangerous Socialistic and class legis-
lation.
(3) Preservation of the rights of property and labor, so
as to ensure to every man the peaceable enjoyment
of his earnings and savings.
(4) Development of the natural resources of Victoria.
(5) A prudent and progressive public works policy.
(6) To secure the return to Parliament of capable and
honorable men.
The first item didn’t matter ; as the Liberal
party was quite as strongly—perhaps more
strongly—in favor of Federation and interpro-
vincial Freetrade, it furnished no reason why
anybody should give the Ass a single vote.
And the other five items were mere haze. The
old Gillies party is against “dangerous
socialistic and class legislation,” but it didn’t
explain what the term covered, so it asked
the electors to give it a majority and a
general commission to squash anything or
everything. It wanted authority to preserve
the rights of property and labor, but it didn’t
specify what it was going to preserve any more
than it did what it was going to squash. There
are some people who reckon that, so far as the
capitalist is concerned, the right which most
requires preservation is the right to be taxed to
the extent of 20s. in the £ of annual value :
while there are others who hold that the in-
alienable right of labor is to work twice as long
as it now does for half the money. While there
are such wide divergences of opinion the party
which asks any nation to take it on trust be-
cause it is in favor of the rights of capital and
labor, without specifying which rights, is ask-
ing altogether too much. The most crusted
Tory and the most combustible Anarchist are
equally in favor of the rights of capital and
labor, and the latter leaves his little bomb on
the former’s premises because he thinks the Fat
Man has an inalienable right to a bomb—with
a lighted fuse in it. Even the promise to let
every man peaceably enjoy his earnings and
savings didn’t charm the Victorian voter; the
peaceable enjoyment is there now, provided a
man has any savings to enjoy. And the same
eloquent gloom runs right through the pro-
gramme. The development of the province’s
natural resources is good enough, if the public
only understood a little more clearly what re-
sources were alluded to, and how they were to
be developed, and w'ho was to own them when
they were developed ; and Victoria feels inclined
for a “prudent and progressive public works
policy ” if they are the right works, and pro-
gress in the right direction, and the prudence
isn’t of the old Gillies variety. That gentle-
man’s public works progressed downhill in all
directions, and he said he was prudent, anyhow.
Probably the most beautiful item of all was the
Ass’s iron resolve to secure the return of
capable and honorable men, but in the absence
of any information as to whether it considered
Thomas Bent a capable man, the public had no
real information to go upon. With a little more
attention to detail the Ass might have raked
in a decent number of voters, but as it was
he brayed vaguely on unhearing ears and was
lost by a large majority.
♦
The Vice-regal Contract.
The Melbourne jeamses offer a pretty lame
apology for Lord Brassey’s projected jaunt to
England, thus:
During a Governor’s term of office a holiday of six
months is provided for, and it has been the almost in-
variable practice to take this vacation in the middle of
the term. Lord Hopetoun, it is understood, was the first
of the Victorian Governors to take the six months at the
end of the term instead of in the middle.
The Argus, or the Age, or both of them, would
give the public to understand that a consecutive
six months’ leave of absence, whether a Gover-
nor takes frequent holidays or sticks to his post
steadfastly, is part of His Ex.’s contract
with the State that pays his salary—but it
isn’t. A Governor is supposed to work out his
six months in instalments, and Gov. Brassey,
by the way, is only just back in Mel-
bourne from a trip that extended over
several weeks of his holiday contract time.
The overpaid persons who foster snobbery and
“ loyalty ” at Government ’Ouse are, as a rule,
addicted to playing the fool with their official
obligations. The fact that no complaint is
raised by the public merely indicates an almost
unanimous contempt for His Excellency’s
duties. Nobody cares twopence as to whether
he fulfils his official obligations or otherwise,
seeing that such obligations are but the fiddle-
dedee formalities due from a figurehead. Lord
Carington, a weary yawner who accepted an
Australian Governorship in order that his
estates might be “ nursed ” during his absence,
served his full term in N.S.W. without taking
any holiday worth mentioning. He never
dreamed of going ’Ome for six months.
Neither did Sir Henry Loch, his cozitem-
porary in Victoria, attempt to slip out
of the country until he had been on
the vice-regal job for about five years, and when
he made his expedition to London he had press-
ing business in hand. Part of this business was
to procure land-boom knighthoods for Matthew
Davies and Bingy Benjamin. His successor,
Lord Hopetoun, was, in truth, “ the first of
the Governors to take the six months at the
end of the term ” —but it was not “ instead of
in the middle. ” Hopetoun exhausted his proper
holiday-allowance when he got away to Maori-
land at the period of the Melbourne banks’
crisis, but that was not until late in his guber-
natorial career. As for Hopetoun’s escape to
England on full-pay six months before his
term of office had expired, and his arrangement
to leave Chief Justice Madden to run the
show on half-pay, it was an astonishingly
“ cool ” bit of business, which would
probably have excited nasty public comments
had its true inwardness been understood by the
people previous to the getting away of the
smooth-faced potentate. Australia submits to
a good deal of imposition from its vice-regal
visitors, and although one Governor is all the
same as another, and it really doesn’t
matter whether Brassey stays on the contin-
ent or lives up in a balloon, or goes cruising
round the coast for evermore, The Bulletin
may as well protest against grovelling misstate-
ments of the “Brassey holiday” case in “ re-
spectable ” daily newspapers. Also, this is an
opportune moment for suggesting that the
people who pay Governors’ salaries might as
well be favored with full and particular details
of a Governor’s agreement with the “ firm ” he
is supposed to work for.
At a recent meeting of N.S.W. branch of the
China Inland Mission it was stated that seven
of the women present had “devoted” them-
selves as additions to the 720 representatives
which the Mission already possesses in China.
In view of the strengthening opinion that the
West, as a whole, will some day have to “ deal
with ” the East, as a whole—either in the way
of assimilation and absorption, or of deadly
antagonism—it is hard to say how far the path
to the more peaceful determination of the issue
may not have been gradually prepared by the
extraordinary craze of the white woman for
dealings of one kind or another with the yellow
man. Whatever the psychic or physiologic
basis of the infatuation, there is very little
doubt that the proclivities of Western
woman would be no very serious obstacle
to the settlement of the great hemis-
pheric difficulty by simple hybridisation.
Neither need the imagination be very vio-
lently stretched to the conception of a com-
posite Old - world - race, derived from the
practical elimination of Western man and the
appropriation of his women by the overwhelm-
ing swarms of Oriental masculinity. The
partial occidentalisation of the East may yet—
through the application of Western scientific
enlightenment to the military uses of the incal-
culable hordes of the Orient—bring about the
subjugation and degradation of the West itself.
China, India and Japan total already
800,000,000! and the degree to which this
enormous figure dwarfs, the European popula-
tion-tally is one which, at the respective pre-
sent rate of increase, must continue rapidly to
stretch. “Ex Orients lux!” is a dictum open
to much greater question than “Ex Oriente
finis ! ”
Writes “ Smiff’s Corpse Reviver ” :
In reply to “Smiff’s Corpse’’—The Jap certainly per-
vades the Torres Straits pearl-fishery, but who is to blame
for that ? The white man. True, that a Jap without a
shilling can be taken on as a diver, and get an advance of
perhaps £2O in cash, and tucker, &c., on tick. So can any
other diver, if the employer gets to believe he really
means to stay. A diver never signs on for less than six
months, and sometimes he does so for two years. Divers
are paid “on the lay.” As for advances of wages, every-
body shipped in the fishery gets these.
The “ Corpse ” speaks of white men who “ hare built
slips and provided the necessary gear for both repairing
and building boats, but the local white shippers have
starved them out, with the result that the beloved
brownies now own the slips and do the repairing.” Too
true that the Japs do all the ship-carpentry on Thursday
Island. Let their champion, storekeeper Doyle, explain,
as he did to the Commission : “ I went to a white, who
charged me £3O for doing up a boat. She went to sea
and came back leaky. Another white charged me £l2,
and she again returned leaky. I was then forced to em-
ploy the Japanese, and from that day to this I have not
employed a white boat-builder. Everyone could tell you
the same tale. I bought a slip here for two white
carpenters; I advanced the money to prevent it going
into the hands of the Japanese ; they could not work it,
and it is now in the hands of the Japanese. The white
men that we have had here leave their work because it is
uncongenial.”
Otherwise, “Smiff’s Corpse” is pretty correct. The
Jap is throttling Thursday Island. He has got to go.
But there is a big danger “on the top-side” to which
most people, in their wish to see whites employed in the
pearl-fisheries, are blind. I could quote you a score of
replies given to the Pearl Fishery Commission to show
that, when Japs are hunted off, white men won’t take
their places, but they will be succeeded by Manilla men,
Malays, Rotumah and other Polynesians. So that the
man who says “ Pack off the Japs ! ” is not therefore in
favor of employing white labor.
An extraordinary instance of how extremes meet is
found in the circumstance that the biggest monopoly in
Torres Straits is extra anti-Jap. Why ? And why isn’t
it extra-anti-all-round alien ? Because the Jap. becomes
an employer, and the other aliens don’t—to any greatex-
tent. So the monopoly is howling to shunt the Japs.,
and, as fast as it can, is itself putting on Malavs and
Manilla men ! The devil take the difference! Further
(and please let the Q. Pearl-shell Commissioners know
this, for nobody has yet told them), this monopoly is
actually agitating for the Govt, to buy out all the Jap.
boats and to sell them again to whites. It sounds liberal,
doesn’t it? It is liberal—for the monopoly. When
that little game was over, it would be found
that the monopoly owned almost every boat in
the Straits; because it could pay spot-cash', and higher
spot-cash, than anybody else, 'it is about a toss-up
whether such monopoly would be much less nauseous
than the present Jap blend.
I believe and hope that the Pearl-shell Commission
intends to recommend Govt, to license no more Japs as
boat-owners, and to make boat-renting to Japs illegal. Be
that same boat-renting : The Japs are getting very ’cute
in their dealings. They band in syndicates. They go
separately to storekeepers and enter into an agreement to
rent, with a purchasing clause, a boat apiece. The price
is (say) £6OO. They pay down (say) £lO on each boat.
They have got to pay for these boats outright with
shell. Do they want all these boats ? Not much. They
take them out to the pearling-grounds and test them.
That boat which is found to be the best sailer, the most
perfect, the best fitted, &c., is selected. All the best of
the shell that the other boats get is put on board of her.
She is mighty lucky in her sea-harvests, and is paid for in
a twinkling, so to speak. The other boats never seem to
get any decent shell at all (!!), their rentees, or prospec-
tive owners, get as far into debt as the boat-owner will
let them, and then forfeit. After which, they join the
good boat, of which they are part-owners. That is how
Japs acquire real good boats, and that is why they return
numbers of only middling boats back to the storekeepers.
Certainly, down with the Japs ! But keep your eyes on
the big white monopoly as well.
Bits from an election speech by Godfrey
Carter, M. L.A., the financial failure of the
Patterson Government: “It was individual
effort that had done everything for the progress
of the world. The State had done nothing.
Over-legislation was the curse of modern times.
Socialists were bandits. . . . The Mines
Bill, the Companies Bill, and the Credit Foncier
Bill were practically the measures of the late
(Patterson-Carter) Government. . . The
Government should abstain from wild-cat
legislation and promote the development of the
natural resources of the country.” So poor,
muddled, blatant Carter holds : (1) That it is
only private enterprise that is wanted, and
State interference is a curse ; (2) that the State
should interfere all the same to “ develop
the natural resources of the country ; ”
(3) that the Turner Government goes in
for objectionable wild-cat legislation ; (4) that
all the important measures of the Turner
Government were really the wild-cat ideas of
Carter and Patterson, which Turner stole.
Then Carter demanded that the Government
should engage experts to supervise and help
along the brandy industry—instead of leaving
it to private enterprise, and the plural property
vote of the city returned him by a large
majority. Almost his last audible words as the
brick and mortar suffrage rose to roar enthusi-
astic approval were that in his political capacity
he would “ support natural industries in-
stead of leaving them to be supported by pri-
vate enterprise—and that he would vote for a
Bill which provides for State interference with
and organisation of charities, and that he be-
lieved in a Government which would “ develops
the natural resources of the country.” The
Tory shriek for having the natural resources of
the country developed is about the haziest plati-
tude in Victorian politics.
There is prima facie a strong similarity
between the cases of De Clouet, recently found
guilty at Bathurst of attempted wife-murder,
and of Nixon, convicted a fortnight ago at
Adelaide of knifing his wife and her alleged
paramour. The difference on the side of mercy,
however, is, for once in a way, in favor of
Botany Bay ; for N.S. W. Chief-Justice Darley
—though compelled by the jury’s finding
formally to “record” the death - sen-
tence against De Clouet took it upon
himself not to “ pronounce ” it, and
greatly commiserated the prisoner. From
further particulars to hand, however, there
appears to have been a melodramatic flavor
about Nixon’s w r hole conduct which renders
less apparently harsh and uncalled-for the
Judge’s contemptuous reference to “acting.”
“ The making of eyes at her husband by Mrs.
Nixon, in court,” says an Adelaide paper,
“ was on a par with the blowing of kisses to
his wife by the prisoner from the dock.
Reflective people,” it is added, “can come
to no other conclusion than that Nixon
meant to murder his wife and her lover.”
According to a S.A. correspondent of The
Bulletin, however, the great bulk of the evi-
dence made powerfully for the truth of Nixon’s
assertion that it was only when Addison was
throttling him against the door and the wife
battering his head with an umbrella-handle that
he bethought him of the knife as a desperate
resort to save his life. And, as Judge Boucaut
must either have disbelieved this story or be-
lieved it, The Bulletin fails to see the com-
mon-sense or common justice of letting Nixon
off—upon the former assumption—with 18
months gaol, or of giving him—upon the latter
supposition—any punishment whatever.
Chief- Justice Darley’s way out of a difficulty
in the De Clouet capital case at Bathurst w-as
an unequivocal improvement on the method
adopted by Justice G. B. Simpson in the
juvenile capital case at Maitland. Judge
Simpson pronounced the death sentence, pre-
facing the ceremony with an assurance that it
would not be carried out, and supplementing it
with a communication to the Cabinet urging
a commutation. The Chief declined to pro-
nounce the death-sentence, satisfying legal con-
ditions by simply recording it. The latter
course has ever3'thing to recommend' it,
and, until the body of the law is al-
tered, should serve as an open door to
Australian Judges generally. The method
is well-known in English criminal procedure.
The writer was present in a Liverpool (England)
court many years ago, when the Judge presid-
ing at a case where a verdict of guilty was re-
turned against a wife for slaying her husband
in peculiarly aggravating circumstances, flatly
refused to pronounce sentence of death. “I
must record your finding,” he said to the jury,
“ and shall send your verdict to the Home Sec-
retary, but I’ll pronounce no sentence.” Justice
Simpson’s method, in this instance, is a curious
mixture of the grotesque and the satirical.
The English Engineers, still fighting for an
Eight-hour Day, have, of course, the hostility
of London Times. The engineers, in a mani-
festo, point out that the Times in ’7l argued
strongly in favor of a reduction of hours to
nine, although Sir W. (now Lord) Armstrong
then prophesied that the result would be to
smash up the iron-manufacturing industry in
Great Britain. And they remark that so far
has the limitation been from having this result,
that last year Armstrong’s firm’s profits reached
.£358,000. The cable messages suggest friction
between the striking engineers and what
are referred to as the Federated Trades.
This friction is four months old, and
originated in the old dispute—ballot or no
ballot. The engineers believed that the
employers intended to defeat them in sections,
so ordered an immediate knock-off; while the
boilermakers, steam-engine makers, and other
societies wanted a general ballot. The
engineers, who are not in the federation, had
already issued strike notices. Whereupon hard
words, charges against the boilermakers of
“ prostrating themselves before the Employers’
Federation,” and other things apparently not
s oon forgotten.
When the Levien-Neild bill for making Fed-
eration impossible in N.S.W. was before the
Assembly, Premier Reid’s various attitudes
were as follows : (l) He was in favor of Federa-
tion ; (2) he proposed raising the minimum
affirmative vote required before the Federal
Constitution could be accepted from 50,000 to
80,000; (3) he said that lie would vote against
the bill on its second reading, but if it passed
the second reading he would accept it; (4) he
did vote against it at the second reading, but
thereafter he voted for it ; (5) though he
voted against the second reading he didn’t
speak one single word against the bill, or
ask anyone else to vote against it, or
point out that it was a gross breach of faith
with the other provinces—in fact, he went
out of his way to assure the Assembly that his
second-reading vote was only a matter of form,
and that he was prepared to turn his coat
immediately afterwards. And he cheerfully
turned his coat accordingly. It was N.S.W.
which started both Federal movements, and in
that same province Parkes deliberately wrecked
the first one and Reid is setting out to deli-
berately wreck the second. Parkes and Reid
—the Iscariots of Federation !
Alfred Deakin’s position as guide, philo-
sopher and friend to the Vic. democracy is further
jeopardised by the malicious conduct of the
Argus which, just before the elections, took him
to its withered breast, and called him. blessed.
Whilst the Argus was spittinsr venom at Alfred,
the radicals could feel that there was hope for
him, but Argus blessings fall like bricks.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op tiib UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 189 G.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £45,101,239
Increase in Assets during 1890 ... ... ... ... 8,284,283
SURPLUS ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,995,240
Increase in Surplus during 189 G ... ... ... ... 552,744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... ±90,040,205
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1890 ... ... 540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
Any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
Neither tfye price nor
tbc quality of worK
can be equalled by
any otb<ir firrn
in tfye worlds
rV7
\
<2.0 ~
/
Tb« IDEAL
/^PORTRAIT CO.
480 George st.
(ground FLOOR. NO BTAIRB. )
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
20
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Two Little Vagabonds."
Royal “Romany Rye."
Lyceum “Fallen AmongThiev*#.’*
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Palace “A Bunch of Keys."
Criterion The Biograph.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princes* “A Royal Divorce."
Royal “ Jaquelina.”
Bijou Performing Horses.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “A Fatal Tune.”
The revival of “ Romany Rye ” at Sydney
Royal brought a well-deserved increase of busi-
ness to the Rignold enterprise. There are many
food points about Sims’s veteran drama, and The
lulletin hereby leads that esteemed author
round the corner in the spirit, and shouts for him,
in recognition of the fact that his drama is wholly
unlike many others with which this pajier has the
misfortune to be acquainted. There are certain
improbaLilities in it, no doubt. Few hardened
bill-discounters, in a large way of swindle, would
wade in blood, and plots, and entrails, and mid-
night assassination, as Laurence Dunbar does,
merely to recover -£5OOO, seeing that they could
defraud someone else of twice that amount in the
time. Also, there is one objection, which applies
almost equally to every other melodrama: no
villain in real life could get so many shots at the
hero at short range, and miss him every time ;
and the incriminating document couldn't wade
through so many hair-breadth escapes, and be
burnt, and drowned, and thrown overboard, and
subjected to storm, and lightning, and dog-bite,
and yet come up fresh and legible in the last act.
Still, “ Romany Rye ” hangs together better than
most of the blood-and-splash dramas of later origin.
It is an interesting story which doesn't burst into
absolute impossibility anywhere. The dialogue is
above the average, and the ignorant miscreant
with the black-eye is really humorous in places.
There is no separate laborious funny man ; Frank
Harcourt, the miscreant above-mentioned, attends
to that business in the intervals of stoush, and
does it well, with some casual assistance from
Scragger. Probably the weakest point in the
whole business is the conspiracy manufactured by
the haughty ruffian, whose jewellery and pale
boiled shirt shimmer in the moonlight on the lawn
of his stolen mansion ; The Bulletin reckons it
could fix up a better scheme of murder any day
without gnashing its teeth near so much. Stili,
the general verdict upon “Romany Rye” is dis-
tinctly favourable.
* * *. •
Thirty-six people, besides loafers, hangers-
oi, flunkeys, supernumeraries, dead-beats and
d igs, help to illustrate Sims’s drama, which unfolds
itself in 17 scenes, some of' them very artistic,
and one shower of real, undeniable rain.
Diver makes a fine villain in his quieter
moods, though at a crisis he overstrains
the part so ewhat, and speaks it in
italics. Rignold plugs through a very heavy part
in good style, and among the other people Frank
Hawthorne, Hazlitt, Sterling Whyte, and par-
ticularly Harcourt, all do their duty with pleasing
results. Miss Lilian Wheeler, a pathetic heroine
with a large, brown dog, speaks her artless little
part rather convincingly, and keeps her simple
frock unspotted from the world ; likewise Fanny
Reynolds, as a ’ag with an eerie laugh in a cellar,
is highly praiseworthy. Probably this lady with
her dreadful shriek of mirth in the cellar is the
most interesting single figure in the show. She
seems to make a humble but honest crust by gib-
bering underground, and when she lets off her
ghostly cackle at Diver and then suggests that he
should give her £5O. his refusal is a matter of sur-
prise—her cry of woe seems fully worth the money.
The rest of the co., in its vastness and the impos-
sibility of sorting it out, suggests Israel coming
out of Egypt with a black eye and a short pipe in
its mouth, and hoarsely demanding gin in the
wilderness. In a drama of 30 characters it
generally happens that 32 of them are afflicted
with an incredible thirst, and lift their voices in a
bitter cry for gin.
#* * *
The Firm has compiled a rati. strong
company for its now dramatic venture at Her
Majesty’s. It includes the evergreen Titheradge,
daughter Lily (whose fitful appearances in the
latter days of the Brough co. made the public
desire to see more of her), Howard Vernon,
Sweeney, Miss Julia Merton, and a few dimmer
lights, and Caleb Porter, who so regally com-
busted the early Christian a few weeks back, will
stage-manage. Under these conditions the “Two
Little Vagabonds ” should do well, unless the
drama is wholly beyond repair.
** * *
That loud military crash, “At Duty’s
Call,” will end its confused Egyptian career at the
Lyceum on Friday night. Its successor is “ Fallen
Among Thieves,” a drama by Frank Harvey, and
the usual cinematographe will be thrown in, as
before.
** * *
On and after Saturday Harry Rickards
will have three theatres going in Sydney simul-
taneously, which is probably a record. The
“Bunch of Keys ” is doing its last nights at the
Palace, and on Saturday next (October 30) “ Binks
the Photographer ” will make his first appearance
in Australia. At the Tivoli the “loose-legged
comedian ’ has returned to shake his gutta-percha
extremity at the public for a short period along
with some newly-imported comedians, and the
Avolos are doing another season. In addition to
all this, Rickards opens the Criterion on Saturday
with an enlarged and improved edition of his old
Palace co. The programme includes the Bio-
graph, the rotund and silver voiced Phil. New-
bury, Miss Fanny Wentworth—the only really
clever lady humorist this paper has met with up
to date —and a lot of costly and valuable etcetera.
“A Cruel Wrong/’ which challenges com-
parison with the Royal show and is just about as
serio isly humorous, continues to wag its tale of
varied interest at the Alexandra, and the small
girl who didn’t find a watery grave in the prologue
gets kidnapped by immortal Augustus Glover
fifteen times every evening. Meanwhile, the sturdy
Alexandra management is preparing for the vast
production of “ A Fatal Tune.” The melody that
leaves funerals in its track will be heard for the
first time on Saturday next.
# * * *
“A Royal Divorce,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, is leading a reckless, lucrative life upon
four tableaux and costumes to match. The crowd
rolls up, and weeps, in some cases, over the mental
sufferings of a Josephine who seems very like a
gratuitous insult to history. Also, the multitude
laments the loneliness of Julius Knight as he
stands, in the traditional attitude of an even
greater hero than himself, gazing at a painted
ocean with his back exposed to view. A change
in the cast of Napoleonic officers has rather
strengthened the acting portion of the business,
but it isn’t anybody’s acting that makes “ A
Royal Divorce” go. From a captious critic’s
point of view, the performance is altogether too
ro ugh and noisy.
* * * *
A “Dramatic Medley” ventured by the
Misses Sisley, at Melb. Bijou, last Saturday, was
a young and artless proceeding. Youth and inex-
perience are faults that nice girls grow out of,
alas ! and amateur stage-management yields to
the hand of time. Miss Barbara Sisley and Miss
B.’s sister Olive are certainly clever. They will,
moreover, be in a fair way to develop into
character actresses as long as they remember that
patience is a virtue, and will take the trouble to
bear several other valuable precepts in mind.
* * * *
The Bulletin would fain say something
new concerning the Rickards show at the Opera
House, but the only observation to hand at the
present moment is “ crowded as usual.” The bill
is a full-size,l holiday list of attractions, and many
patrons of the establishm mt need to loose their
hold up m the btek of the dress-circle if they wish
to join in the frequent bursts of applause.
* * * *
At the Bijou, next Saturday, an E.lucated-
Horse Entertainment will appeal to the sentiment
of these racing cirnival times. Also, an Axe-
men’s Contest is beginning to fall due at the Ex-
hibition, and a revival of “Fun on the Bristol”
has already fallen due at St. George’s Hall.
** * *
“Clean or unclean,” writes Rose de
Boheme to The Bulletin from Frisco, “this
city will always attract strangers if only from the
cheapness of its living. You can dine here
cheaper, probably, than in any other city of the
world. You can also go to the play cheaper. For
weeks past we have had a very presentable opera
troupe, with a prima-donna of some European
repute, more than fairly supported ; orchestra,
admirable; Wagner, Verdi, Ponchelli, etc., in-
terpreted at least as well as by the opera-troupes
that have visited Sydney of late years. Yet, for
the best places in this entertainment you pay the
astonishing sum of two shillings, and if your
purse be light you can secure as good a seat as any
music-lover requires for one shilling. How it
pays is a mystery.
* * * •
“ Another satisfactory ’Frisco theatre-item
is the absence of the hat. Here, where so many
crying evils are ignored, the theatre-hat has actu-
ally become a matter of legislation, and the damsel
who won’t remove her head-piece after the per-
formance has begun is liable to be turned out.
Which provision, like the Waverley pen, is a boon
and a blessing to men. By the wav, the latest
prima-donna imjiortation, Miss Tillie Salinger,
was scarce looked upon in Sydney as a budding
diva, but here she is actually billed, with much
panegyric, as the Marguerite of ‘ Faust.’ ”
Maggie Moore, as bright as ever (though her
figure gets no finer),
I* back at Melbourne Royal with a play called
“ Jaquelina,”
Which started as “ The Pauper,” if The Bulletin
told truly
When she let it go at Sydney, in the Yankee
month of July.
The first name was suggestive of a creature old
and baggy,
So they changed it for a name more suitable to
Maggie.
This “Jaquelina” play, quite unintentionally
funny,
Depicts a lady villain seeking means of making
money.
She cajoles a bogus brother into marriage with
his cousin,
And kills a simple Frenchman when he’s simply
doing nuzzin;
To wed a flour merchant is her wicked heart’s
desiah,
Yet all the time she’s married to a creeping
Azariah —
A Hebrew bill-discounter, and an “ uncle ” to the
pawner—
Who wears a ruddy wig and sticks his head around
the corner.
’Midst the lady-villain’s revelling in treachery and
slaughter,
A fitful foreign nobleman comes crying for hees
daughter.
Ze little daughter stolen from this incidental
whiner,
Is later on discovered to be songstress Jaquelina,
Who has strayed into the household of the flour-
merchant Roger,
And enjoys his young affection in the character of
lodger,
Till strange misunderstandings chance to check
their tender passion,
And then they part for ever, in the good old
stagey fashion.
Their voices both are broken when a last adieu
they utter —
“Farewell, I go, ” says Jaq, “to sing for coppers
in the gutter ; ”
But site seeks her music-master, which is wiser,
also proparer,
And the next Act finds her winning floral tributes
in an opera.
Then, being charged with murder by the wife of
Azariah,
She has to quit the stage to prove the other girl a
liah ;
So she makes a happy marriage, whilst the
criminal offender
Is slowly brought to justice by that Hebrew
mou-iy-leu ler.
The clou Is of trouble vanish, and the end is joy
and gladne-;s,
And the author’-) found Not Guilty on the ground
of Wilful Madness.
The foregoing is a charitable notice, in abso-
lutely perfect metre and rhyme, of Mi trie
M lore’s retnirkable Americm drama, at Mel-
bourne. Royal: “ Jaquelina ” will be supplanted
by “ Jobanna/’on Saturd ty, and the full strength
of the new company will bo duly remarked upon
next week.
At Poverty Point.
Growler : “ An imported actor who saw the last night
of the ‘ French Maid 1 at Sydney was deli chted with the
superb chorus. In Australia there is little scope for
native singers : they must sro into the chorus or stay idle.
In England as soon as a girl can pipe her little lay in tune
she aims at playing parts. This country has been Hooded
with promoted English chorus girls as stars, ami managers
seem to prefer paying an inferior imported article rive
times the salary he could get one of his own song-birds
for. Onc.e in the chorus always in the chorus seems to lie
the motto here ; if Melba had started in that line she
would probably have been there yet..”
A gushing Australian chorus-girl, who knows not the
gulf which divides the common herd from principals at
’Ome, rushed up to a newly-arrived “ star,” and effusively
bade her welcome to Australia on behalf of the chorus.
The look of frozen surprise with which the outburst was
greeted by the haughty star was what one might expect
from Milord the Governor, were he welcomed to Australia
by one of the dishwashers on behalf of the cooks at Uuv-
nientouse.
Daring the final performance of the “ French Maid,” at
Sydney Majesty’s, Chas. B u keley, who was playing the
hotelkeeper, 4elt serious symptom-) of illness, and could
barely keep on his feet, but his pluck carried him
through the scene. Just as he left the stage, he fell un-
conscious. He received every care, but it will he some
time before he is fit for work.
At last Albani will really visit Australia. This time
Williamson has secured her, and he states that the prima-
donna will arrive here in March next, and will give 1(5
concerts. As a big figure alone tempted Albani to accept,
the management is reconsidering prices of admission.
Frances Saville has accepted a very remunerative en-
gagement in Vienna for opera. She attended at the Bay-
reuth Festival, and met there'Vagner’s son Siegfried, who
was charmed with the Australian singer and Mattered her
on her beautiful stage presence and pretty voice.
Tiie Vic.-torious Bisley team were on showat a Loudon
garden-party, when a marvellously-dressed lady sailed
towards them and intro laced herself as “Soldene.” It
was, of course. Miss Emily Soldene, known on the operatic
stage in Australia some years ago. She was very cordial,
not to say gushing, and told them all about her hook of
reminiscences.
James Garraway : “ Gloating over ‘A Royal Divorce,’
I yet cannot help reeling how immeasurably inferior it is
to my great national patriotic blank verse, ‘Drama of
(jueen Victoria.’ Imagine Miss Ferrar as the fresh, pal-
pitating young Victoria, compared with the rococo
Josephine, and Mr. Knight as the ardent, impulsive love-
making. not to he resisted I‘riuoe Albert, compared with
the jejune Napoleon. Why, the amphitheatre would
come down in a Niagara cataract of loyalty, drowning
the stage. Then my scene of the procession through the
streets of London, with Victoria on a real white horse
like Rignold’s. The coronation! The marriage ! A
genial sketch of Premier Melbourne for local color, as it
were. The Duchess of Kent, Wellington, and all the rest,
sticking out of the canvas, not forgetting the under-
miner, the sapper, sly Greville, the St. Simon of the era,
laying his Guy Fawkes barrels.”
Melb. : “The Corbett-Fitzsimmons Veriscope doesn’t
take. The light is defective, with too much silvery suow-
shimmer. ”
Modiste : “ Previous to 1 A Royal Divorce,’ the
largest Melbourne theatrical costumery order was for
‘ Cinder Ellen.’ The Melb. dresses were used in Loudon.”
Ed. Bulletin,— He “ Poverty Point ” par. giving longest
stage runs, did not “Impulse” run 70 nights in the old
Princess', with Annie Mayor and Blanche Stammers in
the leading lady parts? “Struck Oil " in the original
production ran about 42 nights, and on a subsequent
occasion (without Williamson) a night longer.—G. A.P.
Tun Bulletin's London correspondent:—“ Echoes from
the 'alls : Chirgwin opens his • turn ’ at theTivoli with a song
highly eulogistic of ‘ Australyer,’ and it goes well. The
funniest man in London, Dan Leno, now drawing from
three or four halls about U2OJ a-week in toto, at his first
appearance as ‘ last turn ’ performed to two waiters and
one spectator putting on his coat, so there’s hope for the
Australian amateurs, the Mauiiixes and Maloneys, yet.
Flarrie Forde's two opening songs have been a frost; she
should do belter later. The * Harvey Boys,’ in their box-
ing act, have been doing the halls for years, and yet are
always well received. It is a brilliantly clever, willing,
artistically-finished turn, and I wonder it was not at-
tempted out there. The nearest approach was Jimmy
King and .Sam Floyd’s ‘goes ’ at Mace's and elsewhere in
the long ago.”
“‘ln the Days of the Duke,’ Haddon Chambers and
Comyns Carr’s latest ‘ Ad el phi ’ drama was a huge success
last night,” writes Tub Bulletin's London correspondent.
“ lI.C. though much mentally anil financially worried
through his dealings with the dead Barnato, maintains
his youthful freshness and openness of heart surpris-
ingly. The new play prologues in India, summits at the
Duchess of Richmond's ball, and finales on the field of
Waterloo, and is rich in color, dialogue, and incident.
William Terris, Charles Cartwright, Laurence Cautley,
Miss Millward, and Marion Terry hold up the leading
characters.”
Mrs. Brown-Potter took Bertram Mackennal for a day’s
shopping in London, and the sculptor declares it to have
been the most exciting of his experiences. Agnes Murphy
detailed the affair in the Pai,l Maw. Gazkttk, and the
evening paper gave it a big heading on that day’s street-
posters.
Melba, when the mail left, was in Paris, but was to
leave in a day or two for Bergamo, Italy, to be chief-singer
at the D mizetti Centenary celebration. Had the Itaiian
maestro only lived to hear the Australian in her marvel-
lous representation of his great work, “ Lucia ! ”
Pattie Bro.vne has secede I from “ A Night Out,” after
playing in it for over a year, and is now booked for the
Drury Lane autumn drama—“ White Heather.”
At latest Essie Jenytn was travelling through the south
of England with Mr. Wood and the baby. “ Jack," who
is a member of the Eding Cricket Club, put in the close
of the season touring with that body.
The Potter's dresses for “ Francillon ” are foretold as
something to startle Loti loti. There is certainly (writes a
Bulletin correspondent from Loudon) no one on the
stage here to approach the beauteous Cora in the matter
of uncommon raiment.
Colbourne Baber continues to get engagements in Lon-
don, and her husband (who has a good church-organ post)
has also been engaged for a provincial tour with
Percy Harrison, who runs Melba and Patti through the
provinces. This last piece of good fortune came through
the offices of Ada Crossley, who begins the season once
more with a long list of big engagements.
S.S. : “ According to the impressions given by ‘ A
Royal Divorce,’ Napoleons were intended mainly for
decorative work ; their mission was to cast a glamor over
the army and light up the field of battle. The extreme
difficulty of keeping their terriflo bats on and finding
their several limbs amongst the gorgeous draperies and
gilt fixings with which they were hung about, must have
rendered them comparatively helpless in the teeth of the
enemy. One or two of Nap’s generals at the Princess’s
are clattering, glittering visions, dressed within an ace of
their lives, and feathered with reckless profusion, and in
each case the poor actor hidden away under this barbaric
splendor is a sweltering, distracted martyr manifestly
sorry he was ever born, and hopelessly' incapable of acting
up to his external magnificence. Few actors could carry
off a uniform like that of Murat, whose mantle has fallen
upon Dick Stewart, and D.S. is slowly smothering
under it.”
“Two Little Vagabonds,” with Titheradge and daughtet
in the cast, is to get a fair chance of catching on in Syd-
ney. The Melb. production of Sims’ sentimental melo-
drama was obviously spoilt in the acting, although ths
pantomimic water-pipe scene appeared bound to discount
its prospects, anyway.
N. : “ The Sisley Sisters have unmistakeable Jewish
blood, like so many other clever stageites.”
Louis Bradfield, Florence Lloyd, Bantock, and Mrs,
Edward Phelps lately sailed for 'Murka with an “In
Town ” co. Says a London critic : “ Mr. Louis Bradfield is
not Arthur Roberts, but his Captain Coddington is again
very much like Arthur Roberts in his pretty little ways.
Mr. B. evidently b lieves that the public, in plays as in
pictures, prefer a good copy to a poor original.” Which
again reminds Tub Bulletin of Mr. B.’s declaration to
Australian press johnnies that he had nevah seen Roberts
play the Coddington part.
T.D. : “Seems to me that the world's singers regard
Australia as a recuperating-ground for damaged vocal
apparatus. Even the posters, by small-typing Barton
M Guokiu, setm to admit that he is at least a semi-bar-
bered Sampson. In its lower register, the tenor's
voice is frayed, but his reach-up for a top-note is an
object-lesson in vocalisation. All very well to say that
M Guckiu has only done 20 years’ work to Lloyd's 30,
but one was in nightly opera, and the other in oratorio,
pleasantly diversified by light ballad singing. Stephen
Adams kills nobody-save an occasional listener. Amy
Sherwin, also, is obviously here for a rest.”
Melb. :“ I suppose it is coming to this. The audience
will perform while the actors and actresses, like Christy
Minstrels, sit in a row on the stage and listen. On Thorn-
ton’s last night, at Melb. Bijou, the amphitheatre was
taken by some Mutual Admiration Club. They adver-
tised a programme of eight numbers, to which the ‘ Pri-
vate Secretary ’ was a side-show. Indeed, while the cur-
tain remained up, it was virtually down, and the fun
only began on the sporting of the brown plush.”
Church or stage. The sale of the five-shilling tickets
for the opening ceremony of Melb. St. Patrick’s Cathedral
(during race-time) has been so rapid that prices have
already run up to half-a-sov. for reserved seats. Arch-
bishop Carr hopes to get the huge place out of debt by a
colossal Cup-time collection.
Miss Elsie Lander, a young English actress, has taken
Brisbane Royal for three months, and proposes to stage a
series of dramatic shockers by Rhys Byrne. One piece
contains a broken-bri Igescene, something like that in the
“ Prairie King”—only without the horse on which King
Heille.v and his successor, Piimmer, used to fall into the
tempestuous tank. Miss Lander’s boss horror deals with
a Japanese invasion of Australia Jap man-of-war at
anchor, Australian sub-marine torpedo-boat approaches,
crash, torpedo-boat comes triumphantly to surface, man-
of-war sinks, and the sea full of drowned Japs, waiting to
be inquested. Then wild applause, and the singing of
local patriotic melody.
“ The aboriginal is always 10 years younger
than he looks.”
Thomson W. Leys, editor of Auckland
(M.L.) Star, whose only son was killed by a train
the other day, was once long ago offered the
editorship of Sydney D.T.
The return of Gillies and Murray Smith
accounts wholly for the defeat of Robert Harper,
at Vic. general election. Had the city crowd not
been so busy at Toorak and Hawthorn 30 more
votes at Preston would have saved them the seat.
“ I have no intention of forming a coali-
tion with Mr. Gillies or anyone else ; l much pre-
fer to remain a private member.” Alfred Deakin
on the hustings. They are both in the House
again, but another Gillies-Deakin coalition is an
utter impossibility in these latter days.
“ There have been only two persons worth
considering in the contest —Mr. Madden and my-
self—and I’m the better citizen of the two, for I
have this day presented the Government with
£ 50.” —Randolph Bedford, returning thanks for
his 150 votes at Eastern Suburbs.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument-for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined witli a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only £l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (102 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
Vic. : “ Poor Graham Berry ! What a
lesson to a young man picking a career—Berry,
Parkes and the rest! This time last year Berry
was given to understand he. had no show for the
Speakership, but, just before this election, the
Govt, let him know he would be right, if he could
only get in. Well, he hasn’t. The whole province
elected him to the Federal Convention, and that
not the last of ten. A twopenny-halfpenny con-
stituency now knocks him out. Already there is
talk of what can be done for him. The Conserva-
tives would be prepared to give him a vote, but
the Trades Hall, in opposing it, would be a
nucleus to the Liberals. S.yme, in the Age,
though never Berry’s friend, cannot refrain from
pointing out his distinguished and unparalleled
services to Liberalism. He is again the ‘Run
Down Dingo’of a contemptuous Age reference,
thirty years ago.”


E> BELL Sc CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Vestas.
Ars. )
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Building's, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
I.
r ii
i
m
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“tittle giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by ail Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crasher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Soil? Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
SIR JOHN - -
POWERS Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker& Co.,
Perth.
llocu.v, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Burns, Ptttlp & Co. Lm,
N. Q'ld & New Guinea.
Australasian
Representatives:
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office & Chemical Laboratory,
Tblkpijoxk'
2444. .
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
GOOD AS GOLD.
MOD'S SUMIES
AND THE NEW
Easy guckboard.
75 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
PERTH —Robt. Woi/FE, Murray-street.
GERALDTON —A. Meadowcroft, Marine Terrace.
The WILDCAT
COULMN
The financial statement issued by Premier Reid
(ras evi n worse than the had state of affairs foreshadowed
in the a counts published three months ago by Sunday
Brunker. The receipts for the year ended 3(lt.h June,
1897, were £9,291,986, and the expenditure £9,51)5,408;
and all Premier Reid’s eloquent assurances that he has a
surplus can t conceal the fact that these figures leave a
shortage of £213,422. It takes a lot of brass to
claim a surplus under the circumstances, but Premier
Reid has the metal right enough—only the charm has
gone out of the old tale somehow. For next year he pro-
poses to raise abo it £85,000 new taxation bv increasing
the probate duties, and be hopes to collect, the great mass
of land-tax arrears. It is expected that the total revenue
will be £40,000 more than last year’s receipts, and it is
proposed to cut do vn expenditure by £113.000. When all
this is done Premier Reid expects that the revenue will be
£9.331,467and theexpenditure £9.392,082 -leavinganother
deficit of £60,615. Whether it will be possible to cut down
theexpenditure as propos d is doubtful, and if it is done it
can only be by charging still more of the ordinary outlay
to loans. Last year’s expenditure got. ahead of the esti-
mates by £lO6 00). and this year's estimates are cut a few
thousands lower than those of 1896-97. For the first
three months of the year, too, the expenditure, instead
of being less than that for last year, is t 900 D more, while
the revenue, so far, is £166,000 less. Of course there are
still nine month-; in which to straighten things, but up to
date the increased income and diminished outlay which
are promised have neither of them set in.
• * * #
The Maori land surplus for the year ended 31st
March. 1897. vaguely estimated at £125,000, proves to be
£138,728. Next year, ending 31st March, 1898, the Govt,,
anticipates £170,000 surplus. Maoriland's last deficit was
In'B7 —the closing one of a series which covered 'B5-6-7.
Whatever else may be said against its two last Ministries,
and despite one or two shady points about Treas. Ward's
finance, there can be no doubt that the Balianee-Seddon
Governments, and that of Atkinson which preceded them,
have put up the best continuous financial record in Aus-
tralasia. And Maoriland struggles under disadvantages
shared by no other province. It is the only one with
a heavy war-dent: and it is the onlv one where the
native race was strong enough to compel the purchase cf
the soil instead cf allowing the Government, to seize it
gratis—a fact which made an immense difference in the
land-revenue. Yet M.L. is the only province, barring
Westra’ia, with no accumulated deficit, and it is the only
one which builds its railways and other public works in
great part out of revenue.
• • * »
The revised figures issued this week by N.S.AV.
and Maoriland throw still another new light on the
financial results of the Seven Provinces for past veer ;
N.S.W. Deficit £213.422
Victoria „ 134.095
Maoriland Surplus 138,723
Tasmania „ 47,732
Queensland „ 8.886
Westralia ... ... 8.298
South Australia ... ... 2.140
New South Wales paid £150,000 off its old d 'Vit, *o it
really only made the deficit worse by £63.42 Victoria
paid £250 000 off its past shortage, therefore '••duced
its accumulation of arrears by £65,905. T net
amnuntsthere was really only one deficit-that, of W.,
w'dch is a remarkably good result considering ay
things usually go in these provinces.
• * • •
Treasurer Fysh, of Tasmania, reckons hi«
revenue for the vear 1893 at £852,540, and expenditure at
£790,250; surplus, > 62,290. There is at least one thing
to be said for Fvsh ; he makes ends meet on paper, and
pegs awav continuously at reducing the accumulated
shortage, while bis .three predecessors Burgess, Bird and
John T’e >rv—simrlv sp'd downhill to perdition. As for
the wav Fvsh makes his surpluses, the best that can be
said is that it is a little better than the wav the other
fellows made their deficits, and the ways of both fellows
are worse than those of Premier Reid at. his worst. In
1803 Treasurer Henry spent £174.000 of borrowed money,
£158,000 of it being for works which yielded no dir ct
income whatever, and which should have beer, paid for
cut of revenue, and had £129.000 deficit in addition. In
1895 Treasurer Fysh got through £113,000 of borrowed
money, £llO,OOO of it being for non-productive works
properly chargeable to revenue, and had £13,000 surplus.
And in the interests of political honesty Treasurer Henry
should have been summarilv executed, while something
of a temporary character with boiling oil in it would pro-
bablv be sufficient to suit the case of Treasurer Fysh.
• • * •
Westra!inn revenue for the quarter ended 30th
Sept, was £655.383, and (he expenditure about £758.549,
outlay being thus £103.166 ahead of income. It will take
a long time to pull up that, leeway, and the 1898 shortage
should be a record.
» * * •
Svdnev Telegraph estimates that, if Premier
Turner carries out his scheme for the conversion of the
Vic. public debt into a uniform 3 per cent, stock of long
currency, he may, hv adding £3 690.000 or £4,000,000 to
the total debt, save about > 295,000 a year in interest. If
so, it is all the more reason why a part, of that saving
should be set aside for the redemption of the debt.. If the
Government was content to take the odd £95,000 a year
for the benefit of the revenue, and let the other £200.000
of the saving go in reduction of the principal of the debt,
the whole liability could he wiped off in about 75 years
wit out laving any extra burden whoever on the tax-
payer. Then Victoria could have a jubile ;of the biggest
kind “all on her own.”
* » • *
S.A. railway deficit for 1.804 95 was £75,503;
that for 1805.96 was 1 64,897. and the 1896-97 shortage was
only £53,989. One line, the unfinished transcontinental
which peters out. at Oodnadatta made a loss of £BO,OOO
last vear, and if S.A. had not this pallid elephant on its
hands the railway system, like that of lVeslralia, would
show an absolute profit.
• « «
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne) con-
tinues its remarkable improvement. The following are
the profits shown for the hast seven half-years :
September, *94, ... £2875 September,’96, ... £2044
March,’9s, ... 2136 March, '97, ... 3308
September,’9s, ... 2038 September,’97, 3625
March, ’96, ... 2 >99
The earnings for the half-year just ended (£3625) are
therefore very near double those for the corresponding
half-year of 1896. A dividend of 3 per cent, per annum on
the written-down capital (£150,000) absorbs 12250, and the
remainder (£1375) added to previous balance leaves £2523
to the credit of profit and loss. The Royal looks healthy in
other ways. Note-circulation has expanded during the
half year from £3595 to £5594, a very large increase ; and
deposits (£247,849) are £25,000 more than they were six
months ago. There is a ver3' solid cash-reserve of £BO,OOO,
equal to 27 per cent, of all liabilities to the public, and
the institution appeals to shareholders to send along
more deposits, business having so greatly improved that
it has now profitable employment for more money than is
available.
The Royal, though it went safely through the
1893 panic, has written-off over £170,000 of capital and
reserves as lost, and if it proposes ever to make up this
leeway it has still a long road to travel. The mistake that
was made in the early days was that of paying too large
dividends (they were only 6 per cent., but still they were
larger than circumstances justified), and leaving too small
a margin for reserve. At present the board is doing
wisely in keeping the dividend down to 3 per cent., and
it would do still more wisely if it announced a fixed policy
of carrying a certain proportion of the profits regularly
to a new reserve-fund till the byegone losses are fully
made up. The fact that the sun is beginning to shine
again is the best possiole reason why this should be done
now. A bank with £150,000 capital and no reserve
needs to improve a great deal before it can take itself very
seriously.
* * * •
Thpre is still no news from Brisbane about the
appearance of that famous report on the Queensland
National Bank, and no information about the Gentleman
Who Is Away. And unless the Labor-party keeps asking
for that report in season and out of season, and becomes
a nightmare to Tozer, and refuses to let Nelson have his
customary repose, the chances are several thousand to
one that there will never be any report at all.
* » * •
A queer game of bluff was recently played by
Callan, M.L.A., and director of the Q.N.B. Callan spoke
in favor of Glassey’s motion for the production of the
Q.N.B. report thusly: “I do not agree in the slightest,
knowing ail the facts and figures, that there is any neces-
sity that the country or bank should be kept waiting for
the examination of anybody, whether in England or any-
where else.” After which profession, Callan voted against
the motion he had just spoken for, and all was peace
again. But the Govt, had a near shave—a very near
shave.
* * * *
The fact of the officials of a Melbourne bank
treating its own genuine bank-notes as spurious, can be
consolingly placed alongside the recent supercilious
N.S. W. banker's assertion that Sydney shopkeepers are so
stupid that a forged bank-note would pass 70 per cent, of
them.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — The prospectus of Emu Bay
Railway Co., published by you 2nd Oct., and your para-
graph therecn, contain a lot of misrepresentations and
distortions. The Bulletin is condemned out of its own
month, for it has said, with damnable iteration, that no
Govt, should spend borrowed money on any undertaking
which is not reasonably likely to pay interest. [Quite
true. The Bulletin says railways should be built
out of revenue.—Ed. B.] Now, it is not at all cer-
tain that there will be any paying mines at all in
the Rosebery - Dundas district which this line is to
serve. Only one certain big mine has been discovered on
the West Coast so far, the Mt. Lyell, and that has its own
line already. The assumption that the Waratah-Zeehan
line will cost onlj’£4001) a mile is very ridiculous, as the
other two lines on the Coast cost over £BOOO per mile,
and the 2ft. tramway which Govt, is building to Rosebery
will cost well over £2OOO per mile. And the syndicate
has not even asked Parliament for peim ssion to extend
the line from Zeehan to Lyell—and is not likely to get
that permission. The line will prohably pay 5 per cent,
i/all the traffic does not go to Strahan, and the district
is what it is cracked up to be. But there is not the
certainty about the project that would alone justify an
already semi-in sol vent community in borrowing cash
for it. (The Bulletin never proposed borrowing the cash.
—Ed. B.[ And Tas. Government is not so much asleep
as The Bulletin asserts. If the line proves a paving
investment, the people of the province can take it
over at the end of 21 years by paying the cost of con-
struction plus 20 per cent. Another point: if the pro-
posed improvement of Macquarie Harbor Bar comes off,
as it most certainly will, the bulk of the Rosebery and
Colebrook country ores will naturally seek the nearest
port, Strahan, via the Govt.’s Roseberv-Strahan line,
which, as it is now paying nearly 8 per cent, can stand
some reduction in freights. And Emu Bay is not much
of a port either. It is rot to ask th ■■ Tas. Govt, to launch
out into a wild and joyous expenditure of borrowed
money in assisting the Melb. boomers to make a big pile
in exploiting the West Coast. [Quite so. That’s
why The Bulletin didn’t propose expending any bor-
rowed money.—Ed. B.] Undemocratic and pigheaded
as the Braddon crowd are in many respects they
are doing as good work as any Government in Australia
in keeping down expenditure to the lowest possible point,
and resolutely refusing to dispense with the income-tax
because there is a small surplus for 1896.— Julias Swift,
Queenstown, Tas., 7,10 97.
* * • •
The new warden at Hillgrove, N.S.W., Mr.
Murphy, says it is necessary to take a firm stand in deal-
ing with suspension of labor applications. No doubt, but
surely it is not necessary to put applicants to the expense
of preparing powers-of-attorney at a cost of a guinea
each to make application through an agent. Hitherto
the authority to act as agent issued by the Mines Dept,
has been sufficient. The warden recently ruled otherwise.
* • • •
Real N.S.W. mining: “Lake George Pro-
prietary. The sinking of the two shafts on the co's pro-
perty is progressing satisfactorily. Overtures have been
made to the directors to place the co’s property under
offer, but these have been declined as the directors intend
to develop the property themselves.” The Lord be
praised !
* * * *
Pambnla : “ It is stated that sometime since last
week a bunch of specimen stone was broken off the wall
of Falkner’s mine and stolen. The specimen had been
left on the wall for some .years.” What, does it all mean ?
If left so long, it is about time it. was stolen. It seems to
be true that about a year ago some tons of stone were
stolen from this mine and shipped. It was packed away
on horseback at night.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Against your par. quoting
Prof. Crookes on Inverell diamonds (were they really In-
verell or Bingara ?) pit some facts stubborn things. If
you were here I could show you several parcels of Inverell
diamonds sent, by local residents, both to Amsterdam and
London, all of which have been cut without difficulty, and
the unanimous verdict about them is that though “ they
are somewhat harder than South African diamonds, yet
they are of unexceptional brilliancy, and the quality can-
not be surpassed.” The diamond industry of this mrt, of
N.S.W. promises to be a large and important one in the
near future, and Boggy Camp, where they are finding the
largest quantities, is a very busy centre. I should say
there are about 300 miners at work in the locality. I
have seen a nice parcel of 2430 carats in local 8.N.5.W.,
taken from 101 loads of wash (8770 diamonds), by Or y
and party, and the Inverell Diamond Co. is getting some
splendid yields from its several claims. Many of the
diamonds I saw would turn the scale at 2)4 to 3 carats,
and a good number would weigh a carat, hut the general
run averages about 3J4 stones to the carat. Prof. Crookes
is a long way from here, and where he got his information
I really don’t know ; but I do know that no such informa-
tion as that he speaks about has ever reached this locality,
or the parties immediately interested.—J.B. 11., Inverell.
• * * *
B.H. Junction North is about ready for more
active ore-export; 1500 tons or so of good stuff is broken,
most of it being temporarily stored underground.
* * * *
One effect of the pouring of immense quantities
of water on the burning timbers in the B.H. Prop, has
been to partly fill up Campbell shaft on Block 10, over a
third of a mile away. This is the deepest working on the
lode ; the water rose in it over 150 ft.—to the 850 ft. level.
No work is, however, done at that depth. But at 715 ft.,
in another shaft, a fairly good milling ore has been broken
into; its size, however, has not yet been ascertained.
Notwithstanding that the low price of silver continues, a
further sale of silver zinc “tailings” has been made at a
satisfactory price. The stuff goes to Germany for treat-
ment.
* * * *
There was the almost-annual little labor-trouble
at Broken Hill this year, after Eight-hours’ Day. The
men who had been expected to go into the fire-affected
section of Block 12 in the afternoon failed to turn up, and
were next day promptly “ not wanted ” in a body. Growl-
ing, of course, and some threats—and then the discharged
ones fell back unremeuibered among the crowd of un-
employed.
* * • *
Incendiarism being still suspected in connection
with the Broken Mill mine fire, a reward of ‘ 500 isoffered
(£lOO by Govt, and £4OO by the co.—later accounts
make it £lOOO and a free passage for the informer
to any part of the world); and a public-force detec-
tive from Sydney has been at work in the district
for some weeks. Well enough ; but the men are naturally
wanting to know why similar steps haven't now and again
been taken to get at the reason for the prevalence of
accidents in the same and neighboring mines. This, by
the way, is f he first time a detective has been sent into
the far west of the province, except during strikes.
• • • *
The N S. W. toy metallurgical works at Clyde,
Sydney, have cost £6OOO, and for the first year’s run only
197 tons of ore, or less than four tons weekly, have been
treated. Neither receipts nor cost are given, hut it is
again explained that the works were not erected to treat
bulk lots, but only experimental parcels not above 10
tons. Extensive works for the treatment of ail classes of
ore having heen put up at Illawarra. the sooner this toy
Govt, establishment is shut up the better.
• • * •
Barrier miners, thrown out by the premature
stoppage of the smelters at the B.H. Prop, through the
fire, have had their thoughts turned to the Waukaringa
goldfield, just over the S.A. border. Marvellous specimen
stones have been shown, and the present inclination is to
think that the field hardly deserves its reputation for ex-
treme patchiness. The opening of the Govt, cyanide
plant at Petersburg, too, helps it a lot.
* * * *
Block 10 put up a record in shipments in the
last week in September, the total quantity sent away
being 3458 tons, made up of 1379 tons concentrates and
2079 tons zinc tailings. The old complaint of want of
trucks on the S.A. railways is, by the way, heard no
longer.
* • • •
Attempts were made at Broken Hill to organise
some recognition of the bravery of the men who made so
effective a fight against the fire upon its outbreak in the
B.H. Prop, and thereby saved the town from a financial
disaster. But the efforts failed dismally; and now the
co. is talking of doing something “on its own." A medal
will most likely be struck and awarded : the idea is that,
apart from the money bonus, this would he the form
most serviceable to working men who may hereafter be
on the hunt for billets.
* • * •
Opinions have always differed as to the nature
of the deposit in the old Burra copper-mine in S.A.—
the property which in 30 years yielded 51,622 tons fine
copper, sold for £4,750,000, of which £827,000 was profit;
this on an original capital of £12,230. While it was being
worked it was supposed to he merely a surface pocket ;
certainlv country was found almost everywhere under the
ore. But some old hands have always insisted that there
was a vein at one point, in the bottom at 70 fathoms, and
that the surface deposit was a “spew” from this. The
theory is now about to be tested by a drill. The mine has
been idle 20 years.
• • • ■
In Committee of Q. Assembly, an amendment
has been carried on the Land Bill, providing that, royal
and other metals shall be reserved to the Crown in any
alienations of the public estate. What’s the use of half,
doing a thing? A Mining on Private Property Act straight
out is the reform needed. Besides, there is a difference
of opinion among lawyers as to whether metals and
minerals are not already reserved to the Crown under ex-
isting Q. laws, together with the British laws that are
held to be in force in Australia.
* * » •
Tt is expected that the Charters Towers gold-
yield for 1897 will total 340,nn00z., valued at over a
million. Divs. for the nine months, £225,218 ; excess <f
divs. over calls for the nine months, £164,807. Divs. for
*97 will probably reach £310,000.
* * * a
Mt. Hepburn, Cassilis (Vic.), suspended for
four months This is one of John Bull’s deals, and John
is in the soup. The 50ft. lode is there all right,, but- big
crushings show that it will go just about a weight and a-
half to the ton as a steady thing. By the way, the chlori-
nation works at Cassilis have loosened all the teeth in the
district. The drinking-water is the mischievous medium.
It, is now evident that any chlorination co. may double its
divs. by running a dentistry next door.
* * * *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at, about. 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties ore not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
• * * *
Stated that the Colebrook mine, Tas., has been
taken over on behalf of t.he Cnrtin-Davis, that. £7500 has
been placed to credit, and Sehlapp will supervise opera-
tions. It has an enormous low-grade copper-ore bodv
proved for considerable length. The ore is apparently
even a finer smelting proposition than that of Mt. I,veil.
Lake View Consols has paid its first div.—a
noble one, 10s. a share—£l2s,ooo. A race between this
Morgan f°r the premiership is imminent.
At £l2 a share the L.V., with only one div., is closely
runnmjr M.M., which has paid something like to ur
millions of money.
* • • •
Kalgoorlie wire : “ Developments in the Tvan-
hoe during the last few days have been rich and numer-
ons The mine never looked so well as at present.”
And the men who hum VV.A.—more especially Kalgoorlie
mines by wire, added that the sharemarket
never looked so well, either.
* * • •
Bayley s United, W.A.: “Another winding-
Pu.Vu ,n _, cr ! urse of erection on the new shaft, and when
the 40-head battery is erected it will show that Bayley’s
has st"l many years of divs. before it.”- Mixing Standard.
Wei , what s the matter with the 20-head battery which
has lam idle for two vears?
* * • *
Another lode of enormous width and richness
reported from Kalgoorlie- this time struck in the Boulder
Perseverance. “In cross-cutting east from tli" m-'n
shaft, the lode was unexpectedly met with at 14 ft s'
ln - solid veins of telluride with cleavages of I
gold, closely resemhlinsr the deep level stone of r.~ I.
’V iew Consols. If the same lode it. must ho v- ■ ■ *' I
that depth, and if a separate lode, this is the r. -■
has been seen. Apparently the whole belt h\ m"
lodes, that it is an open question whether the -.*•’•• i ». .t
of two miles is not one immense lode with K. Ii • -
running through it up to 50ft. wide.” Look at. that i:< - 1
If all the rich and great lodes of Kalgoorlie should rcnUv
be one lode two miles w : de and. sav. onlv 20 miles lon-’,
■what a very fine lode that, would be? 'And if all the
mines of that belt, were made into one mine, what a very
fine mine that would be? Where is the almighty Kauf-
man that he dee; not bond the whole business bv putting
up a few trumpery millions as a deposit, and float a
co. to work the lot—capital, one billion.
• * * •
The Westralian gold-yield for September, accord-
ing to statistics issued bv the Coolgardie Chamber of
Mines, was 78,281 ounces from 53,200 tons of stone —an
average of nearly 20 weights to the lon. The list, repre-
sents returns from more than 300 mines altogether, the
crush in 200 cases, or thereabouts, being less than 100 tons,
and running as low as half a ton. 123 crushes exceeded
100 tons ap’ece, 70 of these going more than an ounce to
the ton, whilst the other 53 went less. Kalgoorlie district
took the bun easily with 14,917 tons for 33,846 ounces.
* * ♦ *
Westralian gold figures show a progressive im-
provement. calculated to madden early British investors
who rushed hither and thither after the wildest of “cats.”
The output for January to March, ’96, was 64,128 ounces,
and, for the first four months of this vear, it rose to
152,8660 z. May to Sept., ’96. produced 152,866 ounces, and
the same period in ’97 has been good for 298,1750 z. Sep-
tember went 6650 ounces better than August, which was
6000 ounces richer than any previous month. Wherefore
elated Westralian barrackers invite Tim Bulletin to take
back a number of alleged statements which it didn't- state,
ann plead jrnilty to many awful errors that never were
made in these columns. As for the awful truths commit-
ted by this heastl v journal, the aforesaid barrackers for
t»e “Golden West” will magnanimously forgive them on
the understanding that they are to be forgotten.
* * * *
Lady Bountiful, IG2 tons, 81oz. ; average,
not good enough, probably, to pay. Yet it has been an-
nounced _ as one of the few regular yielders outside of
Kalgoorlie. “ The low yield is attributed to the putting
through of a lot of surface stone.” However, no excuses
are given when the return is above the average. We
never read, “ The high yield is attributed to some picked
stone being put through.”
* * * •
A London paper says the executors in Col,
North’s estate have agreed to refund £50,000 and 100.000
shares, as representing the profit he made in the London-
derry deal. Also, thatsomeof the shareholders are not even
satisfied with that, and expected much more. It concludes:
“ The Londonderry property does not seem to he worth
the expenditure of another sixpence, and I he shareholders
would prohahlv do well to wind-tip the co. and divide the
assets.” What about the recent rich strike ? Has it also
vanished ? The wire-hummer says it hasn’t.
* * * •
The W.A. Smelting Co. has been formed in
London, with a capital of < 300,900. Works are to he
erected at Fremantle. George Aarons, formerly manager
of the Londonderry, is the chief founder of the scheme;
W ittenoom, Mines Minister, will be a local director: and
one Dickinson, it. is announced, is about to leave London
to superintend the erection of the machinery. With coal
found in the country, and the great pvrltic mines of Kal-
goorlie at hand, there seems a good chance of these works
succeeding, though much will depend on the working of
mines other than gold—more particularly copper or lead.
• * • •
How they doctor figures in W.A. A recent
crushing was announced like this
Stone crushed, 90 tons ; yield,
lBoz. gold. Average 4dwt. per ton.
Assay of blanketings Bdwt. „ „
„ slimes 2dwt. „ „
„ tailings 6dwt. „ „
Total : loz. per ton.
Down to “average. 4dwt.” is all right. Then they have
th° check to add the averones of the concentrates and of
the hulk of the stone together ! They must have been
determined to “get there ” somehow.
* • • •
Moran, M.P. (W.A.), on the expansive pro-
mises made by Forrest in London to persons, chiefly
boomst.ers “ What has brought about the slump and
cursed W.A. mining was the action of London promoters.
The nominal capital represented 150 millions, and per-
haps five milli ns cash had heen sent out. The men who
had thrown dust in the eyes of the Premier were men who
regarded mines as a gambling-table, scrip as dice, and
had wrung huge sums of monev from widows and
orphans at the expense of W.A.’s'reputation. Thev all
knew of instances of mines bought for £2OOO, boomed up
to £2oo,ooo—and yet cables had to go every fortnight for
£2OO to pay wages !” Very true, hut did Moran, or any
other member, raise his voice against this thing when it
was at its height? Did a single newspaper utter one
word of protest? No. It was a boom-time, and, like all
others, it was horn in lying, chiefly in and by the aid of
newspapers ; it was kept up bv lying; it, has been killed by
truth, and the things now declared by members of Par-
liament, newspapers, and the whole Westralian gang con-
cerning the wickedness of the boom have heen said week
in and week out by The Billetin' for three vears. “ But
what about the Great Boulder? ” is the yapping cry the
writer has to endure, as if the greatest mining “spiels”
perpetrated in Australia were condoned by the accidental
finding of some rich mines.
* * * *
Nearly a dozen Sydney drapers, in addition to
those of Melbourne and elsewhere, held sales of damaged
goods per Gulf of Martaban. To judge h.v the immense
stock alleged to have been soaked with salt-water aboard
that vessel, the Gulf of Martaban must have been an ocean
leviathan filled with drapery to the hatches.
* * * »
The Mining Standard gives good advice to all
sending gold to market—not to send it in a retorted state
or in “ dust.” Retort cakes and alluvial are both liable to
accidental loss and pilferage—and such loss can occur
without the owner suspecting. It is safer to despatoh gold
onty in the form of bullion or melted pieces.


DAVID
Opposite \
, G.P O /
ORIENT
CLOTNIN6
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 408-
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
“CORTO” ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO'-6d. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations,
WATSON S WHISKY
SOCIETY
What is Gov. Brassey’s body-guard about
that it permits the doddering old gentleman to be
interviewed l • pressmen ? Last week he gave
away the following artless confession to a Melb.
’Ebald reporter, who wanted to know why he
didn’t bring the Sunbeam yacht back to Melb. in-
stead of leaving her in Sydney Harbor whilst he
came along by train. “As a matter of fact,” said
H. Ex., “I had to be here to-day, and, in fact, I’ve
been quite long enough away.” (As though he
could be long enough away!). “The Chief Jus-
tice has been sworn in as Acting-Governor in my
absence, and, you see, I have to pay the Chief
Justice ten sovereigns a day while he is acting.”
Ten sovereigns per day is about half the salary
paid to Brassey, and why, in the name of Reason,
should an imported failure be allowed to pocket a
VOICE-CULTURE.
DIOMUS : “His voice should certainly be cultivated.”
ZEF: “He evidently agrees with you—it is harrowing now! ”
large sum of money by the simple device of hiring
another man to occupy his position? And why,
U why, does he refer to his unearned increment as
though it were a ruinous loss ?
* • * »
The Bulletin hears that Gov. Brassey
desires to sell his yacht, the Sunbeam ; and that
is really why he has left her at Sydney, instead of
takintr her back tn Williamstnwn T.ndv RraMoir
takmg her back to W liliamstown. Lady Brassey,
JNo. 1, was ail enthusiastic yachtswoman, but her
successor is not fond of the sea. AYhen the Sun-
beam is laid-up at Williamstown few people see
her, but in Sydney Harbor she may be easily
inspected and tried by likely purchasers.
* , , »
Gov. Buxton lately electrified Adelaide by
attending the theatah for the second time since his
accession. But it was an amatuah performance?
Still, H. Ex. is improving, and may yet cause a
sensation by patronising comic opera, and step-
ping round to the wings and opening a “ small
bottle ” with Tottie, as a previous giddy Governor
was wont to do.
* * * *
Adelaide had a fine sensation the other
day in the Nixon-Addison trial, wherein Nixon, a
railway clerk, was charged with the attempted
murder of his wife and H. M. Addison, chairman
of S.A. State Bank and a big man in local politics.
Nixon found his wife in Addison’s office at
mid-day, and stabbed the two with a boot-
maker’s knife, but they both recovered. Mrs.
Nixon is a charming woman, young and petite,
and Addison, in the box, admitted having finan-
cially assisted her, but stoutly denied adultery.
Local feeling was strongly in favor of Nixon, who
was cheered as he left the dock, and the jury was
expected to acquit, but found for unlawfully
wounding.
* * * *
One of the produced letters from Mrs.
Nixon to her husband, during the Adelaide
stabbing-trial, contains 16 “loves,” 14 “dears”
and “dearests,” a “thousand thousand bless-
ings,” and a miscellaneous assortment of “ blisses ”
and “ raptures.” She “ longs for the time ” when
she shall have given herself to her dearest Albert,
and shall have on her lap a curly-headed boy with
his dear papa’s bright blue eyes, and climaxes
with an assertion of her intention to treat said
papa “like a splendid flower,” and fill his life
“ with perfume and love ! ” None of which looks
very much as if—as she says in same letter, she
was assured by a doctor —her blood was turning
to water 1
Letter suppressed by the Judge during a
memorable recent Australian attempted murder
tr i a j .
Dear , after you left last night I found your
garter under the sofa. I kissed it a thousand times, and
am now wearing it in my bosom.
As a contrast to which absurd sentimentalism
Tjo*? Q umce Y : . . ......
‘There was once a crim. con action in which the de-
fendant was a nob le lord. His love-letters were published
jn the newspapers. One, after a train of rhapsodies, con-
eluded by informing his lady-love of the market-prices at
Oxford: ‘Feed oats, 40s.bran, same as per last; tick
beans looking up.’ ”
* , . ,*. , *
A little pamphlet just issued by a Tas.
JW"”’ - for privat * . main *f. ins
hat th f " r ° bject ° f Catholics m putting
18 to stop those of the
Dear Bulletin,
Members of the Govt.-
endowed Sydney
School of Arts find it
necessary to belong to
the booksellers’ libra-
ries in addition if they
wish to get hold of
current fiction. Many
books, prominent in
the eye of the reading
world, can’t be found
on the library-shelves,
and of the others the
number placed in cir-
culation seldom ex-
ceeds two or three.
Enterprising book-
sellers add as many as
30 copies of a popular
novel to their libraries.
“ Joseph of Canaan ”
Walters left the S. of
A. committee, some
months back, because
of its persistent neglect
to meet members’ re-
quirements. Yet the
Public Library direc-
tors are blocked from
purchasing the works
of Kipling and other
writers on the plea that
they would lead to an
even more pungent
atmosphere of Statue
and Domain than that
already characteristic
of the institution. —
T.D.
• * *
A smart Sydney-
ite, it was found the
other day, had been
living rent - free for
many months by a neat
little dodge. The
house is in a terrace
foreclosed on by a build-
ing society. On Mon-
day when the collector
comes round the blinds
are taken down and a
“To Let” notice put
in the window, so the
tired perfunctory official, believing the house
empty, passes on.
* • » *
Strange story from Paris chronicled in
London Daily Telegbaph :
To-day an odd story is being related of the alleged
sequestration of a young Frenchwoman, who was engaged
about eight months ago as a companion by an Australian
family, and taken to Sydney. According to this tale, the
girl, after spending a few days with her new friends in
their antipodean home, was removed to another house
and kept a prisoner, on the ground that she was not ful-
filling her share of the contract. A fellow-countryman
somehow got into conversation with the captive, and re-
ported her adventure to the French residents at Sydney,
who started a collection, with the proceeds of which the
young woman was able to propitiate her employers, and,
at the same time, to defray the expenses of her journey
back to Paris. Such is the strange story which has just
been unfolded, it being added that the unlucky demoiselle
will not be able to obtain any redress, as there are legal
obstacles.
• * * *
Q. Chief Justice Griffith is resigning, by
outgoing mail to Ireland, his position of Provincial
Grand Mudturtle of the Irish Constitution, select-
ing G. S. Hutton as successor to his gorgeous
frills, and fripperies. Sam Griffith’s reason for
retiring is that his judicial duties press too heavily
on him to enable him to fill adequately the com-
missions of Masonry, whereas the ordinary man’s
way of putting it would be that his Masonic flap-
doodleries were so pressing as to interfere with the
exercise of his judicial duties. It is arguable
whether the mere fact that a man is a master-
tradesman, or a Grand High Gobblewager of a
Splittoed Order of a Mighty Ancient Anything,
or any other secret society, should not dis-
qualify him from acting as Judge. A Mason
is, at anyrate, bound by vows to love a brother
Mason better than his wife (that is, the Mason’s
wife), and the degree.of intimacy between Masons
is illustrated by the inspired local par. that tells
of Griffith’s resignation, and describes how “the
retiring Provincial Grand Motley shook hands
with each of the Bandicoots of the Whisky Tie
present, and thus formally took his leave of them.”
Is all right in the East? “Boaz.”
* * * *
In one Australian city, it is averred, a
member of our imported aristocracy lately
took to himself a new groom. When the
groom’s first dinner in that capacity was due,
a maid dumped down a plateful of meat
and cabbage on the stable-door; whereupon the
groom made for the kitchen, only to be told that
by the mistress’s orders he would have to feed in the
stable. Next midday, half-an-hour before feeding-
time, the man’s dinner was dumped outside on the
kitchen door-step; whereupon, finding the door
locked against him, he promptly fired the banquet
through the dining-room window. And now 7
another man is being broken-in to feed with the
horses.
* * * *
Commencements of the only four wedding
items in recent S.M. Hebald “social” column.
“ A pretty wedding took place ” ; “ A pretty wed-
ding was celebrated”; “ A pretty wedding was
solemnised ” ; “ St. James’s Church was the scene
of a pretty wedding.” Variety is charming !
* * * *
“ Queenslander ” to The Bulletin :
The Dean curse seems greatly to be blamed for the
apathy (so to speak) of the general public in re Suffleld’s
case. The G.P. made such a horrible mess of it with
regard to Dean and his innocence—[the subject of the
public agitation was, of course, not Dean’s guilt or inno-
cence, but the manner of his trial and the evidence,
medical and other, on which he was condemned.—Ed. B.]
—that the fear of a second fiasco can be the only reason
THE VOICE OF THE TEMPTER.
PIOUS GEANDMOTHEB (wearisomely dealing out religious instruction to cute
six-year-old Ada): “Yes, my dear, all our good thoughts are
suggested to us by God, and all our wicked thoughts come from
Satan. ”
LITTLE ADA (brightening up): “ Grandma , do you know what Satan is
telling me to say to you?"
P. G.: “ What is it, my dear?"
L. A.: “He is telling me to say 'Shut up, Grandma,' but God won't let me
say it.”
why the N.S.W. Minister for Justice (?) is not perforce
galvanised into something resembling human flesh and
blood.
And as in the Dean case, so in the Suffield case :
The Bulletin doesn’t know whether Suffield is
guilty or innocent, but it is prepared to maintain
that he was convicted on utterly insufficient evi-
dence, and that his case should be fully investi-
gated, even though such a thing does not fit in
with the prejudices of the so-called N.S. Wales
Department of Justice.
• • •' *
In Sydney recently, within a day or two
of each other, an old man of 85 drowned himself
in the harbor, and a youth of 18 fatally cut his
throat. One thinking the journey would never
end—and the other afraid to face it!
AN “ARMY” IDYLL.
[FOR TUB BULLETIN.]
“ Salvo ” bonnet quaint and taking, eyes of soulful giaj.
Gown of modest Quaker making, steal my heart away,
While the big drum deals out thunder,
Sweetest! is it any wonder
That my soul has knuckled under
To your tuneful lav ?
You demure and captivating, working mischief sore ;
“ Captain’s ” testimony grating—what a beastly bore !
Let me quiz the eyes uplifting,
Kiss the dimples ever shifting
While my fancy goes a-drifting
To the Golden Shore.
Hateful is the vulgar surging of the sinful crew,
And the drunken sot emerging ’twixt the light and you •
Hallelujahs fervent growing,
Torchlight fitful shadows throwing,
Pair of lovely gray eyes glowing—
What’s a man to do ?
W.D


Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
tor fetation and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A u.strutin.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTC ASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land. |
CELEBRATED
LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
F°r Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed Eyes, Dimness of
bight, Granulations, &o Recommended by the Lead-
Sydney Oculists. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers. Sole Manufacturer, H A ROSE
Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney, r® 7 " Open all
Night also Sundays and Holidays. F
_ Treas. Fysh, of Tasmania, in his florid
financial statement, jubilates over a boom in the
marriage-market of 1896 of “13 per cent, above
the average of the three preceding years, and a
return to the numbers of ’9l and ’92, when we
were all happy and careless, and thought not of
the morrow.” This is Fysh’s way of saying that
only careless people get married.
* » * *
The s.s. Mataura, which arrived in the
Derwent the other day, was placed under an apolo-
getio semi'-quarantine surveillance by the Hobart
health authorities. Though the vessel was allowed
to take up her wharfage and land cargo, a barrier
was erected to block all shore communication ex-
cept that of the very necessary lumpers and
specially privileged persons. Subject to fumiga-
tion at the local hospital, some steerage passengers
bound for Melbourne were allowed to land. A
couple of Mataura firemen strayed through the
barrier and had “a good time” until next day,
when they were arrested and forcibly purified. Q.
Premier Nelson and party (eight) also went ashore,
but were not subjected to a sulphur bath. In
view of the laudable determination of the authori-
ties to do their duty by the steerage passengers
and the firemen, how Nelson escaped their vigi-
lance is an official mystery. It is also a pity.
Tasmania had the chance to do Queensland a
truly Federal service by disinfecting its Premier
and his titles, but, of course, managed to let the
opportunity slip.
* * * •
The S.M. Herald lately published, in its
Special advts. column, the following queer combi-
nation ;
This is God’s way. THERE IS NO OTHER. Ac-
cept it and be saved for ever ; or reject it, or negleot
it, and be lost for ever. “ Why will ye die, O house of
Itrael ?” “ The wages of sin is death, but the gift of
God is eternal life.” “ Believe on the Lord and thou
shalt be saved.”
A SK FOR
. “RODERICK DHU” WHISKY.
Obtainable in Bulk, Case, \ bottles, and stone Jorums.
Also 2 and 4 gallon Jars, specially fitted with electro-
plated taps.
The Wages of Sin—and stone jorums !
* » * •
Note from N.S. W. bush-mother to the
local school-teacher:—
. Please, Miss , you will have to excuse poor Willie
for being away of late, and you will have to scratch him
off the books, as he is dead.
* * • *
The curiosities of reading-books — even
Australian reading-books, Collins’ 11. book,
AT THE DINNER-TABLE.
MRS. SPOONER : “ Is there any punishment heavy
enough for the wretch who deceives a poor
woman?”
MR. SPOONER : “ Yes, my dear — marry him to
her!”
adopted in N.S.W. public schools, teaches the
youngsters that people used to kill dingoes until,
in very many places, the kangaroos overran the
country; wherefore dingoes are now again in
great demand.
* * » *
Pathetic or business-like ? The other day?
an advt. calling for a married couple to reside
upon and caretake a Sydney city-office elicited
many applications. There was no mention of an
“encumbrance” clause, but one wedded pair, in
admitting a recent union, suspected a disqualifica-
tion on the possibility of such contingency arising.
They begged the advertiser to dismiss any fears
on the subject, as the event would be strictly
guarded against.
* * * *
A lady medical student was walking home
from Sydney University the other evening, and
when crossing an unfrequented space of Hyde
Park a male shadow rose suddenly out of the dark-
ness, opened its arms seductively, and murmured
“ Ducky ! ” in beer-laden tones. The medico
would have run, but she had her professional
Gladstone-bag of tricks with her, and couldn’t.
The man came closer and breathed horrible things
down her back, and told her that she was a “fair
tart ”; and still nobody came along. Matters
grew desperate, when the lady had a phenomenal
inspiration. “I don’t like live men,” she said.
“ Wot! ” said her would-be embracer, alarmed.
“No, Hike them like this’’—and she dived into
the. bag and brought out a formidable skull, which
grinned awfully in the lamplight. In 2secs. all
that was left of the man was a streak of beery
odors floating like an echo among the trees, and the
maiden medico popped her skull into her bag and
scuttled hard in the opposite direction.
Mr, C, N. J. OLIVER, the new chief Com-
missioner of N.S. W. Railways.
Mr, DAVID KIRKCALDIE, the new third
Commissioner of N.S. W. Railways,
Photos., J. Hubert Newman.
The Australian press cable-combine for the
daily despatch of news from London seems to
have struck a little snag. By arrangement with
Reuter’s co. the cableman in London is allowed to
use Reuter’s wires received from its correspon-
dents in various parts of the globe. In return the
company’s Melb. representative has the perusal of
all cables on arrival from London. Reuter no v
sells he news in Victoria, N.S. Wales, Tasmania
andS.A. to papers outside the big dailies who
hitherto have monopolised the . cable-press
messages. Low prices for the despatch of these
cable items attract many influential provincial
papers to the list. One of the Wagga papers pub-
lishes all the cables simultaneously with and some-
times ahead of S.M. Herald
* * * *
From “ M.C.” The Bulletin receives the
following alleged particulars of the case of one
Brown, convicted at Wellington of illegal opera-
tion (without injury to the patient) at the time
Sheridan was on trial in Sydney for an offence re-
sulting in the death of his patient
Brown got 18 years, and, being put to brick-carrying,
broke down—as a man totally unaccustomed to manual
labor—in about a week; fell with a bundle of bricks
against an iron railing, and injured his spine so that for
the last 21 months he has been paralysed and unable to
stand. Petitioning the new Governor, Lord R., for re-
lease, he was promptly answered, “Not sufficient grounds.”
It would be interesting to know what the M.L. authorities
would consider sufficient grounds. The miserable man
was induced to perform the operation, not for lucre, but
by pity for a girl who declared her intention, otherwise,
of suiciding; he received a tremendous sentence, and was
put to the brutally oppressive labor which has made a
mere human log of him—according to medical certificate
—for the rest of his days.
* * * *
Example of N.S. W. country journalism ;
Many readers will hear with regret of the serious illness
of Mrs. O’Hoolan, who has not been progressing favorably
since her recent confinement. VVe trust to be able to
record a decided change for the better in our next week’s
issue.
« » * •
Premier Seddon’s announced intention to
abolish a “ shameful and objectionable statute ”
(the C.D. Act) has brought down upon him a
deluge of congratulations from the uneasy old
hens in England who, if the C.D. Act were re-
pealed to-morrow, and the age-of-consent raised
to three-score and ten, would either have to scratchi
out some equally savoury morsel to cackle over—
or die.
* * * «
Melb. : “ The Christian Endeavourists.
have been on the flute hereabouts. But they haves
a pillowy and bolstery look. No grimy foundry
lads. No scrubological lasses. All the Endeavour-
ists impress one as having' that without which,
says Joe Thompson Solomon, you ought never to
begin bookmaking— viz. , a bit of string, spondu-
licks, quids, brass, money. It is the Young
Gentlemen’s and Ladies’ Association, and the first
endeavour on the programme is to attain chronic
N iceness. ’ A sudden reappearance of the Twelve
Apostles would shock them out of their ‘ good
work.’ It has never struck them that Christi-
anity was a vulgar religion when Endeavouring
began.
* * * •
Brazil—where the nuts come from—has
lately been disturbed by a religious fanatic who,
says the cable, “claimed to work miracles, and
was regarded by his followers as the Messiah.”
There is food for reflection in the cabled news that
the Messiah was killed. The Govt, didn’t believe
in his miracles, and the chances are against his
founding a Eaith of the Future. He is possibly
a Mahomet, but the time for starting a new
religion by peaceful or warlike means is not
nowadays. Try to imagine a successful Messiah
preaching the Word at a meeting where news-
paper-reporters took it down in shorthand, or
talking the Word into a phonograph ! Absurd
idea. If an irreproachable prophet were to try
his luck in Sydney to-morrow—well, he would be
. obstructing the thoroughfare.” His followers—
if he caught on ’’ —would swarm across the tram-
lines and cause him to get fined 40s. or a month—
,n!?Ment finite unsuitable for publication in
Holy Writ. Any further manufacture of Holy
Wnt is out of the question.
* * * *
A N.l. paper has been interviewing a lot
of Mormon polygamic wives. Whether it picked
the ayes does not appear, hut it has no noes. The
consensus is in support of the enthusiastic view
with which one of Brigham Young’s widows
startled the readers of the North American Re-
view a few years ago. Physically, the poly-dames
find marriage a delight instead of a woe. Then
they recognise that Man has many moods. Some-
times he likes a nice, pious woman. Other times
a twirler in the mazes of the giddy waltz. Also,
as Cow Fat philosophically observes : ‘You have
one wife, she fightee you ; you have two wife, she
hghtee her.
From time to time, Prahran (Melb.) City
Council formally acknowledges receipt of a protest
from Mr. Chas. Salter against the intolerable
behaviour of the local Harmy. This pertinacious
complainant appears to be acting “on his own ”
rather than as agent for rival religious societies.
Xhe Xlarmy is baiter’s particular grievance and
he has just struck a fresh objection to its musical
rites. The discordant drums, tambourines
brass instruments, and other vehicles of distrac-
tion, says Salter in his latest petition, “ are calcu-
lated to endanger life and depreciate property bv
frightening horses and bicycles.” When Con-
verted Jane bangs her cymbals together all the
faery, untamed bicycles in the neighborhood are
apt to overpower their riders and bolt, and, if the
nearest tram-car should also take fright at the
blast of the trombone, an awful collision might
6115U6.
«Judge Paul (to 10-year-
old girl-witness in indecent assault case): “Do
you know what an oath is?” “ No, sir.” “You
were questioned at the police-court ? ” “ Yes
sir.” “Did you kiss the book at the police-
courb?” “Yes, sir.” “What did you kiss the
book for?” “To tell the truth, sir.” “Oh,
®b e do for me. It’s no use asking her where
she’ll go to if she doesn’t tell the truth, because we
don’t know. ”
* * * *
Compo. : “Sweating! In one southern
N.B.W. country newspaper office, the men and
boys who set, print, and publish the paper go to
work three days a week, starting at 9 a.m., and
knock off at 5 a.m. the following day. Back at 1
p.m., and put in ‘dis.’ till 5 p.m. Talk about
slavery! ”
e * * ,
Petrus: “ Archbishop Carr will have St.
Patrick’s, Melb., off his mind directly. His next
card is the new Divinity College, Melb. Uni-
versity. Next year he interviews the Pope, and
the Propaganda, on this scheme. It is hoped
there will be a start with the College long ere the
century dies. On the precedent of St. Pat’s this
new place is to wipe out the Anglican Trinity, the
Presbyterian Ormond, and the Wesleyan Queen’s,
in one act. The old school holds that all priests
must be imported, but Archbishop Carr is im-
pressed with the necessity of having an Australian
National Priesthood, on the same lines as America
with its Divinity Colleges.”
* * * *
old Brisbane lady, charged with
keeping an unregistered dog : “ Please, your wor-
ship, I m 71; I’m an old woman without father or
mother.” By the way, who was it that once
wrote : “ Old women are divisible into three
classes—dear old ladies, poor old things, and
nasty old cats ? ”
* * * »
Brisbane (Q.) Dog Act is impartially ad-
ministered. Hunks and Junks were both fined
for keeping the same unregistered dog. Hunks,
was minding it for Junks ; Junks had made it a
present to Hunks ; so the beak fined both, and ad-
'vised oracularly—“Never mind another man’s
dog.”
A voice from out the gloaming’s fog
Came gasping hoarsely o’er the lea-:
“ I did not mind my neighbor’s dog.
My neighbor’s dog is minding me
A WHOPPER .
FJSHYABNEB (loq.): “He was a whopper-and
didn’t he pull! Why, I couldn't pull him
in; so I tied him to the steamer-rail and went
to get Joe, and when I came hack—why, I'm
blest if the steamer wasn’t gone!”
Blank and Dash were both young men,
*hift mates in a mine, and both mashed on the
same girl, Dash making all the running. One
mornmg the searcher found a half-ounce bit in
Dash s tucker-bag. Dash swore he knew nothing
about it, that he had Jnever stolen a color in his
life. He got six months. The girl married Dash
“F. Hepburn,” from Brisbane
J[?„\£ e 0 l nt •u? Ll '5 TIK contribution “ Maroogaline ”
recalls the horrible days in Jamaica when Eyre was
Governor of the island. In justice to a much-maligned
man, let me give a personal per contra version of the
Jamaica trouble. I was in Kingston at the time. The
Ja , malca formed a very small minority
and, outside of Kingston, were completely at the mercv
of the negroes, so that our horror can be imagined at the
news that the Morant Bay court-house had been burnt
by the blacks, and that the Custos, Baron Kettle-
holdt, and other magistrates and whites had been burnt
with it. A mixture of rum and gunpowder was then
°“ be Bku,,s of the victims ; diabolical orgies
followed, and the negroes dispersed to continue the w ork
of slaughter. It must be remembered that there had
been previous negro risings in Jamaica, and some old
people even recollected the savage slaughter in Havti of
every white man, woman, and child in the island. In this
case the public buildings in Kingston were to be fired
and m the confusion the white men were to be massacred!
though the women were to be “spared.” In the excite-
ment caused by the discovery of the plot Gov. Eyre was
urgently pressed to proclaim martial law in Kingston
and it is to his everlasting credit that he refused thus to
give the whites the chance of promiscuous vengeance.
Martial law was only declared in the actual scenes of out-
rages, and the chief instigator, an educated mulatto
named Gordon, was court-martialed, found guilty, and
executed. The effect of this promptness was instan-
taneous, and it doubtless prevented the destruction of the
whole white population. Jamaica was not then a Crown
C ?vL ny r and f he Governor was bound to act by the advice
of the Leg. Council (composed of white and colored per-
a°ns); ™ hlcb fully endorsed his actions. The rancor of
the Exeter Hall party” even went the length of
demanding Eyre’s life, but the Home Parliament fully
exonerated him, and unbiassed history will do him justice.
Since the Halifax (Eng.) Chamber of Com-
merce inspired Chamberlain to bring the little
matter of injurious wool-marking under the notice
of sundry Australian premiers (including the
unbucolic George Turner, who never saw a bit
of live mutton branded in his life) there has been
an increased demand for Tattoo Oil, a preparation
that is easily wiped out in the process of wool-
cleaning. Its freedom from pitch, tar or lead
gives -tattoo Oil a special claim to the patronage
o wool-growers, and hence a recent appearance
of worthless imitations” on the Australian
market. Messrs Wilkinson, Hey wood & Co., of
Melbourne, wish to impress upon Bui.lkitn
readers the necessity of seeing that they get
Tattoo Oil when they order it. Each package of
the real, old, genuine, original “Tattoo” bears
the maker s name--David Storer & Sons, London,
and any dealer who endeavours to substitute an
inferior article for the sake of a larger profit is— >
or ought to be—in danger of hell fire.*
THE DYSPEPTIC NIGHTMARE.
I cannot sleep except I dream—
Ah, dreams of fear, and dreams that harry
My very soul. And yet I seem
To scorn the curse my sin may carry.
For God is merciful ; and such
His pity is, that in the reaping
He damns not those who drink too much,
But simply gives them hell while sleeping.
HOPE.
In the garden I am lying,
Kindly Nature looks on me;
Birds are singing, branches sighing,
All is blest tranquility.
Comes a-winging and a-crying—
Notes are ringing, birds are flying,
Hope they’re bringing (Hope was dying),
Hope is clinging, Hope is trying—
Hope beginning, Hope begun ;
Hope is winning—Hope has won I
Sydney.
H.V.N.


6
N
pm
■ v'S.
mwwyi
Food 4
eh
© ®
lU
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &o.\
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 19, 1897.
Mr Dear Myke—
A guide to fashion, issued by a big drapery,
illustrates its creations and names them after cele-
brated warblers. On the tea-gown pages ideal
beings with regulation fashion-plate 'sinile simper
in flowing robes labelled “The Melba,’ “lb©
Patti,” “ The Albani,” “ The Crossley,” and
“ The Schmidt.” Since Florence is thus sartorially
placed in the front rank of divas, she ought to be
composing a hew and mellifluous name for public
use. Crossley keeps her own surname, dropping
her front one — en regie for a concert
the first grade. But a soprano must be “La
the fine-sounding title “ La Svengali ” no doubt
helped “ Trilby ” along tremendously. An Ade-
laide girl blessed with a soprano hall-marked by
’Ome professional approval is now anxiously
waiting to be theatrically christened, and invites
suggestions per The Bulletin. _ Among stage-
names of Australian girls “ Syria Lamonte is
about the prettiest yet invented, and “ Leonoro
O’Relli ” about the clumsiest—it looks so much
like O’Reilly in a thin disguise (though it isn't)—
and “Regina Nagel” the most brusque. Of a
short, catchy, euphonious name for a concert
vocalist the best example is “Millie Wynn ” : had
she searched a dictionary the cheerful little
soprano couldn’t have hit on a better appellation
than her own.
Many Sydney children (probably the offspring
of Chow missioners) may be seen now toddling
along in Chinese slippers. The shoes are highly
ornamented, generally with elaborate dragons
and butterflies embroidered on silk ; but
the thick, soft soles are short and heelless,
and the little Wearer, pleased that he is so gaily
shod, trots proudly along at his nurse’s apron-
strings with the characteristic Chow jog-trot. If
the kiddies of to-day take to working their heels
and toes in the true Celestial shuffle, the much-
abused Australian gait will have still more con-
tumely heaped upon it.
On Thursday afternoon the Victoria Club Salon
lured visitors to the Artists’ show in Vickery s
Chambers by dispensing music and muffins. It
was a dressy affair. A Salon gathering is always
a battle of styles, and the new picture-galleries
give a perfect back-ground for fine clothes. Tom
Roberts was having a tea party the same after-
noon in his new studio, on the same floor, which is
now pretty nearly monopolised by devotees of art.
Many of the guests injured their digestions at
both shivoos. There were some notables, besides
brushworkers ; inside of 20 minutes I counted two
poets, a vocalist, two art-critics, musicians in
plenty, and one man who “ talks a little.”
The annual demonstration by the St. John
Ambulance Society, on Saturday afternoon, filled
the galleries of the Town Hall, while the ground-
floor was given over to the branches and their ex-
hibition of surgery and bandaging. Tim giving-
out of cards and medallions by Mrs. Ferguson
was long and wearisome, and as the recipients
filed up the loudest burst of applause was for the
police who tramped up in procession to get their
awards. The ladies who demonstrated wore black
and white. Girls who came for their cards
tripped neatly up to the presenter, looked their
thanks and walked calmly off ; but the men
strolled shamefacedly up and hustled the act
through as quickly as possible. Some murmured,
others emitted a loud “ thankee ” audible all over
the hall, others merely grabbed the grey cards and
shot past blushing furiously. As the really brave
loathe personal adulation in public, I often wonder
how it is that any man ever attends to receive his
medal. The demonstration of first-aid was in-
teresting. Every class rushed at its subject and
bandaged him or tied him up in splints in half a
jiffy. And in about five minutes the hall looked
like a battle-field without the bleed. Among the
most applauded items were the smart work of the
Meat Works Corps, who showed’ how to improvise
splints and bandages out of stringy-bark ; and the
stretcher on wheels improvised from a bicycle,
some bagging, saplings, and a clothes-line, on
which a wounded hero was wheeled around by his
mate. < ■
Overworked lodge-doctors are the firm friends of
the above society. A knowledge of first-aid
among the men in a huge concern like the meat-
works or sugar co’s., where cuts from huge knives,
slashes from “boners,” or scalds from boiling
syrup are happening all the time, often saves the
doctor a long journey ; while the Civil Ambulance
Brigade, which supplies transport to the nearest
medical assistance, is looked upon coldly by the
hospital authorities. They declare that injured
folk run in on the slightest pretext on the brigade’s
stretchers often turn out to be very slightly hurt
or merely drunk.
Money from the country isn’t flowing freely into
che coffers of the hon. treasurer of the consump-
tive homes ; town folks respond, but up-country
returns are disappointing. One reason of this
hard-heartedness may be that country people
can’t, at long range, get the smile direct from
Government House. Cine, views exhibited in
backblocks towns, showing the Hon. Dorothy
Brand receiving a cheque, or Mr. H. Levy with
his tallest sheep-hurdle collar raising his hat to a
subscriber, might work wonders in scooping in
P.O. orders and notes.
The Gay Parisienne hopped on the stage on
Saturday night again in her well-known frocks,
which have both of them wilted and crumpled in
retirement; fresh chiffons will have to be found
for the new-comer, Ada Reeve, if Melb. audiences
are to get a glimpse of J. Bonbon’s style. Her
<ong, “ Only a Penny,” brought out the browns
from the pockets of a crowded gallery more effec-
tively than a charity conference with a Premier at
its head. A new feature was a new and acceptable
song by E. Shand, haritoned by J. Peachy.
Among the d.c. were many members of the nuirter-
otis dramatio co.’s here pro tern. The Paultons safe
side by side, the lady, about her husband’s height,
motherly, grey-haired, in unobtrusive black. A
large leading lady and a friend loomed conspicuous
in the front row, clad above the waist in their
own loveliness and a strip of gimp trimming. Cer-
tainly the gimp was wide, but still it was only
trimming.
Prof. Scott’s lecture on Women’s Work and
Wages before the Suffrage Society in the School
of Arts had many good points, his most applauded
hit being made at the charity-ball nuisance, which
he slated vigorously, with the evident agreement
of the large audience. The professor declared that
the dancer at a charity hop merely goes for the
dance and the supper, and lays the flattering unc-
tion to his soul that he is squaring the heavenly
ledger by making large charitable entries. A lady
speaker replied to this, noting the incongruity of
ideas in many generously-supported annual dances
for Good Causes. “For instance,” declared the
speaker, “ 1 couldn’t dance without a shudder at
the Tempe Refuge ball.” But promoters of that
particular hop may quote Scriptural precedent, for
if there is joy in Heaven over one sinner, what s
the matter with gladness on earth over a whole
homeful of them? The lecturer denied that
women for special work weren t paid at men s
rates, taking the rather exceptional cases of Bern-
hardt and Flora Shaw, whose special gifts earn
their out-of-the-way incomes.
The case (dismissed) against the Forest Lodge
schoolmistress points out strongly that harmful
unnecessary caning is no part of school discipline
for tiny children, but only makes insubordination
and general ructions. The teacher was alleged to
have severely caned a little girl of eight, so that
her arms and legs bore marks of the bruising.
Medical evidence for the defence showed that the
child's flesh would bruise easily; also, it was
stated, that although charges of unkindness to
pupils had been brought against the teacher before
they had never been sustained. A little girl of
eight can’t be such a monster of iniquity as to need
keeping in order by beating her legs and arms
black and blue. No parents, who are not callous
brutes, could be expected to allow such punish-
ment to pass without remonstrance. Then there s a
scandal and a police-court case, the teacher s pres-
tige suffers, and she has to cane harder than ever
to beat back respect for her into her flock. Elimi-
nate the cane altogether for young children, and
all such complaints vanish.
The juvenile dress-up was Saturday evening’s
attraction at the Artists’Show, which, ever since
its opening has kept the ball rolling in the way of
amusements. About as many grown-ups as chil-
dren were present. The prize-giving was a great
success for the infants whose costumes met the
judges’ eyes and a howling failure for the mites
out in the cold. One dainty, green-froeked dam-
sel —her portrait is in the show —lifted up her
voice and wept because her bosom friend received
a highly-colored toy-book while she had nothing ;
her friend, a chubby little nun, promptly shared
the prize, and they gloated over the treasure to-
gether. A smart coon was held up to admiration,
also, a court lady and a huntsman. The presi-
dent’s daughter carried about a palette and took
third prize as emblematical of the Society ; artist
Souter's children were original in nightgowns and
candlesticks ; a bright red imp was picturesque.
Miss Cowan led the procession and, aided by
others, worked up the ball successfully; a nice
party, but the boys looked a trifle bored. lhe
small boy’s idea of a shivoowas tersely summed
up once by a youngster I know, in reply to his
sister’s query of how he had liked a party she was
taking him home from. “Had a splendid time,”
he recounted joyously, “ one dance, three fights
and five suppers.”
Victoria Salonites, following in the footsteps of
their Melb. sisters of the Austral Salon, are, for
the second year just dawning with reasonable
rosiness on the institution, to be admitted to after-
noon crushes solely per official ticket. “ Please
present this card at the door is an epidemic
phrase now. Members are to have another half-
guinea sprung on them, the entrance-fee (now due,
as the circular grimly remarks) being raised
50 per cent, on last year’s. The Club and
Salon combined is on the look-out for a new home,
as the trams outside in Phillip-street drown not
only the music, but the chatter.
The programme of Madame Henry’s last monthly
meeting was made up of an amusing comedy (in
French) and several songs and recitations. A
promising pupil of Madame s repeated, by re-
quest,” the scene from “Ruy Bias” which con-
tained the address to the Virgin. This item, an
enthusiastic scribe reported in a glorious anti-
climax : “ Her invocation to the Virgin was given
with much feeling, and the costume worn was
wonderfully rich and beautiful.
There are two Richmonds in the field just now
to aid the poor governess who is becoming a much-
boomed person. One is the new Teachers’ Registry,
to be opened soon by the Teachers’ Association. It
is not a charitable institution, but will be run on
business lines as a glorified registry-office, and any
little surplus left over after working exes, will be
set aside as a nest-egg for a superannuated
teachers’ home. The Australian Governesses
Association is also started, and at a meeting held
recently, chaired by Mr. Larke, agent for the
Canadian Govt., the aims and objects of the
society were set forth in a paper by its president,
Miss Nisbet. So far as a bewildered outsider may
judge, the two movements are travelling like two
cable-trams on the same set of rails. But in prac-
tice they ignore each other. Competition may
make business lively, but co-operation would work
better in the long run.
The melancholy duties of the Buxton suite in-
clude carrying about an air-cushion for Lady Vic.
B. It must lessen an aide’s dignity in the eyes of
the surrounding audiences when he trots meekly
in the vice-regal rear into concerts and such with
an inflated rubber bag under his arm. He can’t
be haughty under such circumstances, and nobody
has any use for a suite unless lie’s “ hawty.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ The handsomest of the Melb. Wesleyan nuns
is just married. The old hard-shell Methodys rub
their hands in glee, with ‘Told you so ! ’ for they
hate the Wesleyan nunhood like poison, with
many gro-a-ns, as a step towards the Scarlet Lady.
Pastor Edgar puts the best face he can on the
matter, and gives the cream of his nuns a graceful
send-off. ' She is tall, handsome, rather aquiline,
and a first-class business-woman, a combination
which bursts the chrysalis of the Wesleyan Con-
vent. Of course, none of the others would do it
on any account.
“ A Sydney girl, visiting Melbourne for the first
time, declares herself to be shocked at theEard-
ness of the lot of the Melbourne girls. ‘ Things
aren’t half so bad with girls in Sydney,’ she
asserts. ‘ In our city there are two or three tea-
rooms with lady waitresses, but in Melb. you are
waited on by expensively-educated girls in almost
every cafe you enter. All the girls here seem to
be earning their own livings, or as much of them
as they can ; and the dressmakers—most of them
ladies, by the way—must have a poor time, as
nearly every girl I met makes her own dresses.
One smart modiste confessed to me that most of
her expensive orders came from Sydney women.,
“Gushing society scribes describe last weeks
fair at 4 Como ’ as * a dream of fair women !
Which means that plenty of pretty faces and fresh
spring frocks were banded together on beha f of
trie good cause (the Bishop of Melbourne s Fund)
Vendors, as a rule, affected white muslin frocks
with lace and insertion galore, and aprons and
hats matching in color the decorations of the
wearer’s special stall.
“The ‘Queen’s Jubilee’ booth, where you
could buy 4 ISJO ’ bonnets, pictures of V.K. at all
ages, portraits of the Brassey family and similar
thrilling emblems, was draped m white and mauve.
The latter color is, presumably, the latter-day
version of 4 Royal purple.’ Mrs. 1' reeman Ibonu,
looking taller than usual, engineered this impe-
rialistic tent, ‘and her cohorts were gleaming in
purple and gold ’—that is to say, she and some
of her assistants appropriately enriched their
lavender and white with boleros of gold passe-
menterie. Many of the hats were tipped rakishly
askew, notary a white canvas-covered gem in the
refreshment-tent, which invested its ruddy-faced
wearer with the nautical air of a she-commodore.
But, so far as looks went, everyone and every-
thing rose to the occasion in the evening, when
electric-light and fairy-lamps lit up the beauties
of the scene, and, more merciful than the sunshine,
shed no unwelcome glare on dust and troduen
grass, crumbs and spilt tea, or the occasional
freckles or recognisable pearl-cream of attendant
bou r ' s * . , . u j
44 An Australian 4 Blue Book ’ is to be published
wherein it is proposed to keep a carefully-compi ec
record of Victorian society. Upon payment of
one guinea per annum one may rejoice m seeing
one’s name sacredly inscribed among the social
archives of this very select community, it the
book ever makes its appearance it will be amusing
to note, from year to year, how those who to day
are among the 4 very nicest, to-morrow will be
dodging fraud-summonses, or selling weird soap
and unyielding pen-nibs at suburban front-doors.
Melb. society holds the biscuit against any m ttie
world in the matter of lightning changes so no
record, however carefully compiled, could hold
good for more than a month or two at a time. In
proof of which-a petite Melb. woman, very fresh
in the smart ranks, of whom it requires no effort
of memory to recall visions of her pushing beer-
pots over 4 lUw’s ’ bar, now absolutely refuses to
receive any one in any way connected with horrid
trade.’ 4 Society ’ is at present engaged in grovel-
ling at her small feet because she whoops up pleas-
ant entertainments on the slightest provocation,
whereat champagne is turned on with a hose, as it
were.
“At the Bijou, last Saturday night, those
enterprising Sisley sisters showed what they could
do turn and turn about _ with a long-winded,
painstaking orchestra. Miss Barbara, as Juliet,
was winsome and pretty, but her Hubert was a
small, unconvincing, namby-pamby villain, with
his comic facial make-up, and slim girlish feet and
ankles in black stockings, and ladylike evening
shoes, showing below his brief brown ulster.
Sister Olive, as Juliet’s nurse, had also simu-
lated a funny, sharp, little nose, by some mis-
guided make-up device, and was so daubed under
the chin to suggest wrinkles that an outsider
would have thought the cats had been at her.
Burglar Bill, as represented by one of the girls,
had put too much black under his chm. too, to
give him an unshaven look, probably. He was a
butter-fingers, this ruffian, and spoiled lots of
matches in foiled attempts to strike them on his
pants, but his chief fault was his resemblance to
‘Ran, Ran the dirty old man, who washed his
face in a frying-pan.’ Nevertheless, the Sisley
girls are promising elocutionists with youth, looks,
and courage in their favor.
“Boor Shepherd Punvis is quite out of conceit
witli his charges (the Frazer Island blacks) since
their drunk - and - disorderly reception of the
shocked Brasseys, and the flight of the latter back
to the Sunbeam. Had things gone smoothly, and
the distinguished guests, on coming ashore, been
welcomed by smiling darkies, neat as new pins
and good as gold, the guide, philosopher and
friend of the dusky saints would probably by now
be the proud possessor of a presentation copy of
4 Our Voyage in the Sunbeam,’ with watergraph
inscription by the authoress’s husband Gov.
Brassey’s unfailing reward of virtue.
“Miss Ethel Castilla, who read a paper on
4 Browning’s Message ’ the night H.E. visited the
Salon, was subsequently honored in this way.
And if you or I had the luck to-morrow to rescue
Baby Brassey from drowning, or to avert a col-
lision between the Sunbeam and some huge mail-
boat, by waving a scarlet underskirt in token of
danger ahead, we, too, might confidently count on
similar valuable additions to our libraries.
“ Small wonder that Lady Brassey and her nieces
took to the boats at the first glimpse of the groggy
darkies aforesaid. In some Bananaland towns,
hot so very long ago, the sleeper generally started
from his beauty-nap on Saturday nights to hear
through the tfiin wooden walls the street carry-
ings-on of the local tribe staggering home to camp.
As often as not a crashing blow, soundiwj heavy
enough to fell an ox, would testify that Spider was
quelling his gin with a waddy. Oil Monday, how-
ever, when Judy came to scrub the verandah, she
would look much as usual, except for a huge gash
on her head only half-covered by her red turban
handkerchief.
“ A Southern Governor and his womankind are
either incredibly don’t-careish and indifferent to
matters of domestic detail, or else they are
double-dyed, rampant economists. At a recent
4 little dinner,’at Govt. House, the meat course
included only a skinny pair of fowls at one end
and a heaped dish of mutton-chops at the other.
Most of the non-resident guests had breakfasted
that morning on chops in their own suburban
villas, and the majority, in view of the present
costliness of joints, had doubtless lunched on cut-
lets also. Nevertheless, they finished up the day
by dining on mutton, arguing inwardly that the
host, with his numerous and distinguished house-
party (most of them titled), had the best right to
the poultry. ‘Noblesse oblige’ cuts both ways,
you see.
44 If the newspaper account of manslaughtered
and flogged W.A. blacks is reliable, then Legree,
the slave-torturer in ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin,’ com-
pared to some of our own compatriots, was a soft-
hearted sentimentalist. Old-school Westralians,
however, have the stupendous assurance to al-
lege that they always hit it well in past
days with the local natives, who were in-
offensive creatures and not so very lazy.
Nigger-whacking, ironing and shooting (say the
six families) entered the province along with
t’otherside gold-seekers. Old \V. A. residents look
back 45 years to times when as many as 300
friendly natives would camp at the foot of a
settler’s garden. After tea the ladies and children
would stroll down to the encampment to plaster a
half-roasted piccaninny or dose a coughing gin
with honey and vinegar, and from all the un-
trained savagas gathered at the fires the visitors
never received so much as a saucy look. In those
days would-be colonists had not yet realised that
Westralia was not pastoral or agricultural but
mineral. Families ariving from the old country
would travel 80 or 100 slow miles from Perth in
bullock-drays to settle down on freehold land
which only fed one sheep to several acres and
ended by breaking the purchaser’s heart.
Girls just released from British boarding schools
soon get accustomed to the sight of natives of both
sexes hanging about the kitchen ‘mid nodings on
but a coat of grease, a dingo’s tail round the head
and not always an opossum waist-fringe. A
newly arrived settler, a cheerful Irish gentleman
with a string of half-grown daughters, fresh from
the pruderies of spinster governesses and maiden
aunts, tried to bowdlerise matters for the inno-
cents by remarking in a casual, accidental sort of
way in their hearing that “of course, black men
and white were birds of totally different feather 1
His hearers, so far as he knew, swallowed his state-
ment with childlike credulity, but nowadays they
tell their descendants that, seeing for themselves
how strong was the family-likeness between
daughters of Mother Eve, whatever their color,
they began to ponder, for the first time, whether
what was true of the goose might not apply
equally well to the gander.
“ Women doctors love as much as the female
laity to ‘ haste to the wedding.’ Dr. Alfreds
Hilda Gamble, M.B , 13.5., has contracted to wed
a Collins-st-reet doctor with a Scots name that :s
found on the bottles of a popular brand of whisky.
“ Prof. Marshall-Hall has struck a sylvan retreat
in hilly Heidelberg, where he has his residence,
and now seeks further inspiration from the Muse
and balm for his wounded feelings. But that u
another story.
“ A recent meeting of the Queen Victoria Hos
pital committee suggests that women, when put to
ft, are as capable as men of conducting business m
a decent Pickwickian manner. In the heat of de-
bate the committee-women freely called each other
anything they could think of, and, when the meet-
ing was over, kissed good-bye to each other in the
old-fashioned way, as though nothing had hap-
pened. Nothing had , for that matter.
Yours affectionately,
CLDO
.Doubled names in new Yic. Assembly
Anderson, Harris, Isaacs, Mason, Smith, Tucker,
Turner, Williams. The “ Macs ” number nine.
Adams-s centrally-situated 44 Tattersall s
Hotel ” has just been thoroughly renovated, and
splendid ventilation secured by electric fans, uhe
iu?w private entrance-hall gives more convenient
access to one of the best hotels in Sydney.
Indian-expert Col. Home’s report on the
prospects of irrigation in N.S.W. is a gloomy
document. You can’t irrigate from nearly all
rivers W. of dividing range—flow too irregular.
Even the Murray and Murrumbidgee are not
dependable for canal-supply without storage, lhe
most promising irrigation canals are ** ' from the
left bank of the Murrumbidgee bek>v Yanko
Creek, and one from the right bank of the Murray
at Bungowannah, seven miles from Albury. Ihe
Murrumbidgee canal should be tried first-
The other night Mr. “Bob” beften, of
N.Q. mining celebrity, was walking through Hyde
Park Sydney, when a man asked him for a
match.” Sefton handed him a match—and was
instantly grabbed from behind and thrown:
-whereupon a second man stripped him of a dia-
mond ring and some notes and made off. but
Sefton, though he has but one effective arm
hun«- on to the ruffian who was sitting upon him,
with such effect that the criminal is now m a
critical condition in the gaol hospital.
Mrs. Emily Meredith Brown, described as
“ the wife of a respectable colonist,” was a pas-
senger by the Prinz-Regent Luitpold to Melbourne
the other day. She pleaded guilty to attempted
smuggling, and the Port Melb. bench fined her
Then the respectable Mrs. Brown pleaded
quilt y to stealing from a fellow- passenger a diamond
ring which she also tried to smuggle , and was _
lined five pounds. The Bulletin hopes that this
par. will meet the eye of the poor devil to whom
N.S.W. Judge Gibson recently gave three years
for stealing a ninepenny tin of baking-powder.
Why wasn’t he “respectable,” the scoundrel l By
the way, this paper again asks some member of
N.S.W. Assembly to get the Minister of Justice
to obtain from Judge Gib-on a statement of the
grounds of this cruel sentence.. What has been
done about the ninepenny baking-powder man.
Is he to serve his sentence, ar.d is Minister Gnouia
prepared to justify the sentence?
Interesting—and suggestive— this from
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, in view
of the since-cabled news that Mr. Langtry, hus-
band of the “Jersey Lily,” has died m a lunatic
asylum ;
Much persuasion and influence are being brought to bear
on T Langtry, the former Belfast millowner, to divorce
his nominal Wife, the “ Jersey Lily,” her American divorce
of him being weightless in English law. This proceeding
would not attract much attention were it not that the
intentionisto make 12 of the highest personages inDebrett
fellow-co-respondents and, to the surprise of many, a former
political leader who recently surrendered his responsibili-
ties is included amongst “ those about to die. W hether it
is a huge blackmailing syndicate that is engineering the
scheme, and whether the miller would consent to cast ofl
his flower in legal fashion time may disclose; hut the
newspaper world is trembling with apprehensive joy at
the possibility of such a glorious cause cflfebre being
paraded in print. Prince Esterhazy, the descendant
whose family is quoted in the “ Ingoldshy Legends, is
demi-semi-q'uavering in his hessians. Seen at a recent
Alexandra Park race-meeting, lhe J.L. looked I"°™
like a waterlilv that the sun had smitten hard and the
water discolored and limpened (continues our cor-
respondent). To male eyes she wore a sack Uke
summer pattern-dress gathered up by a white enamelled
belt, a sti lish hat with flamingo-hued feathers a white
gingham’, and brown hair shot with natural gold and re-
lieved of commonplace darkness. Her skin was sallow if
anv color; the large eyes, heavy with weary, leaded cor-
ners above the high cheek bones failed to relieve the hard-
drawn face, though a smile flashing her perfect teeth
worked wonders. That day at least she looked every ex-
hausted moment of her 43 years, though, as her wont, on
the succeeding day she may have looked 2o but I didn t
Since then it is cabled that Mrs. Langtry’s Aus-
tralian-bred (Mr. W. A. Long) horse Merman has
won the Ciesareivith Stakes and enriched the
Jersey Lily by £40,000.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera,
Catalogues Free. .
HH
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
375 Oeorge Street, SYDNEY;
- ( ‘>o Col ..ins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE,
W, BALCHtN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
In making such a unanimous pother about
Tom Finney, M.P., and his dog-bite, it was not
the politician whom the Brisbane (Q.) press para-
graphed, but the hunky advertiser.
Laurence (known as “ Larry ”) Benjamin,
ex-clothier, is perhaps the wealthiest individual
Melbourne city property-owner, now that mil-
lionaire Payne has handed in his last cheque.
The recent death, in England, of George
Ashwin Cheeke, associate of N.S.W. Justice
Cheeke, of the early days, removes the third son-
in-law of old “ Bill ” Long. Martin and Dallev
died in Sydney.
HAPPY HARRY.
“I am saved and happy. My heart has been filler
with JOY. Give up your evil ways and be
happy with me. Hallelujah, hallelujah.”
Excellency Lambing seems to have caught,
on behalf of Brisbane (Q.), the Sydney scare about
the destruction of wild flowers. He says that
ferny, flowery, sylvan bowers should be preserved.
Whereat people chuckle consumedly.
Chief-Justice Way, rich and a bachelor,
paid all the expenses of his recent visit to England
to be sworn in as a Privy-Councillor, and he also
forfeited half of his official salary, which was paid
to the barrister temporarily appointed to the
Bench.
It is claimed that an ancestor of Father de
Boijmenu, now on his way to the New Guinea
mission-field, was present with Joan of Arc at
the coronation of Charles VII., 600 years ago.
This looks, from a Potts Point view, a sheer waste
of ancestry.
The claims of Barristers Harris and Wade
for the. N.S. Wales District Court judgeship
to fall in on the retirement of veteran Judge
Forbes are pressed by friends with such an equ d
cogency that it is now considered that some silent,
standing-by dog will get the bone.
X.Z. : “Quaint reminder of old Baron
Von Mueller’s simplicity in Maiden’s ‘ Useful
Native Plants of Australia. ‘ Boronia mec/as-
tigma : Baron Von Mueller suggests that this plant
- be cultivated for grave-decoration, on account of
the external blackish flowers.’ ”
Thomas MTI wraith began his Australian
career between 40 and 50 years ago with an em-
broilment in one of the biggest law actions of that
day, and some of his Q. friends prophesy that he
will close his career in equally signal fashion. On
the first occasion he won all along the line.
Judge Boucaut (S.A.) will be 66 Oct. 29 ;
and N.S. W. Sergeant-at-Arms Larry Harnett
has a birthday on Oct. 31. Opposition-leader
Lewis (Tas.) and Federal-delegate Venn (W.A.)
both celebrate their birthdays Oct. 27. The
latter is 53 and the former somewhat younger.
“Paddy” Hannan, discoverer of gold at
the Boulder, Westralia, is to be awarded two town
lots, to be selected by the Warden. No money—
the Govt, apparently hasn’t had enough to pay its
bills on call lately ; but it has hundreds of thous-
ands of miles of country, for which there has not
been quite the same demand recently.
John Chipp Hamp, who defended Nixon
at Adelaide the other day, and has during the last
few years been in most of the big criminal cases in
N.A., is little over 30 ;heis a S.A. native, from
Port Lincoln way, and has political tendencies.
Nixon’s work-mates at the Islington loco, sheds
found most of the money for his defence.
Self-advertisers profusely circulate an ap-
peal for subscriptions to the tomb of Baron von
Mueller, in the obscure little St. Kilda cemetery,
visited by about one person in the week. “To
keep alive his memory. ” Pooh ! Nothing can
kill Baron von Mueller —not even the superincum-
bency of 20 tons of granite, but the finest monu-
ment in Melb. cemetery fails to keep Bart. Clarke
alive.
N.S.W. Justice Minister Gould’s com-
placent assertion that no good could have resulted
from a scientific examination of murderer Butler’s
brain has now to be compared with the anxiety
of Professor Lombroso to make the aforesaid
examination. But, then, Lombroso is only the
greatest living criminologist, and Gould is—
Ghould !
Jersey was the only N.S.W. Governor who
trusted himself to speak extempore. Hampden
appears now and then to do so, but it is said to be
because he forgets what he committed to memory.
Carrington used to carry his MS. in his pocket
and, when stuck, unblushingly pulled it out even
though he had begun, “ I did not intend to deliver
an address on this occasion.”
King George 11., of Tonga, whose 6ft.-
high wedding cake ex-Premier Dibbs joked about
when shown at the islands, is said, in latest
reports, to kick against marriage altogether. His
advisers dangle a pair of beauties before him, but
his own tastes wend otherwheres, and between all
he sits down and sulks. When a student at
Newington College, Enmore, he was notably
bashful.
Bennett, one of the Q. strike prisoners,
who has been putting in a year or two at the
White Cliffs opal-mines, leaves in a month for
Lane’s Paraguayan colony, Cosme. With him
goes Mooney, a prominent figure in the last
shearers’ strikes. Bennett, who has late letters
from Lane, discredits the statement that the latter
is acting as general immigration agent for the
Paraguayan Govt.
Charles Harpur, the pecuniary distresses
of whose aged sister turn the mind back to the
early days of Australian verse-building, was urged
by Robert Lowe about 50 years ago to pack up
his literary accomplishments and share his (Lowe’s)
luck in England. Lowe’s liking for Harpur’s
verse was not a passing weakness; all through
his life he insisted on placing the Hawkesbury
native among the immortals.
“ Sas ” Williams, the rising Melb. artist,
was a leading spirit in a recent controversy among
the Vic. National Gallery students as to whether
wood-carving should have a place in the annual
exhibition. “Sas” favored the innovation, but
George Pontin, the seascapist, was dead against
the carvers, and wound up with “ What are these
carvers? Mere hewers of wood!” “ And what
are you,” asked “Sas,” “ but a drawer of water! ’’
Graham Berry fought strenuously on the
popular side at the first Vic. Parliamentary elec-
tion under manhood suffrage, 13th Oct., 1859. He
was then a. young man of 37, and was, because of
his oratorical powers, elected to the Assembly in
the following year. Thirty-eight years after, prac-
tically on the anniversary of the success of man-
hood suffrage, he is rejected at the age of 75. The
’ld man probably has not a shilling to bless him-
self with.
Henry Lawson writes that he is leaving
his little Maori hamlet for Wellington in a few
weeks. Both he and Mrs. Lawson find Manga-
maunu too unutterably lonely : there is neither
butcher nor baker, and white faces are seen about
cnee a month. So it’s knock out your pipes and
follow him to the capital, and maybe—-who
knows?—to London by-and-by. But the school
has made copy, at all events —probably a bookfui
of copy, so quaint and queer are Maori children.
HE WAS NO GLUTTON.
CELTIC LASS ( to tramp, who sticks her up for
tucker): “ Wed, an’whar did ye come frae ?”
TRAMP (Dutchman): “ I valk mit myself alt de vay
from Brisbane—three hundred miles.”
0. R : “An’ could ye no get ony work, wi’oot
cadgin' yer victuals? ”
T.: “ York be plowed; it take me all my time to
look for tucker, mitout lookin’ for vork!”
When hangman Hutton went to Rock-
hampton in ’6B to “ tui'n otf ” Griffin, police-magis-
trate and murderer, he lodged in a pub. where
many practical jokes were played on him by
the landlord, or at his instigation. On leav-
ing, Hutton’s last words to his host were : “ Look
here, this is the first time I have been in Rock-
hampton, and next time I come here it will be to
hang you and he kept his word. The landlord
was butchered by Hutton in Rockhampton a few
years afterwards.
Duncan Gillies comes back into Yic. Par
liament looking young enough to be a persistent
office-hunter for another 20 years. Yet he has
already been an office-holder and office-hunter for
30 years. He was a Minister first in ’6B, so he
started before Berry or Longmore, and almost at
the same time as Higinbotham. Duncan was a
placid barnacle in seven Ministries, and for 13
weary years the country kept him supplied with
Ministerial screw —to say nothing of three years
more screw as Agent-General. And Duncan has
returned as rotund, and as oily, and as hungry
after Ministerial screw as ever.
A brilliant, but alcoholic, reporter got into
the Press gallery at Brisbane (Q.) Parliament
House, the other night, when the Sessional Sot
was on his legs strewing the Chamber with hic-
cough. Hie answered hie electrically • and as the
aberrant orator stumbled with his tongue, the
rep. would interject—" Good, ole man ! Hie,
givitum, hie, ’gen ! Shlopiton ! Hie! Gooronyou,
olebuck ! ” The authorities sent a keeper and
carried off “ the stranger ” into a room apart,
where he was let sober up. There is real hope for
Brisbane newspapers now that they entertain
neuromaniacs even temporarily on their staff.
In the early days, the just-deceased Vic.
millionaire, T. B. Payne, was stuck-up and robbed
of over £2O. He is said to have thereafter made
it a rule never to carry more than £1 about with
him. The schedule filed for probate, whilst show-
ing a grand total of assets, £1,068,650, gives the
amount of "money in house” as 17s. 9d. It is
estimated that had T.B.P. died nine years ago,
his estate would have had to pay probate on
£2,000,000 “ boom ” values. Eight hospitals and
other charities will cut up £60,000 among them
under the will. The writer happens to know that
of late years, Mr. Payne rarely spent less than
£5OOO a year in subscription-charity, and yet his
name hardly ever appeared in lists.
Mr. Frank L. Gardiner (well-remembered
in Australia as the husband of the gallery idol,
Miss Carrie Swain) is reported as about to visit
N.S.W. in connection with the trouble at the
Wentworth mine, in which he is one of the biggest
shareholders. The pallid Gardiner, with the
raven hair and the stony black eyes of Sitting
Bull, has had astounding luck in London, where
he is one of the best known and most important
magnates of the mining market. His chief suc-
cesses have been in Westralian scrip—he it was
who took Zeb. Lane from Brookman and handed
him over to the Barnatos, to the great gilding of
the latter. P.L.G. runs a magnificent flat in
Paris, and drives the best team of horses seen in
the Champs Elysees.
It has, so far, not been printed that Butler,
just before he was hanged, confessed that he
kicked up that hideous racket in and on the way
to court, in order that he might gain time to learn
by heart the “ statement ” which had been pre-
pared for him to deliver to the jury. A prisoner
is not allowed to read his statement, but is sup-
posed to deliver it extempore; and, as the yarn
made up for Butler reached him too late to be
learned by rote in the time at his disposal, he
shammed an epileptic fit in order to get the neces-
sary leisure to commit it to memory. After froth-
ing, yelling, kicking, and biting all and sundry,
he was locked up in his cell with his “statement,”
which he calmly settled down to study, and was
letter-perfect in it when the court resumed sitting.
J. S. Reid, who has just successfully pro-
moted the £350,000 co. to take over the Emu
Bay-Mt. Bischoff line and run it down to
Mt. Lyell, is one of the pluckiest and
brainiest of the “ Broken Hill
crowd.” It took a good deal of
push to get into that crowd, in
the first place. When Silverton
“broke out” Reid, who had
come down from N. Queens-
land (where he and his
brother ran the Hodg kin-
son Minek), was making
bread and an occasional bit
of cheese out of a little
newspaper at Wilcannia.
After a lot of trouble, he
got tlie plant across to Sil-
verton, later on “ bar-
racked ” consistently for
Broken Hill, and bought
share by share with his
savings and makings, until
he was able to sell out of
the little paper and “ ope-
rate.” He dropped a tidy
slice of his wealth in the
attempt to make the Euri-
owie tin-field pay, but
he has made a fair
recovery by several
shrewd schemes. Just
after Reid settled at
Silverton another re-
putedly canny Scots-
man, Alexander Riddel,
settled at Broken Hill and
set up a printing press there.
Other things being equal, the
second canny Scotsman ought
to have had the best of it. Some-
how, though, things slipped through his fingers;
and of late, after much buffeting, he has been
editing Charters Towers Eagle, and saying nasty
things about the men into whose circle he tried
hard to get.
Dr. Nicholson, three times Speaker of
N.S.W. Leg. Council before Responsible Govern-
ment, will be 89 years old next month, and is thus
the oldest living representative of early Australian
politics. He was returned member for Port
Phillip at the first Parliamentary election held in
Australia, in July, 1843 ; was made a baronet in
1859 ; and is several sorts of University magnate.
A STAGE-VETERAN; “JIMMY HASKER”
Colonel Home, who left Sydney the other day,
is an ideal ci vilser vant of the old school. He handed
his report on irrigation to the Minister for Agri-
culture, satisfied himself that the last instalment
of his salary had been deposited to his credit, and
shaking hands with those immediately about him,
prepared his traps for England. M’s.P. again
and again tried to tap him in the course of his
official survey, even Ministers “ bit his ear ” for a
trifle of information in advance, but in vain. “I
engaged to have my report—[for which N.S.W.
gave him =£2ooo] —ready in 12 months. It will be
ready then,” was his invariable reply. And it
was ready to the day and hour. When the
Colonel arrived, Queensland and other provinces
had it in contemplation to engage him when his
term in N.S.W. was up, but his exclusive reti-
cence discouraged overtures.
Chief Justice Griffith (Q.) knows a lot about
Law and Federation, and Constitutional Govern-
ment, and the Beautiful Art of Feathering One’s
Own Nest. He is also an authority on Mixed
Metaphors—or else he doesn’t know the difference
between Noah’s Ark and the Ark of the Covenant.
Which is strange for Samuel. In his State-paper
on the Draft Federal Constitution, lately presented
to Q. Parliament, he solemnly refers to “a fear
that the sacred ark of Responsible Government
may not find a secure anchorage in the unknown
sea of a Federal Constitution, and a desire to
establish an artificial shelter for it.” Noah’s fake-
ment, whatever else it was, wasn’t sacred ; and the
other thing wasn’t a boat and didn’t anchor in
any sea. Samuel should go to Sunday-school.
As he stands, he is a disgrace to his reverend pa.
A well-known Australian, who lately sui-
cided, had a wonderful nerve. On one occasion,
after a drinking-bout with a friend, Billy (that
name will do) suddenly suggested suicide, and his
companion agreed. The proposer took a pack of
cards and shufSed them. “ The first man to draw
the ace of hearts shoots the other,” said he ; and
the task of shooting fell to the other. “ Come to
my office,” said Billy ; “ I’ve a gun there. You’ll
first shoot me and then yourself.” With mingled
feelings, the other followed. Billy loaded a Mar-
tini, handed it to his companion, and stood
against the wall, but the other vanished with all
speed, Billy caught him, gave him a hiding, and
condemned him for a coward. “By God ! ”
said Billy, “if that ace had fallen to me I’d have
shot you dead!” And no one who knew him
doubted it.
The supreme failure at the Vic. Elections
was one Christie, who stood for Dandenong, and
polled 69 votes out of a total of 2110, divided
among four candidates. Christie is a haw!
nephew to the chief partner in the firm of Christie
and Manson (London), the autocrats of “ high-
art ” auctioning, The family, in dear old Eng-
land, will have a pocket-borough ready shortly for
the dear boy, so he said, but in the meantime he
desired to get some political practice in a
“colonial” parliament. Christie never doubted
that he would finish on top at Dandenong.
He secured the services of a large pressman who
manages the dog-fight department for a local
sporting sheet, and instructed that potentate to
secure his return. Also, the charming Mrs. Christie
undertook to canvas the electorate on Primrose
League principles, and the combined efforts of
Christie, the lady, the massive sporting editor,
and the long beers, brought 69 grinning voters
up to the scratch.


A
iVOASBys
Thb Only Reliable Remedy
fob
INDIGESTION,
Liver and Kidney Complaints.
NUMEROUS CURES
in Sydney and in the Country have been strictly in-
vestigated by the Press and proved genuine.
Price 2 6, from al) Chemists and Storekeepers, or
Post Free from
Loasby’s "Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
“ TWO GOOD THINGS *»
. ' Made in England. .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire SailCC
Holbrook’s Pure En^ lish Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
For Souds Pish, Chops, Steaks, etc., HOLBROOK’S SAUCE is the most DELICIOUS, the
CHEAPEST, and has the LARGEST SALE of any Sauce in the World. HOLBROOK’S
PICKLES are selected ENGLISH Vegetables, prepared in PURE MALT Vinegar, and can be had
in Onions Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow from all first-class firocers.
Agent for New South Wales
Agents for Victoria:
Mr. James C. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Messrs. Wm. Peterson & Co., Melbourne.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from, the use of the new Vegetable Anti-Fat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLINE
REGISTERED.
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
It is the only safe cure for CORPULENCY. It also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
according to directions. Males and females have lost from 15 to 20 pounds a month, and kept in splendid health.
Stout people who pant and grow red in the face when walking up stairs, up inclines, or attempt to run, get rapid relief.
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a course of this remedy.
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing the fatty tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy and light.
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entiiely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
can be obtained from all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, 35., 55., and 125.,
in tablet orliquid form. The largest bottles or boxes are equal to six of the small size.
Art and Other Matters.
Sydney Society of Artists prints its “ prologue ”
in the middle of its exhibition catalogue, but the
English is just as bad and bombastic as if the
“prologue” were at the beginning. And this
opinion admits of no artistic disputation ; for, ac-
cording to local studios, only a literary person is a
judge of letters.
* * * •
The black-and-white section is the best in the
exhibition. There, one feek the artists are on
something like a level with their work ; elsewhere,
they are below it. The artistic possibilities of
color are greater than those of black-and-white;
but much is required when much is given. Aus-
tralian Premiers, who would have dazzled an
eighteenpenny restaurant, looked mean, they say,
at the Hotel Cecil.
For the decorative illustration of books, no
better drawings have been made in Australia than
those which G. W. Lambert contributes to the
adornment of J. M. Whitfield’s fairy-tales. Con-
sidering their apt originality of conception
and delicate dexterity of treatment, for “ no
better drawings ” one might substitute “ no draw-
ings so good.” /
Of especially noticeable merit, also, are the
heads by J. S. Watkins and Joe Wolinski; and
tihe “ Portrait of a Lady ” and “ Darling Harbor ”
by Geo. W. Hirst (the latter are not mentioned in
the imperfe»A index-list of exhibitors and pictures).
But the moi’t tone chosen to show Darling Har-
bor should always be purple ; the play of evening
purples round the Pyrmont bridge is one of the
most constant color-effects you can mention.
• * * *
Criticism of the oils may begin with the obvious
objection that Mahony’s “To the Bitter End ”
isn’t “To the Bitter End.” He shows two cen-
taurs grappling on the edge of a cliff which leaps
to a sheer abyss. Up the perspective three
females, cleverly grouped, watch the contest.
(Presumably a female centaur is also more or less
built on the traditional male model; and as the
ladies, so far as visible, are not so built, they may
be alien nymphs. But that is a detail.) The
coloring is attractive ; and the whole conception
strikes one as worthy of inspired development.
But the whole conception hinges on the fight—
the terror and ferocity of that fight should glare
insupportably out of the canvas and give you a
pain in your head just as a glaring light gives you
a pain in your eyes ; and there isn’t any fight
worth mentioning—consequently no horror, con-
sequently no effect, consequently no value for the
lovely .£l5O which the artist asks for his picture—
and which he has no doubt earned by his labor
and sweat, though he hasn’t earned it by the result
of his labor and sweat. It is only by study and
intellectual accumulation of evidence (such as the
title, and the edge of the precipice, and the
THE DROUGHT BROKEN.
SAMUEL SOAKER (who has been “ off the grog” for a few months, discussing the
pastoral outlook): “Say, mate, no mistake but drought has broken
up properly now !”
anxiety of the nymphs) that you can convince
yourself that the centaurs are meant to fight. At
first glance they remind one of Lawson’s verse
about Jack Ellis —
He took my hand in a distant way
(I thought how we parted last),
And we seemed like men who have nought to say
And who meet—“ Good-day,” and who part—“ Good-day,”
Who never have shared the past.
So it is hardly worth while to complain that the
face of the beaten centaur is hilariously grotesque
rather than agoniscdly tragic, or to insist on minor
faults of technique (easily forgotten in major
merits). Mahony has not merely missed the
bull’s-eye: he has missed his target altogether.
And when you do that in art there are no three
tosses : it’s sudden death—and fatal.
But it only looks inconsequent to vow and pro-
test that Mahony’s failure on the grand scale is
worth to Australian art precisely 8237 of the cheap
successes of complacent mediocrity with which
Julian Ashton year after year deluges our exhibi-
tions. Julian Ashton is a practising Sydney
artist of considerable experience and capacity and
influence ; and his name is an artistic stumbling-
block and scandal because he sits in judgment
on the work of other practising artists as a
member of the Board of Trustees of N.S.W. Art
Gallery—to which he has sold pictures. And,
with the talent to produce something good if he
tried, Julian Ashton seems at present to produce
little more than a monotonous succession of com-
monplace female figures—some well-painted, some
indifferently-painted, but all abundantly lacking
in artistic virtue or artistic stimulus. Of course, a
man does as he pleases, and an artist likewise; but
the man or the artist who makes public appeal in-
vites public judgment. Which is why anyone
with some sense of the artistic ideal can take
.pleasure in opposing Mahony’s picture to the
ruck of Ashton’s —high failure and low success.
* * * *
All thif time Sidney Long has been patiently
waiting. Now, there have been pictures by Sid-
ney Long which no amount of patent pepsin could
enable this critic to assimilate. They might have
been art; but they looked like arguments to prove
that a cockroach has an immortal soul with a bone
knob on the end like a Cape York woomera. Yet
apparently Sidney Long is developing and clarify-
ing : a melody comes out of his mist. “ The
Spirit of the Plains ” —a dim nymph leading
flock of quaint birds through a dreamy, sensuous
color-scheme —has the sweet seduction of Keats.
“ A Sea Idyll ” is another slow draught of poppy-
syrup, not made quite so strong; and there
is a pretty glimpse called “On the Road”
—only a glimpse, but a glimpse one loves
to linger over. Yet one comes back to “The
Spirit of the Plains ” —the land of the mild-eyed
melancholy lotos-eaters is full of just such visions.
Were art-critics as rich as they deserve to be,
Mr. Long would receive his cheque for 50gs. by
to-morrow morning’s post.
Alice Muskett’s pastels—there are a whole tribe
of them—seem particularly good this show. For
choice, take the wallflowers, where the dusky-
brilliant tints of the subject seem, to suit the
medium ; and “Spring,” where color slides gradu-
ally into beauty.
“ A Symphony in Grey and Green,” by J. S.
Watkins (most versatile of artists), looks as if it
ought to impress more than it does. The same
painter’s “ Naiad ” has subtler suggestions, yet
one somehow feels that the keynote in the har-
mony of color has not been struck. (Perhaps a
contrasting frame would help; this itch to have
everything uniform is perilously near to
plate-cleaning. Dull grey skies over dull grey
seas have a certain attraction, but it is a dead
kind of attraction,.wanting a flash of violet
lightning to vivify it.)
And one pauses a minute before Ethel Ste-
phens’ nicely-touched “ Day Dreams ; ” before
the brilliant water on the low land-edge of
Fred Leist’s “Solitude” (the sky is un-
satisfactory); before Marion Drewe’s “Un-
est,” to take away a “rather nice” impres-
sion; before J ulian
Ashton’s “Por-
trait ” (72), to won-
der what the lady
dyes her skin
with ; and before
the preposterous
Potteresque wrig-
gle of Florence
Schmidt’s arms in
Lambert’s por-
trait.
* •
Then to the
water-colors —-to
‘The Ceaseless
‘Battle ’tween Sea
and Rock” —what
an ugly title !
apparently the
best thing yet
finished by our
very promising
water - and •
weather painter,
R. Sidney Cocks.
“The Hail Storm”
is mostly wild and
whirly; “Thun-
derclouds” is
better, but of not
much value ; and
“ Rain at Sea ”
looks only like
another good exer-
cise. But that is
real water in
“’Tween Sea and
Rock ” —it dashes,
it foams, you can
see the spray leap-
ing. The sky is
flat: the artist
doesn’t seem to
put so much
pains or know-
ledge in his skies.
Mr. Cooks’s “ Sunset on Leura Cliffs ” is a striking
picture ; and one hopes the blue is right,
it j s unfortunate that Julian Ashton’s pretty
“ Five O’ClockTea ’’chiefly suggests that he might
do better. Frank M'Comas’s “ North Head ”
does one good without giving any obvious reason
why—which is complimentary to picture and
j r
painter.
* * * *
In the sculpture section, Allen Hutchinson
models some interesting Hawaiian types. A very
remarkable ability is shown in Geo. Hirst’s
models, “ Citizens of the Commonwealth ” such
skill deserves better subjects. And Theo. Cowan
very cleverly suggests Saint Cecilia evoking the
spirits of melody from the traditional keys. Per-
haps the farther arm does not seem to sprout from
quite the right place; but it is a very difficult
sprout indeed to rear in clay-relief. Noticeable
vigor is shown in the execution of the group of
“The Taking of Samson,” by Geo. Tinworth ; but
one’s general attitude is “ Blow Samson ! ” as an
artistic subject, unless a strong conception univer-
salises him.
* « * »
One stops for a moment with Sid. Long’s fire-
screen panels in the applied art section ; and for
another with George Bray’s clever leather-work.
Souter’s posters are the only ones which show a
touch of poster-genius ; and they show more than
a touch. The whole exhibition is uncommonly
suggestive and interesting; it has some elements
of originality—gets farther away from the rut
than the Art Society’s exhibition did ; and though
that exhibition contained more artistic achieve-
ment it contained less promise of artistic achieve-
ments. While ruts are an abomination.
Rev. Dr. David Bruce (D.D. of St. An-
drews) is signalising his moderatorship of the
Presbyterian church of N.S.W. by a “ progress ”
amongst the churches of his connection. Rev.
David had a similar billet in Maoriland 20 years
ago, and so magnified his office that lie was ill-
naturedly nick-named “ the bishop ” (next to call-
ing him “The Scarlet Women,” the very hardest
thing that a real black Presbyterian can say of
“ the meenister ”is to call him a bishop). Then
he laid away his geneva gown in lavender and
drifted into journalism. He became a shareholder
in a weird print called the Auckland Observer,
then largely composed of such inspiring mental
pabulum as “ What were T.D. and X.Y. doing in
the Choral Hall vestibule last Tuesday?” and “The
popular A.H. is leaving Rathay’s drapery-store.
How the girls will miss him ! ” An unregenerate
person named John Dickson Wickham ran an
opposition rag, and would roast the journalistic
parson by quoting a column or two of these
trivialities, following each line with a small-cap.
acknowledgment— “"Rev. David Bruce, in the
Observer.” Rev. David, however, got a good
hoist when his millionaire relative, Berry, of
Coolangatta, N.S.W., died. He developed into a
clerical dude of colossal and smileless sanctity,
and he is “moderating”—whatever that may
mean—the N.S.W. Presbyterians for all he is
worth.
Solomon Blay, the late Tas. hangman, was
enjoying his glass in the Square and Compass
Tavern, when a former flagellator came in. Times
had changed for him, and he was selling hot pies.
A man who had been talking to Blay recognised
the ex-flogger. “ S’elp mo !” he exclaimed, “ this
is wot they call providential. Why I’ve been
waitin’ for this here moment ever since that blank,
blank guv me five dozen, nigh on thirty years ago,”
and with that he wiped the floor with the pieman.
When it was over, said the latter, “ W’y didn’t
yer help a pal, Sol?” “Wot!” cried Solomon,
“ You a pal! Why you wos the common flogger ! ”
“That’s all right,” answered the other, wiping his
gory nose, “ but aint you the common ’angman?”
“Well,” said Blay, disgustedly, “the bloomin’
ignorance of yer ! Can’t yer see the difference ?
When you’d worked ’em off, they warnt much the
worse o’ the operation. They turns up, I believe,
in after years, and gives yer wot for ! But my
bloomin’ patients, they never gives no more
trouble arter I’ve done with .’em.” Blay took a
humorous view of his vocation. “The Chief Jus-
tice,” said he, “ is a sort o’ semi-colon in a sentence.
It’s me as puts a full stop to it.” He hanged
“Rocky Whelan,” the bushranger. “It give me
quite a appitite,” said he, “he was such a game
un ! ”
One of the landmarks of Melbourne was
Sergt. Flannery, the burly “Tip.” who suicided
the other day at Flinders-street railway station,
which had been 20 years under his special care.
Flannery’s eloquent “ Putt out thot poipe ! ” was
as well-known to Melbourne suburbanites as the
sta'tion itself, and as a testifier in the witness-box
he was the sole survivor of that band of which the
only Dalton was head. Despite his 58 years,
Flannery was a man of immense physical power,
as many a “kicker” found to his pain. One
evening he was helping a drunken French man-o’-
warsman into the Port Melbourne train, when
the bluejacket turned and, with the Gallic
“savate,” he landed his toe in Flannery’s
eye. The sarrjint abandoned moral suasion;
he collared the Frenchman and threw him on
to the platform—and then, merciful man that
he was, he gathered up the prostrate frog-eater
and toted him up to the hospital to be re-
suscitated by galvanism. The hospital was per-
haps as well-known to Flannery as the station,
for, as part of his duty, he had the grisly task of
conveying all victims of railway smashes to either
that institution or the morgue. Possibly his long
association with the smashed-up contributed to the
unhinging of his mind, but the proximate cause,
no d‘>ubt, was the land-citm-bank smash. In court
Flannery followed the Daltonian school in matter
as well as manner, and would frequently drop a
hint to the bench : “ He’s a poor miserable wretch
wid a wake brain, and not much av thot, and wid
not the pluck to shtale. Six months’ harrd wud
be a mercy to him.” Or, under other circs., “ He’s
one av the lowest blaggards in the city, your wor-
ships—two years would do him a power av good.”
With Flannery disappears the last of the broad-
broguedMelb. “ cops ” of the seventies and earlier
years, and to-day there is left a force which boasts
Constable Bartolo Mafferzoni as one of its brightest
lights.
SPECIALLY TAKEN.
My chum took a notion
He’d send o’er the ocean
A photo, depicting his seat on a horse
And as I had a Uxture
For taking a picture —
He demanded my service, of course.
We yarded the Rat,
He’d been “ spelling,” was fat —
Conditions which tend to enliven.
He was saddled with care,
I’d a space to prepare —
Was to take when the signal ivas given.
The signal was “Go /”
I thought he said so.
But, all things considered, it might
have been “ Whoa l ”
’Tivas something I heard,
As he flew like a bird —
And the picture depicted him so !
LOUIS M.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physioians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
FRANZ JOSEF .
PILSHNER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.
IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes are a revelation
to a lover of pure, mild and unadulterated tobacco.
BuSEQE
APT€R
months of waiting we have at last received some shipments of the famous DUNLOP Cycles,
consisting of Racing Models only, but we are promised consignments of Roadsters by an
early boat.
There is certainly no other cycle that has attained a world-wide reputation such as the
)unlop Cycle has secured in the few months it has been before the public.
The manufacturers of the Dunlop Cycles did not leave anything to chance when setting
out their plans. The ruling idea from the start was, “We must bujld the best bicycle ever
made.” To do that it was necessary to secure the most skilful designers, best machinery, able
mechanics, and reliable material. Having command of ample capital, there was no hitch in
these respects, and the result is that the public is constantly being astonished to hear of
more wonderful records made on
“PUN LOP” CYCLES
WITH DUNLOP TYRES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
393 Georgs Street,
SYDNEY;
139-141 Elizabeth
Stbket,
MELBOURNE;
Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE;
Hay Street,
PERTH ;
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE ;
Christchurch,
Dunedin,
Charters Towers,
WaRRNAMBOOL, &r;
32
4
hues in ONE HOUR
Had never been accomplished on any style of bicycle till J. W.
STOCKS, mounted on a “ DUNLOP ” CYCLE, accomplished
the stupendous feat of riding 32 miles 448 yards within the 60 min.,
on the Crystal Palace track, London, which
. . IS WORLD’S RECORD! . .
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Miaw: Scrap of Scripture arrived H.B.
(Boulder): Something cut in short lengths to hand
j.F.D. : Nicely drawn, but joke has no more point than a
globe E.D. (Mildura): You write to say Mildura isn’t
half what it is supposed to be. Great Caesar ! Is any
place half what it is supposed to be ? Mil: Too long;
very hard to read; we loathe formal letters from “ our
own correspondent” M.J.L. : The man who writes bad
poetry illegibly in thin red ink on blue paper, and rolls
his M.S., is lost M.B. (Bendigo): Can’t stand a poem
which begins “ A man footsore with clothes well wore.’
Expect his hat was also tore, though you don’t mention
it Backblocks : (1) The watch can only be handed over
to the owner A, or someone who produces a signed order
from him. (2) The balance goes to the owner A. The
watchmaker has no right to it whatever Old Native :
Probably the late King Billy will be quite as happy with-
out his statue in the land where the good aboriginals go.
Porous: Don’t care to tackle abstruse theology.
When you have split a hair exactly in eight, how
much better are you? Julia: Somehow they all taste
like cold soup. We can’t stand cold soup R.
Coyle : (1) A Constitution isn’t a “ code of unalterable
laws.” (2) Australia hasn’t “ got more political institu-
tions to the square inch than any place else on earth.”
Switzerland, with less population than Australia and not
the area of Tasmania, has a Federal Parliament and 22
provincial Legislatures. Europe, not much larger than
Australia, has about 60 recognised Governments and over
200 Legislative Houses. (3) Don't flounder about calling
the Commonwealth scheme a “fraud,” and spouting great
masses of water and adjectives. Anybody can speak dis-
respectfully of the Constitution, or the Equator, or the
Pyramids, or anything else. Just show where it is a
fraud if you know yourself S. R. Simmons: Com-
monplace subject; conventional style. W.J.L. : Too
leaden-footed for Bulletin A. E. Earls: “Clwydd,”
penny-a-yard jingle. “Divinity” better, but we are not
taking any glossary Max. Lane : Hopelessly long-
winded. Bushrangers off, in any case Will anyone
knowing present address of Miss Evelyn Boake (sister of
the late Barcroft Boake), who was formerly at Zeehan,
Tas., and left there with intention of going to Auckland,
kindly write The Bulletin? Nowahowa : Thanks
Louis S. : One or two look as if they were going some-
where, but none ever really goes. A poem which takes
you into unutterable infinity and loses you is as bad as a
man who takes you into a bar, and suddenly remembers
he hasn’t got sixpence. Pakeba : Much ado about O
N. : No religious paper continuously appears without a
sneaking little bit of profane faceti®, which revolts the
conscience of the ultra-orthodox. Occasionally the edi-
tor apologises, but does it again next time as certainly as
Stiggins returning to the tipple of the rum shrub. It is
the vulnerable heel of Achilles. The same morsel of pro-
fanity sticks out of the religious speech Starlight :On
reconsideration, “Too Late” is trashy Enid Roslyn :
Rather too thin for Bulletin. Motif stale E. 8.8. :
About as incapable as they make ’em Minos : Let’s see,
Minos was boss judge of the lower regions, wasn’t he ?
Yarn returned there H.A.C. : “ Skyron” lacks interest
for space F.D.D.L. : Can’t see any promise Melb. :
W. E. Murphy’s “ History of the Eight Hours’ Movement”
(Melb., ’96) devotes some pages to an account of the
death of James Stephens, founder of the move-
ment, on 14 Nov., ’B9 Ha then : Useless John
L. (Ch. Ch.) : Boil ’em down for several weeks
William L. (Carl.): Anyhow, you have sentno legend
0.0. : The Jews don’t really want to go to Palestine. The
recent Hebrew congress elicited, so far as The Bulletin
reads, that, a strong party of the Orthodox has no idea of
a material application of the Scriptural promises, but con-
siders that they only refer to the spiritual Jerusalem
j.B. (W.) : Pretty near mark, but interest not enough to
condone occasional flatness of verse. Should re-write
j.p.T. : “ Bush Drive ” gives no sign of budding poet,
anyhow Miles: “Super” herewith discharged saws
character Fred B. : “ Boffey ” might be worse, but
bullock-eloquence only effective in unadorned unprint-
ableness Hiram : Suggestion that women should only
exercise political rights during periods when Mosaic law
permitted them to enter the congregation is hereby
offered to the hisses of the suffragists W.P. (C.) : Not
up .Huxleyite : Too far off our beat F.J.R. : Worth-
less J.L.ti. : Received Fair Play : Merely flat con-
tradiction—and nothing in the manner of it worthy print
Roundsman: Declined .. Victor : We’re not pre-
pared to die for the principle, but M’s P. is a technically-
correct contraction of “Members of Parliament”; and
lots of people do read out “N.S.W.” as “New South
Wales,” just as they read out “lb.” as “pound”
Nyngan : In several places in Ireland, but not in all, the
“Jubilee” meat sent from Australia was refused
Robert Hap: Crow yarn fails, but suggestion for
illustration excellent .....Agnes L.S.: Both acceptable
Ponte : All good Vellie : Thanks W.G.H. : Strained
idea, and wouldn’t inspire artist Raupo ; A set of
facts by no means unique. Would look too much like
bald personal advt Guy Newton : Very clever, and,
alas ! utterly unprintable, as so many glittering things
are M.R. : The late Rev. Dr. Bromby was virtually a
Christadelphian, with his belief in the damned being ex-
tinguished C.M.: Try again. This time you fail both
in ideas and drawing .... Minhamite : Too late E.M.
(S.G.): Only one illus. subject available; will read
items F.W.H. : You didn’t take the trouble to revise
your stuff, and you get us by the wool. Pretty frosty !
Also, no “ ketch ” in the matter; everything absolutely
on merits Te Weka : Bulletin wouldn’t blindfoldedly
accept a “series” from W. Shakespeare himself. Speci-
men sent not a “poem” in any sense of the word
Karl 0. : Sorry can’t use ; idea old W.H.R. : Good
point, but form unsuitable to B Y.A. : Can’t venture
upon niceties of paternity. Story third-rate, anyhow
Emilius: Too London-journaly. Nobody ever “ flings
himself recumbently into his chair” in this paper
Jan Van W. : All quite beside the question. Under
modern conditions the political power of an Australian
Governor is represented by a cypher. Gov. Hampden is
quite harmless. He has said some very sensible things
and never any very foolish ones, and he seems to
quite understand and even to feel his position.
Kid : Will consider for illus Jensen : Minister
Garrard’s suggestion (in explanation of certain alleged
remarks of Premier Reid to an English pressman about
the N.S.W. Labor-party) that the reporter was a Pit-
manite and probably confounded the sign for “ caucus ”
with that for “ excuse” isn’t over-feasible. The signs for
the two words are quite different Eleve : Some good
lines, but scheme strained and close, stale and tawdry
V. : Ichabod ! Australia’s cup of degradation is full when
her sons cadge for British pay to fight against nigs.
Even our Soudan warriors did not ask the ’ome govern-
ment to “ stand Sam ” N. Cameron : Doesn’t redeem
the reputation of wreck-poems for being mostly rubbish
Holdar: “Granny’s” banalities too numerous to
pillory Jacques :“ A Character,” brief enough, cer-
tainly ; but the “ soul of wit” wants a body to walk into
The Bulletin with. Try again G. : “My Mate Bill,”
by “Ironbark,” was published in Bulletin in ’93
G.M.F. : What was name of comedy? When and where
played? Cocksparrow : Neither good enough
Heart’s Desire : Kind of diluted essence of woe. Don’t
dilute anything for this paper—we always “ take it neat. ”
Thistle A. : “ Three bodies lay stiffening on the grass ;
the moonlight shone on three ghastly, upturned faces,
and only the she-oaks were left to whisper the gruesome
tale.” Won’t, do ; nothing less than five bodies stiffening
on the grass will maintain Bulletin’s cheerful reputation.
Deb. D. : Moral too obvious. If you must give readers
a moral, slide it gently into them : don’t smack it in
their eyes with the spoon Bob. S. (M.L.): Will print
“ H.K.” May M. : Not up Toi Toi: Feeble, melan-
choly little thing J. Cox : Thanks; but idea more or
less anticipated by a Melb. paper H. Cal. : Far too
close on the heels of a well-known poem. .....M.M. : Such
things are, after all, only matters of opinion. The Bul-
letin doesn’t publish matter merely because it happens to
be written by old contributors H. W. : Greasy, no
doubt, but there are so many such advts. J.R.E. :
“ Rat’s Flat ” is very flat Muth’r : You “ want to find
another track.” Right!—afraid the poetical one will
never take you anywhere Laurence A. : “ Soul’s
Night ” ; evidently lost your way in it M. May : One
item used ; others unsuitable Meta W. (Wm.) : Can
only promise to read it R.A.S. (Tas.) : Unavailable.
N.S.W. Police Inspector-General Fosbery
trots out a story about a “ blind-froin-birth ” men-
dicant excusing himself, when caught reading a
paper, upon the ground that “he couldn’t be
always on duty.” The yarn is so good that it
doesn’t matter whether it was t’other fellow or
Fosbery himself who prigged it from the well-
known picture, “ An Interval in Business.”
“Col. Olcott, on whom the Theosophic
blanket of Mme. Blavatsky has fallen, got bowled
out in Maoriland recently,” writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent. “He was lecturing, in Sleepy Hol-
low, on the cure of disease by his special occult
process. Having demonstrated the passes of the
hands he would use for curing such ills as lumbago,
colic, paralysis, kidney-trouble, he went on to
state that by such means he had cured thousands
in India —all the great manifestations of Theo-
sophic power occur in Thibet, or Kafiristan, or
some other remote Oriental place, where there is
about 'OO7 of an enlightened white man to the
square mile, and the chief objects of interest are
lamas and praying - wheels. Then the bulky
Colonel called for orders, and an ‘ identity ’ got on
his feet and said: ‘ Mister, I’ve a poor blind
friend that badly wants to be cured. You’re free
to operate on him as soon as you like, and if you
cure him I’ll give the local hospital £so.’
It seemed a fair-enough offer, especially as the
expansive Colonel had said that the power only
worked when he exercised it ‘in a pure spirit of
benevolence.’ But, no, he could not accept it,
because—because he was leaving within 24 hours.
Whilst, by remaining 25, he might have cured a
man of his blindness ! The Mahatmas, Arhats,
and Adepts of his cult employ a miraculous
velocity in their migrations, but, for the present,
the lobengulous Colonel is content to deport his
‘ too too solid flesh ’ by steamer. His ‘ Atm a, ’
must strive for more complete union with his
‘Buddhi I ,’ for the further development of his
‘ Manas ’ and the subjugating of his ‘ Sthula
Sharira,’ and all that sort of hocus-pocus, and then,
after a ‘ devachanic interlude,’ he may become less
enormous, and flit about the earth like a disem-
bodied spirit. But, in the meanwhile, that blind
man is waiting to be cured.”
Re the recent Footscray explosion and the
Factories Act: the British Act compels the re-
porting of even the smallest accident; and it has
one provision which gives inspectors a very strong
hold on employers. In cases of infringement,
penalties up to .£lOO can be recovered, and the
Secretary of State may, if so advised by the in-
spector, order the whole or part of this to be
paid to the injured person, or to his family in
case of death.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free’ or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Adelaide papers are marvellously polite.
The day after the wife-shooting trial was over the
Register had a leader, in which the prisoner, just
sentenced, was carefully referred to as “Jfr.
Nixon.” Same day the ’Tiser headed a contri-
buted article —“ By Mr. P. McM. Glynn.”
Speak Out.
Thb Searchlight of Publicity is pleasing to Aus-
tralians.
Publicity is what the people want.
Let the people speak on the subject.
There has been too much claim—too little proof.
Claims made by strangers are not proof.
There is only one kind of proof for Australians
The experience of people they know.
Endorsement by friends and neighbors.
Such statements cannot be questioned.
Here is one of many for the value of Warner’s
Safe Cure for liver and kidney disease. No man
is better or more favorably known in Riverton,
N.Z., than Mr. T. Whilkes, who writes : “ War-
ner’s Safe Cure Co., Gentlemen : Judging by the
number of testimonials you receive from persons
who, like myself, have used Warner’s Safe Cure to
great benefit, I thought you would not take it
amiss to receive a few lines from myself, stating
my case and what Warner’s Safe Cure did for me.
I have not heard of any other case like it, for
medical men could not tell me the nature of the
complaint or give me any relief. It was on a visit
to Victoria some time ago that I was one day
seized with severe pains in the head and pit of the
stomach. The stomach began to swell to an
abnormal size, and the pain was *io severe I was
unable to walk about. I was advised to return at
once to New r Zealand, and returned by the first
boat, arriving home in a very weak and miserable
condition. Not knowing what to do to get relief,
some friends advised trying Warner’s Safe Cure.
I did so, with immediate relief. I continued
using the medicine till I had used six bottles. By
this time the swelling had gone down, and all pain
disappeared, and I am now in splendid health.”
Dropsy is not a disease, but a symptom of disease i
resulting from weakness of the kidneys, liver or
heart.


A FREETRADE HOTCH-POTCH.-" IT’S THE SEASONIN’ AS DOES IT.”


,*y' i
sp f tzi4\§
* 1 <v*y up
1 fjt*i
& "’ft*" I*' 1 *'
1
'■*
. .... Ur- Carter rose ,'illi a 1./11.
'f ea that 1(1 Would be a happy and facile
thing'to compare the two Houses, in the
x intimate relation of husband and
'V ~ < / Csx wife—it would, he foresaw, be an
*?/(' ° argument for their essential inter-
/y e i, o dependence, and would soften radical
'V/s Se S asperities at a time whep we are all aup-
■ “ ' posed to be for conciliation and a quiet life.
y. ** lot*
**•*£'£ C 7 °* e **•/>'***■•
V _,*e ?
\ /. **<*s on.
• C ‘ ? =’*7 A , /
,/ f (
- '\t? l \
// If'' )
>// / / f^ r i-1 /,A l
-MS
,#W 4 > S
'IlMi
. DETAILS OF THE POLLING-.
>lllll = toorak.
iBsL -asssssr~\r
jggSggKsX Malvern.. .. “£* 37 * «86
Caulfield .... *;* " Tm SS 258
Toorak ' J 2 *23 857
~*- J 65 300 d 47
Totals o,e 'a—
’ZZZr ■ “:-• - 1 -" S4 *_ >.SM SJS
- Majority fo r IJillies, W ? T
f/'/fysijr jr/fA & Fa/A&r.
J)ut/7d.~ TAc. / S mijrAfrej- /#**, We
Stv-orctj need //*/*/ ot*fp
Ae/-e. *
JAe f uXUt'e y seteeTtiif
ode/-cl?6 f-$ cvyuzt Sot-oh- — v S/i r/// ti
jSßjjffvjfr //Z /A&- 00-/S7JI cv-
Mr <3olin Campbell advocated that the
'question should, be decided by lot. Re-
cently in the Church of England Assem-
bly tiro candidates received equal votes,
and the Assembly agreed 'that they
shou-Id. toss up for it. (Loud laughter.)
It was not a laughing, matter. The
offices in the wqjjd had been de-
rideabylot.
MELBOURNIANA.


More or less recent stock and station item :
For private sale, the well-known Goimbla Estate,
situated 36 miles from Forbes and 42 from Orange.
Here Campbell shot bushranger O'Meally, from
the verandah, where still remain some bullet-
marks. O’Meally is buried on the station. Close
by, the escort-robbery took place.
Holder M. : “ The female petitioner in a
Sydney divorce-case, supporting her allegations of
marital cruelty, testified to .the respondent’s ugly
habit of bursting into her boudoir unawares. A
battalion of beauty-bardlets to the contrary not-
withstanding, the average woman en deshabille
presents an unkindly spectacle, and the husband
who persists in surprising her thuswise invites a
decree nisi, together with costs, oustody of the
children, alimony and general opprobrium.”
“ Had the unhappy martyrs only known
how trifling a thing it is to change one’s opinions,
they would never have gone to the stake. ”
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
“The Patentees—Maoniven & Cameron Ltd.—
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen. The Piokwiok Pen.
The Owl Pen, The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
The late Coroner Youl, of Melbourne :
“ Nine times out of ten you’ll find that a person
with spinal curvature has three Christian names at
least. In very bad cases of curvature he generally
has four.”
“ The song of the nightingale and the waul-
ing of the cat mean the same thing.”
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
VICTORIA *
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HATES ... Proprietor.
Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
§hoice (§ree -Luncheon from 11 a.m.
Visit Jack and see for yourselves.
David graham g Co.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIE . ,
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
—H —
—H — SfiitiogS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular Clot Ling.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
Tbe Royal Baijk of Australia Limited.
Head Office - Melbourne, Victoria»
... NINETEENTH REPORT, ...
PRESENTED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING,
ON 27th OCTOBER, 1897.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the Balance-Sheet and Statement ol
Accounts to 30th September, duly audited and certified. The n“t profits (including'balance broughl
forward from last half-year) amount to Os. 5d., out of which they recommend payment of a
dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum, which will absorb .£2250, leaving a balance of
Os. sd. to be carried forward.
The Directors are pleased to state that the Bank’s funds are now fully employed, and they would,
accordingly, be glad to receive deposits from shareholders at current rates for the purpose of extending
the business. Although the volume of business has increased, profits are kept low owing to the keen
competition in rates, which makes the Directors the more anxious to enlarge their operations, and they
trust that shareholders will take every opportunity of influencing desirable accounts to the Bank.
By order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
BALANCE-SHEET, THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
Fob the Half-Year ending 30th September, 1897.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital authorised—
600,000sharesof £4 each £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital subscribed —
First issue of 150,000
shares £600,000 0 0
To Capital paid-up ... £150,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss Account 4,773 0 6
£154,773 0 5
To Notes in Circulation 5,594 0 0
To Bills in Circulation 29,508 13 1
To Government Deposits—Nil.
To Other Deposits—
Not bearing interest ... £72,411 4 3
Bearing interest ... 175,438 6 5
247,849 10 8
To Interest accrued on Deposits and Re-
bate on Bills Current 2,494 8 5
£440,219 12 7
To Contingent Liabilities as per contra ... £66,178 0 0
ASSETS. Cr.
By Coined Gold and Silver
and other coinedmetal ...£30,352 18 8
By Notes and Bills of other
Banks, and Stamps ... 1,668 3 8
By Balances due from other
Banks 5,711 5 6
By Cash at Bankers 42,250 13 0
By Bank Furniture, Fittings, Stationery,
&0., at cost, less £371125. written off for
depreciation
By Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises Nil.
Other Real Estate, at cost to bank after
writing off £7,437 for depreciation
By Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts
By Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes
discounted, not included above, exclu-
sive of provision for bad and doubtful
debts
£79,983 0 10
200 0 0
9,032 18 9
281,967 16 10
69,035 16 2
£440,219 12 7
By Liabilities and Securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent lia-
bilities, as per contra ... £66,178 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Kent, and other charges
To Balance
£2,634 13 9
4,773 0 5
£7,407 14 2
By Balance at 31st March, 1897 £3,398 9 5
Less Dividend, declared 21st April, 1897 2,250 0 0
By Balance carried down £1,148 9 5
By Profits for the half-year, after deduct-
ing interest accrued on deposits and re-
bate on bills current, less reserves for
bad and doubtful debts 6,259 4 9
£7,407 14 2
We certify that we have audited the above Balance-Sheet, and that the same is correct. We
further certify that we have not observed nor have we become acquainted during the audit with any
breach of the “Companies Acts” committed by the Company or any director, manager, employe,
auditor, or shareholder thereof. We further certify that all our requisitions as auditors, including our
requisitions with regard to the private balance-sheet, have been complied with.
THOMAS KIDD, F.S.A.A.
ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.I.A.V.
Melbourne, 7th Ootober, 1897.
Auditors.
■©
yr/s
STRONG RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest, cheapest, and
best timekeepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7,
£B—3, 4,5, and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or Keyless,
£2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Shortwind Keyless, 7s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 16s 6d. Extra quality. 20s guaranteed. Gold, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Direct Agents for Rotherham’s and Waltham Levers. Send for price list.
Send for price book.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s.
16c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6(1.
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 35 s.
Gold Heart Amethyst Brooch, 15s.
102SSIiEI] c
a .
15c. Gold 3-bar Pure White Diamond, £3 3s.
Large Diamond, £4 4s.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s; Large, 21s
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
18a Solid Gold Nurled Edges
Dress Keeper, engraved, 255.
Raised Flowers, 30s.
Send for Size Card.
No. 1.
15c. Gold Front Stud Diamond,
No. 1,15 s ; Nos. 2 and 3,14 s ;
Ruby or Sapphire, 13s 6d,
12s 6d, 10s 6d. Pin and Screw
Front Stud, No. 1,25 s and 30s;
Nos. 2 and 3,21 s, 255.
Plain Gold Studs, 3s 6d and ss.
Newest Style, very pretty.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s ;
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.,
255, 30s, 355, £2. •
HIGHLY
RECOMMENDED.
Hand - made Wedding
Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 10s each.
15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold,
20s; extra heavy, 30s,
355, 40s. Send for size
oard.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Diamonds,
£3; Double-cut Dia-
monds, £3 10s and £4.
Send for illustrations.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7los,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
9c. Gold Twin Love Birds, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 20s ;
15c. Gold, set with Pure White Pearls, 32s 6d.
15c. Gold, 4 Diamonds, Ttuby and 4 Pearls, £3 5a
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
. W'K.j
150. Gold, 3-bar, Pure Diamond, £3 ss.
Solid Gold Chain —
Single or Double,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4los, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO.
Pure Silver—
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for price list.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
35s. £2 5s. £3 : extra.
£5, £6; with key pad-
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
Pure Silver Plated Butters,
Cut Glass, 15s 6d ;
Large size, 20s.
Send for illustrated book.
Sugar, Pure Silver, on Britannia
metal, 16s 6d;
Similar patterns, 20s, 265.
Send for illustrated book.
All
Articles
Post Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.P., 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All guaranteed.
15c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 5s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Bedstone, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 2-heart Amethyst,
Pearl Set, 355.
OB
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s 6d
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Bedstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Bedstone, 355.
We guarantee you the same satisfaction as if you were here to choose for yourself. Our Stock is Large and Up-to-date, and at Prices far below all others.
Send for
Price List.
A. SAUNDERS
“ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), Sydney, N.S.W.


SPECIAL NOTICE
The NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
Note Our Special Price List :
2 Spring Sulkies, Stick Seat ••• £6 15 0
3 ~ Sulkies, Solid Seat, including Silver
Dash Rail and Lamps ... 7 15 0
3 Spring Stick Sulkies, including Silver Dash
Rail, Splashboards and Lamps ... ... 815 0
Bent-Shaft Sulkies, with Lamps ... .... H 0 0
Any of the above sulkies painted or varnished, and
trimmed in best rubber duck.
Double-seated Buggies, including Lamps ... £2l 0 0
Abbott Tray Baggies, trimmed in real leather
throughout, as illustrated 25 0 0
Ladies’ Park Phaetons, including Hood and
Lamps 26 10 0
NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE CO.,
Brown Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
1)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Itasor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. (id , 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Tbe Leading Pipe.
GBD
Wholesale Dep6fc:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
6
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
“To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“Gentlemen,—
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it.—Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
FISHER’S TOKTIC
—IS THE—
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros. ;
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Paulding & 00. ;
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Fblton, Grimwadb & 00.
OtflfUljK
0 •mM
SPEcrtBill
Wr
,4m
mm
Ladies.- can and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S, ROWLEY Sc CO .
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lacheiial,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W h ra.
H
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWAKD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (\ tone), from (id.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Brass and
in all keys, from 6d.
Nickel Whistles. 1000
Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
0 WARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S American Organs,
terms. Large stock landing.
for cash or on
Woollahra.
H
OWAEJD’S Concertinas,
215., best German make.
20-key, 3s. lid. to
Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
crnineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
UWAK-D’S Double Bass, three or four string,
. machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
a
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
H
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25g5.; cash or terms.
a
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish,
. French, and German ; terms.
American,
Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra,
II
OWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H'
OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
HOEMMD’S Plarvelloas MIR RESTORER
o'?
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
*
8
SJ
Bead the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
Melbourne, August 1, 1897.
Dear Sir, —Your Hair Restorer has had a marvellous effect on the growth of my
hair. Twelve months ago my head was quite bare —bright and shiny ; to-day it is covered
with a fine crop of hair. I shall ever be grateful to you for the excellency of your
treatment. —Yours faithfully, J.F.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” R
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. Gd., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
19S COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA AKD TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31,1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Compeiitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “ Premier ”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers » £1 Is. »
Cloth Bound Books » £lOO
.SEND THIS TOT PORTION
7
CHrtOAP/
rsvj
Wf/r DOES
e Z'awoman
LOOkOLO'
SOONER THAN
Full particulars, Rules, &c., i
be obtained by application to
circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
BURGESS BROS., HOBART.
j. mckenzie & co., launceston.
CIGARS JFREEJj
m
niiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniiiHiiiiiiiiiniiiuiniiiiHUHiiiii
Liuimiuui
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney. -
THE
Plum ’
THB
Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the publio.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ls.
iSingle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Price
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Medical.
X
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.,
oan be COMPLETELY CURED by
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victokia Parade, Eitzroy, Melbourne
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace: —
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Fitzroy
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain any relief from others,
was completely cured by me 15 months ago, and
has kept in better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
was cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs. Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
Acknowledgments.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago and double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried doctors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
I was very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief from the first
supply of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—Heleg Exstrom, McCracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Dear Sir, —I wish to thank you most sincerely
for having cured me of Sciatica, having suffered
most acute pain for a long time, but, under your
Remedy, I am glad to say that I have completely
recovered. It is now 17 months since I saw you,
and I have not had the slightest return of the
pain—one week’s treatment having quite cured
me. If reference to me will assist any sufferer to
try your antidote, I shall be glad at any time to
tell them what it has done for me.—Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. T. Hughes, 29 Starling Street, Kew,
19th August, 1897.”
“ Dear Sir, —In grateful testimony to your skill
for having cured me of a very painful attack of
Rheumatism. I suffered great pain, having the
joints swollen. After a short while under your
treatment, I completely recovered. It is now over
three years ago since I was cured, and I have kept
well, being 64 years of age. I consider your anti-
dote the marvel of the age for suffering humanity.
—Yours very truly, Professor W. T. Lamont, Ven-
triloquist and Entretenir, 4 Condell-street, Fitz-
roy, opposite Town Hall, 23rd August, 1897.”
Mrs. Laura Sunderland, 80 Bell-street, Fitz-
roy :—Rheumatic Fever, six months in bed, 12
months on crutches, joints stiffened and useless.
After six weeks’ use of antidote joints completely
cured. Can do all household duties, and has not
used either crutch or stick now for over 12
months.
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick : —Rheumatism 10 years, years
on crutches, and for two years had not walked at
all; all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless; life made miserable ; case pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Undei
my remedy, contractions come out. Can wall
without aid of crutch or stick; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. T
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any colony, =£l.*
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Ctybrocatiofy
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking 1
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool-marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydne}';
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & GO., Adelaide
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
p€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort,
able to vvear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 146
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
rPO LADIES OF ALL AGES
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
Rockhampton.—l have tried Orange Lily, and have
found it to be all that is said of it. If it were not for
your remedies I could not get about. Ido all my work
for six now, and am quite strong.— Mrs. E .
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is knovm too well ,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
YOU GET IT.
Gr anuma beats all other meals for Porridge.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Assets - - £38,513,664.
PURELY MUTUAL.
The Chief Offices for the Department of Australasia
HAVE BEEN REMOVED
—FROM—
BOND STREET CHAMBERS
—TO—
-76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georg? Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &■ FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
•13tn Sales Held at the Auction Jtooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 1 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
MOKE
i
OUR CHIEF,’
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The coming idea : “ One vote for me and
one for my bike.”
The new Vic. Parliament includes 18
agriculturists, 16 lawyers, five auctioneers, three
sci-ibes, and eight nondescripts alias gentlemen.
Rumored that delegate Walker will retire
from the Federal Convention before its re-
assembling in January, and that John See, next
highest on the poll, will take his place.
Victorian Ministerial salaries : Premier,
.£1400; other Ministers, £lOOO. N.S.W.: Pre
mier, £1370; Attorney-General and Colonial
Secretary, £lB2O ; other Ministers, £1370. Which
is the saner scale ?
“ The tariff is a question of markets—not
of maxims.” “The distrust of the present will
not be removed by a distrust of the future.” “ A
patriot makes a better citizen than a pessimist.”—
A frier, political sayings.
The bike plays into the hands of the plural-
voter.. The present writer, when out to put his
paper in the slot, met one person of property who
had visited five Melb. suburban polling-booths on
his wheel and voted at each.
The Reid Government announces that it
will reform the N.S.W. Council this session, or,
if it fails, go to the country on the question. Isn’t
that the same question the same Government went
to the same country on in 1895 ?
The Reid Cabinet seriously deliberates
about a further addition to N.S.W. Leg. Council.
1 f Reid sends up another thirteen like his previous
appointees, that alone will be a sufficient reason
for the abolition of the institution.
The Maoriland Govt, proposes setting
aside £120,000 out of the current year’s surplus
as the beginning of an Old-age Pension Fund.
By all appearance, M.L. will lead the way in this
m atter—as it does in most others.
S. A. Opposition-leader Downer is so openly
bidding for Labor support that he has alienated
several of his stalwart Tory followers, and is
helping the Kingston Govt, to get a consolidated
majority independent of the Labor-party.
A N.S.W. advocate
of late Parliamentary sit-
tings points triumphantly
to the Statute Book and
claims that nine-tenths
of the Democratic mea-
sures found there were
passed in the early morn-
ing. Fat obstruction, he
contends, will run any
risk for sleep. He names
several members who, on
o -casions of reform-de-
b ites, declared they’d die
on the floor of the House
in opposition to the Bill,
but when 12 struck
dodged off home.
The hopelessness of
the tale dealt out by the
Australian free-raid press
about the loyal recipro-
cal yearnings of Canada
towards England, looms
large and unmistakeable
when the reciprocal-
yearn tariff of that cold
country is examined. Its
Freetrade yearn puts a
duty on British woollen
manufactures of 27 per
cent., whilst Victoria, a
Protectionist country
that doesn’t yearn,
charges only an average
of about 18 per cent.
Printed cotton fabrics:
Canada, 26£ per cent.;
Vic., free. White and
grey cotton goods: Can-
ada, 19 per cent. ; Vic.,
free. Pig - iron : 2dols.
80 cents, ton ; Vic., free.
Bar-iron and steel, 7dols.
ton ; Vic., free. Manu-
factured metals : Cana-
dian yearn tariff, 25 per
cent. ; Vic., free; and
then on through a long
list of similar rates.
The Bavarian House of Representatives
objects to Kaiser William claiming a personal
ownership of the German army, navy, and Parlia-
ment. Vic. Assembly has even better grounds
for asking Gov. Brassey to cancel the pronoun in
his recent reference to George Turner as “my
Premier.” Speaking of the last Federal Conven-
tion, his awful Nibs said—“ It was strange to hear
-my Premier expressing his views in Sydney.”
Vic. candidate Warr : “ Instead of borrow-
ing, people were driven out of the country, and
those left were starving, or as near that as damn
it.” Poor Warr was badly left on polling-day.
He wasn’t at the top of the poll; in fact he was
even nearer than dash it to being at the bottom.
W. A. Watt, who took the responsibility
of ousting Prendergast from Vic. Assembly, is
quite a splendid speaker in his way, has a taking
manner, and a good political education. Of course
he is a leading A.N.A. official. He is 25 years old.
King Syme soon forgets, when it suits his
book —he “whooped ’em up” for Fish Creek
Richardson and Baronet O’Loghlen this election,
just as if the big guns of the Age had never
belched red-hot shot at these discredited poli-
ticans.
BRISBANE TO NELSON.
The sounds take shape and grow,
Still deeper, deeper, deeper :
“ Hugh ! where’s thy br’er Tom Joe ? ”
Says Hugh : ‘ ‘ How should I know ?
Am I my brother’s keeper ? ”
The name of one woman (Dr. Janet
Greig) lately resident at Melb. Hospital, and now
located at Brighton, somehow got on to the
electoral-roll for last week’s Vic. general election.
The lady did not attempt to avail herself of the
privilege of voting, and missed a fine opportunity
of making her name historical.
Ballarat (Vic.) Presbytery declares that
Premier Turner’s conduct in offering to leave the
Bible-in-schools question to a national referen-
dum is “most unfair.” The guileless Vic. parson
constantly declares that the Jonah-whale crowd
are in the majority; what he is mad about is being
offered a fair and square chance of proving it.
One of the most sad-colored features of the
fiscal question in N.S.W. politics is the tale of
Cold Tea Knapp, in the Sydney daily papers,
about how some “ keen-witted merchant ” told
him something of a most disparaging character
which finally demolishes Protection. No cause is
helped much by a bore of no account stating that
some anonymous'person said something. Any-
body can say that any anonymous person said
anything.
Canadian Premier Laurier (it is cabled)
brags that he “ will never rest until the whole of
the exported products of Canada, and 90 per cent,
of those of the U.S., are carried per St. Lawrence
River route.”
Brag on, brag on, Canadian Laurier,
Your Frenchy side is not your best,
And when you’re dead, you’ll feel much sorrier ;
For, since you swear you’ll never rest
Until achieved these things you'crave,
You’ll never rest within your grave !
Premier Turner’s loyal masquerading at
the Jubilee seems to have aroused the suspicion of
Vic. Labor-members. Prendergast “ fetched ” the
horny-handed electors of N. Melbourne with a
snorting allusion to “ the portraits of a distin-
IT’S SIMPLY THE WAY YOU PUT IT.
CROTCHETY BACHELOR: “They have had a blind man and a cripple before
the court for begging. How is it you lady beggars escape? ”
LADY BEGGARS: “Indeed! we are not begging—we are collecting
funds to purchase a bicycle for our curate!”
guished person in a sword and cocked-hat, and
powder and grease, and stockings, and all that
kind of thing.” But didn’t the local ’Fraud com-
pliment poor old George T. on his “ handsome ”
appearance in Windsor uniform? And is Madden
to have a monopoly of Victorian native splen-
dour? And though his constituents cheered Pren-
dergast for his attack on Turner they threw him
out all the same.
DISTINCTION WITHOUT DIFFERENCE.
M.L.C. (to ragged brother): “Ah! Bill, you and me have gone two different
roads. I have got into the ’Ouse, and you—you have gone to the devil.”
BROTHER: “ Yet, hang me if I see where you get the pull of it!”
Premier Reid announces that the idea of
establishing Local Government in N.S.W. is
definitely abandoned—for some years, anyhow.
Almost the same day the North Shore bridge-
scheme was biffed out of the Assembly by a three-
to-one majority. The North Shore bridge and
the Local Government system are the two carrots
which the N.S.W. public ass has industriously
trotted after for 30 years. And it overtook the
two fleeting vegetables at the same instant, only
to find them both bogus.
On Thursday night last week Premier
Reid announced proudly that, owing to the advan-
tages of Freetrade, the number of applications for
work at the Labor Bureau had greatly diminished.
The same day the annual statistical volume which
includes this subject was issued. It contained the
usual information—except that, for the first time,
the number of applicants at the bureau was left
out. Query : Was it the fact that the public
couldn’t check his statements which made Premier
R. go ahead so violently on this theme?
The shindykit which wants to build a tun-
nel from Sydney to North Shore will apparently
get its little job through this session. Considering
that the harbor is deep, and the exit on the north
side is blocked by a high hill, and that there is no
short way out except by hauling the passengers
up out of the bowels of the earth with the
tunnel sloped gently upwards till it reached the
open air in the usual way it would come out some-
where about Middle Harbor—this looks about the
worst place on earth for tunnelling.
Bookseller Sligo captured the Dunedin
seat (left vacant by the death of Henry Smith Fish)
for the Opposition interest by 979 votes. But
the Tory party gains nothing by the victory, for
Fish, though a Democrat in many wavs, generally
voted Tory for the sake of being against the Gov-
ernment. Fish was against almost every Govern-
ment on general, bang-smash principles. And
Sligo is a peaceful man who can’t knock things
about, and leave a trail of broken crockery and
wreckage behind him as the tremendous Fish used
to do.
The chief business of N.S.W. Labor
Bureau seems to be sending men from Sydney to
relief-works as far West as possible. Then, when
they are sacked as unsuitable, it takes them a
good while to walk back, and a fortnight’s work
may keep a whole crowd of unemployed out of
Sydney for two months, thereby greatly reducing
the amount of poverty in the city. - Orange just
now has a large number'of the out-of-work class,
and when the local railway deviation contract was
manned by Sydney men the air was filled with
blasphemy. ,
Yic. Defence Dept, proposes to arm all the
local forces with the Lee-Metford rifle, the Mar-
tini-Henry being considered out of date. Yet the
authorities of this department are the very same
who reported, as the result of recent tests, the
immense superiority of the Australian Ashton
rifle over the Lee-Metford. This leaves only two
options: either that the Defence Dept, is calmly
going to fritter away tens of thousands by substi-
tuting one obsolete weapon for another, or it has
no faith in the honesty or competency of its own
o fficials ! One thing or the other.
F.: “Vic.
pious party re-
solutely presses
the question of
introducing the
Irish National
Scripture lessons
into State
schools. A cas-
ual glance at
same seems to
indicate that all
th e obstetrical
passages of the
Bible have been
painstakingly
included. There
are directions to
mid wives, expla-
nations of the
words ‘ virgin,’
‘concubine,’‘cir-
cumcision -and
so on. It is al-
leged in Victoria
that N.S. Wales
schools use these
lessons—do they
use them unex-
purgated ? Per-
haps ‘Public
School-Teacher ’
will add a reply
to this question
to his instruc-
tive Bulletin
criticism of the
method of teach-
ing religion ! It
is amusing in
Victoria to see
the Social Purity
crowd barrack-
ing furiously for
these Seri pture
lessons, which
contain blunt al-
lusions that no
paper, even in
its most coura-
geous moments,
would print. I
think the Gimlet
crowd has not
read the lessons
(any more than
it reads its Bible), for, bad as it is, I think it
would draw the line somewhere.”
Maoriland' politics are full of persistent
rumours about another loan. For fully eight
years the province contrived to suppress its desire
to borrow for public works purposes. Then it
raised 2J irfillions to keep the B.N.Z. afloat, and
millions to ’start the State Land Bank, and it
began to feel the desire to go on a great burst
ptirring in its blood once more. Next it gave way
so far as to authorise a loan of One million. And
now it-is like a reformed drunk hesitating outside
the door of. a public-house and wondering if he
niight not just as well have'one more big, soul-
filling razzle after all.
F. : lie Higgins’ telling illustration of the
operation of the Tory dual-vote scheme—that it
would give Christ one vote and Judas Iscariot two
votes because Judas bought a bit of land: The
Bulletin says Judas didn’t buy any land. Fact
is that the Bible says in one part that the 30
pieces of silver were paid for the potter’s field by
the priests (Matthew xxvii., 7); but, in Acts i., 18,
Peter tells the disciple that Judas bought a field
with the reward of iniquity ! Of course, if the
Bible is in doubt about the point, it is not surpris-
ing that The Bulletin should accept one verse,
and overlook its contradiction.”
If there be any truth in the Melbourne
story as to a conference at the Age office between
David Syme, Premier Turner and Isaac Isaacs—re
the Eastern Suburbs election and the bestowal of
Age patronage upon a certain Liberal candidate-
well, then it is indeed time that Victoria should
doubt the character of the Age’s political man-
dates, and the alleged purity of boss Syme’s
motives. It is evident that the country did begin
to examine the question whether an Age despotism
is a benevolent form of Liberal government. The
result was a pretty bad pain in David Syme’s
stomach when the numbers went up.
The success of Gillies for Toorak, at Vic.
elections, was in no way due to any spasm of
popularity for that Sphinx-visaged veteran. The
fact is that the seat is now shown to be an out-
and-out Tory fortress, and Lewis was never in the
running. But the Argus and the small-numbered
but fat-pursed National Association, by raising
the scare of “ seat in danger,” managed to
establish a funk among the weak-kneed
Bryantites, and about 200 Bryant-pledged rats
prevented Duncan hearing his knell. Bryant
is likely to slay the next dear personal friend
who tells him he was very, very sorry, but had to
vote for Gillies to save the seat.
The Brisbane lesson for the day is written
in the 25th chapter of the Gospel according to St.
Horace, commencing at the 24th verse : “ Then he
which had received the one talent came and said :
‘ Bpss, I knew thee that thou art a Nevermind
man, reaping never where any one sows and
gathering never where any one straws, and I was
ryebuck, and went and let her go, Gallagher,
generally; 10, there thou hast that is thine.’ His
boss answered and said unto him : ‘ Never mind !
Have a whisky ? The Queen’s all right, Tummy’s
all right, the English girls are all right, you’re all
right, I’m all right, we’re all right, so Never-
mind !’ ” Here endeth the present Lesson.


All the sitting lawyers in last Vic. Parlia-
ment—lsaacs, Higgins, Irvine, Moule and Deakin,
of the Bar ; and solicitors Turner, Fink, Best,
Madden, Duffy, M‘Cay, and brother John Isaacs
—succeeded in retaining their seats ; also Shiels,
who is, however, a lawyer only in name, as he
never practises or holds a brief. Lawyers who
wobed the electors in vain were Coldhani, Bryant,
W. E?‘ Johnston and Mackey, of Melb. Bar ; and
Crouch, Beckett, W. H. Lewis, Conantand Brom-
field, of the other branch. Also, the new Parlia-
ment has three more lawyers : two solicitors—
Gair, who unseated the unctuous and wobbly
Harper ; James Moloney, a brother of Dr.
Pat Moloney, Melb. University's first medical
graduate; and barrister-Baronet O’Loghlen, re-
turned for Port Fairy.
HEART & HAND
BRAND
m
Sc
timid
JOHN HUNTER
at All mis.
ESTABLISHMENTS
THE LADIES'
FAVOURITE
FASHIONABLE IN STYLE
ELEGANT IN SHAPED
EXCELLENT IN WEAR
AND IN FRONT OF ALL
EUROPEAN OR AMERICAN ’
goods at LOW DOWN PRIDE
EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
and also at his Branches in the City, Suburbs and
Colony.
A NOVELTY!
all KrNDS OP P
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie ever; effort for tbe production of
natural perfumes.
v?
a Obtainable of Chemists, £
Stores, rerfumert, y*
or direct /rom ,■*
A L V 0
•>. °£<f Str& e '‘.''
DISEASES OF THE EYE.
A most valuable remedy for inflammation!,
blight, pearl or film, &e., is now being placed
before the public; it is known as “ Professor
Thomson’s Eye Water,” the sole right of which
has been purchased by Mr. Albert Sharp, of 257
George-street, Sydney, the proprietor of the
“ Cannalin ” pile remedy. Mr. Sharp has some
wonderful testimony of cures it has effected, and
being inexpensive (Is. 9d., 35., or s*. Bd., post free
to any part of Australia), it will come within the
reach of every sufferer.*
Westralia had 12 deaths from typhoid in
*9l. In ’94 the number had reached 73; since
then—’9s, 325 ; ’96, 400; first half of ’97, 299.
“Greater Melbourne,” with all its stinks, had but
97. deaths from the disease during the first half of
this year, though its population is nearly three
times that of \V.A.
The resignation of Attorney-General Sep-
timus Burt leaves Premier Forrest the last lone
survivor of the Westralian Ministry which took
office in 1890.
Victoria Racing Club’s . .
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY OCT. 30.
CUP DAY NOV. 2.
OAKS DAY NOV. 4.
STEEPLECHASE, DAY ... NOV. G.
Accommodation for Thousands.
The conveniences for the comfort of visitors to
Flemington now surpass anything in the world.
tiST Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion
Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE, Skcrktary.
IYOTICE is hereoy given that the NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER COMPANY OF DAYTON, OHIO, United
States of America, has, by agreement with Messrs.
FISHER and LINGIIAM, THIS DAY terminated the
Agency for the Sale of National Cash Registers and Sup-
plies hitherto held by that firm in Australasia, and the said
Company has appointed Mr. W. A. LINGHAM its sole
representative in Australasia.
The Head Offices of the Company for Australasia are at
393 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY, where all communica-
tions may be made and addressed.
NOTICE is also given that Mr. W. E. FISHER, trading
as FISHER and LINGHAM, will continue to carry on the
Agency for the Sale of the “SMITH PREMIER” TYPE-
WRITER, TYPEWRITER SUPPLIES, and OFFICE FIT-
TINGS, at the firm’s old address :—Head Offices, 1,2, and
3 VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Dated at Sydney this fourteenth day of October, a.d.
1597.
(Signed)
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER COMPANY.
By its Attorney,
W. A. LINGHAM.
Witne°'» —
DAVID CITENHALL,
bououor, Sydney.
(Signed)
FISHER and LINGHAM,
W. E. FISHER.
Witness—
JOHN nENRY NOONAN,
Articled Law Clerk to Clenhall and Eddie.
Solictors, 60 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
WHY PAY ?
FOR A WATCH 5
We undertake to GIVE a Silver Watch
of magnificent value, Lady’s or Gentle-
man’s, to every reader of this paper. Our
list price for this watch is 50s. ; but, as
stated above, to- readers of this paper
who carry out the conditions below,
We Charge Absolutely Nothing.
We are constantly receiving testimonials express-
ing delight and satisfaction at the value we give.
THE ONLY CONDITIONS
we impose are, that you should send us the correct read-
ing of the following Rebus, enclosing stamped addressed
envelope for reply. And that if correct you will purchase
one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains.
REBUS:
A S.L.D S’LVJB W.T.H
I G..N »E I GU.SS
R.G.T & B.Y A CH*,N
Address: The Manager, The English Watch
Si Jewellery Co., No. 9 (2 Floor), Post Office
Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney: and 33 and 35 Old
Exchange, Adelaide; or Courier Vestibule, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucraßy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the knm»-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
Ruberoid P&j| Roofing.
r
r
r
PC^B
«'R ; FOS'S
r»'iL
Util
31
is
TS&S&I&S
msxm&L
P &. B
DAMPCOURSE.
Particulars from
E. RICH & CO. LTD.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
P& B
DAMPCOURSE,
I#
■wap
VioliQS*
PALING <fc CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
AGto Harps.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
tyofttl) HarnjopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordeops & CoijQcrtioaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
6(iitarS & tyaodolipcs-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStopS & PolypljoijS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Bafyd li)StrCin)ei)tS of all kiQds
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Musia
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TERMS.
w<
imr£K
fSTA BLISHEO
338 George-street, Sydney.
For Dunlop
Tyres.the best
RIM ISTHE^^
Dunlop/^
welch/
RIM./
D unlops;;;
First in 1888.
.FOREMOST
EVER
.SINCE
The
Highest
Standard
of Exactness
and
Quality
is found
only in
PUNtaHIYRES
Guaranteed 12 Months
• •
• . •
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. LTD
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Swanston-st., Melbourne
Franklin-st., Adelaide;
King-st., Perth ;
Christchurch, N.Z.
Dunlop
Tyres>
PERFECTED'
FOR CARRIAGES
OF ALL KINDS.
V
all
r ABOUT
"Dunlop
T YRES”
GRATIS & POST FREE


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FinetllEK KKIIUCEI) KATES. -
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, .Jewellery, Pre-
vious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every £1 to =£lo
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
PPLICATIONS ARE INVITED for an
important and responsible position in the
Office of a leading Life Assurance Society.
High character, experience, a thorough know-
ledge of Life Assurance (not necessarily Actuarial)
and physical capacity for filling an exacting
position, are indispensable qualifications.
An. exceptional opportunity for , a first-class
man of experience and energy.
Address—
GENERAL MANAGER,
Post-office, Box 331, Sydney
WEST AUSTRALIAN LAND AGENCY.
The undersigned has now opened a department for
the sale on commission of land at Perth. Send particulars
as to price, &c. No sale, no charge. Immediate loans on
deposit of deeds. ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Valuator under R,P. Act, 250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE UNIVERSAL LAND -
-AND—
- DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Fixed Deposits received for a term of years at liberal
interest.
Advances made on Freehold Securities, Bills Discounted
on deposit of deeds, and all financial business transacted.
Ernest C. V. Brout/hton, Managing Director.
RegiQald A. F. flOrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Till*, i cations.
Geo. Robertson <& Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Reta.l Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods.- Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English Jt Colonial Celebrities
E*
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
JTAVINO PURCHASED TWO EDUCA-
TIONA U Dili RA RIES, numbering' 4840 vols.,
containing the best editions, also keys to Mathematics
and Classics used in all Universities, Colleges and Schools,
attention is drawn to Teachers that they can procure any
book at nearly half-price— namely, a ss. book for 2s. 6d.,
posted 35., and so on in proportion; also, 515 Novels
(Colonial Library) by the best authors. Cost 2s. 6d. My
price, 1/6. Posted. R. W. SKINNER,
. The Noted Second-Hand Bookseller . .
lO5 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
WANTED Complete Files Bulletin — 1884,
1886. Apply, A. 8., Bulletin Office.
Hotels.
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
OENTEALLY SITUATED.
Terms
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
Visitors” to cairns, n. Queensland,
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Vsiroot.ic and Sample Rooms.
Cl. FOX, Proprietor.
Banking, Public Companies, &c,
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited *
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used iii the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st Dec mtier. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man; R. Murray Smith. Es i., C.M.G., M. L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M. DC. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Bathe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department — Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rfIHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Luu ted.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Pai-i-up .. £1,702,522 17 11
Preferc ee Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capilal Called-up .. .. 47,477 2 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 750,000 0 0
2.805,781
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuekett,
Esq.; Andrew burns. Esq. Chiel Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Ednieadss (pro). New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
IfIHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
* (Limited).
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ~ «. £100,756
RESERVE LIABILITY ... .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All pew business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,500,000
Paid-up .. .. £3,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Mea'res, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors; Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishops*}ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: {.indsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Con>pai>y
United Australian
Mutual Five Insurance Co. Ltd.
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital £500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st. , Sydney, and 405 Collins
t. , Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
( able Address—KlEMSElL.
Code— Mousing & Neal, eta
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 337, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
• Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Slocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE " invaluable to Investors,
ee on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For M EI.BOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, October 23, 2 p.m.
Hubbuok, Tuesday, 0 t. 26, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Friday, Or tuber 29, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
EsPERANCE Ray
Leura, Saturday, October 23, 2 p.m.
Hubbuck, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
BUNBURY
GER4LBTON
Hubbuck, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 5 p.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE i
MARYBOROUGH >
ROCKH AM I’TON j
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 23, 2 p.m.
Btirwali, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 5 p.m.
Leura, -al urday, October 30, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS &e.
I’eregrine, Saturday, Oct. 23, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, October 30, 2 p.m.
Giirtro tor all Ports received Daily
LOW KMT t'l IRK KBIT FAKES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
-*-U by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding' alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey At Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street: Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
—VIA —
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DAR77.N,
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
J 4f»
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY
Assayers, Metallurgists,
& Technical Chemists,
Melbourne Ore Testing
Works :
Offi,ce—4SU Callins-st.,
MELBOURNE.
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of" Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slaps, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne /
Stock and Share Brokers.
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidoe,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,'
31 QUEEN ST., MELROPUNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wan ted -
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent B. It. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C
Sblpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
*°uth Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney) Friday,
October 22.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, October 30.
ALBANY, >,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney}
Friday, October 22.
S.S. Innaniincka(fron) Melb.)
Saturday, October 30.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
October 16.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S, Adelaide, Tuesday,
October 26.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., r.TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Marseilles. ** Will leave at 4 p.m.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £65. Cheap Pares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ go’s Qine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Mon thly.
Passengers Booked Through at lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, t>hilp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—Win. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown.
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney:
JOHN SANDERSON '& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne: or
GEO. WILLS at. CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO*
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages carTbi
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent"
Exchange Corner. 63 Pitt-st., Sydney ’


STEWART DAWSON & COS
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments—the Finest in the World,
Inapproachable Variety. UpeqCialled ValCse. Wooderftil Selectioo-
The most recherche and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
p irat Elegance. First In. Business Resources. First In Popularity.
412 G-eorge-street, and Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2s.
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7}£in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
B£in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, ' 55
Smaller Sizes at t'2o to £4O.
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s. ; J-plate Movement , Keyless, Hunting-
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
7Min., £1 Is.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £Z 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
16s. 6d.; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ BING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Very Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
T lis design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
m
fmm
ns
m
m
MJ,
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s.; 14in., £3 ss.
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s. ; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
Handsome Halt-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ot. Gold, £8 10s.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Oct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ot. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
Oct. Gold, £1155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, B}4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies' ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, £lls.
15ct. Gold, £ll7s. 6d.
Silver, 6s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 6s
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle
B%in. by £s 17s. 6d.
Bio New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling- Silver Dock and
Corners, various lengths* 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 589.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 5s
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£•3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamond.'
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. Od
jliijS?,lllllllllllllll!!!ll!llllllllllllMI«llltlis'rtr
No. 587.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
ft
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE.—The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE POE. PEESENTS, have never been approaohed.
lhousand 1 ounds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishments are a complete constellation of brilliancy and a panorama of artistic show. Everything NEW, ELEGANT, and
of UJNu ALiLilhl) VAGUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound.
George-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


Packets
El CAR 5
:
k! PVRE
£L
fflanufactured by
Payerke
Is.
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Depot for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
rw,'"
SAHITAS
COPYRICHT BOOK
How to Disinfect’
s ent fR e e
The San'itas C 5
Bethnal Green
IOnDOn
IiOOUIMOtIIO
MiEWPIFFTO:
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TUB (ItKS( U\T," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
*• Kll V Kina-street Coffee Pnlnce." situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - ■ GEO. IV. ELLIS.
BIRD.
RED
q9S>
•F*fj
th
Published in the Interests of the Goold liicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch — 64 King St., Sydney.
AGENTS AND
Depots
EVERTWmiR*.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street , SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Apart from the fact that it published an Am-
berite “tip" in a little verse, Tint Bimum* has no
occasion to offer an abject apology for lost week s Caul-
fidS Cup remarks. Nine horses only were mentioned as
being worth consideration on paper. Ambente and Par*
thenopaeus, the subsequent winn-r and runner-up. were
included, and four others of the nine finished among the
first nine in the race. There were 26 starters, and about
20 of them carried some good money. Amberite was a
steady 20 to 1 quotation, inasmuch as the ‘ books never
lay long prices against a high-class 3-.vear-old in a handi-
cap race. Yet, as the public in general carefully avoided
Amberite on the day, he would doubtless have paid a 40
to 1 dividend on the tote. . 4
An apology for Amberite’s running in the
Caulfield Stakes was given at the time, but although it
sounded reasonable enough, punters, as arute, showed
their horse-sense in letting the Sydney Derby-w nner run
loose for the Caulfield Cup. The average excuse proves
to be a delusion—if not a fraud. Still, there are excep-
tions to the rule. Amberite s poor show in the Slake*
was attributed to inexperience of a left.-handed pou r ?,
and the statement that the Carbine colt didn t take kindly
to the Vic. way of racing was possibly a solemn fact.
Anyway there were lots of precedents for
startling reversals of form in Sydney horses at Caulfield—
the place where calculations are always getting upset,
and the sporting atmosphere is apt to stink of evil re
port. Cremorne last year won the Cup after having run
nowhere behind Hopscotch in the Toorak Handicap.
Paris won two Cups, starting at longish odds each tune
on the strength of an inglorious performance in the
Stakes race a week previous. Amberite was merely fol-
lowing the famous Paris fashion. By the way *t ..
remarkable how Sydney horses win the Caulfield Cup
five times out of the last six—and fail to shake
the big Melbourne event. Eleven years have disappeared
since Bill Gannon’s Arsenal won the Melb. Cup slake for
NSW. This year it should be taken across the Murray
once again, the Sydney invasion has never looked so
strong the recollection of the present wn ter.
Positano, Parthenopseus, Coil, Fucile, Amberite, True
Hue, Toreador, Delaware, The Grafter. With local
Aurumoutof the way, the foreigners would appear »
have Melbourne Cup matters pretty well all to themselves.
But, then, prophets must allow for the unexpected in
Turf results. The Unexpected is a horse that never tires
of happening on behalf of our beloved brother, Isaac
Moses.
The Parthenopteus crowd talked ot a protest
against Amberite, on the ground that his jooltey had
indulged in foul-riding during the early P 0 [ t, ?''° | ,he
race when they were all on the jostle. A fine idea,
truly » Would the loner-suffering public continue to sup-
port racing if the horse that finished first were subject to
disqualification through the evidence of a p® bl « con-
spiracy of wizened pigmies concerning deeds which only
themselves could swear to? Not much A® race-nding
is conducted in Australia, the early part of a Caulfield
Cup must always be a go-as-you-please within the limits
of toleration, otherwise we should have Ikey M°-bribing
half-a-dozen boys to test lfy “ foul-riding in the case of
any red-hot favorite that might have been crowded
among them away at the back of the course. -
When the cry of “ protest ” was raised after the
Caulfield Cup, the public kindly assumed that gome of the
ruling powers had backed Parthenopseus, and were going
for another Tim Swiveller-Sainfoin decision.
Staffa, who had finished last in the Toorak
Handicap, won the Windsor Handicap last Saturday.
There was a whisper that the speedy South Australian
couldn’t do himself justice on Guineas Day, owing to sore-
ness and general effects of his recent journey from Ade-
laide. But punters at large don’t hear these whispers.
They have to take “form” as they find it, and they
found it so unpromising for Staffa that the white-faced
chestnut sent them home, at the end of a bad meeting,
looking almost as pale as the orse. They all went for a
recovery on Hordern’s Mirella.
Symmetry, by Trenton —Butwrcup, ran away
with the Nursery at Caulfield, to the great profit ( of the
St. Alban’s stable. Even before the “ good thing came
off rumor had it that Symmetry would follow it up by
winning the Maribymong Plate at Flenungton.
Re Amberite’s chance of beating
V R C Derby, it must be remembered that « aterfall put
up a Caulfield Cup performance that was almost equal to
Amberite’s—the weight being 4lb. less and the time a
quarter of a second faster. Yet Aurora • 818l .® r ’,f
beat Waterfall in the Derby and Cup. Also, Wallace and
another big colt with a lumpy knee got m front of Oxen-
hani’s champion for the blue ribbon. The writer s Derby
tip is Aurum—Amberite—Fleet Admiral.
, * * *
A Lilly Buck-street Chinese drew Ayrshire,
the third horse, in Tattersall’s sweep ° n CauifieW Cup It
is estimated that the Chinese spend £30,000 or £40,000 a
year with Tattersall.
« • *
No horse had a worse run in Caulfield Cup than
Gaulus. He. had inside place, but, as soon as the race
started, he was bumped terribly. He must have lost
60yds. in the first furlong. Considering his running at
Rosehill on the previous Saturday, he should have had a
big show, as there, with Sst.,he ran the U furlongs in
2.23V6 ; so he only needed to do the extra furlong in even
y m e—14sec.—to make the Cup journey in 2.37V6, with
91b. less weight. All going to show that- no horse can be
expected to run up to form in a crowded fleld^
Rev. Jos. Berry, an Adelaide parson, on gamb-
ling : “ £2O annually per family in Australia, or £70,000
per working day, changed hands through horseracmg.
The championship belt, deservedly held by one of the
staff of this paper for the last ten years, is hereby sur-
rendered in favor of the Rev. Joe. ■
• • •
A grey has only won Melb. Cup once— Toryboy,
and only two greys have been ninners-up-Savanaka and
Silvermine. It is many years since a gelding took the big
trick. ....
Cantle: “ About Harry Lyons, the Melb. book,
who has just voyaged off, to oonfab wit h Bagot, Standish,
Tait, and Goidsbrough. He never plunged, but stuck
like wax to the «ver-safe Mr. Fle'd. * . L to h ; s
evangelist ot the ring. AH. Joseph ’ nlun^ed
dangerous plunges —of long ago. Joe Tho P P -
oneway, when Chester all but knocked hun out and
another way when Don Juan knocked him'
princely Don Juan House, East Melb., c ># y
Melba’s Presbyterian Young Ladies College.
W. R. Wilson, who has come back fro ™
land looking very much the better for hia trip, states that
Maluma has grown into a beautiful mare. a
The English colt imported by W. R. ’*
a great grandson of Clemence, who was the g r »nddam of
Carbine and Carnage. Horse relationships are intricate
puzzles to work out. # m
A good story reaches The Bulletin abcmt a
young fellow who was lucky enough to strike LW I, fi
pop, in an Adams sweep, and foolish enough to blab t
heather, a noted pillar of the kirk, whereupon he re-
ceived a long and solemn screed beginning with pious
horror at the son’s depravity, but gradually wo ™ l ' 1 k
round to the conclusion that, as there was no way ot re-
turning the cash, and as such ill-gotten dross could nt
properly be applied to any religious or . ch a«table pur-
pose, the cheque had better he placed m the PAterna*
hands for investment. The holy man got iLandstuck
religiously to the cash, and the young fellow is now vainly
searching round for a bigger ass than himself.
From Monday’s Age “ lI.E. the Gbvernor,
Ladv Brassey and suite attended. The racing was very
interesting, especially the jumping races, n which no
fewer that eight falls occurred. I! E. and Lady B. ha e
both had spills, so perhaps the eight falls, of which tney
did not partake, were “ very interesting.
• • • *
Ayrshire has been running into exactly the same
places in the early “ Carnival ” events as were occupied
by Dunlop and Bravo before winning the Melbourne Gup.
Gaul us was all over Melbourne for days as W.
Forrester's better one for the Caulfield Cup. But The
Grafter finished fifth, and Gaulus was only prominent
when he ami Watercolor bumped early in the race.
• • * •
Eight lines of rhyme in last week’s Bulletin
gave Aniberite, and Amberite only, for the Caulfield Gup.
The tip was posted in Melbourne on the preceding Mon-
day, and the writer thereof did not have one .bean on the
race, as picking the winner of the C.C. had always pre-
viously’ been an impossibility with him.
* * *
Some big names are low down on the V. A.T. C.
prize-list. Sep. Miller is seventh, with one first and four
thirds. “ Sam.” Cook is fourteenth, with one second.
Carbine Wallace is twelfth, with one win. J- Wilson,
Jun., “ the cute ’un of Queenscliff,” is sixteenth. The
Fortunatus Davis stable is eighteenth. W. K. Wilson
runs third with £7lO, of which £4OO represents Aurum s
Guineas.
* * * *
S.M. Herald says Amberite and Little -Jack
are the only three-.vear-olds who have won Caulfield Gup.
How about Waterfall ?
• • * •
Merman’s capture of the Cesarewitch Stakes
the biggest betting handicap in England bar the Cam-
bridgeshire—was foreshadowed b.v W. It. Wilson s report
of the chestnut’s excellent condition when he (W.R.) had
seen him and backed him shortly’ before sailing for Aus-
tralia in September. Merman, at 7st. 51b., won the race
by a neck from the five-year-old The Rush (Bst. 31b.), ana
the result proves that an Australian top-weight is at
least too good to be “chucked into’ a Cesarewitch. If
Maluma’s prospects are not discounted by the soreness
which troubled the mare when Mr. VVilson found her
“ looking splendid ” she will probably’ win the Cambridge-
shire, and then good-bye to Newhaven’s chance of
getting likewise chucked into handicaps at ’Ome. Mer-
man only did his duty by Australia in winning the alleged
£40,000 for Mrs. Langtry. He left this country with a
final record of two consecutive victories—in the \v illiams-
town Cup and the Yan Yean Stakes, at Flemington
Spring Meeting (’96)-his weight being over 9st. on each
occasion. Previously he had carried 7st. 121 b. in
the Caulfield Cup race, where he certainly would
have put his number up hut for getting a bad
start and being subsequently bustled up to assist
his stable companion, Resolute, at the very moment
when he should have been steadied for a rush on his own
account. Nobody knew the full strength of Merman’s
“ form ”in Australia. He was absurdly under-estimated
by the W. R. Wilson stable at the outset, and, as soon as
he began to do big things, Mrs. Langtry's commissioner
came along and hought him. Mrs. L.’s horses appear to
he pretty trickily managed; nevertheless,-the handi-
capping of Merman and Maluma for the autumn events
was unreasonably favorable to their fascinating owner.
About 10 weeks ago, outsider Merman unexpectedly ran
away with a race, the stable-money being planked upon
the "first favorite. Re this little surprise, the Referee
man wrote : “ Saturday’s running I leave to the usual re-
port. except to say that there were two stories about Mer-
man, the winner of the Lewes Handicap, who, as a colonial
with a character, wight have been given more weight .”
* * * *
Bill Martin was scalp-hunting in Adelaide, and
much of his spare time was devoted to answering charges of
insulting langwidge and assault. The gentle William was
fined £4 by the league for abusive remarks hurled at its
officials, from chairman Crnickshank downwards.
William, however, brings the gate, and the league hadn’t
the pluck to disqualify him.
An Adelaide bench has since sent Martin to
gaol for 14 days for a gross and unprovoked assault on
F. N. Ridley, "a cvclist-member of the S.A. Council which
disqualified Martin for two months over his M’Donnell
dispute. In a word, William lias been punching the
Supreme Court. The gentle Bill is reported to have said
he will race no more in Australia—which is very likely
indeed under the circs.
• * * *
“ Fitzsimmons having definitely retired from
the ring, Corbett, the ex-champion, claims the champion-
ship.” Peter Jackson has gone to America to look for a
fight. It is not quite off the cards that the old-time rivals
may come together again, but, for Jackson's sake, the
writer hopes it may not be, for even in his salad days the
darkey ever required the best of condition to make a good
showing.
• * • •
J. W. Stocks, on Dunlop cycle and Dunlop
tyres, has made a hack of Platt-Betts in the mile-record,
doing the distance in lmin. 35 2-ssec., as against Platt-
Betts’ ltnin. 47 8-s*eo. Stocks cut down the quarter mile
to 23 l-6sec., and the half-mile to 47 l-ssec.
* * * *
Dear B.—Your last issue says : “ Platt-Betts’
record-breaking attempts in Australia will not draw the
crowd. The crowd does not want to see a human machine
plugging on its own behind a quad. ... He lacks
brains. Compared with Martin, he is the cyclist who
does not know. . . . Platt-Betts could burst 16 pacers
up; but he couldn’t burst up one opponent. . . . Platt-
Betts will confine his cycling in Australia t<s record
attempts and time trials. Who really cares a rap to see
Platt-Betts, or any other man, race time ? ” In short, you
voice the general opinion that P.B. is a woolly-headed
youth of no sporting interest whatever, but in another
part of the same issue appears a long photo of P.B. with a
biographical notice attached.”— Critic.. [Well? —Ed. B.]
A striking feature of the Melbourne Friendly
Societies’ cvele-track is the “two-foot” mark, a white
line two feet from the inner edge of the track. This space
belongs to the leading man, and whoever would pass him
must cut round outside the white line or be disqualified.
The idea is a Yankee one, and ensures safety for compe-
titors, in protecting them from the trickiness of certain
racing nien.
* • • •
Raniitsinhji, according to latest reports from
England, was not in his best form towards the end of the
season. Rather unfortunate if the Ranji-boom should
fizzle, as the Australian public has been led to expect a
marvel in the duskv Prince. Melb. C.C. has expended
£15,000 to accommodate the “millions” expected, and
8. A.O.A. is also erecting a new pavilion on borrowed
money.
• • * •
At a recent S.A. coursing-meeting, there were
some ominously-named dogs. In one course, O.V.G. beat
Cashier ; and. in the final, O.V.G. came first, with Post-
Mortem runner-up.
» • • *
Geo. Giffen made 98 for W. Adelaide v. E.
Adelaide Oct. 9. Joe Darling made 10S same day. So
far, Lyons and Cletn. Hill have not struck form.
* * * *
Since Melb. City Council introduced an objec-
tionable by-law making cyclists ring bells at every move-
ment, the Melb. wheelmen have formed a conspiracy to
carry cycle-bells in their pockets, and when crossing a
street on foot, to spring their bells behind every City
Councillor they meet. After several members have
jumped 20ft. aud upwards a repeal of the by-law may be
expected. * * *
A few years ago there was running on the Vic.
lines an engine—No. 102—with a gruesome record of 21
human lives to its debit at the time it was ordered by a
scared department to be broken up. From the London
cycling press conies a similar story of a fatal bike, which
dealt death and destruction to all who rode it. “ The
machine, now lying in Scotland Yard police station,’ says
the account, “ made its d6but some years ago when it was
found lying by the side of a young artist on Wimbledon
Common. ' The cyclist was quite dead, having evidently
side-slipped and struck his head on a large stone by the
roadside. After the inquest the bicycle was taken over
by a cousin, but on the first journey taken it slipped on a
tram-line, throwing the rider so heavily that he died of
the injuries he received. A week after his death an
auctioneer’s clerk, who was wheeling the machine to his
master’s showrooms, was knocked down by a hansom cab
and killed - three deaths within a month. The history of
the wheel got abroad, and when it was put up for auction
no bids were made for it. It lay unnoticed amongst some
lumber for a time, when it was bought by a dealer for ten
shillings, and sold to a burglar. The same night he
cracked a crib, and was shot dead as he was riding awa\
with the swag. During the hubbub round the dead
cracksman an audacious thief made off with his wheel,
but a week afterwards made his appearance at the North
London Police Court charged with having run over and
killed an old lady.” A good lie !
* * * •
P. : “ Fishing at Lake Macquarie recently, I
caught several small ‘squire’ (red bream) with the mem-
brane of fins and tail almost wholly decayed. At the base
of the fins there was a slimy mucus, and the general color
of the fish was dull. As these coastal lakes are the nur-
series for our schnapper-grounds, the matter should be in*
vestigated that the disease may be diagnosed.”
Paragraphed in Adelaide papers that Admiral
Bridge and Lieut. Duff had “ left Adelaide on Wednesday
for a few days’ shooting on the Murray.” Whereupon an
irreverent person wrote asking if these big gentry would
be duly prosecuted for shooting in the close season ?
* * * *
Premier Kingston, waited on by a large deputa-
tion of Adelaide pietists recently, intimated his intention
of legislating for the suppression of street-betting, but
plainly refused to listen to the demand for repeal of the
Totalisator Act. “ I have had an opportunity of seeing
how things have worked before and after the totalisator
came into force, and I believe there was bigger betting in
the old days than there is now,” he said.
» * * *
“ Watch’em ” suggests to The Bulletin a cine-
matographic want—a dog-fight.
“ Chows make dexterous billiardists,” writes a
Bpllktin contributor. “ I have met several replicas of
Bret Harte’s no-savee heathen, who have allowed them,
selves to be inveigled into playing against cocky whites,
the latter being duly taken down. One feels a degree of
sympathy with the inscrutable yellow-man, whose absten-
tion from brag is a point so distinctly in his favor.”
• • • •
Recent Bulletin par. tells of an Ohio child,
blind at seven months old, who had a bad fall, thereby
losing both hearing and speech but regaining sight.
Writer had a friend in Rockhampton who was afflicted
with St-. Vitus’ dance. One day this individual, while
turning a corner, ran his hike into a dray, aud was thrown
off some yards with considerable violence. Got up some-
what shaken and stunned, and found—the St. Vitui
trouble had disappeared. It lias never appeared since.
P.S.—lie rode a hike with tyres.
• » * *
The wife of a leading N.S.W. jockey, in apply-
ing for alimony the other day, staled that her husband
got £5OO a year, in addition to substantial sums from
owners of winning horses.
* * • *
Extract of Chinese letter to proprietor of
Kwong Yik W*n Bo : “ Be sure to spend the money I
send on ticket for Melbourne Cup only. There are many
sweeps on Melb. Cup, and if I get a horse the owner can-
not so easily blackmail me as he can in a race where there
is only one sweep."
* * * •
In reply to a correspondent: The original
“Money” Miller didn’t object to his sons’ connection
with the turf. Although he never figured as a racing
man, he was understood to be more or less the master of
the Miller stable in its young days.
• • * *
Although interesting in its results, it is not
gratifying to local builders that Mr. “Sam
should invariably give his orders on the other side of the
herring pond. When Mr. “Sol” Hyam decided to test
the qualities of the narrow and broad-tucked boats, he .
pave an order to the crack builders of the respective
styles, Reynolds and Joe Donnelly. Mr. Hordern might
follow suit, and give a Sydney order for a crack to meet
the Englishman.
* e * *
Gascoyne, who recently established world’s
record of 3min. 59sec. in a two mile handicap from
scratch, rides a Dunlop cycle and Dunlop tyres.
* * * *
Watch the performances of the following cracks,
who will ride Dunlop tyres this seasonPlatt-Betts,
Barden, Martin, Megson, Walne, Green, KelloSv, Porta,
Reynolds, K. Lewis, Payne, Body, A. Middleton, and J.
Carpenter. , * •
Nine-tenths of the cracks who score on Dunlop
tyres are those who use the tyres in conjunction with the
Dunlop Westwood rim, which has now well established it»
claim as being the leading speed rim.
The Bulletin acknowledges receipt of the follow-
ing subscriptions in aid of the movement to bring
the notorious Suffield case to open public enquiry :
£ s. d.
Amount acknowledged issue Sept. 4 .. 13 0 0
J. Martin 0 5 0
Adelaide •• 010 0
Civil Servitude 2,2 2
Jones and Co 0 2
A.B 10 0
Postal Note 2,52
Gilhooley O’Grunt 01 2 2
Delta •• 2 0 0
2 5 2
Connolly’s Camp 4 2 2
F. H. Cole 1 2 2
“ Rebel ” 0 - 2
Dumas and Co ° 1® jj
D.VV.O. ioo
Charleston Miner i 2 2
R. Park .. .. .. •• •• •* 050
Subscribed at Coolgardie and forwarded by
Mr. G. H. Kings well (as per subjoined
list)Mr. Thomas, 10s.; C. Chilwer, 215.;
J. E. Hardwick, 10s. 6d.; A Friend, 10s.;
A Miner and J. Young, 10s.; Three Sym-
pathisers (Great Hanover mine), 155.; A
Friend. 55.; Cooler. Miner and Pioneer,
21s. 6 2 C
£37 6 0
Suffield Enquiry Fund.
A Question of Price.— The best price to pay for a
bicycle is the price of the Best Bicycle. That Red
Bird is the best. They are ridden by the better class
of cyclists.
Why do our competitors belittle Red Bird cycles?
Because they are afraid of honest competition with a
honest bicycle. Better pay for the Red Bird quality
than pay for repairs. “ That Red Bird Cycle is the
best.”
“ Under the best apple-tree are found the most
sticks and stones.” Some firms adopt (?) methods in
setting their goods against Red Birds, but Red Bird
salesmen never belittle other cycles. “They don’t
have to.” See !
Beware of the friend (?) who talks against Red Bird
cycles. He receives a commission to sell other wheels.
Red Bird cycles are sold direct by the manufacturers,
who have a reputation to lose. We have manufactured
better bicycles than anyone else for the past 20 years.
“You get the benefit of that experience.”
The Australian roads are strewn with the bleaching
wrecks of abandoned cycles, but no RED BIRDS are
seen among these sad monuments of cycle-construc-
tion. Red Bird quality is a sure guarantee against
mishap ; their first cost is last cost, as they never re-
quire repairs.
The perfect bicycle at last. The new little oil-bath
bearings of the Red Bird are as far ahead of othei
bearings as the pneumatic tyre is ahead of the solid.
Martin’s celebrated straightaway mile in lnnn. 1.
3-ssec. is proof of their easy running qualities.
The greatest road-race ever held in Australia was
the great Sydney-Goulburn race, a distance of 138
miles. A. E. Gra'em made his reputation in this great
event by breaking all records and winning first time-
prize He attributes much, of his success to the
superior qualities of his RED BIRD, which was the
only Red Bird in the race. “ Red Birds never grow
weary.” There is no road too rough, no journey too
*°Thk great Austral Wheel Race was won by 0. B.
Kellow on his Red Bird. He attributes his success to
its sterling quality.
The heart of the cycle is the bottom bracket. The
new adjusting chain-alignment bottom bracket of the
Red Bird is an improvement of the greatest import-
ance, and with it you will always have a perfect-
running bicycle. The bearings are absolutely dust-
proof and oil-retaining, the balls running in a continu-
ous oil-bath. These improvements make the Red
Bird the fastest wheel on earth, and they never require
repairs.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drive* away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Angus and Robertson announce that Bar-
croft Boake’s poems (ss. sd. posted from this
office) are in their second thousand, and selling
steadily.
Morgan and Co., 105 Castlcreagh-street,
Sydney, publish a useful N.S.W. railway- map
showing all stations, with heights above sea-level
and distances from Sydney.
"BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
ST€RLIN<* CYCLCS.
'|'HE Ladies’ STERLING is so graceful that
it is distinct from all others, and is acknow-
ledged to be the easiest running machine
built. Which accounts for the fact that more
Ladies’ StcrliQgS
were SOLD in AUSTRALIA LAST YEAR
than ALL OTHER makes combined.
STCRLIN6 PCPOT:
75 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lighthy Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy ani. M __ _, _ , ,
Duplicate parts always in stock. I IVI Kfc r» I ML.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Tlx© ACME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
66
DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Missing FriendsT - ~~
T) OBERT LEWIS WARDELL,Iate ofMargate,
11 England, whose address in 1887 was Tem'ora,
is required to communicate with Messrs. McDonell
and Moffitt, of 335 George-street, Sydney, upon
business connected with Mr. G. W. Reeve.
A Miracle if ever there was One.
DAVE KIRK, AN EX-MELBOURNE
CRACK BICYCLIST LEAVES THE
HOSPITAL TO DIE.
SEVEN SPECIALISTS PRONOUNCED
HIS CASE INCURABLE.
TERRTBLE RESULT OF A FALL AT
THE SCOTCH COLLEGE GROUNDS
A YEAR AGO.
PARALYSIS, HEMMORRHAGE, SPINAL
DISEASE, AND LOCOMOTOR
ATAXIA.
NINE MONTHS AGONY IN THE
MELBOURNE HOSPITAL.
| NOW A HEALTHY, ACTIVE MAN.
THANKS TO DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK
PILLS.
(From the Melbourne Advocate.)
Dave Kirk, the well-known and highly-popular
hero of the cycle track, was, on the Bth October of
last year, training in the Scotch College Grounds,
Melbourne, when, all of a sudden, and without
any warning, the tire of the leader broke, and
becoming at once entangled in the wheel, brought
the rider to the ground with terrific force. So
great was the impact that not a single limb or
member of the unfortunate cyclist’s frame escaped
serious injury. In all haste the victim was re-
moved to the Melbourne hospital, more dead than
alive, and quite unconscious from shock and
hemorrhage. A hasty examination of the
patient by the medical staff of that institution
showed them that the case was a most serious one,
and the grave looks of the surgeons in attendance
plainly indicated that they entertained but the
slightest hopes of the unfortunate young man’s
recovery. AIJ that the resources of that fully-
plenished hospital could command were brought
into play for the relief of the patient, but the
gravest fears were felt as to his ultimate safety.
The external injuries were not. after all, the most
serious—the symptoms of serious internal injury
to the nervous system were all too patent to the
practised and expert eye of the medical faculty.
So serious, indeed, was the case of Dave Kirk
considered, that an eminent surgeon who called to
see the patient declared it as his opinion that the
patient would, in all probability, never rise from
his sick bed. There poor Dave lay, betwixt life
and death, for about seven weary and exceedingly
trying months of pain and suffering, unable to
stir hand or foot, unable to move from side to side
—a victim of hemorrhage, spinal disease, pleurisy,
dysentery, complete paralysis of the body, and
last, but by no means least, locomotor ataxy, a
fearful complaint, which utterly prostrates the
human frame and destroys the power of the will;
so muCh so that the common functions of nature
are performed by a power absolutely extraneous to
the will. An idea of the dreadful injuries sus-
tained by the patient may be gathered from the
following details gleaned from Kirk by our repre-
sentative. His left heel had to be removed, and
32 stitches were inserted in that part of his
foot, 18 being placed in his right leg. The knee-
cap was smashed, and had to be lifted. Alto-
gether seven surgeons had to do with the sufferer,
who was reduced to a very weak and almost coma-
tose state after nine operations had been performed
on him. Mortification set in in parts of the lower
limbs, and artificial means had to be employed to
draw off the urine. The system was washed in-
ternally four times every day with water and car-
bolic acid, the stomach being cleaned out by means
of a tube. Injections were also largely employed.
This was a most singular case, and one which
must have afforded ample play for the physician’s
skill and experiment, yet it remained for Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills to effect a radical and com-
plete cure.
THE BRIGHT SIDE OF THE PICTURE.
AN ASTOUNDING CHANGE.
After seven months of bed-ridden existence in the
Melbourne General Hospital, Dave Kirk left that
institution with faint hopes of ever being able to
get about without the aid of crutches, with all
hopes vanished as to his ability to again enter the
cycle arena and carry off once more those brilliant
laurels which were at various big wheel gatherings
wont to be his, for he was Victoria’s largest scratch
crack.
In May last Kirk’s friends, being impressed by
the numerous authentic and spontaneous testi-
monials from persons of both sexes, of every age
and condition of life, and in all parts of the world,
recommended a course of the now world-famed Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People as a last re-
source. Marvellous, but true, as may be learnt
from the patient’s own lips, no sooner had he begun
to take these wonderfully curative pills than
Kirk experienced palpable relief. To let him de-
scribe himself the returning powers to his limbs
and nervous system generally:—“ Gradually the
sense of numbness began to disappear, and the
extremities acquired by degrees their wonted
healthy glow and warmth. While under treat-
ment in the hospital the sense of feeling entirely
disappeared, so much so that when the surgeons
would put a needle into any part of my'body I
was absolutely insensible to the fact. To be sure
of the absence of the sense of touch, the doctors
would conceal my vision, and then question me as
to the part they were piercing ; but my answers
clearly proved to them that I was absolutely bereft
of all sensibility !
“ After a month’s trial of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I was able to throw aside my crutches. But
one of the most powerful effects of the pills was
the restoration of functional health. Bowel
troubles had been a terrible trouble to me ever
since the day I met with the accident. Regu-
larity in this direction was perfectly set up, and T
am now, after four months taking of these pills, in
the enjoyment of perfect health.” It wanted no
assurance of this, as those who had seen the sub-
ject of this narrative are not slow to express their
surprise at the picture of health and almost com-
pletely resuscitated power of body and mind pre-
sented in the person of David Kirk.
But pi rliaps the most demonstrative proof of
the absolute numbness and absence of all feeling
in the patient while under treatment in the hos-
pital was the fact that, although he received a
shock from a powerful galvanic battery—a shock
so strong that the operator declared it to be half a
volt more than he had given to anyone in the in-
stitution for 40 years—Dave Kirk was utterly un-
able to feel its effect!
A PRACTICAL ILLUSTRATION OF
RESTORED VITALITY.
A few days ago Dave Kirk, who, by the way, is
to be found at his hairdresser’s and tobacconist’s
establishment, 401 Elizabeth-street north, caught
sight of a certain individual to whom, it Seems,
he had let out one of his bikes on hire and
who is said to have been possessed of so bad a
memory that he forgot to return the machine to its
owner ! As showing the restored strength and
vigor of the erstwhile bed ridden man, Kirk made
a clash, and a hand-to-hand struggle ensued. His
opponent was a powerfully-built fellow, and a much
heavier weight than Dave. Blood flowed freely
on both sides, but Dave proved one too many for
his man, and witli a dexterous effort managed, un-
assisted to get him into a cab, and took him uncere-
moniously off to lay a charge against him. That
was, perhaps, the most practical evidenceof restored
vitality that could well be given on the part of
the cycle champion. Naturally enough, the thou-
sand and one chums of the once-thought dead, but
now very much alive, cyclist are loud in their
praises of the world-famed Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and whenever Dave goes out he is beseiged
with congratulations on his regained health. In
common gratitude, the athlete never fails to give
the whole credit of his recovery to that wonderful
remedy discovered by Dr. Williams. Moreover,
Kirk is able to trench a large garden at home, and
walk two miles daily to his business place.
The following articles appeared in the Mel-
bourne Argus and Hkrald last year shortly after
Dave Kirk met with his mishap, proving that his
condition was considered hopeless :
EXTRACT FROM THE MELBOURNE
“ARGUS.”
“Everyone has heard of Kirk, the crack racer.
About a month ago he met with an accident
whilst training, and has been in the Melbourne
Hospital ever since. The medical authorities say
that he will never ride again, as his spine has
been so badly hurt that he will likely be paralysed
for life.”
EXTRACT PROM THE “HERALD.”
“Da y e Kirk, residing at the Coffee Palace,
v ictoria-street, North Melbourne, sustained
severe injuries through falling from his bicycle
while training on the track at the Scotch College
ground. The tyre of his bicycle burst, and Kirk
was thrown violently to the ground. He was re-
moved in a cab to the Melbourne Hospital.”
The latter extract appeared in the Herald on
the afternoon of the accident, October 9, 1896.
The former appeared in the Argus about a month
later, after the physicians and authorities had
E laced him under treatment, and discovered that
is injuries had resulted in paralysis, spinal disease,
and locomotor ataxia, and that he was entirely
beyond their aid. His case was accordingly, by
the physicians who examined him, pronounced in-
curable, and they told poor Kirk that he would
never rise from his bed again.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People have
cured paralysis, locomotor ataxy, rheumatism and
sciatica ; also all diseases arising from impoverish-
ment of the blood, scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexions, general
muscular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,
all forms of female weakness and hysteria. These
pills are a tonic, not a purgative. They are
genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by
| chemists and storekeepers generally, or the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney,
will forward, on receipt of stamps or post order,
one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dozeu for 15s. 3d.
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<£R€VILL€
— BICYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4sin.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New JEIS Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
Grt-tfillc T6roer Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
..CLEARANCE SALE..
UJoIf American High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
ECAX.F-FRICI: !
Ladies’ model of mast graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. W Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
0
MACKLIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD; also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CL A ItENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
WA.LKA.LLA GOLDFIELD.
Tlie Famous Long Tunnel (Cohen’s) Line of Quartz Reef.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF THE
Southern Long Tunnel Gold Mine Company (No Liability).
(TO BE REGISTERED.) i «/ tf
CAPITAL : £20,000 in 40,000 Shares of 10s. each.
14,000 Shares paid up retained by the Vendor.
26,000 Shares are offered to the public on the following
terms :—ls. on application, and Is. 6d. on allotment.
All the money subscribed, less £l5OO, as cash payment
for the property, expenses of flotation and brokerage, to
be placed to the credit of the Company. The Company
may be registered when 15,000 Shares have been sub-
scribed. The money paid to the Vendor will only com-
pensate for the prospecting work and tunnelling on the
mine to date. The public thus receives a property pros-
pected and ready for immediate development, as the
reports attached will testify.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS—W. IT. Holyoak, Merchant,
Melbourne ; W. P. Wynne, Machinery Merchant, Balla-
rat ; John Haworth, Wool Merchant, Geelong; T.
Tupper (late Mines Manager Long Tunnel), Walhalla.
BANKERS— Bank of Australasia.
SOLICITORS— Fink, Best & Hall, Rialto, Collins-street,
Melbourne.
BROKERS —Melbourne : J. 11. Butler, 66 Elizabeth-st.;
Ballarat: H. S. Wyatt, Mining Exchange; Geelong:
Herbert W. Day, R.vrie-street; Walhalla: Charles
Refardt ; Sydney : W. H. Vivian, Stock Exchange.
LEGAL MANAGER and OFFICE (pro tern.)— Herbert
Wm. Day, 415 and 417 Collins-street, Melbourne.
This Company is being formed for the purpose of
acquiring and working the Leases Nos. 2295 and 2341,
having a total area of 53 acres 0 roods 30 perches, situated
at Rifle Butts Gully, Walhalla, 224 chains to the South of
the Long Tunnel Company’s ground.
The famous Long Tunnel (or Conen’s) Line of Reef has
been proved by tunnels set in at various points to extend
right through the Leases, and has been inspected and re-
ported on as the prospecting work was progressing, by
some of the most eminent and practical Mining Managers
in the Walhalla district, including :
Mr. R. NOBLE, Manager of the Long Tunnel Extended
G.M. Co.
Mr. WM. LAWSON, late Manager of the North Long
Tunnel and the World’s Fair G.M. Companies.
The late Mr. J. BARRAS, Manager Great South Long
Tunnel G.M. Co.
CALEB THOMAS, Esq., Government Mining Surveyor
for the District of Walhalla ; and
Mr. J. COLQUHOUN-THOMSON, Manager of the
Walhalla Tailings and Sluicing Co.
The practical knowledge and long experience of the
Long Tunnel Line of Reef possessed by these gentlemen
Is sufficient to recommend their reports and opinions.
A considerable amount of prospecting work has been
ione in proving the existence of the Long Tunnel Reef
on the property, including 696 feet of tunnelling, sinking
a shaft and winze on the lode.
No. 1 TUNNEL is driven 145 ft., and cuts a solid body of
stone 18in. wide, carrying free gold.
No. 2 TUNNEL at 74ft. intersects the first solid body of
stone 24in. wide ; at 89ft. the second body of stone is cut,
18in. thick, upon which a winze has been'sunk 10ft. ; and
at 148 ft. there is a third body of solid quartz 3ft. wide.
No. 3 TUNNEL is in 400 ft., and it is estimated that an-
other 24ft. will .-lit, the No. 1 Lode of No. 2 Tunnel.
The stone intersected in the tunnels carries payable
gold and is highly ~,.neralised. Front No. 3 Tunnel there
are about 400 ft. of backs, but as the reef will increase in
richness below water-level it has been recommended to
sink a permanent shaft at the No. 3 Tunnel, and drive
levels on to the lode.
There is abundance of timber on the ground, and every
facility for the economical working of the property. The
Mining Managers who have inspected the mine are of one
opinion ns to its value and possible developments.
It is intended to start by immediately erecting a 20-head
Battery to crush the stone from the 400 ft. of backs already
in sight. The Battery is to be increased as the lower
levels are reached.
EXTRACTS FROM REPORTS
Mr. WM. LAWSON reports : —“The property is situated
on the famous Cohen’s Line of Reef, and in in y opinion
these two Leases comprise a very valuable property.
“ The Upper or Main Tunnel (No. 2 Tunnel), has been
driven a total distance of 16()ft. At about 100 ft. from the
mouth of the tunnel a well-defined body of stone is inter-
sected and has been opened upon for some distance
South on the course of the reef. There are two clean-de-
fined walls, the reef has a slight underlay to the East.
This stone gives a fair prospect. At 16ft. further East
another well-defined body of stone is showing, on which a
winze has been sunk for about 20ft. The reef is about
18in. thick and gives fair prospects.
“ Further East a large belt of diorite dyke is intersected,
over 40ft. thick, and on the Eastern side of this dyke a
strong well-defined lode is met with between two belts of
dyke. The lode is fully 2ft. thick and carries fair gold.
“ These three lodes all have a slight underlay to the
East, but in my opinion this is merely local, and when a
little greater depth is attained they will be found to take
their proper course or underlay, and I am of opinion that
at no great depth it will be found that the different reefs
intersected in the tunnel will converge into one, as soon
as the two most easterly ones reach the dyke formation.
“ The strike or trend of the reefs are almost identical
with the Cohen’s —N. 19° W.
“ At a short distance lower down the hill another tunnel
(No. 1 Tunnel) has been put in a distance of 140 ft. At
about 90ft. in, a body of stone has been passed through,
the same being fully 2ft. wide and highly mineralised.
In my opinion this tunnel has not been extended far
enough to the east to cut the other reef intersected in the
upper tunnel.
“ A shaft has been sunk on the reef from the crown of
the adjoining hill, and here the reef is 2ft. thick, hard,
and well-defined, and carries gold and a good deal of
mineral.
“ In conclusion, I think this is a valuable property."
CALEB THOMAS, Esq., reports—
“ The formation is upper Silurian. There are two
tunnels driven and a shaft sunk on the line of reef. In
the upper tunnel three reef formations have been inter-
sected, having an average underlay of 73° E. ; the first,
about 70ft. in, is 2ft. wide, fairly good laminated stone ;
the second, at 90ft., has a winze sunk on it about 16ft.,
showing fair stone to the bottom ; the third, at 150 ft., is
in a rubbly quartz formation, and a very fair prospect of
free gold was washed from this in my presence.
“ The three formations may possibly converge in depth.
“ I consider that the claim is well worth developing, as
there are certainly good prospects to be obtained, and the
ground is easily worked."
Mr. R. NOBLE reports :—“ The No. 1 Tunnel is driven
143 ft. ; the reef is 15in. thick, and you can get gold by
washing.
“ The No. 2 Tunnel is driven 163 ft. ; the western reef is
cut at 100 ft., and the eastern reef at 125 ft.
“The western formation is about 2ft., and you can get
a little gold by prospecting.
“ The eastern reef is mixed with slate and quartz. About
4ft. between the walls you can get a fair prospect of gold
in this reef.
“ The large body of diorite dyke carries leaders and
spurs of quartz, from which you can get a prospect of gold
by crushing. The property being ■ situated close to the
South Great Long Tunnel, and on the Cohen’s line of reef,
I should recommend to drive south on the course of your
different lines of reef, and sink the No. 1 Winze.”
And further reports on 2nd October“ Since I last
visited your mine I see that you have driven a tunnel
400 ft. north-east, and passed through several formations
of loded country. ] think it would be advisable to sink a
shaft 300 or 400 ft., about 120 ft. south-east of the lower
tunnel. The different lines of lode will come together by
going down a depth. It would not be expensive to sink,
as it is a good, clean slate country.”
Mr. J. COLQUHOUN-THOMSON reports“ The
Leases are situated on the Long Tunnel or Cohen’s Line
of Reef, about 22J chains to the South of the Long
Tunnel Company’s ground. I found some very good
prospecting work has been done.
“ The westerly or No. 1 Tunnel is driven in 143 ft., ana
cuts a body of nice-looking laminated stone, 15in. thick,
from which I dollied a sample and got free gold.
“ The No. 2 or Upper Tunnel thoroughly proves the
value of the ground. I took measurements and found
that it intersects three well-defined bodies of solid stone
at the following distances : —At 74ft. the first body of
stone, 24in. wide, is cut, which has been opened upon
sufficiently to show that it is between clean well-defined
walls. I got free gold from samples I took. At 89ft. the
second body of stone, fully 18in. wide, is intersected. A
winze has been sunk 16ft. on this. I took a sample from
all over, and on crushing same got a payable prospect of
gold. The walls of this No. 2 body of stone are also well-
defined. From this point a body of diorite containing
quartz leaders occurs, and at 148 ft. the third body of
stone, fully 36in. wide, isi ntersected. Samples taken
gave good payable prospects.
“ No. 3 Tunnel is set in from the creek level, about
150 ft. lower than No. 2. Is driven in 400 ft. At 20ft. from
the mouth a body of stone is intersected, 18in. wide,
highly mineralized and carrying good gold. From point
50rt. to 7lft. in this tunnel, the country is very heavily
mineralised. At the face, the -slate carries bands of
mineral.'
“ 1 found pretty heavy water making at the face, and
from the underlay I estimate that'within 24ft., No. lLode
in No. 2 Tunnel should be cut.
“ The No. 2 Tunnel proves the existence of the line of
reef, and I am of opinion that the three bodies of stone
will converge into one at a depth.
“ The three stones are alike in character,- nicely lamin-
ated and carrying heavy mineral. The total width of
stone visible is'Gft. 6in., carrying payable free gold.
“ l consular that the property htis been sufficiently pro-
spected, and that it should now be worked to.win the gold.
That although you would have nearly 400 ft, of backs from
your No. 3 Tunnel, I am of the opinion that you should go
below water-level. The rich stone got at a depth from this-
line of reef recommends this.
“ I would, therefore, recommend to sink a shaft to the
south-east of No. 3 Tunnel, and crosscut east and west.
From the nature of the country, this can be done at a
comparatively small cost; sinking a few hundred feet
would give faces for a large output of stone.
“ In conclusion, I consider your property a very valuable
one. From the nature of the country and the surface
facilities, it can be opened up and worked very econo mi
cally."
THE FULL REPORTS.
PROSPECTUSES containing full reports, locality plan,
<&c., may be obtained from THE) BROKERS. The Sydney
Broker is Mr. W. H. VIVIAN, Stock Exchange ; Legal
Manager, H. W. DAY, 416 Collins-st., Melbourne.


Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.
• • •
Cleanse your blood with Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla —the most thoroughly
reliable alterative ever compounded.
For scrofula, boils, ulcers, sores, car-
buncles, pimples, blotches, and all
disorders originating in vitiated
blood, this medicine is a specific.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is equally bene-
ficial as a remedy for catarrh, rheu-
matism, and rheumatic gout. As a
Tonic, it assists the process of
digestion, stimulates the sluggish
liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated
by excessive fatigue or wasting
illness. Physicians everywhere con-
sider Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the best. It
is a skilfully-prepared combination
of the most powerful alteratives and
tonics. No other blood-purifier gives
equal satisfaction or is so universally
in demand.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills cure biliousness
FOR SAW-GULLETING, PLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
Xb.e Tauite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT, .
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.'s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
ENTGUNTBERS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OF VITAL INTEREST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “WORDS OF
WISDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Thousands have been
PERMANENTLY CURED after trying all
other means. If you have been humbugged and
disappointed, write to-day tor the Book and 5000
testimonial letters, posted F REE, SEALED and
WITHOUT MARKS.
Address : DR. IRVING CO.,
Corner HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
) Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. *
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (i<l.
Sole Agents:
X
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st., Sydney
Medical.
Peafocss
and HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Relieved
Believe all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
‘ perous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucadvptus Oil. Co. Ltd., Hobart.
vanffltruXbn&CocPCL
Contains more digestible nourishment than the finest Beef
Tea. For Breakfast, Luncheon, or Supper, it is unequalled.
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING) & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
u
ITrad* Mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far mors wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
u
EASY RUNNING
NEW HOME
SEWING MACHINES.
77
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Haying been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4<t
Journals, 4d.; by post, 5d
Needles,
We keep a stock of Needl6B,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
Fittings,
any Sewiug Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
AKD
Repairs.
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
-Sewing Machines of any itip l -
STYLE No: 14.
£9 ». OASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane
YORKSHIRE RELISH
> the most delicious sauce in the world.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
•ATIVnNNV CTCOS
saixxoa ho SNomm
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., I/-, and 2 - each.
Proprietors! GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO-,
TII.I.OCK
LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
& CO., KENT and LIVEKPOOI. STREETS ( SVDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected. —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
1 British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.
At long, long last ! Once more has Lon-
don E. News reproduced—as “ Our Short Story ”
—a Bulletin yarn ; but, this time, mirabile diet'd,,
with acknowledgment of source. Conscience-
smite or show-up ?
Premier Braddon claims Tasmania as “the
most loyal of all the self-governing colonies.”
True; and Van Dobson is the loyalest Tassy of
the lwt. The Jubilee illuminations of ordinary
citizens were limited by the prospective length Of
the bill, and their gorgeous designs in twisted
gaspipe sputtered for two brief nights of glory,
only to be consigned to the scrap-heap of oblivion
on the morning of the third day. But Dobson’s
device bids fair to blazon forth his devotion to his
Queen for more years than anybody can remem-
ber. Overlooking Hobart, on a fine, clear hillside,
he had the letters V.R. over 60 deeply trenched .
into the green sward in conspicuous characters
30vds. long. This brand is clearly visible from !
every part of the town and port, and can’t be
rubbed out so long as Dobson holds the deeds of
the paddock. The idea was probably borrowed
from Mt. Wellington, where a symmetrical “S.T."
(formed by the deep snow lingering in the gullies
on the mountain-face) heralds the approach of
Spring Time as regularly as the swallows home-
ward fly.
A Nyah (Vic.) Fat man wrote to Melb.
Trades Hall Council the other day, stating that
there was plenty of profitable employment at
clearing land to be had in his district. He also
observed that the “dissipated unemployed ” had
“ extravagant notions about labor and hours,” and
referred to the need of working by moonlight to >
make good wages at clearing land. Moreover, he
assured the council that working by moonlight
was fine fun. It would certainly save a lot of
sleep. And what does alow, unemployed person
want with sleep, anyhow ?
N.S.W. Premier Reid’s brother Bob is a
pillar of Freetrade and piety in Melbourne. As
an advocate of religion and lots of it in State
schools he is excessively zealous. Witness : “ The
reading of the Bible is the birthright of every
Britisher. Our past history teems with instances
of heroism and nobility of character when this
privilege has been fought for in years gone by.”
Past history also teems with instances proving
that the Britisher considers it his birthright to
force the other fellow to read the Bible, as Reid
and his ilk are trying to do now. Nobody wants
to prevent Reid exerting his birthright and read-
ing the Bible till all’s blue, but it is when he
wants to force the other fellow to read, and to
read according to Reid’s lights, that the public
plants down its hoof. It now remains for the
Reid party to take another lesson from history,
and set up a pillory, a scavenger’s daughter, and
other little aids to true religion
Since Earth was young
The Bards have sung
The rapture keen and exquisite
The lover feels
As softly steals
His arm round Her in the white moonlight.
But keener far
His pleasures are
Who, when his day’s work’s finished quite,
Springs forth alert,
In pants and shirt,
To grub up stumps in the stilly night.
The Fatman will
Respect him still—
The Fatman doth his own kind know
For he, we wis,
Who’d slave like this,
A Fatman is—in embryo.


HEiR/iR, i^^ssnvnxjssEnsr,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALINC H€R3AL R€N|€Pl€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain. .
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
. 160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them •, therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
full Y, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn. —Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills aoted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
m „ March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussbn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
f have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. PUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Peker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
Btreet, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
Bpeaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal bind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussbn. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
trom General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
»nd having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95Castle-
/eagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
, ' '7
l
f I
V
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was Under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, nut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
IJ3P” ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. 1 am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Aroadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, of
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Hmtit Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using you*
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear aomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows:
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9/3/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, ar.d which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to iny friends.—Your?
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Hbrr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, — In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of yout
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years'ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
„ . . JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—ail to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. lam willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Your?
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
L IST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S A LEA LINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED.
SWO GOLD
SMUSSOt
ALS
v
tu»
of Hr
umi
k
ALFA LINE PILLS?
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD * NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Fills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
'SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alla line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Golds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Altaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuiiant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming'the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor
Boxes, 6s. -
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. r
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without* doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with I Battery 30s.
» 2 „ 425.
3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hins
when ordering one. F
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book»
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own est.ablishme 't.«, as
advertised on this page. All HERtt RAi-SMUSSENS
REM*'DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be jjiven FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his H ad Office or P ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Inter co lonial
Branches:
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Bundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal' Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street,
i remantle—Henry-street, next corner of Hay-street


Amusements.
Theathb hova L, STnNE Y.
Sol* Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
EVERY EVENING ! at 7.45 EVERY EVENING I
“ROMAJfITY R YB.”
A GREAT AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS.
Mr. GKO. RIGNOLD
Supported by his Powerful Dramatic Company.
Popular Prices—3s., 25.. Is. Box plan at Elvy & Co's,
Qeorge-street. M. MARCUS, Acting Manager.
■piilNl’ESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THIRD WEEK snd TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS 1
“A. Royal Divorce.”
Superbly Mounted, Richly Costumed, and Splendidly
Interpreted.
A Veritable Sensation Created by the Tableaux.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as NAPOLEON.
Miss AOA FERRAR as JOSEPHINE.
THEATRE, , MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Nelson Forties and Erskine Scott.
Continued Success of the New Dramatic Co.
SATURDAY, 23rd OCTOBER,
First Production in Australia of the Sensational Drama,
Alexandra
Leasees. Nel
“A FATAL TUNC.”
NOTE THE PRICES —ls., 2s. and SIXPENCE.
BIJOU TH RATHE, MELBOURNE.
Under the sole direction of Prof. T. A. Kennedy.
SATURDAY, 23rd OCTOBER.
First appearance in Melbourne of the World Famous
Prof. D. M. BRISTOLM3
Marvellous Educated Horses, Ponies & Mules.
PRICES —2s. and ONE SHILLING.
Family Matinees Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
at 3 p.m.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
RETURN OF
MA6<SI€ MOOR€
AUSTRALIA’S : MOST : POPULAR : ACTRESS,
Supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS,
AND A STRONG DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Opening Production—The Successful Domestic Drama,
JAQUELIN A.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s. New Production Weekly.
FRANK TNORNTON.
ET OUST TOUR.
ADELAIDE, BROKEN HILL, Em
EIGHT WEEKS.
Rea', German Hollow Ground
A *
✓
4l feS2«4
N-VER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LOOM. V'
Music, &o.
Bafyd lostrOnjcots !
At Immense Reductions!
W. H. GLEN and CO.,
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY,
ARE now Selling MUSICAL INSTRU-
MENTS ot ALL KINDS
AT LESS THAN COST PRICE
FOB CASH OS’ LY.
A Few of the Lines Now Being Offered :
GAUTROT’S B FLAT CORNETS, new model,
30s. and 355. each ; usual prices, 60s. and 70s.
GAUTROT’S E FLAT CORNETS, 50s. each ;
usual price, £5.
GAUTROT’S B FLAT and 0 BASSES, 575. 6d.
each ; usual price, 90s.
GAUTROT’S D and E FLAT ALTOS, 425. each;
usual price, 80s.
GAUTROT’S G TROMBONES, 475. 6d. each;
usual price, 90s.
LECOMRTF'S ALTOS and CONTRALTOS,
355. each ; usual price, 80s.
BESSON’S 10 and L 2 Guinea CORNETS for 100 s.
and 1108. each.
GAUTROT’S A, B FLAT, and C CLARIO-
NETS, 455. each ; usual price, 84s.
FLUTES, 4,5, and 6 keys, best English make,
95., 9s. Gd. and 10s. each.
FLUTE FLAGEOLETS, 4,5, or 6 keys, lls.,
12s. Gd., and lls. 6d. each.
VIOLINS, good models, from 15s. each.
VIOLIN CASES, from 6s. Cd.
VIOLIN BOWS, from ss.
VIOLIN, BOW, and CASE, complete, for 21s.
ACCORDIONS, Imperial, 1.5 s ; steel reeds, 17s 6d.
CONCERTINAS, 20 notes, 55., 7s. 6d., and Bs. Gd.
each.
CONCERT and ELEGIE ZITHERS, in case,
complete, 555.
AUTO-HARPS, 3 bars, 19s. each.
AUTO-HARPS, 6 bars, 255. each.
BRASS and WOOD INSTRUMENTS by all
the PRINCIPAL MAKERS,
And all other MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and
SUNDRY GOODS,
AT
EQUALLY LOW PRICES for CASH ONLY.
Catalogues Gratis to any Address.
Instruments Sent to any part of the Australian
Colonies at above Prices.
All Country and Intercolonial Orders must be
accompanied by a remittance. We make no charge
for packing or delivery at Melbourne railway
station or wharf.
W. H. GLEN and CO.,
272 and 274 COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE; and
369 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY.
Amuwments. ,
Eli MAJESTY’S TH EAT It E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees. Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Oeo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS 1 LAST 2 NIGHTS 1
The Musical Comedy,
“Tb€ (Say Parisi€oo€.”
SATURDAY, Oct. 23—" TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. J3T" PRICES—Ss., 3a., 25.. and la.
pALACJ! THEAT HE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Managing Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS 1 LAST NIGHTS 1
of the
AMUSINGLY : FARCICAL : MUSICAL : COMEDY,
“A BUNCH OF KEYS.”
The Most Amusing Comedy ever written
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., & Is. Children Ualf-prico.
Matinees every Wednesday.
I VO LI 'l* H E A T K E, SYDNE Y.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success of the latest arrivals from London,
Joseph.—The Waldrons —Ettie- Tom Wootwell
Continued Hkilhant Success or
EMILY LYNDALE. THE 2 AVOLOS. FRANK LEON.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s. is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
rpUE OPELtA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole L****ee & Managing Director— Mr. Harrt Rickards.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
The HAYTORS. The SELBINIS-8.
T he Queen'» Diamond Jubilee Picture *
CHAS. COG ILL. J. W. VVINTON. ATHAS & COLLINS.
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE eHELDON.
And the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s fid, 2s. Is, & Od. P ■at Allan's, Colling-street.
Matinee Performances every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m.
U~ NITED AUSTRALASIAN AXEMEN'S
ASSOCIATION.
SEVENTH GRAND CARNIVAL will open at the
EXHIBITION GROUNDS, MELB.,
On FRIDAY. 29th OCTOBER, at 1.45 p.m., when the
Worlds Champion Axemen and Sawyers will Compete.
Entries best on Record (Total, over 400).
PROGRAMME—FRIDAY, 29th OCTOBER.
Amateur Chopping Match, 20 starters; Maiden Sawing
Match, 10 starters ; Champion Underhand Chop (from five
colonies), 14 starters ; Double-handed Sawing (attempt to
lower World’s Record by champions); Seven other Events
with large fields.
Also NOVEMBER 1 and 2 (Cup Night, by Electric
Light) 3 and 5.
Most Unique, Novel and Exciting Contests ever
Witnessed. pr ADMISSION-ONE SHILLING.
IL A. NICIIOLS ... Manager.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the Direction of the Meesra. MacMahen.
HUGE SUCCESS 1
Crowding this Spacioua Theatre Nightly— of the Stirring
Military Play
“AT PUTT’S CALL.”
The Queen’s Jubilee Pictures, taken by Royal Command,
are also presented with this great drama, and nightly
EVOKE UNBOUNDED ENTHUSIASM. The Startling
Prices prevail—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Nicholsons.
g alon cinematographs,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
TIIE NEW ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A POSITIVE SENSATION.
OVER TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND VISITORS
TO DATE.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 a.m. Onward.
J. MAO MAHON.
pRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
Theatre Royal,
Brisbane.
Miss Elsie Lander (late leadintr lady Saunder-
son's National Company, U.S.A.) invites the
attention of the play-going public of Brisbane to
the fact that she has leasea the Theatre Royal,
Brisbane, for an extended season of high-class
sensational melodrama. Twelve startling and
realistic dramas, entirely new to Australia, have ,
been secured. Several of these have proved
phenomenal successes in America, and all are
good. They will be mounted in a style superior
to anything ever yet seen in Brisbane. Entirely
new and beautiful scenery is being painted ; new
and pretty costumes and wonderful mechanical
effects have been prepared. Miss Lander will be
supported by a strong company of the very best
favorite Australian artists. The stage is being
strengthened to carry the horses introduced in
some of the plays, and special precautions will be
taken to safeguard the Theatre during the ex-
plosions and fire-scenes which will be placed before
the public on a scale unrivalled throughout Aus-
tralia. There will be startlingly novel sensations
in every play. No larce theatres are available in
Sydney or Melbourne for some .months to come,
and Miss Lander is therefore beginning her Aus-
tralian tour at Brisbane. The season will com-
mence early in November; each drama will be
played for
SIX NIGHTS ONLY;
and there will be no revivals.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Latest Novelties >0 Dianjoijd RiOgS-
Quality, Finish, J) Durability Guaranteed.
18c. Half Hoop.
( Fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller Slones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lot sly Opals, 45, 50,-, <O/-
18c. Engagement.
S Fine Diamonds, £&.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruhv, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
18c. La Parisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Kuby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
18c. Gipsy.
3 Fine Diamonds, £2 55.,
£3, £4.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, tl 155.,
£2 55., £3.
POST
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s, £5,
£7 10».
I! 18 CT I
18c. Buckle.
1 Fine Diamond, £2.
1 Fine Sapphire, Uuby or
Opal, £1 15s.
18c. Band.
1 Fine Diamond, 40'-, 60/-,
100 -. Rubv or Sapphire,
30'-, 45 -, 60 -. Opal or
Pearl, 25, -, 40/-, 50/-.
18c. Single Stone
1 Fine Diamond, JBIO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s. t £5,
£7 10a.
Send Size of Finger by a Piece of Wire or a Hole in Cardboard.
WE MAVE 1000 OTHER DESIGNS OP RINGS IN STOCK.
NOTE Ont Ojut Acstbaliast Adorkss — 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
LEAGUE OF WHEELMEN.
Summer : Cycling : Carnival!
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23rd;
AGRICULTURAL GROUND,
SATURDAYS, OCT- 30tb ai)d NOV. 6tb-
First Appearance of PLATT-BETTS, World’s Record Breaker;
AINSWORTH, English Amateur Champion; and
RELPH, Australian Record Holder.
£3OO - GREAT SYDNEY WHEEL RACE - £3OO
SCRATCH RACES. PACED RACES.
HANDICAP RACES.
Martin, Reynolds, Green, Megson, Walne, Forbes, Body, Tebbutt.
Sydney Cricket Ground —Next Saturday.
Agricultural Ground—Saturday, Oct. 30 & Nov. 6.
They are the Best Is Books
IN THE WOULD.
POST FREE Is. 2d.
'TK
H
iwsi c
oQ
trice
each
& (* The "Bkx^Collka StrwtMrih> a mt
Allan’s Australian
... Music Books.
EACH BOOK comprises 32 pages of full-size
Music, carefully selected and edited, and free
from the errors so often found in cheap publica-
tions of this class.
The Latest Numbers
are THOROUGHLY UP-TO-DATE, and this
SERIES STILL MAINTAINS the LEAD
among Is. MUSIC BOOKS.
COMPLETE LIST FORWARDED FREE.
No. 39. No. 39. No. 39.
Popular Marches for the Pianoforte.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 39. Contents :
1. The Washington Post... ... ... Sousa
2. The Liberty Bell ... , ... ... ... Sousa
3. The Yale March Fan Boar
4. The Boomerang March from “ Lelamine ” ...
... ... Moulton
5. March in Scipio ... ' Handel
6. March from Masaniello Auber
7. Manhattan Beach Sousa
8. The High School Cadets . Sousa
9. Trauermareh (from The Leider) Mendelssohn
10. Trilby Polka March ... Svengali
11. March in Fidelio Beethoven
12. lUkoczy March Neumann
No. 38. No. 38. No. 38.
16 EASY PIANO DUETS,
Arranged Without Octaves.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 38. Contents:
1. “ The Irish Emigrant ”
2. “ Annie Laurie ”
3. “ The Last Rose of Summer"
4. “ What are the Wild Waves Saying” ...Glover
5. “ Ring the Bell, Watchman ” ...
G. “I Dreamt That I Dwelt” (“Bohemian
Girl”) lialfe
7. “ Within a Mile of Edinboro’ Town”
8. “ Ye Banks and Braes"
9. “ The Blue Bells of Scotland ” ... .... ...
10. “Scenes That Are Brightest” (“Maritana )
Wallace
11. “The Old Folk's at Home”
12. “ The Campbells are Cornin’” ... Bishop
13. “ Home, Sweet Home ” ...
14. “Robin Adair”
15. “ Rule Britannia
16. “ God Save the Queen ”
No. 37. No. 37. No. 37.
CONTAINS
Ninety-Four Hornpipes, Reels, Jigs, Country
Dances, Barn Dances, Schottisches, Sc c.
Including all the Well - Known and Popular
Melodies.
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
No. 36. No. 36. No. ,36.
Six Pavourite Pianoforte Duets.
No. 36. Contents:
Stephanie Gavotte
Wilkommen Gavotte
Weber's Last Waltz ...
The Merry Peasant ... .«
Minuet
Spring Song
Barker
Moore
... Czibulka
... Kluss
Schumann
Boccherini
Mendelssohn
Price, Is. ; Posted, Is. 2d.
ALLAN & GO. Proprietary Limited,
COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER
CvcWßllill
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Biware of Injurious Imitations .
«BEETHAM’S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2/6 of ail Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists. Cheltenham. England.
FELTON, GRIMYVADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
BY ROYAL. WARELA3NTT of APFOXKrXMBKTX to “ THE
QtIEBKT.”
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE ”
Schweppe
ASK FOB
BRANDY AND
SCHWEPPE.
SODAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Have received ex Duke of Sutherland,
Polynesien, Hawke’s Biy, and other
steamers, a further
133 PA.CICA.<IH3 133
making 655 Bales and Cases of New
Goods to hand this season.
Newest Fabrics and Latest Styles and
Novelties in all departments.
Finest Assortment and Lowest Prices
in Queensland.
Inspection and Comparison Invited.
. Samples, Price Lists, and Fashion Plates
post free on application.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO
■ELLIN’S
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Pcckham, London, England.
WIG MAIL frltS
TTAIUintIiSMItS A Nit
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig’Nets, Curling Tongs[
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles’
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &o.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO th s_ l l adies -
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Seal pets, &C.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 682 George Street, Sydney.
x© o . WSjSJSH
3
Ibj
P 3
Vst
O
E
> o
<
m
5*
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist: “Zen vyf You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung ; Is, 3d, posted.
The first private benefaction received by
Sydney University consisted of .£5OO, from one
Solomon Levey. The money was originally in-
tended for orphans at the Grammar School.
Dear Bulletin, —ls there any solid reason
why people arrested on suspicion of being of un-
sound mind should be treated as drunks, thieves,
or burglars ? It is a standing disgrace that unfor-
tunate lunatics (and their friends) should be sub-
jected to the coarse indignity of being haled before
a police-court so that the Bench can order them to
a receiving-house for treatment and safety. Such
cases are always decided by the medical officer’s
testimony, and surely a plain double or treble cer-
tificate should be sufficient to consign the poor
patients to the care of the metropolitan authorities
without the formal public proceedings of a court.
—ltan.
Prussian War Office scientists assert, as
the result of numerous experiments on men who
didn’t know they were being so used, that the
consumption of small quantities of sugar gives
increased muscular power, and therefore increased
work value. A test series of similar experiments
with saccharin, for comparison with the sugar
series, showed that on the days when sugar was
used as the food-sweetener far more work was got
• through than on the saccharin days. The ex-
planation is that muscular exertion reduces the
amount of sugar in the blood below the normal,
hence the extra value of sugar (sweetener' and,
food) over saccharin (sweetener only).
When the machinery of the Sydney
Catholic Press was officially blessed, even the
clerical “glory av God and tin per cint.” share-
holders regarded the ceremony as “more fiscal
than Popery.” But it would seem that the
blessing, which, among other things, sanctioned
the sale of the paper at the church-doors on Sun-
day, has not worked in the right direction. In a
recent issue the holy organ prints a long Jeremiad,
of which this is a hunk :
Certain it is that the difficulties under which the
Catholic Press struggled into existence here in Sydney,
and the rather cold reception it received at its birth from
a certain class of Catholics who should have hailed it
with enthusiastic joy, are not calculated to impress us
with the idea that a new era for Catholic journalism has
arrived in Australia. We leave unnoticed the self-
sufficient, ignorant Catholics, of whom there are some
unfortunately in our midst, whose contribution to a great
and momentous work such as that in which we are
engaged consists of stupid, malignant criticism and im-
potent opposition.
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
: strong, and anxious to make this certain mean's of
j cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
i want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
The late Barnato’s personal estate falls
short of the million. A good lie is told about
Barney’s start. When diamond-broking at Kim-
berley he was long suspected to be an illicit-buyer,
but was too clever to be caught. At last the De
Beers people set a trap for him. Giving one of
their Kaffir boy ’tecs, a big diamond, they sent
him to Barnato’s office to trade as if “on the
cross.” Barney agreed to buy the stone, but said
he must go “ over the road ” for the money, and
put the diamond in his safe till he came back.
Going straight to the De Beers compound, he
stated that a Kaffir had tried to sell him a stolen
stone, and compelled them to send an officer back
with him to ai’rest the illicit trafficker. Where-
upon the biter was bit. But the cream of the joke
came in the fact that when Barney was called
upon to • show the stone he opened his safe and
■ took out one worth about £2, and, as the De Beers
men couldn’t own up to the “plant,” the cute
little Hebrew cleared several thousand by the coup.
<3-0 TO HBLL-
MiOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & 00.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
A BOON to SYDNEY.
1
W>
We
o
FOUR
m
Ou\
U° sj hies
(Q)
w
BY THE
Centennial Insect pouider.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MFG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
FREE-albert’s
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin String-s, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, 76s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, lls, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J- ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
Afstles
w
-FOR-
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
PAKRoT
_ WpTur
C C°L p 5 If
of >
JamtatiomS 1
MELBOURNE.
rasa?
POST FREE V"^
WATCHES-CLOCKS-jEW/EUERY-BIFtTriDAT*
Weddiivlg z CrißisTEislirJc Presents
H NEV7MAISI-1755177-FII?ARFTri St.
OPPOSITE C:RO.
MELBOURNE.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts 1
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washingfcon-sfc.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
B odalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
| —feod alia, Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
"B —gocla.lla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
389 SUSSEX STREET, SYIINEY.
SAW MILLIN6 - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those, who have taken this medicine are amazed at it#
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest if is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure if
certain.
“Mr. W. G. HE ARNE. Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking- two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not
had the' slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong-, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its dis-inot healing-power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and fill
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, \V. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Y'ictoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS. COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says: y ' "]
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
j PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric- Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused', arid restore the
Rearer to RO BU ST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt,
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a writ ten
guarantee wi.th each Elec-
tric- Belt that it. wi 1 per-
manently cure you. If it
docs not we will promptly
•return the full amount,
paid. We mean exactly what we. say, and do precisely
what We promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GEE MAN ELECTEIC APPL ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readei’s that I
have been cured by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send to those suffer-
ing, as I did, the means of cure. I do this for
humanity sake. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOGG, Exhibition-street, Mel-
•bourne, Vic.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly'qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NerVoftS Weakness ...
AND
Cerebro-Spioaf Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention this paper when writing.]


Jjdams’s Hotel and Marble gar
AKD
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
0
Table Unparalleled.
0
Hotel and Cafe have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Telephone 728.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
CTrTRITBJ DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depdt, 484 GeoFge-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as \coinpared with'buying them from dealers
Tho actions are all check-repeator with froni escapement, made by the foremost firms in German v
The hammers are covered with best -felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is th<
greatest point of 1 a .Piano, is of unique. construction, cambered and secured by screws at al
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climatej and thus the Piano will not lose tone
Wrist pins are extra.
long and plated. . All
ba.ss wires copper
covered. The clavia*
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break.*
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANO
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks oj
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. .The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos
bo had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold . engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses, a. full sonorous volume, in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
n the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the tseble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price included
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will be submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors ol
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 Georgf
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
SHAKE THE BOTTLE !
HUNTER’S KURANDA
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce.
PURITY,
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
in
this
New Sauce,
it being
A Purely Fruit
and
Vegetable
Condiment.
Mjsdioal AjonrAi, 1897.
Page 203. “In the treatment of dyspepsia
dependent upon deficient secretion of the
gastric juice, Stewart ‘Philadelphia Poly-
clinic,’ July, ’96) speaks strongly in favor
of Papain given in a liquid form. The
results obtained from this artificial digestive
are far more favorable than those which
accrue from the employment of pepsine and
hydrochloric acid.”
PAPAIN
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
ATTENTION! DYSPEPTICS.
Indigestion is at the root of more than half of our present day bodily ailments,
accentuated, as it is, by the almost universal habit of stomach drugging. Simply
stated, these distressing symptoms and their consequent evils are directly due to the
inability to properly digest the food consumed. No amount of medication can aid this
most vital and important function. The proprietors of HUNTER’S PAW-PAW
PRUIT SAUCE, knowing that their Piquant Relish, contains a large proportion
of PAPAIN (the most active digestive ferment known to Medical Science), claim
that DYSPECTIC TORTURES are entirely BANISHED by using their sauce
at meal times, besides which, its palatableness greatly enhances the enjoyments of
the table.
Manufactured only at Hunter’s Steam Preserving Works,
CAIRNS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Hunter’s
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from all the leading WHOLESALE GROCERS ;
ALSO AT THE
Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Pitt-street, Sydney,
AND SHORTLY FROM ALL THE LEADING RETAIL GROCERS.
ZRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric- Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Lo comotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, Sea., Sea l,
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Oot.ONIAt. Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
OGDEN’S
*ssr
1&
\
trfj/ o-
<?
"•'.~Z^ Jt
""Wife.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
GUINEA-
GOLD’
CIGARETTES
STREET ARAB:
m Isay, Bill! there's no mistake
ffßtsiit these, they're OGDEN’S!"
mr free cvgrrs wkS
-• • U'' •.» \i«4tkAeiH
=H°< a 3 Tircr
AGENT for the following
Poker tyacb ii)€S-
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES.
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT. NATIVE ROSE, CANT
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS. BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 OURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
-AMO—
CIGARS
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MANILA, &a, &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
SSF Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
fIOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain th
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agen
Proprietors: GOODALL. BA
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & <
the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given art
e greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
t in the preparation of a good Cus ard. Giveitatriai
CKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS. ENG.
;0., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY.


“Art for Art’s sake as it pans out in
Australia. —
ARTIST wishes Exch. Oil or Water-color Painting
for piece Black Silk, Serge or Cloth. Artist,
Sydney D. Teleg.
Sheep-owners and cattle-owners are just
now at loggerheads in Bananaland. The owners
of sheep find the dingoes a greater curse than mar-
supials ; the owners of cattle vice-versa. Conse-
quently, the latter would like to protect the
dingoes to some extent, arguing, likewise that
where rabbits are few in number the dingo keeps
them down. We may yet see a reserve proclaimed
for the cultivation and propagation of the wild
dog.
A Vic. goldfields town has a Chinese camp;
also a Chinese solicitor. One evening lately, as
the camp was busy driving out the devil, (an inter-
esting little propitiatory religious service), some
boys spoilt the proceedings, first by throwing
crackers into the flames, and then by stoning the
worshippers. Police-court proceedings followed,
and the Chinese lawyer was engaged for the
defence. Probably the first time, this, in an Aus-
tralian court, when a Chinese lawyer has been on
one side, appearing for Europeans, with Chinese
principals on the other side.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
TT- Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
X
SoftCaijVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 /- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, ohest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE Kill) iII
Gentlemen's Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Spriog BOds ba^ € BOrst
MARK FOY’S.
A RIOT OF LOVELINESS.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
uas
m
I
w
■ "■'l.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
XJixitecl Typewriter & Supplies 00.,
SYDNEY—II 4 Pm’ Street.
MELBOURNE—362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster. & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LAUNCESTON— Hbdlky Button.
Ha 3 No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Piper. London School Board has over 100 ii
Send for particulars of Free Trial.
Use.
The Turning of the Tide .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Up the creaking stairs for the last time. There
was exultation in the thought. At length he
could make his quittance with a clear conscience.
He had done his best to keep in a world of which
he sickened. Though he hated it he had done his
He looked round his attic, the crowded lumber-
room whioh Mrs. Pankin let him occupy almost
for nothing. He was like a bit of broken-down
furnituro himself, with his bent back and sloping'
shoulders. His face was pallid, the skin coarsened
by poverty long drawn-out; but his eyes were
bright and clear, clearer than eyes should be.
The time was come for him to make his exit.
He saw that clearly. A little while and he would
drift past even the desire for death. He shud-
dered as he thought of such mental degradation.
An uncertain table stood by the window, and
the young twilight fell drearily upon a heap of old
magazines and newspapers thrown down upon it.
Clearing a space with his elbows, he sat down, laid
his head on the table and let his thoughts wander
backwards.
He was eager to go. He had the means ready
to hand; but he "must gather himself together
before he took the last little step. He was not
afraid of death in the ordinary sense; but he
feared the first few minutes after death. He
might be confused, and forget why he had come ;
he might not be able to explain, as he could now,
how impossible he had found it to live, how he
had applied, and sought, and begged for work for
weeks and months. He began recalling all the
people he had applied to ; he felt like making a
list of their names and handing it in at the Cate.
Of course there were one or two positions which
he was secretly glad had been refused him ; still,
he had applied for them ; he had done his duty.
There was that clerkship, for instance; 255. a
week. He had been definitely refused it to-day.
The manager had broken it to him gently; he had
left the office with a light heart. Of course if he
had got it, it would have been his duty to stay.
He would have had no right to emigrate to that
brave country where all his hopes were now fixed.
How glad he was he had not got if>!
He rose smiling, his last fear vanished. He
must remember to mention he had tried for that
clerkship. He felt, not gay, not excited, but
soberly, sensibly happy. He looked out of the
window and felt a throb of pity for the miserable
millions who were yet not miserable enough to
justify their emigrating. Then his thoughts leapt
forward to a future now full of interest. What
were they thinking of him in the other world ?
For, of course, they were aware of the new com-
rade journeying towards them. He took the
white packet in his hands and caressed it smil-
ingly. Perhaps they would not speak to him at
first. Doubtless suicides wt-ro the illegitimate
children of the spiritual world, come without
authority. But he would work off the bar sinis-
ter, never fear.
He untied the string. He was so nearly there
that he wondered he could hear the noises of this
earth so plainly ; Mrs. Pankin’s footstep below,
the opening and shutting of doors, the raucous
voices of his fellow lodgers. He wondered, more-
over, that no sound reached him from that far
shore to which he was hastening, no cheery voice
giving him welcome, no warning even, bidding
him to return. , TT
But he could not have returned. He was so
nearly there that had he thrown the packet out of
the window he felt as if he would be committing
suicide backward, and to commit suicide from
heaven to earth must surely be worse than from
earth to heaven. _ . . , , -jr
No, he was not afraid. He looked back with
wonder at a time, two months ago, when he had
secretly wept and prayed against this doom, then
the most miserable employment would have been
eagerly seized. Now his heart was uplifted with
thankfulness that his petition of to-day had been
refused. * .
A few minutes later, still smiling, he raised a
glass to his lips.
* * * *
“ The cruelty of it ! ” sobbed the girl-lodger.
The landlady had opened a letter, come by the
early morning’s post. It was addressed to the
dead man, and stated that Messrs. Rmgwood and
Co., having been disappointed in their choice re
the clerkship at twenty-five shillings, would be
glad to see Mr. John Roberts at ten o clock this
morning, with a view to, &c.
The girl held the letter in her hand, and her
tears blurred the written page.
“Todo it just as the tide was turning ! Oh lit
he had known . Perhaps he does know !
Perhaps he did, and was laughing at them.
Maoriland.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
What We Eat.
[Desperate remedy is proverbially justified of desperate
disease, and concern for the public stomach—not desire
to experiment upon the public gorge—induces The Bul-
letin to print the following perfumed items in all their
beauty unadorned. “ Revolutions are not to be made
with rosewater.” —Ed. B.]
A correspondent sends The Bulletin a
cutting from a N.S. W. country paper recording the
death from phthisis of a man who had for the past
three years been employed in a. local creamery.
Considering the germ-receptivity of milk it
wouldn’t be easy to say how much phthisis-poison
may not have been diffused from that establish-
ment. It is also pointed out that, in the country,
when fowls become sick, they are generally packed
off as quickly as possible for sale—in town I—and1 —and
the same thing, it is alleged, is common in the
case of pigs. What a howling absurdity, in the
face of these pleasing little customs of rural inno-
cence, is the care exercised in the inspection of
dairy cattle!
J „ „ * *
There have been some truly awful dis-
closures of the horrors of certain branches of the
Melb. food-supply, but for picturesque beastliness
the report of a Board of Health officer, re a certain
suburban sausage and “small-goods’ factory just
unearthed, has not been equalled by the story of
any other offal-emporium. This establishment was
just a seething heap of old blood, rotting, sewage,
slaughter-house slops, fragments of cow, pig, skins,
hair, trotters, and maggots, and over the pile
streamed miles of ancient intestines, and the smell
offended thenostrilsof the inspector’s horse tethered
100yds. off. “The pits contained rotten, stinking,
coagulated blood.” “ The woodwork was bespat-
tered to the thickness of an inch. ’ “ The over-
flow ran on the floor some 15 inches deep. A
shed, used for the preparation of sausage-casings,
held “ a quantity of prepared and blown-out cas-
ings for polonies and German, ’ besides heaps of
decomposing trotters and wool-tags.” A shed,
where pickling was going on, contained terribly
offensive gut-tubs,” and the same unspeakable
stinks. The drainage of the whole place ran into
a hole adjacent to the sheds, and this hole was a
working* mass of green slime. So horrors on
horrors’ heads accumulate until we come to the
crowning horror of all on one of the upper floors
the bloated, putrid carcase of a horse ! The pre-
liminary dreadfulness is bad beyond all superla-
tives, but that horse— that dead, disgusting, irrele-
vant horse ! —simply shrieks for explanation, and,
to the writer,"the mystery of it will not, till the
day of his death, depart from the common sausage
of commerce, or the polony, or the German, or
the pallid sausage of pork.
* * * *
Thus Dr. Constantine, of Boston Health
Department: —
The next time you buy any fruit from a street-peddler,
it mioht be well to remember that it was probably
ripened in some filthy tenement-house bed. It is a com-
mon practice for Italian fruit-vendors to hasten the
ripening of bananas, oranges and lemons by placing them
in their beds, where the fruit receives the animal heat
from their bodies. Fruit subjected to this process will
ripen in an incredibly short time.
Verb. sap.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin,— While the Sydney in-
spectors of nuisances are “lumbering” the city
Chow for dirty back-yards it would be well if they
(the inspectors) extended their labors to the
market-gardens. Yesterday I took a short-cut
through some Chow gardens on the Parramatta
River, and saw one of the Johns cutting fine,
healthy-looking watercress which was growing
in a gutter of coffee-colored water. About 30
yards away ran a cess-pit, used by the 12 or 14
yellow men who work the place, and it was flow-
ing into the gutter the watercress was being taken
from. And watercress is not cooked, but eaten
raw.—Welly NT.
* » » *
From Q. Govt. Bacteriologist Pound’s
report on a Brisbane dairy
Quagmire of mud. . . . All the way from the water-
tank to the cow-bails the ground was in a filthy condi-
tion, but on arrival at the latter I am afraid that I could
not be explicit enough in describing their disgusting and
dilapidated condition. I am perfectly sure that the
manure had never been cleaned away since the dairy was
founded. . . . Cows . . . filthy condition, the
udders and teats being covered with a mixture of black
mud and manure . . . poor, miserable wasters .. •
noticeable chronic cough . . . would have reacted te
the tuberculin test.
Pound had the “healthiest” cow milked, the
milkman ordering his boy to wash the teats first;
boy did so with a quart of water in a milking-
bucket
As the mud softened, the boy roughly rubbed it off
with his already filthy hand into the bucket . . .
simply emptied out the dirty water, and commenced
milking straight away into the same bucket which con-
tained all the sediment, as mud, manure, &o. . . .
Milking tended very considerably to clean the teats of
the cow to the disadvantage of the milk. At the same
time, the filth which was removed naturally found its way
from the hands of the milker into the bucket ... an
eruptive disease of the teats and lower portion of the
udder . . . vesicular-looking sores, several of which
were suppurating . . . milk carried with it a quantity
of pus and blood from the ruptured sores.
By gorge ! What price Brisbane rumanmilk now !
And the Q. Beg. Council doesn’t want dairymen
nterfered with !
Yic. Government has gazetted a perpetual
close season for the old-man or large grey kanga-
roo (Macropus giganteus) and the great red kanga-
roo ( Macropus rufus), but has left the small grey
brush kangaroo outside the pale.
The apotheosis of the Kailyard plague. . A
Glasgow firm is turning the English of the Bible
into a Kailyard Scots version. Sample from the
“ Song of Solomon ” :
Set me as the seal upo’ thine hairt, as the seal upo’
thine airm ; for luv is straing as deith ; jealousy as cruel
as the grave ; the coals thereo’ are coals o’ fire bleezm
wi’ a maist awfu’ lowe. Mony watters canna slocken
luv’: neither can the spates droon it; gin a man wad gie
a’ the haudin’s o' his hoose for luv’, they wad be a’the-
gither scorned.


Are you blessed with
Boys?
i IF SO,
Our Suitable Suits
a Strong at Knee and Stout
at Elbow, to fit 8 to 12 years,
HALF-GUINEA,
are well worth seeing- at
Hordern Bros., Pitt-street ( Only)
(Economy is Nature’s first law).
P.S. & N.B.—We have also School Suits at a Crown (5(.
Goftld’s - <Sold?i) - <sraii)S - 6aii) - GeoCioe
Triumphant Tiny Tonics perform Miracles in our midst.
Glory.
Life was a Burden.
TWENTY YEARS OF AGONY.
ACUTE INDIGESTION. LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES.
FORCED TO ABANDON HIS WORK.
A GREAT VICTORY FOR GOULD’S TINY TONICS.
A reporter, hearing certain remarkable and sensational statements made concerning Mr. S. .
Edwards, wheelwright, of Summer-street, Orange, decided to pay the old gentleman an impartial
visit, and to personally attest the truth or otherwise of these startling rumors.
Mr. Edwards is 60 years of age, and came to the colony 32 years ago. He has lived in the town-
ship named for 20 years, where there are few people better known. . . j. ~ .
P “ It was this way,” said Mr, Edwards, in answer to inquiries For twenty tedious years—that
is, since 1877— I’ve suffered fearful agonies from acute indigestion, coupled with liver and kidney-
troubles Everything I ate, even the lightest food, would cause an ominous pain in my chest, and the
food would stay^then?like a leaden weight. Tired and languid, I always felt oppressed, whilst the
pains at times were absolutely unbearable; robbed of all my. wonted energy, m melancholy strain, I
consulted leading doctors both in Orange and Dubbo. Their ind To
ever, useless, and they did not seem to know from what affliction 1 suffered. And so
I became worse. Excruciating pains darted through my back and[legs and left£
also afflicting my hands, which at other times were often numb and lifeless, and
I have seen the time when I would have to rub my finger-joints to restore' all this 7
kidneys became disorganised, and gravel caused me heart-rending anguish. Ihen, on top ot all this,
cameTtouch“f sunsfroke, so that no one could credit the bitterness of my plight who had not them-
selves suffered similarly; and, indeed, there are many afflicted not much lea
severely than was I. Patent medicines got every trial from me, but no perma-
nent relief followed. One day, however, things reached a crisis. Suddenly,
whilst trying to work, I was taken with a sharp, tormenting torture, as it a keen
knife had been driven into my back. Almost collapsed, I was forced to abandon
my work and go home, which I reached with difficulty and in a completely
exhausted condition. I was forced to my bed, and there I lay, awake anc
weary, in utter and complete prostration, becoming weaker and weaker, and
looking hopelessly for the end, for hope had died, and I only thought of death .
“ Then a wonderful event happened !
“ I suddenly found a cure ! . , . ,
“ The way it happened was this. A pamphlet was left at the house,
and my wife brought it to me. There I read of a case exactly the same
as mine, in which a cure had been miraculously effected by Gould s
Tiny Tonic Liver Pills. My wife went across to the chemist, Mr.
De Beare, and at once I gave them a trial. This was the happiest day of my
life, for from the first the pills commenced to improve me. hor some tune I
continued to take them, and step by step I continued to advance in vigor,
health, and strength. My appetite returned, the shooting P» m ® ““g Jfjf®
and back and shoulder vanished away, and that dull, dead, tired fee, ng
which oppressed me was replaced by a bright and buoyant spirit, and a new
lease of cherry, happy life. I left my bed, my whole system rejuvenated by
twenty years, and here I am hale and hearty to-day, able to get about without
difficulty, and able to conduct a busy wheelwright s business. I took nothing
else but Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills, and to these alone I ascribe my
speedy and astounding recovery. For the last three years, prior to taking the
pills, I had not worked more than 18 months. My wife has also taken them
with great benefit to herself, and Mr. De Beare, the chemist, will also sub-
stantiate my case.”
OULO
M
ONI
VE
A Woman’s words.
“I FEEL T.TTTTC A NEW WOMAN THROUGH AND THROUGH.”
SUFFERED FOR 35 YEARS.
SKILLED PHYSICIANS AND HOSPITAL AUTHORITIES BAFFLED.
COMPLETE CURE IS EFFECTED BY GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS.
“ About 35 years ago ” says Mrs. John Gilbert, of 87 Abercrombie-place, Chippendale, Sydney),
I began to have some very distressing symptoms of ill-health. My stomach would become distended
and a sour-bitter stuff would keep
terrible pains in my right side and
terrible bursting headaches ; after
very bad, and my limbs would
tors differed as to the cause, one
another dropsy, another said it
times my kidneys would act in-
in my back would become so un-
About this time we moved from
all the way out from England I
voyage doing me good I got con-
years ago ; since then the suffer -
beyond description. The cold-
continued to get worse, and at
move them until they were thoro-
restored. Sometimes I would be
and start to walk away and my
Again, I would wake up at night
to rub my body before I could
was in a terrible state, and 1 was
bitter stuff and belching wind,
as if the ceiling was pressing down
eating and must be taken into
flutter, and a cold feeling would
thought I would be stricken with
would my limbs become. I have
physicians in Sydney and at
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydne.y,
time. Patent medicine and
Take me into the fresh air.
coming up into my mouth. I had
back, and at times I suffered from
a while my circulation became
become numb and limpless. Doc-
said I had Bright’s disease,
was congestion of the liver. Some-
yoluntarily, and again the pains
bearable that I could not sleep,
the old country to Sydney, and
was sick, and instead of the
siderably worse. This was 13
mgs I have gone through are
ness and loss of life in my legs
times 1 would lose all power to
uglily rubbed and the circulation
standing, at the edge of a table
legs would utterly refuse to act.
and would have to call someone
move. My digestion at this time
continually vomiting up some
and at times my head would feel
on it, and 1 felt'as if I was suffo-
the fresh air, and my 'heart would
come over me like death. I often
paralysis, so numb and linipless
consulted some of the best
Home, have also attended the
but only to get relief for a
everything I have tried with
+V.P same results "until a few weeks ago my son brought home some Gould’s Tiny Tome
TWer Pills which I resolved to try. 1 followed the directions very closely, with the re-
sult thft V have derived such benefit from them that I feel energetic full of life and have lost
all that drowsy, listless feeling-in fact, I feel years younger my appetite has increased, and I may say
that I feel like a new women through and through. Would I object to have this published l No ; I
linnld like to let every sufferer in the world know what 1 owe to Gould s Pills. ihe representative,
nn ifllkinp- his leave of Mrs Gilbert, could not but marvel to himself that this woman, after suffering
so man v*vears so many things, should be cured by these small, little objects (Gould’s Tiny
T m o PiiG are little farger than a pin’s head), and he came to the conclusion that if a miracle had not
IZ JvouZ * greatdelTof sufferhig had bleu saved, and if the world at large only knew of this great
preparation, we should have much healthier and happier men and women.
„ . . ~ T .„_ Tf;j llllV Troubles Debility. General Weakness, &e., &c., and they are also a
/MOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Piles, Fulness after eating, Dyspepsia, al ,■ pj; n Back and Side, and when used after a heavy meal has been eaten
G,p“o for ."d Sow I Complexions, Fomalo Irrogul.riti.,, Heart Palpit.t.on Shortnet. of W h afte™hgh. HS&taISS of the E. A. GOULD'S SONS it CO., 10 Macquarie Place,
E&XSS. J&SSWSft- SKX’K ie ...at you get Gou,d,-„ot sou,e.h,og alleged to he "lust as good.
Tone up your System with a Course of GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS.
The Dead Crusoe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We stole, like creatures in a dream,
Upon a fair, far Southern sea,
Where wave and sky evolved supreme
And sense-subduing harmony.
A sapphire sky, a waste of blue,
A trance of silence everywhere,
And listlessly we passed, a crew
Of ghosts aboard a ship of air.
I thought these pure, lone waters ne’er
Had mirrored deep a gilded prow,
No carved canoes had drifted there,
No eyes beheld the grace till now.
We’d come through spume by tempest spun,
It seemed, to where a sea forgot
Lay spangled ’neath a. changeless sun,
And pain, and grief, and death were not.
At length an island slowly reared
Against the golden morn, afar;
A drear, dead land of rock, it seared
The face of Ocean like a scar.
But, creeping to a crescent bay,
We saw, with dim, adoring eyes,
All glistening in the early ray,
A paradise of palms arise.
We anchored there, and for a day
I loitered wherein wild excess
A small, deserted Eden lay
Begirt with sand and barrenness.
A breathless calm was over all,
No savage lurked, no beast broke through,
And ranked upon the brown sea-wall
The sea-birds drowsed above the blue.
But ere the sun had set I found,
Hid deep in ferns and plants unknown,
And vines that curled its rafters round,
A ruined hut of wood and stone.
My search disclosed two twisted shoes
Of hard, black hide, a wooden bowl,
A clasp-knife, such as sailors use—
A tally on a rotted pole.
From these I wove a common tale
Of some gaunt seaman rafted here,
And watching for the dawning sail
In solitude from year to year.
At last a boat rode to the sands,
He heard the cheery call of men,
And clinging to their hard, brown hands
Went out unto the world again.
Yet musing so upon the bluff
That overhung the dappled bay,
I thought this island fair enough
To charm its prisoner for aye.
Then past a rocky point I saw,
Against the cliff’s opposing brown,
A sight that chilled with sudden awe,
And tore my pleasant fabric down.
A staff that once had held on high
A signal to the desert sea
Stood broken ; from a fissure nigh
A skeleton was facing me ;
A rain-washed thing of dead, grey bone,
It sat, with cavemed eyes intent,
In spectral stateliness alone,
A grim and awful monument !
One arm the shattered post embraced,
One hand hung by its hollow hip;
It stared across the glittering wa.ste,_
And waited for a white- winged ship.
I read upon that grisly face _
A legend of supreme despair,
And, fiercely hating all the place,
Fled forth, and left it watching there.
EDWAD DYSON.
The early-closing provisions of the Vic.
Shops Act, after holding water for years, came
to grief in the Law-courts, the other day. Ihe
Act explains that a shop shall be considered
to be open as long as goods are “ offered for sale.’
Judge Holroyd suddenly decides that having the
windows and door open, and the gas lighted, and
the stock exposed, and assistants behind the
counter ready to serve, customers, is not offering
goods for sale ; they can only be offered for sale
if someone comes in and they are actually ten-
dered to him or her over the counter. In the
absence of this evidence, the law, as interpreted
by Holroyd, assumes that the shop is kept open
and the gas burned for fun and the moral improve-
ment of the staff, and that a customer would be
indignantly thrown out if he presented himself.
Rats!
As no one knows when or how he may get
into gaol, this is of general interest: —
Editor Bulletin,—Be bugs in the Saltpetriiire. The
upper corridors of E wing, Darlinghurst gaol, can show
similar swarms. The authorities don t seem to know any
wa}- of coping with them—a hint from the Parisian
experts might be of value-and, anyhow, their inspec-
tions are made in davtime when the carnivora have dis-
appeared. Thev breed, so I was told, in the timbers of
the roof, ciome down the outside of the walls, and through
the ventilating-holes. In the early morning stragglers
can be seen i^oing 1 back that track. A careful
smearing of the whole circumference of the ventilators
with a mixture of soft soap and sulphur (to be got strictly
sub rosa from the painter’s shop) is recommended by the
initiated as checking the influx. I Dever tried it. We
used to get lengths of cocoa-nut fibre from the mat shop
and fat from the meat rations and extemporise tapers.
Matches are non-contraband. We lit up at midnight,
when sleep was out of the question—after the warder’s
round —and smashed all before us. I have seen white-
washed walls of cells to which the doorposts of Israel
in Egypt at Passover couldn’t have been a circumstance
for blood-sprinkling. The lower corridors seem to be
freer. What it is like in summer Heaven only knows.—
One Who Was There in Winter.
The amiable N.S.W. District Court Judge
Backhouse lately lectured on the Advantages
of Impecunosity. The Judge is credited with
possessing a good private income in addition to
his oiricial pay of £l5OO a year with handsome
travelling expenses ; and as at 60, or on previous
disablement, a D.C. Judge has the right of re-
tiring on a pension of £750, he can, provided he
invests, say, £250 • annually in life - assurance,
always safely live, while he holds office, at the
rate of £lOOO a year. A N.S.W. D.C. Judge’s
billet is about the best, freest and safest post
under Govt. ; The Bulletin would prefer it to
any other. Considering the disadvantages under
which Judge Backhouse labors, he deserves great
credit for being so respectable and good-tem-
pered a man. The optimistic view taken of
poverty and first - offending solicitors by the
gilded Judge is no doubt partially due to ■ the
fact that he is renowned as a pedestrian and keeps
his liver in working order. D.C. Judge Gibson,
who walks less, is not so sound either in his law
or in his liver. Only the other day lie sent up a
man for three years’ hard for stealing a ninepenny
tin of baking powder.
Reremoa and the Pearly
Nautilus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a man wants to find something
there always are a hundred people to tell him
where to find it, but never a man who will go and
fetch it. It was so with Rossmatin and his pearly
nautilus. At Rotorua a man in the Priest’s Bath
told him to try the coast, north of Mangonui. He
had seen shoals of nautili there, and had them for
breakfast. So Rossmatin went and tried ; he had
a theory that his cephalopod spawned .most freely
in southern latitudes, though he had hardly hoped
to find it south of parallel 25. But Science is
nothing if you have no faith. So Rossmatin had
come north of Mangonui.
The man in the Priest’s Bath had recommended
him to “chip in” with the Maoris—they would
find his shell-fish for him, Rossmatin had
“ chipped hi ” with Reremoa.
Reremoa was pretty, 18, aboundingin hair black
as coal—a Maori sea-nymph.
Rossmatin was a zoologist, an entomologist, a
lover of bugs and butterflies, snakes and centi-
pedes ; a palseologist, an ichthyologist—a great
scientist. But his mania was for cephalopods,
curious sea denizens of the genus mollusca. He
could tell you all about dibranch iata and tetra-
branchiata —which are quite beyond the ken of
ordinary men —and would, if you let him, discourse
by the hour on the pearly nautilus, to search for
which he had devoted his life. He said this shell-
fish was unique; there was but one specimen
extant —the one brought home by the Challenger
Expedition, and preserved in a pickle-bottle. The
scarcity of this cephalopod had caused Rossmatin
much tribulation. It was his passion as well as
his despair. He lived to explain its life-history.
“For,” he would say, “it stands in an order all
by itself, the sole remaining representative of the
ancient ammonites of the Palaeozoic and Mesozoic
times; the chief of all molluscs ; the greatest of all
invertebrates; divided from all octopoda and
decapoda by a wide gap. ” Ah !
Rossmatin had visions of dead ammonites as
big as cart-wheels, but he would be content with a
real live, pearly nautilus the size of a half-crown.
But fate was hard on Rossmatin. For 20 years it
had cast his lot in London, whereas his cephalopod
lived somewhere in the South Seas. It had also
made him poor. But, after years of economy, he
had come to seek his heart’s desire.
» * * *
The morning was clear and still; the sea
was unruffled by a ripple—its surface was like
blue glass. Reremoa and Rossmatin were walk-
ing along the golden beach. Reremoa could speak
but little English. Rossmatin could speak no
Maori, yet he was explaining all about his
cephalopod. He told of his tireless search—how
at Ralum, in New Britain, he had dredged and
dived for a year in 60 fathoms of water, but all in
vain ; how he had explored the New Guinea
coast for six months, and had been nearly
drowned ; how the islanders of Guadalcanal: and
Ysabel, in the Solomons, had tried to spear him ;
how at Lilli, in the Loyalty group, he had fallen
ill with a strange disease, and the French, doctors
at Noumea had sent him south to Rotorua to try
the puias. Reremoa did not understand, but she
thought Rossmatin the handsomest pakeha she
had seen. Rossmatin told how he had read that
the natives of the New Hebrides caught his cepha-
lopod in their lobster-pots, and ate them with
relish. At Bogotu there had been shoals of
sharks ; at Vella Lavella he had been speared in
the left arm.
Reremoa wondered what this pupu fish could be.
But she listened with all ears, determined to do
all she could for the pakeha —she had the indulgent
Maori disposition.
Rossmatin explained the construction of his
mollusc ; how it had curved nurtures and plain septa.
Reremoa looked into his blue eyes, and wondered
where they got their color from. She thought a
yellow, close-clipped beard was the best sort of
beard she had ever seen. Rossmatin explained
that your true ammonite has complex septa and
nurtures that are zigzagged, foliated, or irregularly
lobed. Reremoa thought it would be delightful
to touch the soft, white throat just below where
the sunburn mark was, to see if the creaminess
rubbed off. And so they walked on ; Rossmatin
garrulous of turrilities, discoidal forms, and in-
volute types ; Reremoa as wise as a Maori girl
need be. At last they came to a reef that jutted
out into the sea.
Reremoa pointed down into the deep, still water.
“ Look,” she said, “ your pupu fish is down there.
I’ll dive down and get you one. ’ Rossmatin was
used to native ways. He did not demur —he
wanted his nautilus.
Reremoa dived decorously and left her single
garment floating on the tide. Rossmatin clutched
the floating smock, and waited.
Reremoa came to the surface ; there was nothing
in her hand. Down she went again. Again she
came to the surface with nothing.
“Reremoa!” shouted Rossmatin, “ there s
nothing down there. Come out-there may be
sharks about.” , .
A third time Reremoa dived ; a third time she
came to the surface. .
“Look!” she cried, “ kuku. I’ve got it!
Her face beamed with pleasure.
“Quick! Let me see, ” cried Rossmatin.
Reremoa swam to the rock he stood on and clam-
bered up beside him. Rossmatin clutched the
shell-fish that she held.
“Damn! It’s a common mussel.”
Reremoa’s face fell. All her joy vanished.
She looked pitifully at Rossmatin, as though she
had done wrong.
Rossmatin looked at Reremoa. Then Rossmatin
clutched Reremoa. . ,
He had found something better than his pearly
nautilus.
M.L.
ALFEED A. GRACE.


MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
Restored to Health by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A Grateful
Husband and Father tells the Storys
i
3
■n
i
/
auim
Ql0»
'T/I
sum
II
*'My wife has all her life long been subject to rush of blood to the
head and fainting fits. In later years these were more frequent, and
her skin became very sallow. She had scarcely any appetite, and it was
not safe to leave her at home by herself for fear of a fainting fit. I may
state we had medical advice both in England and here in New Zealand,
but it did no good, so some months back I suggested that she take
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. She protested against it, believing it to be quackery,
but I purchased a bottle just to give it a trial, and the result was mar-
vellous. Mrs. Moul has taken five bottles, and now she is a new creature.
My daughter has also begun to use your sarsaparilla for skin
discoloration and poor appetite, with considerable success already.
I forward you their photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully,
John F. Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland, N. Z., Feb. 9,1897.
P. S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Only True Blood-Purifier.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of Imitations Claiming to be “Just as Good,"
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ... ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
•BinoH SmptJST
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence <£l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
QUBENT’S HOTEL,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MXJRPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform his
friends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
Business Announcements
ATKINSON’S
Newest Perfume
AOLINE
(Itegd.)
“iViost Refreshing."
NICE ALWAYS, BUT
DELICIOUSLY REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMS,
A true natural perfume
„ made from flowers.
Not a Chemical Preparation.
“AOLINE” perfume.
_ “Most Refreshing.”
‘AOLINE” TOILET SOAP
„ _ For the complexion.
“AOLINE” TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
“AOLINE” SACHETS.
Delightful for Handkerchief*,
Gloves, &c.
“AOLINE” TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
J. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OF THIS CELEBRATED
“WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
"A C’harniinii Scent." — H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
THB GRAND CENTRAL
CPPQSR* 9.PL9.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E STOYE, - ur> „ ’ ..
Managbr. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
J'OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEO RGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
TATTERS ALL’S HOTEL.
I'lin (levs- st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
T°M ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
«ATT^!f?f^r^r at rr he is * tiU conducting the TATTER-
SALLS HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
TELEPHONE-Y STORY.
“Are you there?”
“Yes!”
“Try
BEECHAIKTS PILLS!
“All Right!!!”
“DON’T FORGET!!!”
BOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dk. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/«.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours op Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
AbbeMourkt’s Sin ; The Soil; Dream op Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, p<>st free, Is 3d.
KOMANCB OF A FAIR GIRL’S BATHROOM, price, Is
3d ; post free. Merkie England, by post 61.
Mysteries Court op London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Hrptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits op Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Amativenbss, by O. S. Fowler, pout free Bd.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
The Dogs and the Fleas, 2s 6d ; posted 2s lOd.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, l>y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French, unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor<s. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is: post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieap Booli Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE Is. ... ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.


m
PCibec
‘Oubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Sold by the Leading Tobacoo-
nists and Olubs of Australia.
/--THE-'
Ballet (airl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting her
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free a./-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Warung. Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) PCinjpiQg Epgipc Corppaoy
(Australasian Branch ) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
558
REGULAR PATTERN
WORTHINGTON
T«ADE MARK*
Iney, N.S.W.
A.gen.ciea s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland : MoLENNAN & CO., Alioe-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WOBiTHZNGTON Pumps for all Services
xxx Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
A blessing' in every family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There ia not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these errand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, G-ame, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents EverywHere. H. PATES ON, MANAGER.
SOMCTNIN6
N€W!!
FOR THREADING RIPE.
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
WIJH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORBINART
STOCK.
ISTER PRTEIT RUBS’ TOME HE STICK
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cut off from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR r ff ?™ STTT(IH
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES. Ull A LIN U 111 ull
Batho’s
X
INSOLVENT ESTATE
—OF—
X
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offet to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s (id each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual prioe
£lO 10s, reduoed £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduoed £5
each, complete.
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal £or quality, with cartridge maehinesand cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced£7 lOsea. complete.
8 Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines and cleaners oomplete. Usual price £6, reduced £2 7s 6d each, complete.
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £4 15s each, complete.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 160yds. Usual price £l6,
reduced £6 6s eaob.
<5 Winchester Repeating Rifles,yery best quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 15s.
Cartridges o*n bp supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s fid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of tha Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
BoQQifygtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
” INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. Bd. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Boi)i)iQgtoD’& Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver.
Is. a Box.
