

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
R. G. WATKZBTB & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syd.ney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Smoke
TWO SEAS
Tobacco.
Smoke
TWO SEAS
Tobacco.
tr
ALTED COCOA.
/. . 1 '*
<RAc{aJocK>
C/* v O
y' °
? e 'u
O,
Or Y.-
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, Z 6 Pitt .strbkt, SYDNEY
’ 1 >• j, ■ ? , ■;
drink
V .
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED \N qUAJLITY.
ALL STOREKEEPERS /
IN Af.S.iA/. Sr QUEENSLAND.
ROBERTS’ Wiijc & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUINART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A. Splendid Lunch for Is. 6d,
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence 10/- per day.
%&%
&
Btfore vijifing fhe Cty wrifeTo fhe Manager for
Ori «f Tariff. (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
4 &/
sfj?/
«s>
$> &
f/<f
_ ft *0
A 4yV '<& & *
A * a & «
v
* j? &
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract >
BUY THE BEST!
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
fOZ
/
THE
aaia aaa
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
aZHIOL
B
est
icycle
uilt
7/
atfSUt
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots-
f MELBOURNE.
- ADELAIDE.
IWELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTINcifcM
THE
CHEAPEST & BEST
FOR ALL KINDS OF
STRIPPERS
AND
. . Harvesting Machinery.
Specially Made and Waterproof.
Width 24 3 3J 4 4i 6 6 in.
Price: 9d. 10Ad. 1/- 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/11 per ft.
Raw Hide Laces and all kinds of Fasteners in stock.
Correspondence invited. Price Lists mailed free.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to —=
Malbanrae
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence .£1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
PHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
MUItOi It A K.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from ISs. per week upwards.
: T-iesiies
PITT and HUNTER
STREETS,
EMPIRE
SVDXEY. ECOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. £2?T' Write for Terms.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
XI Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
ftdlake Bicycles
--ARE —
- Good and Strong -
AND THE
Repairman Don’t Know Them*
LET US SEND YOU A
CATALOGUE.
THE
Hdlake Cycle Ijgency
422 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
(Next Royal Hotel).
A. L. BAIRD,
Sole Agents for Manager.
“ Adlake ” and “Kpartax” Bicycles
and the famous X-Rays Vapor Lamps.
FROSSARD’S CAVOOR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol 18. — j So. 892. j
[Saturday, March 20, 1697.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
OOD “BULLETIN” STORIES.
JUST PUBLISHED.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S YARNS.
Price, 1,6; post free, 1/9.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO., SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE.
MON REVE FAMILIER.
Je fsis souvent ce reve Strange et penetrant
D’une femme inconnue, et que j’aime, et qui
m’aime,
Et qui n’est, chaque fois, ni tout it fait la m6me
Ni tout Si fait une autre, et m’aime et me comprend.
Car elle me comprend, et mon cceur, transparent
Pour elle seule, helas ! cesse d’etre un problkme
Pour elle seule, et les moiteurs demon front
bl£me
Elle seule les sait rafraichir, en pleurant.
Est-elle brune, blonde ou rousse?—Je l’ignore.
Son nom ? Je me souviens qu’il est doux et sonore
Comme ceux des aim<ss que la Vie exila.
Son regard est pareil au regard des statues,
Et, pour sa voix, lointaine, et calme, et grave,
elle a
L’inflexion des voix chores qui se sont tues.
PAUL VERLAINE.
THERE are still people wbo ask the steward
to call them early when the boat is crossing
the Equator. ‘ It’s our first voyage, you know,
and we don’t want to miss seeing it.’ And some
of them travel first-class, too.
Nor is it very uncommon to find in Australian
State schools children 12 years old or more, who
have ‘ done maps ’ to such purpose that they think
the parallels of latitude and longitude represent
actual lines drawn upon the Earth’s surface.
Possibly some readers will be slightly amused at
these instances of illusions from which they are
free. But knowledge is always relative. Many
persons who are quite aware that the Arctic Pole
is not something you can climb up and hang
your hat on are still of opinion that they them-
selves are divided into a ‘body.’ ‘soul,’ and
‘spirit ’ which really exist as separate entities.
Many who have laughed at the anxiety of Porthos,
in ‘Le Vicomte de Bragelonne,’ to comply with
Aramis’s wish and arrive before the Equinox
(‘Well, the fellow will have to be very well
mounted if he beats me ’) still believe that the
heart is the physiological seat of the emotions.
* * * *
The heart is a bit of muscle, like the biceps.
‘Body,’ ‘soul,’ ‘spirit,’ are merely labels of
different manifestations of the Ego. ‘ Body ’is
• well-understood term legitimately applied.
‘Soul’ is a confusion-breeding myth. ‘Spirit’
is little better. All that there is of conscious life
in any individual resides in the brain and attached
nervous system.
‘ Soul ’ is one of the words which, on O. W.
Holmes’s plan, need ‘depolarising.’ But it is so
olustered with false ideas handed down from
less enlightened days that attempts at depolarisa-
tion are hopeless. Its use should be restricted to
poetry and fiotion, and to religion, which is a
mixture of poetry and fiction : when dealing with
facts in unimaginative prose it should be elimi-
nated altogether.
There is a sense, of oourse, in which poetic allu-
sions such as—
John Brown’s body lie 3 mouldering in the grave,
But his soul goes marching on—
are scientifically correct. When John was in the
flesh his sayings and doings and the sayings and
doings concerning him impressed the brain-cells
of many persons in a certain definite way. When
Brown ceased to be in the flesh those impressions
remained as permanent sources of theught and
action.
But ‘ soul ’ is frequently used by children,
theologians and others as representing some
oonorete organ, and for this there is no justifica-
tion. When little Jessie, having been told by
her truthful and intelligent mother that good
people’s souls were white and bad people’s souls
were black, stayed out long after nursery tea to
watch the upward flight from the chimney of
Mrs. Jones’s soul, that lady’s decease being
hourly expected, and at last rushed in enthusias-
tically with * Mother ! mother ! I saw it ! I saw
it! I saw her soul fly out —and it’s piebald ! ” she
made an assertion hardly capable of proof. And
when Brother Wilkes, of the Genuine Methodist
Christians, meets Brother Bilkes, of a similar
species, and enquires—‘Brother! how is your
soul?’ in the same tones that he might employ in
asking ‘How is your liver?’ his solicitude, if it
be real, is probably based on complete ignorance
of physiology. And it is the knowledge of physi-
ology, not the fear of God, which is the beginning
of wisdom.
Although the use of the word ‘ soul ’ in a
poetic sense is conceded to those of religious
habit, it is suggested that in the interests of cor-
rect terminology ‘ brain ’ might be substituted
for * soul ’ in many places throughout religious
literature. In such spiritual songs, for example,
as that in which occur the stirring lines—
O, come and seek Salvation while you’re young !
O, come and seek Salvation while you’re young t
If you don't, the Devil will catch you—
Send a sooty imp to fetch you—
And your soul will burn in brimstone while you’re young—
the change from ‘ brain ’ to ‘ soul ’ would pro-
bably not decrease the elevating effect upon
habitual worshippers. The Brain can do every-
thing the Soul can, except live for ever—and the
Soul’s claims in this direction have never been
passed for payment by a recognised insurance
office. The most convinced advocate of the im-
mortality of the Soul has invariably terminated
his argument by losing consciousness and beginning
to decompose and smell; and though loss of con-
sciousness and decomposition and smell may really
be indications that a new life has begun, they can-
not, in the faoe of existing prejudices, be considered
humanly conclusive. Besides, all the arguments
advanced for the immortality of the Soul can be
advanced for the immortality of the Brain; and
as the Brain has to do the arguing in both cases,
it does not seem fair to let the Soul get the credit
of the immortality which is entirely of the Brain’s
creation.
If the Soul can be dispensed with, some of the
toughest theological problems will disappear along
with it, and the energy hitherto devoted to their
solution may be otherwise applied. Thus it
has always been a moot question where the
Soul came from, how it got into the body, and
where it was located. The antagonism of con-
flicting views has at times been productive of dis-
satisfaction, and there should need no demonstra-
tion of the advantage of substituting for a Soul of
uncertain genesis a Brain whose development can
be watched ab initio under the microscope.
* * • «
Nothing does humanity more credit than its
brain. True that hitherto there has been no con-
scious effort at brain-modification ; but there is
some negative merit in supplying a good instru-
ment, eagerly responsive to a wonderful range of
impressions from environing Nature. When a
cloud travels across the sun the human brain
registers its passage by a change in blood-pressure
—and the human brain has invented the instru-
ments which detect and record that very delicate
change. The brains of many animals would
achieve the one feat, but no brain but the human
brain could achieve the other.
How many million years the brain has taken to
reach its present stage no one can approximately
tell us. Probably it is some hundreds of millions
of years since life first appeared on the planet;
and ever since the brain has been persistently
working its way up through the infinite grada-
tion of species. At present good human brains,
with their attached spinal cords, contain some-
thinglike threethousand million pigeon-holes in the
shape of nerve-cells, in which all the remembered
sights, sounds, tastes, smells, touches, ideas that
have ever reached the individual are more or less
tidily stowed away in various states of preserva-
tion. All these cells are put in telephonic com-
munication by many millions of fibres, which
Vibrate messages from one to the other ‘ at
the speed of thought.’ Impressions derived from
sight are stowed away in one corner of the brain,
and from hearing in another, and so on. The
admirable telephone system enables you to mass
all your impressions on a single point. Thus
when anyone says—
Julius Caesar !
in your ear the vibration of the tympanum is con-
veyed to a certain cell, or cells, in the hearing-
centre of the br;dn —which might be called the
central telephone exchange for the ear. Central
ear exchange immediately rings up all the cells
with ‘ Julius Caesar ’ itnpressions in them, all
over the brain, with which it has telephone nerve-
fibres in good working order. Possibly you have
in your time received no impressions about
‘ Julius Caesar,’ though you may have many about
‘Great Scott.’ But the cells which have ‘Great
Scott’ in them won’t respond to the call for
‘ Julius Caesar ’ any more than the Lands Dept,
will answer for Redfern railway. Consequently
the vibrations from the central ear exchange
‘ ring off,’ as it were, and it is reported to a lot of
other cells, sitting up on a platform to superin-
tend the whole business, that ‘ Julius Caesar ’
isn’t known in the battalion. Consequently
you feel that ‘ your memory is a blank ’ on
the subject of ‘ Julius Caesar.’ All the
same, in one of the nerve-cells that the mes-
sage has been sent to some molecular disturbance
has been set up, and the cell isn’t quite the same
as it was before; and if to-morrow somebody
whispers ‘ Julius Caesar ’ in your ear that nerve-
cell will probably be able to tell you * a message
came here asking for that chap yesterday.’
[That is how memory begins—by a change in
the molecules of some particular cell or cells,
making them more liable to vibrate in the way in
which they have vibrated before. Then they give
forth the same or a similar note to consciousness.
Just in the same way a violin which has always
been played in tune tends to play itself in tune—
its atoms have been taught to swing together in a
particular rhythm by long training, and they op-
pose a distinct resistance to the beginner who tries
to get from them the different vibration which a
discord implies.]
Or, again, possibly you have heard or read of
‘Julius Caesar’ before, but the original impres-
sion left in your brain was, for some reason or
other, only a faint one. Perhaps you were in
poor health, or were cultivating a vegetarian-fad,
and the cell which should have thrown itself
about and remembered J.C. was half-starved for
want of good blood-food, and didn’t do its work
thoroughly. Or perhaps you were ‘attending to
something else ’ —‘ Great Scott,’ for example—and
nearly all the force of the brain was employed in
sending messages to or from * Great Scott,’ and
there was hardly any attention to spare for the
‘ Julius Caesar ’ messages —just as when a circus
comes to Narandera all the juvenile interest con-
centrates upon it, and the boy who ‘ does Blon-
din ’ on the fence cannot get an audience. Such a
faint impression may take some time to recall,
and you will have to ‘think a bit’ while the
nerve-vibrations look up and down the likely cell-
pigeon-holes trying to find the ‘Julius Caesar’
docket.
Or, again, you may have originally received a
good strong ‘Julius Caesar’ impression, but it
may have faded in the course of years; or the
joints of your cell-molecules may hare grown stiff
with age, so that they do not vibrate readily ; or
your original impression may have been derived
through the central eye exchange, and thus there
may be no direct wire from the central ear ex-
change to the cell where it is stored, so
that it takes a good while to establish connection.
In all these oases it is only by degrees, if at all,
that you are able to bring back the original
‘Julius Caesar ’ impression with something like
the old vividness.
But a normal person, when
Julios C.esar!
is shouted in his ear, might receive ‘in a flash
and almost all together mental pictures of—
1. A medallion of J.C. seen at a museum.
2. Caesar’s Commentaries, as studied at school.
3. Shakespeare’s play.
4. Personal conclusions on the life and character of
Caesar derived from a hundred sources.
And so on—resolving themselves into a definite
impression that Caesar was —so-and-so. Probably
these memories are stored in different groups of
cells at some little distance apart, according to
the sense through which they have been derived.
Hence it takes a little time for thought to pass
from one to the other, and if a clear picture
of any single memory is desired energy must be
temporarily concentrated upon that, the contents
of the other cells being successively brought up
and sorted out for comparison. Then at every
step in the process a fresh train of thought may
be started—you went to the museum under such
circumstances—in such company—met so-and-so
—whose book was published the other day —
open to criticism on such a point just
as the Sheffield life of Gibbon is some-
body quoted in a Sydney paper Gibbon’s reflec-
tions on finishing his history in the summer-
house in his garden—Lytton first emphasised the
passage—as far as you know—you remember
quoting it, with stress on its pathos and dignity,
to somebody who merely commented ‘ Summer-
house in his garden ? How ever did he keep the
wind from blowing his papers about? ’ . . .
and sO on, until death. (Poe has admirably
suggested some externals of the process in ‘ The
Purloined Letter.’)
» * * *
But the point is that every one of these thoughts
or impreosions represents a more or less perma-
nent change in the disposition of certain brain-
molecules. There are probably thousands of mole-
cules to a cell, and (as stated) some three thousand
millions of cells, so that the combinations are
practically infinite enough to represent even all
the thoughts which pass through the brain in a
life-time, and to register as ‘ memory ’ the most
vivid and definite of them.
And another point is that since the brain can
intentionally recall any image which it has
received, it is possible to crystallise the most
valuable impressions for permanent use. That is,
it is possible to more or less strengthen by exer-
cise the different sets of brain-cells in any indi-
vidual—just as Sandow deliberately strengthened
by exercise one set of muscles after another until
he reached something like all-round perfection.
The importance of this lies in the fact that in the
most cultured man’s brain there are groups of
cells which lie dormant and useless because they
have not been properly trained in youth. Stone-
wall Jackson only knew two tunes —one was
‘ Yankee Doodle ’ and the other wasn’t—simply
because the nerve-cells in the hearing centre of his
brain had not been trained to distinguish and
appreciate musical notes. And there is a Sydney
musician who boasts, probably with truth, that he
can detect when a single note is one-sixteenth of a
tone sharp or flat as compared with the correct
notes preceding or following it, yet who passes
paintings without a glance—because his dormant
sight-centres give no response to the delicate
stimuli of color.
And a third point is that most molecular changes,
once established, persist as ‘ habit.” ‘ Habit ’in a
brain-cell, or a spinal-cell, or a muscle-cell, simply
means that the cell-molecules through constant
repetition of any movement are disposed in a
particular position, and tend to vibrate in a par-
ticular manner which corresponds with a par-
ticular action ; and when you ask them to vibrate
in another manner it is like ‘rubbing a cat the
wrong way,’ when you ask them to remain in
another position it is like throwing a stone in
the air and telling it not to fall down again.
The brain-cells, for example, which controlled
Parkps’s speech had been accustomed in his
youth, when impressions are most deeply graven,
to send such a message along their motor-
fibres that his vocal organs said ‘the ’ouse.’ When
he grew older he learnt that he should say ‘ the
house,’ and the fact was so impressed on other
brain-cells that he tried to say * the house,’ and he
could say it when he concentrated his attention on
the disastrous h. But when he had to devote the
higher centres of his brain to thinking of his
speech, and deciding what words should comenext,
the lower centre escaped from his control, the
naughty molecules vibrated in the old familiar
way, and he said ‘ the ’ouse ’ as regularly as clock-
work. He knew he was wrong directly his ear
caught the sound and carried it back into his
brain—too late! Possibly, by very hard labor,
he might have done something analogous to cut-
ting a new channel through the nerve-matter of
the disobedient cell, but so rapidly does the
nerve-substance lose its plasticity that the enter-
prise was practically impossible. After middle
age, and probably for a good while before it, the
average man is a slave to the impressions that
early habits of thought have imprinted on his
brain.
Herein partly lies the physiological explanation
of conservatism. A man’s brain works along tha
furrows ploughed in it by youthful thoughts,
which generally reflect the prevalent temper of his
day and generation. As he grows older, another
generation is born, with new thoughts to which'
he has a mental repugnance—partly because the
molecular modifications of his brain absolutely
prevent him from understanding them, and his
nerve-cells no longer possess the energy to make
fresh modifications.
Then atavism, or heredity, comes into play as
well. A brain is modified by the environment into
which it is thrown during its own brief existence,
but the general lines of its status and character
are laid down by the whole pre-existing environ-
ment and reaction to environment of every life
lived on this planet. Any attempt to leave those
lines is made in defiance of the whole of the
world’s past history. Thus it is that progress is
slow and confined to Youth. The inertia of the
Race may be overcome for a while, but when it
adds to itself the inertia of Age the combination
is irresistible.
So it is that even in ‘ this enlightened day 1
comparatively few people retain in later life the
habits of reading acquired in youth. Instead of
a book a newspaper suffices them. Instead of a
book of history or philosophy a novel attract
them. This is partly because the older brain is
less capable of sustained attention. But it ig
partly also because the reading habit is still a
habit foreign to humanity—acquired too recently
to ‘come easy’ to the brain. A practised writer
rarely realises what blurred images the words
which are so clear to him produce on the brains of
most of his readers—with what difficulty they
gather the meaning from the symbol—and how
slight is the conscious impression produced upon
them by language which to him seems moßt
forcible.
This explains why, as remarked the other day
in The Bulletin, Boss Tweed, of the N.Y. Tam-
many ring, was accustomed to say of his oppo-
nents, ‘ I don’t care what they writes —it’s the
pictures as kills me.’ To begin with, the foreign
element in New York is so large that the percent-
age of illiteracy is unusually high for America;
and many of those on whom Boss Tweed relied
for support could not read tho proofs of his
knavery at all, while everyone with eyes could
understand a picture of Tweed with his hands
buried in the coin of the City Treasury.
But even to many of those who could read, the
printed assertion ‘Boss Tweed is a thief’ would
convey an impression nothing like so distinct aa
the picture, for word-symbols set in motion in tha
average individual brain-cells nothing like so
energetic or so well-developed as the cells which
the picture energises. In the same way, humanity
has long been used to receiving vivid impressions
through the centres in the brain affected by
speech, and these centres are exercised as continu-
ally by the individual as they have been by the
race, so that they are in the normal individual
exceptionally powerful and well-nourished. Hence
unaccustomed readers’ habit of repeating the
words aloud as they read —in order that the
impression made by the sound upon the brain
may reinforce the much weaker impression
made by the word-symbol. Hence, too, the habit
of oral instruction in schools; and of lecture-teach-
ing at the universities. Were the lesson or lecture
merely written on a blackboard the average pupil
would not assimilate it half as well. On the other
hand, trained readers, who have so exercised and
energised certain brain-cells that the printed
word yields its image without effort, and often a
more vivid image than the spoken word, fre-
quently look upon attendance at lectures as a
waste of time, since they can learn in ten minutes
from a book the message which it takes a lecturer
two hours to deliver.
• • • •
And so on, and so on. The study of the brain,
which has made immense strides in so short a
period as the last ten years, is one of the most
fascinating and important that modern science is
engaged in. There is, by the way, no precise
warrant for supposing that communication within
the brain proceeds in the same manner as tele-
phonic communication, or that the nerve-cells in
any literal way resemble pigeon-holes. The illus-
trations are good ones, however, and the telephonic
analogy is probably very close.
THE BURIAL OF MOLIERE.
Dead —he is dead ! The rouge has left a tra*e
On that thin cheek where shone, perchanae, a
tear.
• Even while the people laughed that held hm
dear
But yesterday. He died, —and not in grace,
And many a black-robed caitiff starts apace
To slander him whose Tartufife made them tear,
And gold must win a passage for his bier
And bribe the crowd that guards his resting-place.
Ah, Moliere, for that last time of all,
Man’s hatred broke upon thee, and went hy,
And did but make more fair thy funeral.
Though in the dark they hid thee
Thy coffin had the cope of night for pall.
For torch the stars along the windyjsky !
ANDREW LANG, from J.TRUPF[?].


Medical*
W!
>'] l
s
PERFECT MANHOOD
Health strengths Vigor
TO A RIPE OLD ACE.
-
Weakness & Disease of Man
Quickly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel
a benefit everyday; soon know yourself a
king among men in body, mind and heart.
Every obstacle to a happy life removed.
Nerve force, will, energy, brain power, when
failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strength-
ened and developed.
Sufferers from overwork, ill-health, re-
gain your vigor! Don’t despair, even if in
the last stages. Don’t be disheartened if
quacks have robbed you. Let us show you
medical science and business honor still
exist.
The President of the Institute Is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New
York Scientific Investigation Society with
their gold medals and orders of merit, and
holds letters of congratulation for the sue
cess of his scientific discoveriesfrom the lead-
ing practitioners of the Old and New World.
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring medical treatment
remit 20s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address or
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied In pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially prepared under the direct super-
vision of the President.
Just Published—Pocket Medical Guide,
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescrip-
tions, &c., sent free on receipt of address.
A dress the President, or
BRUNVvICK, H AMILTON Ss CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
11a FLINDERS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily.
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters of thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful parents, who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
IQUOR
HABIT
Encrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
aanno
AIISV3
John Durant's SURE CURE
CAPSULES
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or bv post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York. Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
J3T" MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
( Mumford’s Vivifying (Herbal
(Medicated Nervine Iconic Sills
H . positively restore von to health and vigour, no matter
from what cau.se you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the bb'od, and giving strength to the nerves and
all ra-ts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines over discovered. Sufferers say, I wish I had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
i air ctions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 187«.]
X)S R I CORD'S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 'Ms. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope _
Agents for Australasia —Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales— VV. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
“A BORA PHYSICIAA.”
The Greatest and Most Successful Practitioner in the World.
His mode of Treatment is unfolded in his last work (nearly 100 PAGES). PRICE —Posted, Sealed—
.£l, including ONE MONTH'S MEDICINE, for any Disease.
i M
h :=
!T
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emi-
nence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed in an
acute or chronic case of long standing, where other physicians
have failed. He addresses himself in particular to cases that
have baffled the skill and science of other doctors. His name
is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect cure of every case he
undertakes. Consult him this day. It may save you much
mental and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life.
YOUNG MEN.
You will find this distinguished doctor your best friend
and benefactor. If you are troubled with want of sleep, a
tired gloomy feeling, and loss of energy, which impair both
your body and brain, and absolutely unfit you for study,
business, or the proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering
from these or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before
it is everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat it
with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN.
There are many of you afflicted with weak, aching back
and kidneys, loss of mental and physical power and vigor,
and not unfrequently accompanied by an impairment of the
general health. In justice to this celebrated specialist it can
be truthfully stated that in all such cases of middle-aged
men, as well of young men, his success has been almost
invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia —female complaints,
liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder, kidney and heart
disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE.
Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double com-
press, price £2. Constitutional or acquired weaknesses
treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering. New edition of my latest work, “ Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free to men.
N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., 121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this Paper.
BEGINNING.
MADE A MAN OF ME ’
One year ago I was a physicial and mental wreck, and had lost all hope
of ever getting cured. Hearing of Dr. Irving's Homoepatbic Institute,
I applied there, and am today perfectly cured.—R.T.R.
The Homoeopathic Treatment is a complete cure for Nervousness.
Full particulars of this certain remedy I will send you (free) sealed.
The Homoeopathic Treatment cures in 4 weeks.
Dr. IDVIN(I CO., c/r Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
2ND WEEK.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp'eted his New and Centrallv-sit uated
Electrical & Consulting llooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those tvho
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely -Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE EOTJND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your ease requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Cribbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
medical.
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure of Nervousness.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, grave), weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
LA.DIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr,
Sjpeer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
RUPTURE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain ; security from Strangulated Her-
nia, and a permanent cure if possible. Please
investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic Elastic
Truss,” and you will be surprised at what you
will learn. This Truss positively does the work,
and is worth £lOOO to any ruptured man or
woman. If you want the BEST, call or send 2d.
in stamps for free Pamphlet No. 1. It contains
full information. MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL &
CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
■“■of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address —
“ MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £l ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 347, Sydney.
consult Dr. FREEMAN.
This well-known and RELIABLE SPECIALIST treats
Chronic and Nervous Diseases.
He CURES ALL DISEASES. His NEW PAMPHLET
sent FREE TO ALL who write regarding their trouble.
PATIENTS CURED at HOME, and Medicines sent free
from observation.
Dr. FREEMAN, P.O. Box 1359,
ELIZABETH STREET (corner Bathurst-st.), SYDNEY.
A Golden Shanty.
CONTENTS:
Verse : How he Died and The Last Bullet, by
John Farrell—The Old Wife and the New, Mid-
summer in a Hawkesbury Valley, Two Sunsets,
Dreams, Hail to the Dead, Even So, The First of
May, At the Opera, The Ghost, and A Sunset
Fantasy, by V. J. Daley—ln Memoriam Marcus
Clarke, and Frank Denz, by Henry Kendall —
Old Pardon the Son of Reprieve, and Clancy of
the Overflow, by “ The Banjo ” —The Drivel of
Our Fathers, by Jas. Edmond —Seen Again, by
E. Lowe—M‘Gillviray’s Dream, by Thos. Bracken
—Shadow-Hunting, by Francis Myers—Faces in
the Street, by Henry Lawson—The Song of Te
Kooti, by Arthur Desmond —Peter and Paul —
At Sandy Crossing, by J. M. Marsh.
Prose : His Father’s Mate, by Henry Lawson
—Up a Northern River, by Jas. Edmond—A
Golden Shanty, Mr. and Mrs. Sin Fat, and The
Washerwoman of Jacket's Flat, by E. Dyson-
North Queensland Journalism, by Titus Salt—
Between Two Bottles, by J.K.


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS,
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
HAWKESBURY H. April 10.
25,000 Sutoecribera at 5.
Name
DONCASTER H. April 17.
25,000 Subscribers at S*
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
TAMWORTH C
May 6.
10,000 Subßcribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
ADELAIDE C. May 5.
100,000 Subsorilbera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ : :
BIRTHDAY C
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars*


All Sorts SCiited.
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, hut have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ring, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “ youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
flnthony Hordern &S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ORLY).
y v
*
V aJ^
' tb
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being ?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE constipation.
Qo |)ot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See,
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
- HEALTHY BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
Ladies'
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from ds. ba.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, HO William-si. Only, Sydney
Madame Rodney,
rpHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
J- may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
A GUINEA
to a gooseberry is considered the longest of long
odds ; but it is longer odds still that if you
spend
HALF-A-6UINEA
for a pair of my celebrated Boots, known as
“JOHN HUNTER’S HALF-GUINEA BOOTS,”
you will be more than satisfied with your in-
vestment.
Country customers can provide themselves
with a pair by adding Is. for postage. And how
do they wear ? Try them and see.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
Corner GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and aii imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
7 'he best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Biid’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
1207 Q
N. 124
*l2OB 1
372
40 3
126
r
Nf
111 fti
125
127
234
078
5 6
57
<b
<2
<*
4>
%
B 2
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc Cooled Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TUADW-
MARK
(jCjTW)
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
AUSTRAL IA V
NEEDLEJVOOI)
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 120, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/G
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
MEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q.
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
Perdriau <&. Co. ;
It übber Manufacturers .
INVERNESS CAPES,
WATERPROOFS
DRIVING BOOTS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
COATS, OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSES.
CARDEN HOSE SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’ HOSE,
GARDEN g HOSL, N &r±t STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
ALWAYS
ORDER
“Schweppes”
As other Waters of inferior quality are now often supplied
bearing labels of same style and colour as Schweppes.
SCHWEPPE’S WATERS ARE SUPPLIED TO THE QUEEN.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE BATTLING DAYS.
So, sit you down in a straight-backed chair, with
your pipe and your wife content,
And cross your knees with your wisest air, and
preach of the ‘ ‘ days mis-spent ” ;
Grown fat and moral apace, old man ! you prate
of the change “ since then
In spite of all, I'd as lief be back in those hard old
days again.
They were hard old days; they were battling
days ; they were cruel at times —but then,
In spite of all, I would rather be back in those
hard old days again.
The land was barren to sow wild oats in the days
when we sowed our own—
(’Twas little we thought or our friends believed
that ours would ever be sown)
But the wild oats wave on their stormy path, and
they speak of the hearts of men—
I would sow a crop if I had my time in those hard
old days again.
We travel first, or we go saloon—on the planned-
out trips we go,
With those who are neither rich nor poor, and we
find that the life is slow ;
It’s “a pleasant trip” where they cried “Good
luck ! ” There was fun in the steerage then—
In spite of all, I would fain be back in those vaga-
bond days again.
On Saturday night we’ve a pound to spare—a
pound for a trip down town —
We took more joy in those hard old days for a
hardly spared half-crown ;
We took more pride in the pants we patched than
the suits we have had since then—
In spite of all, I would father be back in those
comical days again.
’Twas We and the World—and the rest go hang—
as the Outside tracks we trod ;
Each thought of himself as a man and mate, and
not as a martyred god ;
The world goes wrong when your heart is strong,
and this is the way with men :
The world goes right when your liver is white, and
you preach of the change “ since then.”
They were hard old days; they were battling
days ; they were cruel times—but then,
In spite of all, we shall live to-night in those hard
old days again.
HENRY LAWSON.
M‘CARTHY THE TENDER-HEARTED.
McCarthy lived in Booligal.
A sandy-whiskered man, and tall,
Was he, with eyes that overran
At tale of wrong to beast or man.
When he th’ Armenian horrors read
About, he clenched his fist and said,
“ I’d make the Sultan look dam small
If he was here in Booligal! ”
Did he a wounded chicken see,
He’d take it up—so kind was he—
And see it got no further hurt,
And keep it warm inside his shirt;
And if an old stray horse he found
He’d, weeping, lead it to the pound—
So tender was his heart withal,
McCarthy’s heart, of Booligal.
No funeral was held complete
Unless M'Carthy had a seat
Behind the hearse. To see his grief—
To see his vast white handkerchief—
You’d think, till you were undeceived,
He was the Party most Bereaved —
Por he could weep enough for all
M'Carthy could, of Booligal.
They tell a tale—it may be true;
I hardly think it is ; do you?—
How teamsters when the track was dry
Would “ Gee up, Brimstone ! Polly ! ” cry,
And say —“ We have a tale of woe
To make McCarthy’s tears o’erflow,
And they will make a. river small
When we get into Booligal.”
A stranger to the township came.
They told him of M‘Carthy’s fame,
And much he longed the man to see—
There all at once “ Great Heav’ns ! ” said he,
“ What mean these cries and sounds of strife? ”
“M'Carthy’s hammerin’ his wife,”
Said they—“ It’s her_ you’re hearin’ squall,
M‘Carthy’s wife of Booligal.”
O.R.
BALLADE OF THE BUSH.
When you have spent lone, endless days
In tending sheep upon the plain,
Beneath a high sun’s streaming rays
That weave strange doubts if you are sane,
While sweat-drops make a changing stain
Upon the ground, which red heat frees
And makes the spot quite fair again—
It’s pleasant then to talk to trees.
The moon fantastic shadow lays
When summer nights hold cloudless reign,
Grim, ghostly shapes that work amaze,
And build queer fancies in your brain ;
And, too, the mournful wail gives pain
When far-off curlews sound their glees ;
All help your mind to crazy vein :
It’s pleasant then to talk to trees.
For slow-spun weeks no human phrase,
Or voice of man unlinks the train
Of curious thoughts on human ways,
That churn your mind until you’d fain
The stumps would dance to ease the strain—
Sometimes they do in your dis-ease,
And when they don’t, to make time wane
It’s pleasant then to talk to trees.
Oh, he who’s borne the heavy chain
Of long grey hours, nor mortal sees,
Will grant the truth of this refrain.
It’s pleasant then to talk to trees.
Vic.
H. A. CONANT.


AOStraliai) f^Cittial
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq.; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.;
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, P.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £132,523
yielding Reversionarv Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office : 8 7 I? IT T STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTE
IF YOU ARE COMING TO SYDNEY FOR EASTER
HOLIDAYS OR AGRICULTURAL SHOW YOU WILL
DO BEST BY RESIDING AT THE AUSTRALIA.
FIRST
OF AUSTRALASIA’S HOTELS.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office ; is most conveniently situated as regards
Theatres, Banks, Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room at every hour
of the day and night—advantages which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
BATES ; 12/6 PER DAY UPWARDS, INCLUSIVE OF
ALL MEALS AND ATTENDANCE.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager, Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA.
BRYANT & MAY’S WAX V€STAS
and.
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
jm
BRAKDY
(Joshua Bros. 66 Boomerang 99 Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
43T Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. IBS
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage..
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction.,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
IjO comoti ves f
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & c ., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., COLONIAL MANAGER.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The Condon m Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY-
OTJR STOCK
is selected from the
Leading London Houses.
CALL for PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
Wo "Rriu for* and are 20 per cent. Cheaper
“ e DU J lor asxi than other Houses.
For Example :
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits ... 50s.
Serge Sac Suits 50s,
Scotch or West of England Tweed ... 15s.
S. M. BAUMASCHE, Manager.
UNEQUALLED
FOR
QUALITY
AND
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO.
F
ifur-ie
lIRE and MARINE INSURANCES Effected on Every Description of Property at Lowest
Current Rates. WOOL INSURED from Sheep’s Back to London
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVE
£1,000,000
£435,000
Agencies in all the Principal Towns of New South Wales.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH 81
S. HAGUE SMITH, Manager.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. MINNETT, Assistant Manager.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes: “The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
KIT” Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
II *4 J THE
United losoraocc co.
(LIMITED).
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Bents also insured.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
ltates very More.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10- per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30/- co £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : i)5 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 41(i Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd,
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE—>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ... £22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks,
J.P., Directors. Adelaide: E. H. Peachey. L. A. Jessop,
Director. Melbourne: D. Clyne. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
57
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. ELDEIDG-E & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Important Announcement by JJixson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers.
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXbON it SONfe, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Price Hitherto Ull“
known Here a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in tlie World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Vuelta Abajo).
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equal ly-choice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for 6d.!! win at first no doubt
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming the great cost of production, just
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight to be made at a profit DIXSON
and SONS intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA”
comes as a pleasant surprise to many who, though capable of appreciating a
goot igar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury.
® am pl e Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, far transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 892.
SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 1897.
Price, 6d.
DEPARTURE OF TEE
PRIMATE.
A fAIIEWELLf ADDRESS.
, t • • -••-*••• I suppose tha'f
1 jftay, without affectation, apply phrasea of
the great missionary apostle to my own case:
“Irr labors .... abundant. In -joruneyings
often.' :
iiumtl* inf ttuidid friini on fatting UaVtof f/h
Scuimurej- . " dut.jfoiw lordship, Miaf vJouXd'y
Ike §rpat ajooslte Saif to your lordships' fours
iuyiujs ojfiri mabicj inaiL-boalT otuijirsf j
Class ficHel? /
Saumare-z . 'JJoulsless ke- kluuld rerun'll
That flunks fia/e charted /asldj fljp
Wfftr Sjru< fye .
fhj-lfje- Iji - Ijci/e you. Jeet] any/llunqj*
of bin slaffmj siwx (Re
'federal l
t cofeiHtnEot ks Effwftd it's obJcclT - + fto^N
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
✓v/v \/\/\/S/V\/S/nA/VWWv-
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Wavejrley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Blade, and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London.,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — C 'has. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
W cst.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual stib-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
TJuTfyxzlleZzai.
SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 1897.
The Law and the Larrikin.
Within the last month or so the inevitable
“ larrikin outrage ” has been a little more
violent than it commonly is in and around
Sydney. It is always more or less violent ;
the “ push ” is always present, and the un-
provoked “ stoushing ” of somebody out of
pure cussedness is an event which happens
several times every week with varying
degrees of ferocity. But when there is more
unprovoked battery than usual, and the vic-
tim’s brains protrude further than they
generally do, and the accompanying language
is a little more horrifying than the ordinary
sample, and one or two deaths arise, the cir-
cumstance is called an ‘ ‘ Outbreak of Larri-
kinism,” and the daily paper wakes up to
sudden interest in the question. On
these occasions the daily paper and its in-
furiated correspondent, “Pro Bono Publico,”
invariably announce that, “ all other means
of repression having failed,” it is necessary
to resort to the lash for the suppression of
the native hoodlum. This stereotyped
fallacy is now going the rounds once more
with the usual want of any good result.
Nothing ever comes of the daily paper’s
periodical shriek for more flogging; it rises
after some especially awful slab of brutality,
and it dies away again when the event is
forgotten, and leaves things as they were.
None of its advocates advance any sugges-
tions for the prevention of larrikinism; their
one idea is to get level with the offender on
gory principles after he has done his outrage
—provided he can be caught. And if the
object of the law is merely to satisfy its
feelings with a bloodthirsty retribution after-
ivards, and to give an occasional brutal
offender—a very occasional one—what he
deserves, the lash is “all there.” If, on the
other hand, the idea is to suppress larrikin-
ism and prevent outrages and wipe out the
whole “ push ” organisation it is a miserable
failure—for reasons which are already suf-
ficiently distinct, but which it may be ivell
to explain over again for the benefit of those
who do not readily digest reasons.
The first obvious cause of larrikinism is
the woeful weakness of the police force in
all the Australian cities. The stereotyped
answer to this is always supplied by the Fat
Person, who writes to the papers pointing
out that the police force of Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, and elsewhere in Aus-
tralia, is quite as strong in proportion to
population as that of London, Glasgow,
Paris, and other old-world cities. This
fact is commonly deemed to be conclusive.
In reality it has no earthly bearing on the
case. Sydney is vastly more extensive in
proportion to its population than Glasgow
and other cities which serve as favorite
examples. Being so much more scattered
it requires probably twice as many police in
order that the law-abiding citizen may have
as good a chance of finding a man in blue
when he needs one, and in order that an
equally efficient watch may be kept. More-
over, the organised “push” is practically
unknown out of Australia, and it requires
probably two or three or four times as many
police to make reasonably sure of arresting
the ruffian who is almost always backed up
by half-a-dozen or a dozen reliable sup-
porters, as to capture the one who is not so
supported. The quantity of police-power re-
quired in Sydney or Melbourne is to be judged
by their own circumstances; not by entirely
different circumstances in cities at the other
end of the globe. The fact that riotous out-
breaks are of daily occurrence and that they
occur almost always when there is no police-
man in sight, proves clearly that there
are not enough constables ; if there were,
they would be in sight much oftener. An
obvious cause of larrikin outrages is that the
person committing them has always, owing
to the scarcity of police, a three to one, or
possibly a ten to one, chance of not
being caught at all. The advocates of
the lash vociferate for power to do more
awful things to the offender when he is
caught, but they might almost as wisely
attempt to suppress the Armenian atrocities
by giving Jawbone Neild authority to do
something awful to Abdul-Hamid if he can
capture him. The chance that any parti-
cular larrikin may be arrested at the right
moment may be a little greater than the
chance that “Major” Neild will capture
Sultan Abdul-Hamid, but it isn’t so much
greater as to be worth betting upon.
* * * *
Even with the present miserably inefficient
system, however, the criminal larrikin is
caught now and then—and fined 40s. or so.
He is sometimes fined more than 405., but
the chance that any particular hoodlum will
be fined more than 40s. is another thing
which is not worth betting upon. Every
magistrate has very extensive powers for the
suppression of the evil; he can sentence the
offender to a long term of imprisonment with
or without the alternative of a very heavy
fine—one heavy enough to cover the expense
of catching him and leave a balance over to
aid the depleted State revenue. But he
doesn’t use his full powers in one case out of
a hundred, or anything distantly resembling
that. He has also very extensive powers for
dealing with cases of drunkenness, foul lan-
guage, and other minor but highly objection-
able offences, but he generally either releases
the prisoner gratuitously or charges him
something varying from ss. to £l. One
notable exception to this rule is the un-
speakable Sydney police-magistrate, who,
a little while ago, not only discharged
a person accused of disgusting language, but
severely reproved the arresting constable for
interfering with him at all, on the ground
that his disgusting language was quite
“customary.” If the magistracy won’t use
the powers it already possesses, it is obvi-
ously useless to entrust it with more powers ;
the only result will be that it won’t use them
either. Also, seeing that there has been no
systematic and continuous effort—in fact,
there has been hardly any effort at all—to
use the powers already in existence, no one
can tell whether these powers are sufficient
or not. The whole case for the lash rests on
the assertion that the existing powers are not
sufficient, which assertion is absolute assump-
tion and ignorance, and the ordinary or
garden variety of wooden-headedness.
* * * *
If the lash is requisitioned to suppress the
hoodlumism which disgraces Australian cities,
and the rest of the system is left as it stands,
the result will be something as follows :
About one brutal rowdy in ten will be cap-
tured, as heretofore ; if there are not enough
police to effect the captures it doesn’t matter
whether the possible penalty is 2s. 6d. fine,
or flogging, or crucifixion —-none of these
things will make the force any more
numerous than it is. Moreover, there is
often a lamentable uncertainty whether the
person so very occasionally captured is the
real offender. Owing to the scarcity of
police it is very rarely he is arrested on the
spot; in most cases he is run down after-
wards on the strength of a very loose and
unreliable description, and “ identified ” by
the victim as the man who kicked his head
in the dark—the victim, in his natural ex-
asperation, being prepared to identify almost
anybody rather than get no satisfaction at
all for his injuries. Assuming, however,
that the occasional arrestee is the right per-
son, he will be brought up before the regula-
tion weak-kneed magistrate, who will then
have power to award any sentence from ss.
fine up to a rousing and breezy episode
at the triangles instead of his powers
ranging from ss. fine to, say, six months’
hard labor. As that flabby person, with
his present authority, generally fines the
prisoner 40s. it may be presumed that—
being the same person and equally flabby
he will continue to do so. In about one case
in a hundred, perhaps, flogging will be
ordered, but, considering that the beak
doesn’t use the full powers he already pos-
sesses anything like once in a hundred times,
even this is very unlikely. Assuming, how-
ever, that it does happen, the total result
will be that once in a thousand times the
right or wrong person will be flogged, and
otherwise things will go on as usual.. The
idea that flogging would be largely availed of
arises from a wholly unreasonable view of
the average magistrate’s force of character.
About once a week, or oftener, when a notably
brutal offender is dragged up, the presiding
Draco almost weeps because he hasn t
authority to order the lash as the only
thing bad enough to meet the case. Then
he generally passes a sentence of 14 days at
the outside. The spectacle of a man too
weak to use the powers entrusted to him,
even in cases where he alleges that the case
calls for all of them and much more besides,
yet craving for more authority, is a pitiable
example of weakness.
1 * * *
The Bulletin is firmly of opinion that
larrikinism can be suppressed, but not by
the spasmodic shriek for an occasional horror
which is almost the only effort that ever is
made in this direction. The first essential is
to largely increase the police force —to mul-
tiply it by two or three or four if necessary ;
it certainly requires to be multiplied by two,
and even if it was increased fourfold it would
not be much larger, in proportion to the
area to be guarded in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, than the police strength of many
European cities. Then there would be a
decent chance of arresting the criminal
rowdy every time, and whether it is proposed
that his ultimate fate should be flogging,
imprisonment, summary execution with
horrors, or a half-crown fine, the first essen-
tial is to make his arrest a reasonable cer-
tainty. The next essential is to limit the
discretion of the weak-kneed magistrate,
whose ideas of the value of order, and the
objectionableness of brutal assault, obscene
language and the like, are so lamentably
mixed that he habitually assesses anything
short of murder at something not much
above 40s. If the lowest price of the
great Australian adjective were fixed
at £5, and that of the more objec-
tionable kinds of obscenity at £lO, and
the minimum for brutal assault was £2O, and
the corresponding terms of imprisonment
were lengthened in the same proportion, and
the maximum punishment for the same
offences was enlarged considerably, it would
at least provide a good amount of revenue to
pay for the extra cost of police supervision.
Also, though the magistracy might be as
cowardly as it now is, and as badly afraid to
inflict the maximum sentence in extreme
cases, and its ideas of varying degrees of
criminality might be as loose as they are at
present, still the limits within which it could
make a conspicuous ass of itself would be
somewhat narrowed. The average sentence
passed would still, almost certainly, be much
less than the law already allows, but the scope
afforded to the bench for not enforcing the
law would be somewhat lessened. In other
words, it is needful to greatly diminish the
discretion allowed to magistrates, the average
magistrate having conclusively demonstrated
that he has no discretion worth speaking of.
And if, when the magistracy has thus been
compelled to really administer the law,
larrikinism is not in a great measure sup-
pressed, it will be time enough to say that
the law is inefficient. At present no one
knows whether it is inefficient or not. It
Jiasn’t even had a trial.
Bowing to Baal.
Possibly Premier Reid had from the first made
up his mind to bow the knee to the Imperial
Baal. Possibly he hadn’t. The influence
restraining him from going down on his marrow-
bones quite so soon as the ruck of Premiers
may have been diplomacy, or it may have been
conscientiousness, or it may have been a blend
of both. Nobody knows exactly but Premier
Reid, and Premier Reid won’t tell. Anyway,
he will now have the pleasure of going, com-
bined with the credit of only going under
pressure. It isn’t much credit, but there is
possibly some political capital to be made from
it. That any Premier should leave Australia
at this time unquestionably involves a betrayal
of this country’s interests to the monarchical
fetish. We are borne on a tide of federal
enthusiasm whose strength has considerably
surprised the old hack politicians. If it is
taken at the flood by the men whose -position
makes them the natural agents and directors of
public opinion, Brunton Stephens’ “Not
Yet ” poem may lose all but an archaic and
literary significance. If we miss the current
when it serves the federal cause may be bound
once more in shallows and in miseries—and the
blame will lie largely at the door of the poli-
ticians who junketed to England because they
were ready to miss the chance of making a
nation, and averse from missing an opportunity
of cutting tenth-rate figures in an empty cere-
to°forgeT h ICh enli 6 lltened History will be eager
* * * •
No Premier has any right to leave this
country three weeks after the Federal Con-
vention meets. If he feels no duty to himself
he yet owes duty to Australia. Why should
our national interests be sacrificed because in
the ridiculous course of hereditary monarchy
a commonplace queen has vegetated for 60 years
upon a commonplace throne? In the eves of
the next century Queen Victoria will\ e a
cipher. Her predecessors were mostly odious:
she is useless. And Premier Reid, who has
done Ins best to damn Federation once now
does his best to damn Federation a second tim^
by deserting the national ship at the crisis of a
promising voyage. The Bulletin, for one
will make no pretence of regret if next time
Federation should damn Premier Reid. Yet it
is a pity. Premier Reid is an unreliable finan-
cier, and is objectionable as having travelled on
bogus Freetrade, but, so far as this paper
knows, he is personally a comparatively honest
politician. Whatever his colleagues may
have done, or attempted to do, he personally
has not filled the public offices "with his
friends and relations —so far as is known. He
has not flooded an electorate witli telegrams
urging the election of a supporter, and made
the taxpayer pay for the messages —so far as is
known. He has not begged his colleagues to
buy unnecessary goods from a political friend—
so far as is known. On the contrary, he has
remodelled the public service and taken patron-
age out of the hands of Ministers. He has
introduced direct taxation—exempting poverty
and making the rich landowner disgorge some of
his “ unearned increment” for the first time in
New South Wales history. He assisted to pass
the most comprehensive Act for the exclusion of
objectionable aliens which Australia has seen.
He assisted to pass an admirable Navigation
Amending Act which would have ended much
of the tyranny over seamen had not the Upper
House emasculated it. He was largely instru-
mental in bringing about the first referendum
in his province—and the first referendum any-
where is no small sign of democratic progress.
* * * *
Even did these improvements or attempted
improvements on the pre-existing order of
things stand alone they would make a very fair
three years record for the average Australian
politician. What a pity that Premier Reid
cannot cap his present climax by posing as the
one strong man in a truckling band, and return-
ing answer to Queen Victoria that the pro-
vincial interests which require his presence
in Australia are so important, and the
national interests at this special juncture are
possibly so stupendous, that he is quite
unable to 20 and be an insignificant
little fat man at the tail of her
record reign procession ! Premier Reid, in
fact, is asked to remove himself from Australia,
where he is a highly important figure, to Eng-
land, where he will be nobody. He is asked to
deprive Australia of his services—certainly
valuable, possibly essential—at what may prove
to be a most momentous epoch in her history,
in order to add one unnecessary name to the
list of persons present at a stupid and
ephemeral pageant. Very well, let Premier
Reid go—and take the consequences.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Political Stew.
The cynical corruption of Q. politics has
become commonplace. People have grown so
used to hearing that this politician declared on
his “honor” that an insolvent bank was
solvent, thereby enabling it to keep afloat
three years, receive millions of Govt, money
specially borrowed to tide it over its difficulties,
and pay scores of thousands in dividends on
non-existent capital; or that some politician,
whether or not in return for services rendered
or to be rendered, had been courteously released
by the bank from a heavy liability ; or that
some other politician bought a business for so
much, and obtained twice or thrice its price-
many thousands of pounds—as an overdraft on
its security ; —things like these are so familiar
that information that the whole of the Q.
Parliament had been arrested for a combination
of horse-stealing, arson, and embracery would
only excite mild surprise that some new-chum
police-officer had been found ass enough to
waste his time in serving the warrant. Con-
sequently the political appointments which are
greasing over Premier Nelson’s trip to Eng-
land, and sliding Truthful Tozer as his locum
tenens down somewhat reluctant gullets, are
judged of no particular importance in the
northern Lepers’ Home. Groom and Dickson
—an ex-Speaker and ex-Minister representing
the old Liberal tail in alleged Opposition—have
been limed just as Premier Nelson himself was
limed by MTlwraith. Groom gets the chair-
manship of a Lands Commission which should
put a very substantial honorarium in his
pocket. Its scope is rather wider than the Pacific
Ocean, and Groom and the undistinguished
Govt, hacks who are his colleagues start business
by tripping to Sydney to pile up fees and exes,
and “ collect information ” in the pleasant
autumn weather, while the famous local Public
Works Committee smiles in sympathy.
Dickson, a loose fish destitute of political
principle, who in the existing Parlia-
ment has supported Opposition or Minis-
try just as it suited his book, becomes
a salaried Minister. An alleged Mines Com-
mission has been created to fill the mouths of
other reliable party hacks—Smyth, Hamilton,
and O’Connell—whose faithful yelping for
their employers in season and out of season
has, it must be owned, deserved some reward ;
and that shifty politician, John Plumper
Hoolan, also gets a billet. The climax is
capped by the appointment to the Leg. Council of
Allan, a squatter-crony of Premier Nelson’s,
and Archibald, the candidate for Warwick
who consented after much pressure to retire in
favor of Attorney-General Byrnes when the
North Brisbane electors applied ice to that
gentleman’s swollen head. And thus does
Boodlew'raith justify its name and reputation.
Benevolence and Advt.
The S. A. Treasury will realise fully £lOO,OOO
in probate duty out of the estate of Thomas
Elder, the S.A. millionaire, who died a few
days ago. Another ,£154,000 goes in charity —
the same partly useful and mostly ornamental
kind of charity which all good millionaires
affect. Adelaide University gets <£25,000,
wherewith to manufacture more B. A.’s; .£20,000
goes to found a Chair of Music in the same
institution ; £20,000 to the University Medical
School ; £25,000 to buy pictures for Adelaide
Art Gallery ; £16,000 to help various churches
and missions ; and £BOOO goes to hospitals
which with the medical - school endow-
ment form the only really practical item in


the list. The charity of the defunct mil-
lionaire has two notable features ; it mostly
goes in works of dubious ornament, and it is
mostly confined to the cities which have more
than their fair share of it already, while the
backblocks towns, which are most in need of
ornament, get very little. If some eminently
practical millionaire who wanted to leave a
name behind him when he was dead, or who
wanted to get a big advertisement while living
with a view to a title or for some other pur-
pose, would present his country with the money
to build a new railroad in some place where it
is badly wanted, or would make a hundred
miles of good road where it is much needed, or
would dredge a harbor, or provide some in-
sanitary country town with a complete water
and sewerage system, or would found a sinking-
fund for the reduction of the public debt, he
would leave a memorable footprint on the sands
of time. Also, he would be such an entirely
new kind of benefactor that he would probably
get the biggest title going up to date, to say
nothing of the fact that he would get a sure
seat in Parliament for the district where his
railway was located. The man who gives his
money to found a Chair of Music, is lost in the
ruck ; every stereotyped plutocrat who goes in
for benevolence founds a chair of something
which provides a salary for an imported pro-
fessor, or builds an examination hall, or puts up
the money with which to buy pictures in
Europe and hang them up to moulder in a gal-
lery, or gives his loot to the church. On the
other hand, the man who made 100 miles of
good road or railway would be something
brilliantly original, and he would stand out
from the stereotyped crowd like a big gum-tree
on the Old Man Plain. What an advt. there is
waiting for the bloated plutocrat who leaves the
old, dull tracks of benevolence, and gives up
building white elephants with his coin, and
does something really useful !
A Sidelight on the Federal Railway
Problem.
Apropos of the question of Federal as against
provincial railway management, the following
extract from a recent Sydney Daily Telegraph
article is interesting reading ;
Those who oppose the transfer of the railways to
Federal control urge “ That if this be effected Sydney
will cease to be the shipping port for the territory of New
South Wales.” The reasonable inference from this state-
ment is “ That if the colonies do not federate, or if the
railways be not worked under a uniform system, Sydney
will be the shipping port for the produce of the colony.”"
Let us see whether this is a fact, and what is the pre-
sent state of things under the ideal isolation which some
desire to perpetuate.
Queensland in the north, by protective duties prevents
any inward trade, and by the Border Duties Act prohibits
outward trade by an export duty of £2 10s. per ton, and
thus forces wool which, geographically, should trend to
Sydney, on to her own railways.
Victoria has laid down various rebate lines, and within
the limits thus defined, offers great reductions on rates
for New South Wales wool, which eventually reaches her
railway system.
The first rebate area laid down within New South Wales
by the Victorian Railway Commissioners is bounded on
the north by the southern boundary of the colony of
Queensland at Goodooga ; it turns south easterly and
passes through Walgett, then southerly to Nugal, thence
westerly and southerly it follows (passing near Gongolgon
and Tarcoon) approximately the course of the River Dar-
ling, but south therefrom, till a point east from Wilcannia
is reached ; then turns south, passing west of Ivanhoe,
through Clare, and strikes the Murrumbidgee between
Oxley and Balranald ; thence it passes somewhat north
from the Murrumbidgee and the Murray to the South
Australian boundary. Over this vast area, embracing
approximately one-quarter of this colony, the Victorian
railway system offers to carry New South Wales wool at a
reduction of 46 to 61 per cent, of the charge made on
wool grown within Victoria’s own territory.
Adjoining this above-described area is another vast
territory, the boundary of which comes as far east as
Gongolgon (south from Brewarrina), and bearing south,
crosses the Lachlan between Cugong and Condobolin, and
about Wyalong, turning south-easterly, strikes the Mur-
rumbidgee at Wagga, and follows that river down to the
junction with the Lachlan. Over this area the Victorian
system of railways offers a reduction of 61 to 66 per cent.
Along the Murrumbidgee and Murray Rivers the rebate
is 38 to 43 per cent.
From Wagga Wagga towards Adelong, and embracing
Tumberumba, another rebate area is located, the southern
boundary of which, passing through Gerogery, turns
north-west near Coree, and again west to Balranald.
Within this area there is a general rebate of about 46 per
cent.
Thus on the north our trade practically ceases on the
south boundary of Queensland, and the Victorian system
of railways is offering special rebates of 50 per cent, in
freights to the inhabitants of more than half the territory
of New South Wales.
The result of these rebates, combined with the oppor-
tunities offered by the river system, is that little or no
wool reaches Sydney from an area bounded on the west
by the South Australian border, on the north by the
southern boundary of Queensland, to a point midway
between Wainpah and Hungerford, on the east by a line
crossing the Paroo below Wanaaring, and the Darling
below Tilpa, passing south-westerly west from Cohar,
south from Gilgun}'ah, and near Hillston and Gunbar, and
on the south embracing three-fourths of the Riverina
between the Murrumbidgee and the Murray. The whole
of the wool trade, and most of the other trade over this
area, is at present lost to New South Wales, and such
trade as does reach Sydney is done at “cut” rates, the
profit on the carriage being very doubtful.
The Prudent Federationist is, therefore, invited
to sit down and think the matter out on this
basis: Under provincial railway management
Victoria offers specially reduced rates—reduced
in some cases to one-third the regular figure—
to attract the trade of more than half New
South Wales to Melbourne. Victoria gets a
great deal of this trade in consequence. If the
railways are left under separate provincial
management instead of being handed over to
the Federal Government it will probably con-
tinue doing this, or it may do it on a still
larger scale, and N.S.W. can’t retaliate by
dragging Victorian trade to Sydney, the dis-
tances being too great. Under Federal manage-
ment, on the other hand, there would be a
uniform charge by distance, therefore Victoria
wouldn’t be allowed to drag the commerce of
half N.S.W. Melbourne-wards by differential
rates any longer. And, by a curiously topsy-
turvy species of logic, the N.S.W. people who
want to preserve the provincial railway system,
under which Melbourne grabs with consider-
able success for the trade of half their province,
do so on the plea that they want to prevent
their trade going to Melbourne. Their solitary
argument in favor of provincialism is just the
one argument above all others which knocks
provincialism endways in the first round.
—
Requires Shifting’..
The Queensland authorities have spent about
£1,000,000 in trying to make Brisbane a sea-
port, and the last flood silted the river up
again so badly that it became, in a few days,
almost as far from being a decent, reliable sea-
port as it was when the struggle started. It
will probably takeanothermillion tomake it any-
thing like a success, consifieringtherequirements
of modern shipping, and then the old man flood
which is bound to come again, sooner or later,
will probably undo the work once more to a
great extent. Even if the big flood didn’t
come again, which is an impossible supposition,
the current keeps depositing mud and sand at
all times, in larger or smaller quantities, and
the 20 miles or so of river must be dredged at
considerable expense for ever and ever, and the
expenditure must needs run into a great many
millions in course of time, seeing that it has all
the time there is in which to accumulate.
And the whole cash value of Brisbane—
land and buildings—is not quite £7,000,000.
The question is, therefore, whether it wouldn’t
be cheaper in the end to abandon the endless
struggle and build a new capital somewhere
near Cleveland, where there is deep, clean
water and plenty of sea-room, and no shifty,
narrow, crooked river to contend with, and no
lightering to do, and no long channel to keep
lighted and buoyed? In other words, it doesn’t
seem worth while to go in for a ceaseless ex-
penditure, which must pile up to many millions
in course of time, to keep the way open to a
town worth only £7,000,000 altogether, espe-
cially considering that all the dredging on earth
can t make it anything but a long, narrow,
crooked way at the best. Rockhampton, which
taken in all isn’t worth quite £1,500,000, and
which has 30 miles of shallow stream and ditch
and mud-fiat between itself and the sea, is an-
other bad bargain. It would take more than
Rockhampton is worth to make its river de-
cently navigable for ocean steamers, and it is
questionable whether the whole rental value of
the town would keep it so. If Brisbane and
Rockhampton would only throw themselves up
as a bad job before it gets too late, and start
afresh on a new site where commerce could get
at them, and let their hopeless rivers slide,
the ultimate saving would be something enor-
mous.
Chief Sec. Peacock (Vic.) must have an im-
pregnable position in local politics. A com-
mittee (consisting of Cahill, Gibson, Reilly,
Falla, and also, presumably, Murphy and
O’Callaghan and M‘Ginness) circularised
Victoria with fustian about Peacock’s imma-
culate immeasurableness and immeasurable
immaculateness. Is there another politician in
Australasia who could stand this sort of thing :
The Hon. A. J. Peacock’s Candidature.
A Few Simple Reasons Why
Mr. A. J. Peacock
Should be selected as ONE of the TEN Members fora Seat
in the Australian Federal Convention.
To The Electors op Victoria.
Creswick, February 8. 1897.
may it please you—
The Committee inaugurated to further the Candida-
ture of the Hon. A. J. Peacock, Chief-Secretary of Victoria,
in Creswick, his native place, respectfully solicits your
sympathetic and hearty co-operation in securing for him —-
as a representative Australian—a seat at the Federal Con-
vention.
The singularly pronounced success attending Mr.
Peacock’s career has been remarkable. [Likewise, his re-
markable career has been pronounced, also singular.]
He was appointed Minister of Education during his first
term of political service, and has since been continuously
elected unopposed for the Clunes and Allandale electorate.
[Gladstone and Bismarck can’t say as much.]
After nine years of public life as a Popular Pleader and
Champion of Democracy, he occupies the exalted and
responsible position of Chief-Secretary and Minister of
Education in the present Government.
This distinguished honor has been won by the tireless
energy of Mr. Peacock himself ; he has shown to the
youth of Australasia that men may rise from the dead
level of themselves by stepping-stones to the higher posi-
tions in the land. [Goethe and Tennyson reallv said in
their great play, “The Silver King”—
And men may rise by breaking stones
And help themselves to better things.
But there’s as much money in the Peacock version.] •
His indomitable perseverance, his practical grasp of
measures and men, has bracketed his name with the
ablest statesmen of Australia.
He has already given evidence of his genius and ability
by placing on the Statute Books of this colony some of
the most humane and merciful legislation ever effected by
a clear-minded, high-souled politician.
He is a man with nobility of purpose and an ambitious
desire to serve the best interests of his native land—Aus-
tralia—and he has the cause of Federation in its highest
ideals, ready to make use of when the time and hour
arrive.
Fame and success have not spoilt him ; he is a level-
headed thinker, and beloved by everyone who has the
honor of his acquaintance.
The committee [singular] takes the greatest pleasure in
thus briefly referring to Mr. Peacock, for they [plural]
have known him from his childhood.
His claimsupon the people of Victoria are unquestioned,
either as a representative of Truth and Justice [meaning,
of course, Allandale and Clunes], a successful and bril-
liant exponent of the power and usefulness of the Aus-
tralian Natives' Association [besides which Truth and Jus-
tice are a mere circumstance], or as an advance-courier in
the noble cause of Federation, a subject he has most
eloquently lectured upon throughout the whole of the
colonies.
He is one of the youngest Australians who has attained
such an eminent position amongst the governing intel-
lects in the Parliaments of his country.
The committee most cordially hope that you will use
your undoubted and invaluable influence with every
elector and well-wisher of Federation in your circle and
district and secure for Mr. Peacock a triumphant return
of one of the Ten Good Men and True, worthy Represen-
tative that should be selected from amongst the aspiring
candidates for their unquestionable integrity, ability, and
devoted adherence to the cause of Unity and Progress.
[Also, Allandale and Clunes.]
We anticipate your vote and interest in this National
Undertaking, and your assistance on behalf of Mr. Pea-
cock, for we earnestly desire to see him included amongst
those distinguished Representativ es and Statesmen upon
whom will devolve the imperishable honor of framing a
Constitution for Australia, that mighty diadem of Greater
Britain. [Also, Allandale and Clunes.]
Finally—One vote from every elector in Victoria for
Mr. A. J. Peacock, Chief Secretary of Victoria, and time
will prove that the high honor you thus eonh r upon him
will not be tarnished or sullied by one who has already
won distinction, both as an able administrator and a fear-
less champion of the rights and liberties of the Aus-
tralian people.
On behalf of the committee, believe us to be unitedly
in the cause, yours very sincerely, Wm. Caiull, J.P.',
Chairman ; W. B. Grose, M.L.A., L. D. Gibson, Vice-
Chairman; J. Gavan Reilly, Robt. Falla, J.P., P.
Mungovan, Hon. Secs.
Election Day—Thursday, March 4.
And yet Peacock was elected !
The Wesfcralian ten at the Federal Convention
will be an anomalous lot, representing nothing
in particular save themselves. Premier Forrest
worked the election out West in an artful
fashion. First, he agreed to come in with the
other provinces, it being understood that the
ten Westralian delegates should be appointed
by some form of popular election. Then he
decided that Westralia couldn’t come in—not
on the ground that he objected to popular elec-
tion, which would have roused the people to
aim bricks at his Government, but solely
because the impending dissolution of Parlia-
ment made it impossible for the local fossils to
get away. Next, he decided that Westralia
would come in after all, and that the above
excuse was all imagination; but this was
decided so late in the day that popular
election was absolutely impossible from
sheer want of time. Therefore, Parlia-
ment bad to choose the delegates itself,
and the beastly democratic element was shut
out of the contest, and the t’other-side vote
didn’t get a say. Yet it all came about quite
naturally; Forrest didn’t excite the public
wrath by telling the people in the first place
that they were unfit to be entrusted with a
matter of such moment; and having trusted the
people in the first place, he didn’t take the
right of election away from them voluntarily or
offensively. In fact, he was yearning all along
to entrust the settlement of the whole question
to the people, who would have probably taken
the chance to make things very disagreeable for
Forrest ; and then he artfully drove himself
into such an awkward corner that it was im-
possible to wait for the slow process of popular
election, despite his great desire to do so.
Consequently, Forrest reluctantly convened
his little Parliamentary gang which is
practically himself—and regretfully elected
himself and the rest of the gang; and
gets all the credit of wanting to leave the
matter to the electors, without any of the con-
sequences. Out of 54 politicians only 48 voted
—they formed the whole VVestralian Federal
constituency in themselves ; and they naturally
elected ten of themselves— Forrest, Lee
Steere, Leake, Piesse, Hackett, Loton,
James, Hassell, Sholl and Taylor. Sholl
represents 24 electors at the Gascoyne, and
Forrest and Lee Steere represent 489
electors between them, and the ten, taking
them all round, are beautifully representative
of the good old system of Government by the
Six Families.
4
After all the bitter wail that has been wailed
about how the other provinces want to
federate the railways so as to get hold of
N.S.W.’s profitable system, and to combine it
with their own unprofitable ones, the results of
the Federal election are a trifle surprising. Out
of the ten representatives from each province,
N.S.W. and S.A. supply three each who want
to federate the railways, while Victoria and
Tasmania—the provinces with the biggest rail-
way deficit, and consequently with the most
to gain—return only one man apiece who is
avowedly in favor of railway consolidation.
Therefore if the results mean anything it would
seem that these provinces are not hungering
after the N.S.W. railways as alleged by Heydon
and Nugent Robertson, and that they rather
suspect the cornstalk of wanting to amalgamate
with them for some sinister cornstalk purpose
of his own. And whereas the Mangy Dog
party hasalways pointed to Victoria—that being
the province with the biggest railway shortage
—as the one above all others which wanted to
unite its unpayable lines with those of the
mother province, it now appears that Victoria is
the only one of the four which has returned a
majority definitely pledged to have nothing to do
with railway federation—a majority which
wants to lay for the designing cornstalk with a
club if he is found trying to get at Victoria’s
railways under any circumstances whatever.
The public-debt problem shows an equally
upside-down result. If N.S.W. and Victoria
combine their debts, N.S.W. makes a large pro-
fit out of its neighbor while Victoria makes a
big loss. Yet N.S.W. returns only three
delegates who want to consolidate the debts
while Victoria returns five and two more who
are in favor of partial consolidation. Little
things like these upset quite a lot of calcula-
tions.
Rhodes’ acknowledgment that Chamberlain
knew nothing of the projected Transvaal coup
disposes of another of the myths of the fatuous
Stead, who tried to whitewash his African idol
at the expeiyse of an English enemy who has
characteristically snubbed him. Saturday
Review (which has consistently denounced the
Transvaal grab) amplifies Rhodes’ “ unctuous
righteousness ” plea in this fashion :
“ I took Pondoland,” Rhodes seems to say to the
British public, “and you thanked me; I seized Gazaland
and Manicaland for you, and thrust back the Portuguese,
and you cheered me ; at my own risk and with my own
money I won you Mashonaland and Matabililand, and
spread your Empire to the Shirri Highlands and made you
undisputed masters of all South Africa from Cape Town
to the Zambesi, and you hailed mo as a conqueror and
made me a Privy Councillor of our Queen. And now, for-
sooth, because I have failed to incorporate the Transvaal
with the rest, you wall plague me with questions, and try
me according to the rules of abstract right and justice.
What base hypocrisy ! One of my earliest recollections
in South Africa was the way in which Lord Kimberley
stole the Diamond Fields from the Orange Free State. If
you want to know the story, read it in Froude, and see
what he says about the morality of it. Have you
punished Lord Kimberley or given back the Diamond
Fields to their lawful owners ? You hypocrites! Who
was it but Sir Henry Loch, your High Commissioner,
who first put thoughts of revolt into the heads of the
citizens of Johannesburg; who was it but the same
gentleman who advised them to provide themselves with
arms? You have rewarded him with a peerage, and will
you punish me who have done nothing but carry out his
recommendations at my own expense ?”
Which condemns Britain without excusing
Rhodes.
4.
“ X.” to The Bulletin re King David Syme :
The Ten Victorian candidates chosen by David Syme for
the Federal Convention have every one of them been
elected, and the Age, which has been almost frightened
at its own complete success, is jubilating cautiously over
the event. If the result is to be set down exclusively to
this cause, it is not a matter for universal cheering, for
David’s politics are by no means perfect. There is no
fun in a Referendum for us Victorian democrats, if he is
to run the show every time, for there are various little
matters, particularly a few relating to land, that we will
not find on the Age ticket for years to come. We are
almost satisfied, however, that the Age’s success is only
an adventitious one, or that, at most, it has stood in the
position of the man who makes the overweight. Without
its instructions, we could safely reckon that the first six
would have got in anyway— Turner, Quick and Deakin
upon obvious grounds ; Peacock and Trenwitii out of
pure love of democracy ; and Isaacs for his intermittent
brilliancy. Probably Graham Berry’s old fame would
have pulled him through also. Remain Fraser, Zeal
and Higgins. How far the Age helped the last man can
only be conjectured, but its share in the success
of the others is less doubtful. All the Orangemen
in Victoria would not have elected Fraser by themselves,
and Zeal’s name is little known to the mass of Victorian
voters. Even these, however, are comparatively low
down in the mining constituencies (where the Agf, would
he most likely to determine the chances of unknown men),
being practically on the same level as Murray Smith,
vilu N XVl F n f ARQ0 1 01> - and Wrixokt. The writer has Inter-
„„I en dozen of ‘ n,anhood voters”—in this case
artisans and miners-and not one had voted the Age
case °Th tho . u f ;h I the greatest variation in any
th“ The nab,ral conclusion is, that powerful
noTswav rt o n SP^ er LS J !u Can on!y infl «cnce, and can-
not sway, the decision of the province. If it camp to i
straight-out vote on a Liberal principle, and David Syme
took the wrong- side, he would go under.
Sydney Star, briefed to defend the Gould
m n . a^ y £ a gg ers ai 'd starvers, complains
that Drs. Cariiuthers and O’Connor, in pre-
ferring imported brandy to “ healthy ” white
spirit, merely showed the unpatriotic ignorance
which induces N.S.W. Freetraders to take
foreign instead of locally-manufactured goods,
ith that particular issue the Star sent out a
r u-" , l eiar y supplement, five columns only
of which were compiled or written in Austra-
lia. ihe rest, excluding advts., was “con-
veyed ’ gratuitously from Yankee and English
papers. The Star is like pretty nearly every
other bogus protectionist—it keeps a fine stock
of noble notions on hand for the use of the
other fellow. And one main point is omitted
altogether from the Star’s argument—the Jus-
tic® Dept, not only wished to foist crude white
spirit upon sick people simply because thev
were prisoners in gaol, but the spirit was to be
mixed with a nauseous drug ” in order that
then: stomachs should be sickened as well.
Ihe department and its apologists have care-
fully avoided explaining the “nauseous-drug”
clause of the cold-blooded circular.
“ E.L.” to The Bulletin :
The financial cul de sac into which Premier Reid has
driven the N.S.W. batch of Convention members illus-
trates a personal weakness which he foolishly regards as
strength. “ 111 pay them, never fear,” he cried, when
the Leg. Council rejected that portion of the Enabling
BUI which provided for the remuneration of Convention
members. He was asked then and many times after to
state the manner of payment contemplated, but repelled
questioners with repetitions of enigmatical assurance,
ihe time to settle the question was when the difficulty
arose, and satisfactorily settled it would have been had
the Premier then taken it courageously in hand. Instead
he raced the session to a close, and Parliament broke up
with, 111 pay them, never fear,” in its ears. Now the
question insists on being answered, and the valiant
Premier discloses his strategic intention. He will pay the
members and move for an indemnity when Parliament
meets. In the first place, this proves the danger of
putting off a difficulty till a future day, for it adds insult
. .u rl,"” 01 to the other objections that body had
to the Bill in its original state. And, secondly, now that
the ten men are elected, other and delicate considerations
come into play. The ten, taken as a body, are politically
opposed to payment of members. Their own speeches
are citable against them. Six of them are members of
Assembly, and a seventh is a member of the Council. How
shall these associate themselves with an Indemnity Bill ?
The remaining three say they don’t want pay. The
country most certainly desires to pay those who work for
in this case the Premier’s procrastination and
111 pay them, never fear” have put both country and
members in a cul de sac.
The Ponting-Huddart Parker (Alert) case is
apparently just beginning a series of the fami-
liar_new-trial waltzes which to shipping cases
seem second nature. A new trial has been
granted against the company on the ground
that while the case was pending jurvmen (one
at any rate) were seen drinking and chatting
with the company’s counsel and solicitor in
Menzies bar. The court did not think that
there was any attempt to influence the jury,
but, acting on precedent, granted a new trial.
But before the order is finally made a law-point
has to be argued as to whether the Alert w'as a
“ British ship.” It will be a curious argument,
too, turning mainly on what appears to be a
piece of bad draughtsmanship in a Victorian
Act. So Ponting hasn’t got his new trial yet,
nor have either Porting or Huddart Parker
yet taken the inevitable steps to have the result
of the new trial set aside, nor to appeal to the
Privy Council against the setting aside or not
setting aside of the third or fourth new trial.
But no doubt it will all come in due time.
+
Ed. Bulletin, —This is going to be a special
plea in defence of the bloodthirsty Jaypee,
the respectable grocer who howls for the use of
the lash whenever he gets a chance to shriek in
that wise. Recently, at Castlemaine (Vic.), a
J-P- was giving a man 14 days for obscene lan-
guage, and (as usual in similar cases) “ex-
pressed his regret ” that the law did not allow
him to order a flogging as well. The language
was merely ordinary bullockese—language can
only grow worse up to a certain point ; there-
after it progresses in the direction of variety—
and the man was inordinately drunk ; but
Bumble would still have liked to give him the
cat. Now, this particular Bumble is a very
harmless man, and on ordinary occasions shows
no special predisposition to gore and red murder;
and the writer believes that it would be im-
possible for anyone to take him seriously in this
matter. Moreover, he believes that nine-tenths
of the J.P. breed are much the same, and that
when they talk lash they never mean it. It is
a good British bluff, that’s all. If they had the
power, they would be absolutely afraid to ex-
ercise it; and in a vote by ballot they would
refuse it almost unanimously. Posing is a
universal art, and it is the Britisher’s misfor-
tune that he would rather brag of brutality
than of anything else. I beg to move that the
Castlemaine J.P. be hereby acquitted. —Poseur.
“ Simply a Citizen ” writes to the Sydney
dailies, explaining why Premier Reid should go
’Ome :
His absence from the forthcoming celebrations would
be a matter for deep regret at any time, but more espe-
cially at this juncture, in view of what is now taking
place in South-eastern Europe. The Turkish Empire is
now rapidly breaking up; its ultimate fate cannot much
longer be delayed. What is now holding it together
is the question, What is to become-of the fragments
And in this question Australia is deeply interested'
seeing that our trade-routes pass along" its coasts;
the route of the future down the Euphrates Valley even
passes through the heart of the Empire. This vast tract
of country, rich in potential wealth, anil once densely
peopled, should be included within the wide extended
British Empire, if only for the benefit of its present
miserable inhabitants. It cannot be allowed to go to any
other nation. Mr. Chamberlain has asked for the pre-
sence home of the Australian Premiers to discuss un-
named subjects. May this be one of them? Perhaps so.
\es, Georgey Porgy must go ’Ome to settle up
the lurkish Empire and see that the Euphrates
Valley is grabbed by the only true Christian,
J. Bull, “for the sake of its ” —here drop a
silent tear—“ miserable inhabitants.” But
why, in the name of all that is sane, do the
Sydney dailies inflict on their miserable readers
such hypocritical muck ?


A sceptical doctor recently called at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-street, Sydney,
to test the effectiveness of the X rays. He placed
his hand upon the fluorescent screen, and straight-
way savv several shot pellets which had been
lodged in his hands in boyhood. The latest
novelties for the Vitascope, sensational and
humorous, provide, more entertainment than all
the numerous imitators put together. Other
attractions are the Edison Kinetoseope and
Kinetophone.*
THINK HARD
before you spend your money on so-called
cheap Toots that wear out when least
expected.
WISE THINKhRS,
and a great many hard thinkers like your-
) veai Ing Callaghan Toots.
Gent’s Tans, 19/6 to 28/6
Ladies’ 15/6 to 25/
AND
GETTING
SATISFACTION
ALL THE TIME.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT:
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager
Company s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1895) - . £45,423,762^
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company 8 1 iorms
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continn-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost •
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a -uar-
protection G ; 0me ’ SeCUre lnvestment > and absolute
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income; “vestment,
and fixed annual income to survivors - ty ’
Continuous Instalment Policy so ’adinsts w
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary •
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain ih ,* . .
interest on their capital for oflif ° f
an income safe beyond peradventure Thtlf f 1 fe i
investment is particularly recon mende fc th' ° f
who desire to make provision wim r • to those
and to be free from busTness cares yearS ’
For detailed information concerning
forms of insurance policies apply to thflult delusive
Company's Building, Martin's Place the
of the Branch Offices- 6 ' S y dne V. or at any
473 Collins Street, Melbourne View;.,
115 Queen Street, Brisbane Queensland-
-73 King William Street, Adelaide s a'
S ni George's Tkrrace, Perth WA ’ S ' A "
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
The IDEAL
Portrait Co.
Produces the most beauti=
fully finished and most
perfect Photos in Sydney—
if not in A ustralia. The En-
largements being finished
by mean£ of that most artis-
tic wonderful invention, the
Air Bru rfi. ,
We ar* specially su~cessful with
children, I eti.ise our operators are
patient ao i painstaking, and by our
instantancc is flash method, the most
difficult sy*' «rs are photographed with
comparatire ease. For the same
reason, we are able to secure good
pictures of groups.
Six Enamelled Cabinet
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge-/
ment in Permanent Bromide or (
O t al. Any style or pose. Noextras)
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Matsa.”
Criterion “ The Bookmaker.”
Royal “ The Shamrock and the
Rose.”
Lyceum “Nemesis.”
Palace... Rickards’ Variety Co.
Tiv01i..... Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Two Little Vagabonds.”
" OYAI ' “ The Derby Winner.”
“ A Village Priest.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Frank Thornton as “ The Bookmaker,” in
which character he transpired at Sydney Criterion
on Saturday, is rather a new departure. Barring
the vagaries of one leading red-headed character
in huge checks, the new comedy isn’t at all comic
apparently it isn’t meant to be. It is a pathetic
love-story in which the good daughter of the good
but embarrassed peer can’t marry the good young
man of her choice because neither of them has any
money. Also the good son of the good old peer
can t marry the girl of his choice, partly because
they have no money either, and partly because lie
has already married a red-headed adventuress of
the worst description. Further, the wicked
marquis, who is rich and stony and loathsome,
insists on the daughter marrying him, failing
which he will foreclose the mortgage and shoot
everybody into the street, and the paternal earl
will have to end his days shoving a baked potato
barrow for a livelihood. So they are all beau-
tifully and conventionally miserable together
an the ancestral home, and groan just like the
family in the London Journal, till the book-
maker—who is a distant relative and has just
come into a baronetcy and a huge pile of money—
inserts his flaming head and his awful suit of
clothes into the scene. The bookmaker strews his
mangled “ h ” all over the marble floors, and puts
his knife down his throat at dinner, and talks at
the top of his voice—mostly about ’oss —to make
himself heard above his clothes. But his feelin’
art is in the right place, and he slops money
about like water till he relieves the family of its
troubles. He even relieves the son from the in-
cubus of his barmaid wife by proving himself to be
that explosive female’s real, original husband;
and everybody is left in a state of dazzling happi-
ness except the marquis, who is ignominiously
sacked without a character. There is no visible
reason why the bookmaker should do all this ex-
cept his loud check suit and his feelin’ ’art; he
is one of these strange, conventional persons
who burst into the old-fashioned drama, and
rain cheques on all the good people who are in
trouble, and then go away as unaccountably as
they came. And the good people in the old-
fashioned drama, not being able to earn 12s. a
week and their beer, obviously require to have the
benevolent stranger rush in and pour cheques on
them ; else the last act would always see them
with their hair sticking up through their broken
hats, selling pigs’-trotters at a street corner ; and
then people would presei tly boot the drama into
oblivion.
*** « _
The “ Bookmaker ” is a nice, satisfactory
play in its own fashion, and the characters are
inuch brighter and more original than the
play. Thornton’s bookie is the British ’Arry in a
violent state of development, and is a quaint mix-
ture ofcomedy, embarrassment, pathos and horse.
He isn’t so comic as Thornton often has been, but
he is probably quite as comic as any one burdened
with so much pathos and horse could be. Miss
Bessie Rignold is a bright and fresh and clever
patch of loveliness against the background of the
impecunious peer and the mortgaged mansion ;
and Seabrooke is another pleasant circum-
stance. Scot Inglis is much too large a man for
his small part, and Herbert Terry now and then
wails at unsuitable moments in the voice of the
German music-master in “Miss Brown.’’ The
loathsome marquis and Miss Carew are reasonably
successful without achieving anything calculated
to make the universe sit up suddenly, and the
scenery consists of one room in the Earl’s castle.
Said castle is seemingly mortgaged for .£ 100,000 at
4 per cent., judging from the joy which arises
when an unknown benefactor sends along JISOOO
to pay the half-year’s interest. It seems to be
quite a habit with unknown benefactors to drop
large sums of iriyney into this family.
** * *
A of the “ Shamrock and the
Rose at Sydney Royal, by “arrangement” with
Flam Billolloway, is doing moderate business
in the presence of a small amount of enthusiasm
about two feet high. Reynolds’ old drama has
been revived a good many times already, and
almost everything, including the earth, happens by
arrangement with Billolloway. There is a general
impression abroad that the Fall, as described in
Genesis, happened by arrangement with that
general arranger of things, and that he gave the
serpent a leg up over the fence on commission.
fjo Shamrock and the other adjacent vege-
table is a respectable Irish drama of the usual
kind. It suggests that 90 per cent, of the Irish
nation lives by serving writs on and chucking out
the other 10 per cent, for non-payment of the rent,
and that the Irish landlord gets his rents in solely
b y ejecting his tenants and leaving the property
vacant. The only other visible occupation of the
community, when it isn’t serving writs on some-
body, seems to be leading the colleen astray with
a bogus marriage ; and the most notable feature of
the good Irishman is his tendency to get married
when his sole assets are a warm heart and a bright-
red waistcoat. Irish drama is the great shiftless
drama of the earth—the drama in which nobody
seems to have anything, and everybody seems to
live on nothing, and where the heroine is in a
constant state of carrying gratis potatoes to
several thousand ejected widows, and everybody
is understood to be more or less an old woman
dying on the highways, except the process-server
and the informer. Misses Harrie Ireland and
F itzmauriceGill brighten up the present production
a good deal, and Sweeney and Pliturner give it a
lot of valuable assistance, and maul the process-
server in between times; and the colleen is led
astray with much ability by Inman, and the rest
of the 00. waves a comprehensive brogue and shil-
lelagh in the background. Miss Gill, the lady
who has been led astray, weeps through 13 very
beautiful scenes by Brunton, Howden and Whaite,
and when she has passed by, leaving a trail of woe
behind her, the process-server generally humps his
ill-gotten gains across the same landscape, and the
informer is somewhere around.
** * *
“ Mafcsa ” fills the biggest theatre in
Sydney to the door, or thereabouts, eight times a
week, and its Egyptian glory shows no sign of
fading. If the Firm proposes to go one better
next year the only way it can be done, so far as
The Bulletin can see, is to put some powerful in-
tellect into the plot and dialogue; in the matter
of pure spectacle the Rising of the Nile and the
vision of Memphis as it used to be in the days of
Williamson’s great - great - very-great- grand father
won’t be excelled without a strain which will
crack something badly. A change of programme
at Her Majesty’s is expected at some date so re-
mote as not to be worth talking about at present.
** * *
Bracy’s good company and finely-mounted
opera only attract a thin scattering of people to
Sydney Lyceum. Possibly the trouble arises from
the want of more well-known names on the bill,
but Braey’s lady artists are, in the main, about as
clever and as nice-looking a crowd as could be got
together just now in Australia, and Bracy himself
preserves his eternal youth and sings as well as he
did many years ago. Miss Celia Mavis now takes
turns with Miss Darley in the leading character,
and though the latter is probably the more win-
some charmer of the two, there is much to be said
for her rival. There is also a great deal to be said,
in a pleasant tone of voice, for Miss Julia Spencer
as Stephania in a short frock ; and Albert Whelan
is a weirdly comic old servitor, and though the
substitution of Knight Aston for John Forde is
hardly a change for the better, inasmuch as the
new man sings a little better than the old one and
acts a good deal worse, still his youthfulness, like
Bracy’s, is an interesting study. Altogether,
Bracy’s show is many degrees better than some
that have prospered greatly in Sydney, and its
ill luck is unaccountable. Possibly the ghost of
the man whom Scot Inglis was supposed to be
when M‘Carthy dropped the property boulder on
his head still haunts the Lyceum and brings
disaster in its train. “ Nemesis ”is announced
for Saturday, though by present appearance the
Lyceum is already choke-full of nemesis—the
worst kind.
** * *
The early departure of Chirgwin from
Sydney Palace and of the Vaidis sisters from the
Tivoli, and the reappearance of Godfrey at the
latter house on Saturday, are the principal changes
in Rickards’ arrangements at present. Nobody
very new is expected just now at either theatre,
but Rickards proposes to rush them both with a
mass of fresh talent at an early date.
** * *
James MacMahon has taken another 12
months’ lease of his present premises, and reckons
on keeping the cinematographe a fixture till well
on in 1898. With a view to this, he has laid in
some new pictures, with even more legs than usual
in them, that astute showman having realised
that, though other things may come and go, the
demand for legs has no end, and the female
extremity, with the stocking on it, goeth on for
ever.
** * *
“ Two Little Vagabonds,” which put in a
first Australian appearance at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s on Saturday, is an audacious medley of
pathos, bathos, and pantomimic sensationalism.
It has affecting ” scenes, strong enough, of
their kind, to draw tears from a lawyer, intro-
duced into a story that compels critical derision.
It makes direct appeals to the public heart with-
out seriously attempting to impose upon the
common-sense, and yet, no doubt, it is capable of
attracting a second visit from the very people who
laugh at their own sympathy with such obvious
claptrap. “Two Little Vagabonds,’’ adapted
from the French by G. R. Sims and another,
merely claims to be a good business drama,
constructed On sound commercial princi-
ples. The first of five acts serves as a pro-
logue, and is very French in character. By
weight of ingenious circumstances, a reason-
ably - jealous husband is forced to suppose
that he wasn’t the father of his wife’s child. After
a fine, stormy interview with the lady (who has
been rushed into shielding a sister’s giddiness), he
hustles her from the drawing-room and turns out
the gas. Whereupon an absurd thief, called
Gaffer, comes along to burgle valuables in the
moonlight, and, being captured by the husband, is
allowed to go free on the condition that he shall
kidnap the child aforesaid. Then the mother is
fetched back upon the stage to learn that her
lawful infant lias been doomed to grow up among
the criminal classes, at the mercy of an unknown
person who dropped in casually. She falls down,
followed by a slow curtain.
* * * *
The rest of this wild narrative, dated
seven years later, is built around the ragged per-
S 0I jL- tles W 0 h°y s —the kidnapped youngster
and his consumptive mate. They are educated to
steal by Gaffer, but they cultivate virtue and
brotherly love when the boss is out of sight,
t 6 a e^m 0 the centre-pieces throughout a series
of effective situations created from miraculous
meetings and impossible arrangements in general.
Ihe bereaved mother, the peculiar father, and the
giddy sister are all brought together by accident
at a spot where Gaffer happens to be camping, and
the long-lost son is purchased on spec, from that
extraordinary felon for £3OO. But the right bov
runs away to London before the transaction is
completed, consequently Gaffer rings in the
wrong boy, who amounts to the same thing as the
genuine article, except that he is rapidly suc-
cumbing to a bad corf. Next act finds the
right boy walking casually into a gorgeous
mansion where the wrong boy is surrounded
by luxuries and medical attendance. The • two
mates embrace one another, just about the
time when the right boy’s mother has discovered,
by accident, that she bought the wrong son.
Shortly afterwards the right boy produces evi-
dence of his identity (to slow music) whioh so re-
joices the lady that she straightway retires to bed,
leaving her real offspring to roost in his rags along
with the spurious son who is dying of phthisis. For
seven long years she has sought her lost darling,
and now when he turns up unexpectedly at his
dear old home she doesn’t even ask him to take a
bath. Her eccentricity is essential to the plot.
The right boy slinks away to steal some “ papers ”
(which are expected to explain all) from Gaffer’s
den, and gets there in- time to rescue his father,
who had also come for. the same papers, and been
chloroformed a short time previously. Father
and son break through the roof and escape vid a
comic water-spout, and get back home in time to
seize Gaffer’s gang in the act of choking the con-
sumptive boy, who expires prematurely from the
shock. Here endeth the drama.
* * * •
Miss Marie Neilson plays the lively boy,
while Miss Florence Terriss undertakes the boy
with the bad corf. Neither actress has the quali-
fications of a Jennie Lee for Jo-like character-
study ; and the first-named never once gets away
from her sex. In the quiet passages, Miss Neilson
is a bright little woman trying ;o talk the language
of a vulgar boy ; when she ge o excited, she speaks
as a cultured lady, with a riof, sweet voice. Her
performance, of course, will glow more convincing
when she gets used to it. Miss Terriss is already
a passable imitation of a boy i.e. , a sick,
delicate youth and she also may be expected
to improve on , her first attempt before a
strange audience. • Both actresses are clever
artists, but they don’t strike one as being
very experienced impersonators of vagabond
boys. Miss Ada Ferrar and Julius Knight are
admirable as the wife and husband. Miss Elliott
Page is a successful erring sister, and Gaston
Mervale fails considerably as the impressible
Gaffer. Several small parts get well treated by
Miss Nellie Mortyne and others. Also a few
lines come very nicely and naturally from the
mouth of Mrs. Maesmore Morris, who looks sweet
in the garb of a hospital nurse. A matinee on
Saturday.
** * *
The Brough farewell season at Melb. Bijou
has disposed of “Niobe” and is now submitting
“ A Woman of No Importance ” to final notice.
O. Wilde’s epigrams and moral peculiarities have
been much mentioned lately in polite circles. The
present revival is by special desire of those people
who felt sorry for having missed the chance to
sample O. Wilde’s play when it first arrived from
Sydney, and whose yearning for epigrams which
soar far beyond their intellectual grasp is, at least,
an amiable weakness. The Bijou should be
pretty well crowded-these last threenights of Oscar’s
firework display. On Saturday (20th) “ A Village
Priest” will wrestle with his vows once again,
and continue for five nights thereafter to draw
pious distinctions between a criminal in the eyes
of the Law, and a criminal in the sight of Heaven,
when the local authorities call upon the holy man
for a plain, straightforward statement of worldly
truth. The Bulletin has always held on to the
theory that Father Tit'neradge, in his stirring
drama, is a first-class liar.
** * *
“ The Derby Winner ” flourishes, as usual,
at the Royal, and the tawny-haired adventuress
goes on disturbing domestic happiness every even-
ing till further notice. The end of Bland Holt’s
prodigious entertainment is not yet, but it will
probably happen some time or other before Easter.
** * *
Also the Opera House bill is much the
same as before, with the exception of a new and
warlike ballet which arrived on Saturday. The
wonderful horizontal barmen will remain at their
posts another week, but Charles Godfrey and the
Allisons are going away for an uncertain period
after this (Thursday) evening.
* * * *■
Wilfred Shine, who came to these parts
with the “ Morocco Bound ” company, and has
enjoyed more than his fair share of adversity in
the meantime, takes a matinee benefit at Mel-
bourne Bijou to-day (Thursday). Shine’s imme-
diate object is to reach dear old Hingland in time
to wave his handkerchief at our revered Sovereign
and the patronage of Lord Brassey is promised
towards the attainment of that end.
At Poverty Point .
_. Phil j . G , reenwood > long-time private secretary to the
r irm, died of consumption the other day. Even before
his last attack, the poor fellow was too weak to hang on
to ‘ consumptives’ hope,” which usually attends the
disease until the very end.
A Man : “ Mrs. Brough, who dresses most thoughtfully
as a rule, has a hideous turn-out for Rosamond in the
second act of ‘Sowing the Wind’-a long velvet gown
of some unknown color between amber and tan with a
shapeless flop haten suite. It is a most abandoned hat,
and, after half-an-hour of it, nothing convinces the mi
in the stalls that Rosamond was half as good as she nr” 1
tended to be." I)re '
That voluminous composition, Brigade Bandmasf
Hutohinson’s “Federation,” has been put in rehearsal*
and a large number of vocalists and instrumentalists hav
volunteered their services. The work has been built n
“here a little, there a little," from the writings of i n d?
viduals upon the beauties of Australia ; and “asthemusiii
includes some fascinating phrases and melodic gems the
success of its reception is already assured.” ’ ue
S.S. : “Is there any relationship between Ferris
Brough’s latest young man, and clever Miss Faber whn
was recently with the co. ? The resemblance is remark
able. Ferris has the identical mannerisms so conspicuous
in Beryl Faber, and so often commented on; he has a
weird trick of opening his mouth sometimes ahead of his
dialogue, and leaving it open, a veritable trap for winded
insects. He has, too, the Faber trick of chewing his
tongue, and jerking up his gothic eyebrows. Watching
him, one feels like David Copperfield’s aunt in the pre
sence of Uriah Heep, and wants to yell out: 1 For God’s
sake, man, don’t be galvanic ! ’ ”
No persuasion could bring basso De Alba to sing for his
brother Spaniard co.’s Melb. benefit last week. De Alba
as a very young man, left the stage in the prime of his
magnificent powers, on marrying his wealthy wife, with a
promise never to appear again.
Miss Marston Leigh died in America a few weeks ago
Well-known in Melb. and Sydney. Daughter of Heraud
London Athenaeum critic, and sister of Edith Heraud'
aotress. Married first a son of Mrs. Warner, tragedienne'
He died. Then she came to Australia, and married James
Carden. She stage-named herself after Henry Marston
and Leigh Murray, her two favorite actors. YVhen very
young her Ophelia evoked great applause in London. 3
London theatrical mems. from “ Exile ” :—ln “As You
Like It,” by Geo. Alexander and Co., Julia Neilson, as
Rosalind—if anything too tall and jumpy—has most of
the “fat,” but our old friend, H. H. Vincent, for long
“ the Finn’s” stage-manager, as the melancholy Jacques
has his opportunity in the “ Seven Ages of Man,” and
scores heavily therein. Herbert Flemming is again in
London, after a successful South African season; while
Janet Aohurcb, until she quarrelled with her manager
had good notices for her strong work in “ Little Eyolf,”
Ibsen’s second latest. Pattie Browne is still a fixture at
the Vaudeville in “A Night Out,” as is Mabel Lane in
“ Jedbury, junr.,” at the Globe. Genevieve Ward still
remains a tower of strength to the Lyceum Co. in “ Cym-
beline,” in which Ellen Terry makes the most of a great
opportunity. Grace Warner is Poppaea, Nero’s wife, in
“ The Sign of the Cross,” which Wilson Barrett, despair-
ing of its popularity ever waning, is replacing by his new
“ Daughters of Babylon ” early in Feb. Hilda Spong,
who now plays the much-wronged wife in G. R. Sims’s
capital “Two Little Vagabonds,” at the Princess’s, has
received many very flattering, and apparently genuine,
notices for her work since her arrival in London. She is
a more matured Hilda than of old, and Clement Soott
wants to see her “do” Rosalind. But she is suffering much
from the climate, and the medioal history of her kinsfolk
doesn’t agree with the English climate. Teddy Lonnen and
Alice Lethbridge are running a forlorn hope in “ A Man
About Town,” at the Avenue, the redeeming features
in which are a rollicking Irish song by Teddy and
some good “funning” by May Edouin (a niece of Mrs.
G. B. W. Lewis). “Under the Red Robe,” splendidly
acted with Winifred Emery and Herbert VVaring in the
lead, goes better than ever at the Haymarket. Beerbohm
Tree is to open his new theatre (Her Majestv’s) in a few
months with Gilbert Parker’s “Seats of the Mighty.”
Ethel Haydon (now under the watchful eye of pa, old
Tom Haydon) has a good part in the “ Circus Girl,” and a
new lot of photographs to herself in the porch of the
Gaiety. Charming Frances Saville is billed to star this
season at Covent Garden as Juliette, which many think
an unfortunate mistake, as this is Melha’s greatest
character, and comparisons must surely be made. Phil
May’s “ Gutter Snipes” is having a good sale, and though
Max Beerbohm in a recent article champions the cause of
Alfred Bryan as a black-and-white artist, Phil still more
than holds his own, calmly smokes the same huge cigars
as aforetime, and welcomes countless friends and admirers
to his periodic Bohemian evenings.
The Bulletin regrets to hear that veteran Henry Har-
wood, who, as Uncle Cattermole, used to hurl Thornton
up and down the stage, is now very muoh below his old
physical form.
A Bulletin correspondent was probably talking in his
sleep when he described Mrs. Maesmore Morris's husband
as a dark, fine-looking fellow, who wants to aot. Mr. M.,
by the way, has retired from accountancy business, and
gone to his father’s warehouse in Melbourne.
The Firm tried hard to get two or three saleswomen
from the Melbourne drapery showrooms to appear as
court-ladies in “Prisoner of Zenda,” but neither of the
coveted ladies would entertain an offer. Experienced
performers in that line of show-business rarely get stage-
struck.
“ Louis Bradfield, now moving up, gets a fair amount
of ‘ fat ’ in the ‘ Geisha,’ ” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ and if Roberts would but demise so as
to be a mere memory to play-goers, his faithfully-imitative
under-study would double his present salary. How the
statement ever birthed itself in Australia that the artifi-
cially-thatched comedian had only seen Roberts play once
may be explained when Gillies grows a moustache. Here
he acknowledges that he is a direct copy, and thus ex-
cused himself for going very flat before a swell audience
at the Grafton Gallery. ‘ It’s no use ; they’ve seen all my
business before. They’ve seen Roberts.’ Such candour
for a comedian is refreshing.”
Tasmania is still a very small place. For instance (says
a Bulletin correspondent) the proprietors of a Hobart
daily are the lessees of the only theatre in the town and
sometimes import a show as a business spec, and to scare
the spiders out of the building. On these occasions repre-
sentatives of the “other” weekly paper are regarded as
interlopers and don’t figure on the deadhead-list.


Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98 100%, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, far eheapcr than Drug
Houses.
Hv-Markwald^
ST
ZMtt
11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
The Dolly Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little Calinit”
Prospectors’ CRUSHER,
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
THIS MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Solb Agent—
Fredk. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
rjIIME IS MONEY !
"YOST”
"DENSMORE”
"CALIGRAPH”
BOSS
MACHINES OF THEIR
CLASS.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co. of London
and New York,
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY; 362 Collins-sfc., MELBOURNE;
Barrack-st., PERTH ; Sub-agencies—Adelaide & Brisbane.
FREE TRIAL. FREE TUITION.
Write for Catalogues and particulars.
SIR JOHN - -
Power’s Whiskey.
From the POT STILL only.
CHEQUE BANK LTD,, LONDON.
Travellers’ Drafts Cashed all over the World by up-
wards of 20,000 Banks, and by over 2200 Banks in Great
Britain.
Handbooks on Application.
NEW OFFICES:
135 Pitt Street (near G.P.0.),
SYDNEY.
JAMES MALCOLM,
Agent.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
BALATA
ELTIN
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE to
Wm. Adams & Compy.,
Oil Merchants «V Engineers’ Furnishers,
71 Clarence-st„ Sydney ; 521-523 Collins-st., Mklbourn*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
According to cabled information the English
creditors are still holding meetings and calling the
Queensland National Bank a disgraceful swindle and the
Queensland Government a discreditable accomplice in the
bank’s doings. So far, the reconstruction scheme seems
to have made little real headway ; the whole time of the
English depositors is apparently taken up by calling the
bank various more or less appropriate names. One thing
which doesn’t help the reconstruction along very much is
the fact that the Q. Government has reluctantly, and
under great pressure, decided to start its committee of
enquiry on further investigations into the bank’s condi-
tion. This demand for further investigation clearly inti-
mates that the local people believe there are more
horrors yet to be revealed, and more scandalous mis-
management, and that even the enormous shortage
already brought to light isn’t necessarily the whole short-
age—perhaps nothing even distantly resembling it. And
depositors naturally want to know what there really is
left to reconstruct before they start reconstructing it—
whatever it may be.
Supposing the Queensland National does recon-
struct, the State’s prior claim is an interesting item. The
State has at present a first lien on the old assets for its
old deposits. It is proposed that in the case of liquida-
tion all new business acquired since the ’93 reconstruction
will have precedence—this concession is necessary to get
any new business at all. But presumably the Govern-
ment’s new claims will have precedence of those of
private depositors, therefore, if the bank’s proposals are
accepted and the Q.N.B. goes on once more, things may
pan out something like this : New deposits will come in
to a greater or less extent from the public and the
Government. The old deposits of the Government are to
be paid off before the old private depositor gets a show.
The new deposits of the public may be used to pay off
the old deposits of the Government. Supposing the
Q.N.8., after it has finished paying off the Government’s
old deposits, comes to a dead stop, then it seems that the
first claim on its assets will be the new Government
deposits, the second claim will be the new private
deposits, the third will be the old private deposits. If the
bank breaks down before it has paid off the Govt.’s old
deposit things will be quite as bad; the preference
which it is proposed to give to the new creditors is only
a preference over the old private creditors—not the old
Government creditor. Therefore if the public supplies
new deposits, being incited thereto by the apparent
security afforded by the preference to be given to new
depositors in the event of a winding-up, it is just possible
that there are not enough genuine assets to pay even the
Government’s claim, and that the new deposits will be
seized upon ultimately by a liquidator to pay the Govern-
ment with. The preference to be given to new depositors
doesn’t amount to much if it is only a preference over the
old small depositors—not over the biggest one also. In
other words, supposing the Q.N.B. owes the Government
£4,000,000, and the assets will only sell for £3,800,000
and until the investigation is quite finished no one is
really certain what they will sell for —then if the Q.N.B.
reconstructs and takes £200,000 of preferential deposits
from the public, these may be swallowed up any day to
make good the above shortage. So long as the Govern-
ment always comes in first, the proposed preferential
claim doesn’t amount to so very much after all. If the
Q.N.B. winds up now the Government will probably take
everything. If it goes on for a while the Government
may take everything a few years hence instead of taking
it now, and there may be mote to grab a few years hence
than there is at present.
* * * *
The only arrangement which promises to give
the Q.N.B. a decent chance is that the Government
should promise to deposit no more money in it, and
should take its blighting patronage somewhere else. The
Government has precedence of everybody, and so long as
it keeps putting in money it will have precedence. The
Govt, account has caused most of the loss to private
depositors. The bank had about four million of private
and nearly as many of State deposits ; if it has fooled
away half of the money that means that the private de-
positors lose everything ; if there were no State deposits
and the bank still fooled away half the money the private
depositors would only lose 10s. in the £. The State gets
the same interest as private depositors, and under its
prior lien the private depositors have to insure it against
loss. They get nothing whatever for insuring it. The
State can put any amount of money it likes in the hank,
therefore the extent of the risk undertaken by the private
depositor is simply unlimited. If the latter fully under-
stands the situation, even_the proposal to give priority—
which isn’t really any priority worth mentioning—to new
deposits won’t induce them to deposit a copper with the
reconstructed Q.N.B.
* • *
In England they describe the late Westralian
loan as a failure and an utter collapse. The loan was not
directly a Government one—the VV.A. Treasury gave
£1,100,000 in 3 per cent, stock as the purchase-money for
the Great Southern Railway, and the sellers put the stock
on the market so disastrously that only £233,000 was
tendered for at 98, and the balance had to be sold pri-
vately at a big discount. The Forrest Government now
tries to believe that if the stock had been offered by
■ Government direct the result would have been different,
which—seeing that the stock and the security and the
interest and the state of the market would have been the
same—is difficult of belief. The more probable explana-
tion is that the boom is off, temporarily or permanently,
and that the flotation of 3 per cent, loans at par isn’t
going to happen again for a long time to corne. There
was never anything in the circumstances of the province
to account for that sensational transaction which sent
Westralia off its head last year, and J. Bull is probably
almost as sorry for it now as for many other W.A. specu-
lations.
• * * *
Old James Munro’s Real Estate Bank still
liquidates. It has now been five years at it. At the end
of the fourth year of liquidation it still owed £593,000,
and during the last twelve months all the money received
was £9423. At this pace the Real Estate Bank should
finally wind up in a geological epoch or two. In the
fourth year of liquidation the amount realised by sales of
property was £ll2this year it seems to be about £5OO.
One property which the Munro institution paid £l7O per
acre for, in the davs when it gibbered about millions and
wore straws in its hair, was put up at auction lately, but
the best offer was £6 an acre. The bank has made
£500,000 worth of Calls, but only managed to collect
£153,000, and by this time the shareholders have appa-
rently been sucked dry, for payments from this source
have' almost ceased. A British institution to which the
uncalled capital was pawned is harrying the ruins of the
old bank with a claim for £112,000, and there are other
woes besides.
* * * •
One bank is reported to have an artful device
for paying the Queensland dividend-tax at the expense of
its customers. When the tax was imposed, it is alleged
that it surreptitiously added 2s. 6d. per cent, to the
interest on all advances under £5OOO, and Is. 3d. per cent,
on larger advances. That is to say, if a customer gets an
advance of £4OOO, and agrees to pay £7 per cent, interest,
he is really charged £7 2s. 6d. It is so difficult to check
the interest charged on a constantly fluctuating balance,
that not one customer in 500 ever drops to the device.
Whether any other banks follow the same artful little
plan isn’t known, but if every overdrafter proceeds to
carefully check the interest charged against him, he may
possibly discover something interesting.
* * * •
The balance-sheet of the New York Life Insur-
ance Co. shows new premiums for 1896, c 1,237,913 ; re-
newal premiums, £5,169,098; interest and rents
£1,646,395, making the total income for the year,
£8,053,406. Payments to policy-holders (death losses,
endowments, annuities, cash bonuses and surrenders)
absorb £3,803,214. Expenses amount to £1,628,669,
which is equal to over 20 per cent, on total income, or
over 25 per cent, on premium income—a remarkably steep
rate for an institution of the New York Life’s age and
dimensions. The accumulated funds were increased
during the year by the very large sum of £2,621,523, and
now amount to over 38) millions, while the surplus of
assets over liabilities, as certified by the New York State
auditor, is £5,490,000, half-a-million more than it was last
year—a very solid surplus which should be large enough
to cover any possible demands upon it, no matter how
big a financial crisis mav come along.
* * • •
The pestilential prevalence of alleged Friendly
Society lotteries in Vic. led The Bulletin last week to
mix up two shows that don’t play in one another’s back-
yards. The Druids are advertising a £lOOO Golden Druid,
accompanied by statistics which prove that it is worth
£9lO in the melting-pot. The difference is due to the
encouragement of imagination in the minds of the young.
The Druid lottery has so far dodged the police, and the
“ drawing ” of the “Art ” union is announced to come off
later bn. It is noticed that the statement originally
made that the Royal Mint would certify to the Weight
and quality of the “ Golden Druid” has now been silently
withdrawn from the daily press, but is still visible brt the
posters at suburban agencies.
It was the A.N.A. gold vase, value £lOOO, which
the young man from Whorouly won. It is whispered
that the finances of the A.N.A. art-union are very dis-
appointing. People seem to be getting tired of paying
shillings for a microscopic, over-priced chance of a lump
of gold. The A.N.A. people are taking the extraordinary
course of advertising for the people who paid cash at the
gates.
* • • •
About the best share-list up to date is a new
one issued by Edwin Elliott & Co., sharebrokers, of
377 Collins-street, Melbourne. It is full of informa-
tion, and in the matter of detail it has no rival. The
issue for March contains an account of the state of the
market for all manner of securities, the prospects of
various institutions, loans floated and in course of flota
tion, &c. The share-list proper includes all Victorian
municipal debentures, Government stocks, deposits of
all kinds, all the usual mass of miscellaneous undertak-
ings, and 23 closely-printed pages of mining companies in
Victoria, N.S.W., S.A.. Tasmania and W.A., with a state-
ment against each of nominal capital, paid-up ditto, date
and amount of last dividend, date and amount of last
call, and latest share quotations. There are over 800
mines quoted altogether, and when one looks down the
long regular list of calls, and notes the huge gaps in the
dividend columns, the pathos of mining becomes very
real. And while the last call is generally very recent the
last dividend is often a long way back, for the gaps—and
there are pages of them—only refer to mines that have
never paid any dividend at all. The champion grief of
the' collection seems to be the G. G. Consolidated ; last
call, December, ’96 ; last dividend, August, 1872. Twenty-
four years of unrewarded grind stand between these two
figures.
* * * *
The effect of the increased reduction of sulphide
ore at the B.H. Proprietary works is shown in the
gradually increasing aggregate cost per ton of ore, with a
corresponding fall in the profit per ton. When the
“ economies ” were introduced after the big strike in ’92
the cost per ton, amounting to £3 14s. Id. in the half-year
immediately preceding the contest, fell gradually to £2
os. lid. in the first half of ’94. At present the figure is
just over £2 10s. In the same lapse of time profit per ton
has come back from £2 17s. lOd. to 14s. Bd., and aggregate
divs. from £576,000 to £144,000.. In the absence of any
considerable plant for dealing with sulphides there has
not, however, been any increase in the quantity of ore
treated; on the contrary, there has been a consistent
falling-off from 325,949 tons in the latter half of ’94 to
208,303 tons in the corresponding six months of ’96.
Barring the half-year in which the big strike of
’92 took place, the aggregate of B.H. Proprietary divs.,
£144,000, for the last six months was.smaller than for any
similar period since ’B7. The figures in closest neighbor-
hood are those for the first half of 1888 (£152,000). And
it is interesting to compare some details for the two
terms, and to reflect whether, after all, N.S.W. (which
never did own many shares) is not better off under
present conditions. Here are a few of the figures side by
side-
-1888, J-yr. 1896, J-yr.
Dividends £152,000 £144,000
Mine wages, salaries and contracts 59,732 136,915
Smelters’ wages, &c. ... ... 23,032 54,033
Coke 41,773 75,203
Freight and Charges ... ... 34,390 49,956
Mine Timber 22,375 22,260
When it is added that in the half of ’BB the quantity of
ore treated was 39,789 tons, and in the half of ’96 208,303
tons, of a much more refractory character, shareholders
and others will be able to make for themselves some
interesting comparisons.
Of all the processes which have been tried at
the Broken Hill Proprietary, the only one that has more
than held its own, and continues to do so, is leaching.
The quantity of ore smelted has dropped from 534,254
tons in 1894 to 329,929 tons in 1896, the decline being
persistent in each half-year. Concentration has hitherto
been a costly experiment and generally a ghastly failure ;
and the amalgamation plant, erected at a cost of over
£28,000, treated altogether less than 76,000 tons of ore,
and then was snuffed out for ever. The leaching-plant,
however, set to work on ore in the beginning of ’94, has
in six half-years mounted by steady and regular stages
from 10,514 tons the first half to 39,460 tons during the
co.’s last half-year.
The B.H. Prop.’s present margin of profit (14s.
Bd. per ton of ore) is much the lowest in its record.
Assuming that no further reductions can be made in pro-
duction-charges (though since the opening of the year
very substantial reductions in freight have, as a matter
of fact, been made), how much would the market values
of silver and lead require to fall before all profit would
cease? For everything depends upon these markets.
The average price received for the silver last half-year was
2s. 9d. per oz. ; for the lead, £lO 17s. lOd. per ton. The
gross product of silver was 4,028,2920 z., and of lead
10,064 tons. The lowest price ever realised for lead was
£1 10s. per ton less than that quoted. At that rate, the
profit would have been £15,096 less. The lowest
silver ever realised on a half-year’s average was 2s. 7jd,
At that rate, a further £29,372 less would have been
netted. Together, £44,468 less. In other words, some-
what under a Is. div. The total expenses, not including
depreciation, last half-year were £490,308. If the aver-
age realised for the silver fell to 2s. per oz., and for
the lead to £9 per ton, on last half-year’s figures
a profit of £3OOO odd would still remain. And as
Broken Hill silver is about 996 fine as against 920
standard, the market quotation for standard silver would
have to fall to about Is. IOJd. per oz. before Broken Hill
silver would command no more than 2s. That, then,
may be taken as Broken Hill’s present pay limit, with the
operation of ores of the same class as are now accepted—
lead at £9 and silver at Is. 10id.
B.H. South, which has declared its second
div., will not (on the balance-sheet put forward to the
shareholders the other day) be able to keep up these
monthly payments. Entering the July-Dee. half-year
with a credit balance of £8394, it wound up with a balance
of £18,885. This gives a profit of under £lO,OOO for the
six months; and each sixpenny div. absorbs i5OOO. No
doubt the exploratory work has been, somewhat heavy,
and £2254 has been spent upon additional plant; but
then, development work must be continuous —and so it
seems must additions and alterations of concentrating
plants. Making the most ample allowances, it seems
pretty certain that, even with the added crushing power
and buddies, no more than three sixpenny divs. can be
earned in a half-year.
The most satisfactory feature about the B.H.
South report is the increase in the quantity of ore put
through the mill and the improved extraction. “ The re-
covery of lead is 83T per cent (or 4 per cent, in excess of
last year), and of silver 49'5 per cent (or 2‘9 per cent, in
excess of last year).” But those figures alone mean
nothing, or very little. It is easy to recover 99 per cent,
of the lead and 90 per cent, of the silver —if you are con-
tent to leave 95 per cent, of the zinc in. Still, there has
been an improvement, thanks to the additional plant;
but how long it will last is uncertain, in view of the fact
that many of the present faces show exceedingly hard ore.
B.H. North does seem to mean real mining busi-
ness. It is doing more prospecting than at any previous
time—so far with indifferent reward ; for where in new
localities ore is got it is exceedingly hard. European ad-
vices to Broken Hill people say that silver-market pro-
spects are no brighter. The cable quotes 2s. 5%d. ; and
now Japan (which hasn’t been a big silver-buyer lately,
though) is further Europeanising herself by formally
adopting a gold-currency. As against that, however,
Proprietary shares steadily drain from Australia, mostly
towards Scotland.
» * * •
A little more activity is showing at the Thacka-
ringa portion of the Barrier district. The Lily has a
much-advertised strike of rich ore. But Thackaringa is
essentially a lead-ore country, and all finds of rich ore
during the past 12 years have been very small patches.
Apparently a float or two are in view.
The British is showing the drain on the car-
bonates very plainly.
The North Central : “A change for the better
is coming into the shaft.” It grows wearisome. But
when they really do get a patch of vein matter, those
shares will bound. And such a patch is quite likely
whether the lode lies that way or not. Isolated streaks
and pockets of ore have occasionally been found right
away from the lode, both at B.H. and off the Comstock.
A small ore-dressing plant for the Silver Hill
Junction is about ready for erection, but divs. are in the
far distance yet. And the increased plant at the North
will be jigging regularly before the end of the month.
• • * •
Mine workmen, crowded out in the West, are
flocking to Broken Hill. But the market there is terribly
crowded, too ; and, in consequence, contracts are being
taken at wretchedly low rates.
• * • *
A peculiar feature of the Broken Hill lode is
the frequent occurrence of large cavities (technically
vughs), lined in most cases with very rich ores or ren-
dered picturesque by stalactites of lime, lead, iron, or
zinc. One such has just been broken into in the Junc-
tion North : a fair-sized house could be built in it.
* * * *
Junction North lode still takes very careful
handling and expensive staying. It is friable, heavy, and
treacherous.
* « • •
Better demand for opal has put new heart into
White Cliffs miners.
» * * »
At Muttama, N.S.W., writes a correspondent,
Beasley and party are raising some very rich stone from
their new find. Ten tons taken from the surface some
time back, yielded 4oz. 13dwts. per ton, but recently they
have struck a reef 2ft. wide, which, so far, looks more
like lOoz.
* * * *
Cobar (N.S.W.) : “The so-and-so mine is being
thoroughly tried by an assayer.” Better than a battery,
no doubt.
* * * »
Wonderfully rich gold in arsenical pyrites and
ealcite has been struck in the crosscut from the D’Arcy
Wentworth shaft, establishing beyond doubt that the
Lucknow contact-joint, from which tons of gold have
been taken, has gone into that property much above
1090 ft. Verily, a nice state of things for the Earl Kilmorey
to reflect over. He is chairman of the Wentworth mines,
and has come out to see them. This find puts a feather
in the judgment cap of W. A. Irwin, now managing the
Associated mines at Kalgoorlie. But, at the same time, it
is a bit of a staggerer for the parent co. which has over
1000 acres mostly where it doesn’t want them. Another
strip of 10 acres of the Wentworth estate would have
carried the contact down another 1000 ft., and there
would have been no D’Arcy mine. What a sensational
play might be written of these mines, especially if, in the
c aste, could be included Carrie-Swain-Gardiner 1
* * * *
Gundagai, N.S.W. —“ A mining-expert says it
is probable that a large amount of English capital will
soon be attracted to Gundagai.” From what the writer
knows, Bull will probably put more money into Gundagai
if two things happen—if the Gibraltar mine at Adelong
can keep up its present monthly yield, which is problem-
atical, and the Prince of Wales mine, nearer Gundagai,
gets going successfully with its 30-head mill on a 20ft.
reef of allegedly' nearlv-ounce rock.
* * * *
From London to the writer— “ Things Wes-
tralian are going from bad to worse. The exposures
made at many meetings of co’s have disgusted people.
This staggering blow affects all mining alike. The ques-
tion is : will it show the English public that in all booms
there is no limit to their enthusiasm or folly ! ”
• * * *
The public are getting tired of reading of the
large quantities of machinery arriving on the Hill End
mine, W.A., and that it is looking as well as when it
crushed upwards of 20oz. to the ton with a little three-
head battery. Looking over the big dump of stone at
grass on this mine recently, one manager asked another
how much it would go, and he answered “Well, it is
supposed to go seven ounces, but there is very little
danger of being struck by lightning in this country.”
* * * *
Westralia — a London financial and mining
paper, published with a very obvious object—regards The
Bulletin’s endorsement of the great and permanent rich-
ness of the Lake View, Great Boulder, and Ivanhoe, of
special importance after its criticisms of these three mines
in the early stage of their existence. The statement that
the writer, “ having failed to make his pile there, did his
best to convince the publio that the mines were absolutely
worthless,” is worthy of the paper. The inference that it
is the writer, and not the opinion with reference to these
mines, that, has been changed, is false. True, that when
the writer first saw these three mines he thought next to
nothing of them. So did the public, or Boulders would
not have been down to two shillings, and unsaleable at
that—one big line of G.B. paids was sold at “ a bob.”
Thousands of Lake Views and Ivanhoes were forfeited for
non-payment of calls. This Bi lletin' fully appreciates
the effort made in all directions to conceal the fact that
these three mines at one time—and for i, long time—were
to all appearances worthless. Callahan, now manager of
the biggest of them, thought so. Reports in the prospec-
tuses did not say so -they never do. The working capital
put up by Bull developed the Boulder into a great mine,
and the others also became great by development of ore
bodies then unknown to anybody. If there is any disgrace
in the writer not seeing below the surface he is able and
willing to bear it. Nor does he want any credit in regard
to scores of other Westralian mines he has seen and
derided, and which have not been transformed into Great
Boulders—mines that have been described by lying
experts and newspapers of the Westraha order as
amazingly rich—and by the villainous unanimity of lying
and liars have been sold in London at enormous sums,
and have had millions of money wasted on them.
• * * •
Tindall’s (Coolgardie)—and who has not heard
of it, a thousand times ? —“ First crushing, 3dwts. ; second
crushing about 4dwt.”
* * * •
Where are the riches of Croesus ?—a W. A. mine
the public heard so much about. Shares down to 2s. 6d.,
the best possible proof that nine-tenths of the newspaper
yarns of the mine were lies, no doubt sent with a purpose.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) : 1694 tons, 42990 z.
Stated, too, that manager Callahan is preparing the way
for a bigger output and yield.
* * * *
Coolgardie:—“Cristy and party, of the St.
George mine, have struck a lode 20ft. wide. Over 50oz.
have been dollied out during the last two days.”
Alas! how many such have been found in W.A.?
Big reef of white quartz, in which, after much nap-
ping, a patch is found and dollied out in a day or
two, then no more for a day or two, perhaps for
ever. The Londonderry, Wealth of Nations, were only-
big overcoat pockets—the others are, by comparison,
small ticket-pockets. At one time they were all good
enough to sell a mine on, but now they must be worked
for all they are worth, and it is more than the average
W.A. pock“t that lasts a week.
* * • *
The Investors’ Guide, issued by Clarke and Co.
(of Adelaide), for March, is well worth looking at in con-
nection with the same firm’s special Westralian number,
dated February, which discloses an appalling decline in
mining market prices between July, 1896, and January,
1897. Twenty-two stocks having the word “Hannan’s”
for a front title are now quoted at about 25 per cent., on
an average, of their July figures.
* * * *
Clarke and Co.’s latest circular gives a report on
the Norseman field by little “Uitlander” Sampson, late
of the Argus, who is running a mining paper in that far-
away region. Sampson is artistically discreet; “ Since
the examination of the mines I am convinced of the
wealth of the field, but, at the same time, it is not, in my
opinion, one of sudden popularity. It is a field that will
slowly and surely reach a good position.”
* * * •
More sensation by wire from the Great Boulder,
which is never allowed to stay a week without paper
yabber. “At the 300 ft. level’ the western leg of the
lode is 6ft. wide, and the average value is soz. ; within
120 ft. of the main shaft the western branch is extremely
rich, being worth from Boz. to 9oz. to the ton. The pre-
sent fac£ of the north drive is worth about 9oz. to the ton.
This is the third lode proved in the mine, and its dis-
covery has doubled the value of the mine. This line of
reef alone, proved for 1150 ft. long, to a depth of 300 ft., is
worth, at a very low estimate, three anda-quarter millions
sterling. The mine has improved at least 100 per cent,
during the last few days.” There is a lot more printed in
the Eastern papers. If it is all true, future crushings
from this mine should be at least 6oz. to the ton instead
of 3oz. But the market has not responded proportion-
ately.
« • • •
Boom on and boqm off. Central Plateau (Bal-
larat) shares two months back reached ±.'s ; now 18s.
* * * *
The tonnage and gold-output of Mt. Morgan are
to be considerably increased before the end of this year,
but it is doubtful whether the profits will be. Either as
investment or speculation, the shares at 695. are quite
high enough.
» • * •
Mount Morgan is all astir just now. The
Mount Morgan. North Co. avers it has struck the con-
tinuation of the original Mt. Morgan lode, and shows
beautiful specimens. It is to be hoped the statement is
true, but the very name Mt. Morgan tacked on to an out-
side show makes one immediately suspicious.
« * * *
Having had its over 2000 oz. crushing and de-
clared its Is. lOd. div. —shares in the Wilmot Extended,
Gympie, are down to 3s. 7J4d. What price had it been in
Westralia, where the average mine is even more pocketty
than the W.E.
• * * *
Queensland is issuing monthly returns of the
gold-yield, and Vic. threatens to follow suit. Two totals
this year —January, 44,6030 z. ; February, 54,5000 z.
Premier Nelson will probably point to the increase of
nearly 10,000 oz. in a month as one of the advantages of
keeping clear of Federation.
* » * *
Eidsvold goldfield was opened in ’BB, and has
since yielded 87,702 tons for 86,1240 z. In 1890 the output
was 15,8230 z., but last year only 58350 z.
» * * *
The last quarter’s Maoriland gold-returns show
a big drop, and augur bad things for gold-mining this
year in the Otago district.
* * . *
Waihi, for 33 days’ crushing : 4140 tons of stone,
£13,877.
• * * *
About 100 men are waiting in Cooktown to go
over to New Guinea, which number, added to previous
departures, will make a sum total of 400 sailing to Papua
within three months. It is said that the gold on the
Mambare is of two kinds —one heavy, the other light and
scaly. Obtained on beaches and river-banks.
* • • •
By a very small majority two Adelaide men
have displaced the two Melbourne candidates for the
vacancies on the South B.H. Co.’s board ; and we shall
see what we shall see. The polling was very heavy : 82
per cent, of the shares were represented. Mr. Laughton,
managing-director of Block 14, who lately was given a
seat on the South board and worked with the Adelaide
faction, showed shareholders that Block 14’s record was
far the better; but the Melbourne men’s retort that
Block 14 made its money out of purchased ore is largely
solid truth, though what the exact proportion of profits
made one way and the other is Fourteen’s balance-sheets
do not show. Simultaneously with the announcement of
the result of the poll came the report that what seems to
be the Western lode has been picked up in the property
at 700 ft.—a development likely to prove of great import-
ance ; the stuff is good where struck.


DURABILITY AN D ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing*
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRUHH
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS - RIDING -
OFFICE BUSH _
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S' SUITS 40/-
gPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colon v
± urnishings excepted. '
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED.
PATTERNS FREE BY POST.
INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY
B.
L. COfITCTIiOTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OP THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
name CORTO on the bands , and beware of imitations.
Society
COOLALTA
When the fleet was at Hobart, people
missed “ those pretty little launches ” which used
to scud about the Derwent. The reason was that
the sailors had been “ done bad ” by the French
some time before, both with the oars and at “tug-
o’-war.” Admiral Bridge didn’t like it, and made
the jolly tars pull backwards and forwards even in
the stiffest of seabreezes and southerly-busters.
* * * *
An Adelaide tramp lately walked into
Govt. House and demanded a meal. Then the
visitor climbed upstairs and went to sleep in one
of Gov. Buxton’s bedrooms, whence he was police-
ejected. The want of hospitality shown by H.E.
on this occasion seems to accentuate society com-
plaints of the exclusiveness of the vice-regal set.
**» * °
Mayor-of-Sydney Ives’ India-fainine-fund
meeting only drew 17 people and ,£251. All the
familiar banqueting deadheads wrote that they
were “ sick.”' No rum, no hallelujah !
* * * *
The Chow mania is on the women of Vic-
toria. Single teaching has been all the rage for
some time. Almost every suburb has its classes.
Chow picnics, got up by white maidens, are not
uncommon, and now we have the Chow surprise-
party. Each maid gets her Bible Chow to call at
a certain house on a certain night. An hour is
devoted to praying, singing and Bible-reading.
Ihen the sweet creatures have great fun teaching
John funny little English games (hunt the slipper,
postman’s knock, kiss in the ring, &c.), and then
John teaches his teacher some Chinese games.
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH.
Photo, by Falk.
The girls declare it much nicer than English sur-
pnse-parties-and declare that “ you don’t know
how nice they are till you know them A
The other day, Meston deported some 50
aboriginals from Maryborough to Fraser Island
in the hope of reforming and preserving the poor
battered remnants. It remains to be seen whether
opium and rum will conquer, or Meston. To any
one who remembers the powerful tribes of Wide
Bay and Fraser Island some 30 years ago, the
sight of these poor decrepit outcasts trotting off
their island cemetery must have been painful in
the extreme. ' 1
* * * *
pS U ? e f n k' ( ¥* L ; ) l b ° MtS ° f AllgUCan
Cathedral which not long ago was run on cheaper
lines than any similar establishment in the world.
Its staff comprised a bishop, a dean, a canon, and
a curate. The bishop gets no screw : the dean is
a salaried minister of another church, and as dean
gets nothing : the curate resigned as he drew the
same salary : and the canon, who came all the
way from Queensland with a wife and daughter,
got JSISOJ Ho i, now an archdeacon, and hi!
salary is correspondingly raised.
*. _ *
Sydney newspaper reports of funerals are
notable for their free mention of the inevitable
ghoul who (time being valuable) never attends in
person but heaps wreaths on dead men’s graves
with the sole apparent object of having it para,
graphed that he sent a “ handsome floral tribute,”
obtained from some fashionable florist. To such
excess has this sort of thing gone of late that it is
questionable whether some dear friends of the
departed are not really in league with the wreath-
merchants.
* * * *
Melb. Age now has ‘ ‘ Births, ” ‘ ‘ Marriages, ”
“Deaths,” “In Memoriam ” and “Bereavement
Notices.” The “ Bereavement Notice ”is that in
which the relatives return thanks for sympathy
expended over the late-lamented. Thus there is
only one way of announcing the joyful marriage
episode, but there are three different fashions of
lingering tearfully over the tomb and intruding
the bones of your household grief on the public
notice. The “In Memoriam ” is the saddest
affair of the lot. When the tenth anniversary of
your grief comes round it may possibly be meri-
torious to still remember the departed, but to
advertise that you still remember him and to
deposit the remains of your private pathos on
everybody’s breakfast table in the morning paper,
is overdoing it. An idea that would meet the
case much better would be to have in each ceme-
tery a building set apart, where people could go
and sit in ashes and sackcloth on melancholy
anniversaries, and other people who liked grief
and misery could go in on payment of a small
fee and see them doing it, and people who
didn’t want to be bathed in woe which wasn’t
their own could stay away, and everybody would
be satisfied. The only trouble would be that
many individuals who were fond of grief would
go there to lament over imaginary relatives who
never died at all, and thus get in the road of
persons who had real lamentation to do. But
perhaps this wouldn’t very much matter.
* * * *
Within the last few days two divorce cases
have arisen in which it was reported that the
parties were married, and that as soon as they
came out of church the bridegroom sprinted round
the nearest corner and never came back. In
neither instance was any reason assigned; to all
appearance the bridegroom got married casually,
and then went away casually, and casually stayed
away. One vanished husband met his wife a year
or two after, and asked her casually how she was
getting on, and then made a remark about the
weather and said “S’long,” and went round
another corner. The other didn’t even make that
amount of re-appearance; he remained permanently
round his original corner. The Court worried and
tore its wig a good deal over these cases with th*
idea that there was collusion somewhere but
could find no traces of it; apparently it was
corner® b?ing
accordingly. ’ J ° ad to be given
°» * *
The other dav in *
„i-w • . T’ Z Melbourne, a woman
„. rri , l Zf d f dlv ° rce er husband on the
if* 101 * Z? came home drunk one
iZwh? v ZZZ Z let hlm ln - He didn’t
a if P a f ed out the door or smash the win-
dows > but staggered quietly away, and—
He never came back again,
In HZ S ent n for°his t tTunk? rrain:
And concluded his drunk,
And never came back again.
* • • ,
N.S.W. Public Service Board lately re
ceived the following letter from Miss Angelina
Clementina Smith, ex-pupil teacher in the lubhc
School at Gumtree Flat • vubhc
Gentlemen —I have heen in „ •
pay my score in a second-rate boarding-house but leavea
ntZ'Zf f ° r the v )Ur , ch , aB f- of ? ,ot hes. Of course I might
att ®l ld «> school duties in full fig, Eve fashion but
Z,:,Tff Unate - 18 to °, eold the %-costume, I beg to
gum 3 (EucZlypufZGlobZs? vifiich, 6
stringy-bark (Eucalyptus Capitellata), I think would do
very nicely. Trusting you will see fit to grant me this
concession, &c. °
Some little
time ago, six eman -
pated Maori land
ladies resolved to
spend a holiday
camping out “on
their own,” with
no men in the
party. They
reached their des-
tination—a seclu-
ded gully, eight
miles from any-
where—all right.
They also pitched
their tent with
reasonable success
alongside a beauti-
ful lagoon, and
then they got into
six nicely - frilled
bathing costumes
and went in for a
swim. And, while
they were swim-
ming, a smoulder-
ing tree, which
they had taken no
account of, fell
square on top of
the tent and
squashed it in,
and the whole
show and all the
clothes blazed up
there and then,
and were con-
sumed, and the
party was left out
alone in its bath-
ing costume and
nothing else. A
woman may have
the suffrage, but,
until she learns not to pitch her tent alongside a
burning tree, she isn’t going to be the equal of
man, all the same.
* * * *
Actress Ada Ward—just turned Hallelujah-
lass—attributes the topsy-turvy to an appearance
to her of “our Lord ’’—whom she of course iden-
tified by the conventional portraits of the Saviour.
It’s always so ! People who have “visions” of
Heaven or t’other place never, by any chance,
describe anything but what they’ve been taught
about angels, and harps, and crowns—or demons,
and flames, and bowlings. They can’t add any-
thing from their own imagination, because they
haven’t any—or they would never have swallowed
such iirotesqueries about a future existence.
Visions are from within, not from without, and
what can never be proved not purely subjective
is triumphantly paraded as proof of the objective
existence of Paradise and Tophet, whereas it
merely proves the existence of itself.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin, —Considering the popu-
larity of the name of Victoria amongst those
people whose lot it falls to to bestow names, I pro-
pose to add to your grovel programme for the
record reign by changing the name of everything
into “ Victoria.” Also let everybody be called
\ ictoria, male and female alike. It would create
the greatest confusion ever known —that of the
Tower of Babel wouldn’t be a circumstance to it :
it would be the record confusion of the world, and
the greatest lickspittle performance in creation.
At the same time it would simplify things a great
i? i a com P an i° n scheme I suggest that all
the locks in Australia be made to open with one
key—which would also simplify things.—F.
* * * *
Crime is the only thing that is booming in
the Vic. legal world. The February list was the
longest on record, and for the first time for over a
decade the criminal court has combined its sit-
tings from the middle of one month to the middle
of the next. The attractive parcels of “under 16”
stock are at present specially appreciated by the
gallery experts.
* * * *
The funniest of jubilee suggestions sprang
from a meeting of amateur fire brigade captains at
Maryborough (Vic.). _ The meeting decided to ask
lor Government assistance “ towards sending
ART IN THE COUNTRY.
(A translation from the Scottish.)
PUMPKINS: “D’ye ever try photograffy, mister?”
PALETTE: “No.”
PUMPKINS: It’s a lot quicker'n that.”
PALETTE: “ Umph! ”
PUMPKINS: “An' a lot more like the place!”
home a representative team of firemen picked from
all the country brigades.” Heavens and Earth'
Why not send Ome select teams of policemen
h«v ( , m f en ;f° Ckb T Ck^ rS; &C -’ that Hingland may
have further ocular demonstration of Australia’s
loyalty and well-fed condition ?
* * * *
, f ° U v ma ™ a S es came off in St. Paul’s
(Melb.) Anglican Cathedral during 1896 This sis-
nalises a bitter disappointment. Altogether the
revenues of the business there have come down
with a run.
* * * *
‘ Poultry on Sunday, Fourpence.” Melb
hash-house placard.
IT NEEDED THOUGHT.
SON: “Father, I’m thinking of getting married. ”
FATHER: “You're doing the right thing. Just keep on thinking!”
De gustibus : “At Tamworth (N.S.W.)
recently the new small-debts court bailiff was
‘ warmly welcomed by the police-magistrate and
the attorneys present.’ ”
* * * *
In Sydney clothing factories, girls (from
16 upwards) are employed finishing slop-pants on
piece-work at a pair and find their own thread.
An expert hand can turn out one pair an hour
Jolly and fat? Sweating? Oh, no! Freetrade
competition.
Sydney D.T. advt. :
TOST.-Flown from 143Glenmore-rd., old Cockatoo,
imitates cats } dog’s, and fowls. Liberal reward
The Bulletin seems to hear the anguished screech
of that parrot when undergoing demolition in a
tortured neighbor’s back-yard.
A certain
N.S.W. mining
town bears the
reputation of
being the wick-
edest place of
its size in the
province. There
are cricket, foot-
ball, dog-fights,
two - u p and
euchre all Sun-
day, and the
one policeman
has long since
given up even
pretending to
be aware that
the pub. is open
all through the
Day of Rust—
the odds against
him were too
great. The
other Sunday a
small tempor-
ary cyclone
struck this
Sodom and Go-
morrah. It
didn’tstrike the
football blas-
phemers, or the
two-up school,
° r tb( ? euchre party, or the dog-fight; in
tact, the only thing it did really strike was the
church, which it capsized into the pub.’s back-
yard and left there. And having thus wrecked
the only decent, Sabbath-keeping institution in
the place, and blotted out the one Christian
establishment in a town of sin, it passed on and
ieit people considering the wonderful upside-
downness of Providence.
ri* * * *
Ihe Mayor of Melbourne has convened a
conference of Mayors to consider ways and means
w C( Crating Queen Victoria’s 60th anniversary.
VVe know: why not petition Her Gracious to
knight all Mayors ?
GOSSAMER.
I love you now
Indeed, ma Belle!
Accept this vow :
“ I love you,” now.
Next year?—Oh, how
Can mortal tell ?
I love you now
Indeed, ma Belle !
F.M.
A frowsy back-lane foul with garbage, right in
the heart of the din,
One in clerical guise, with the wolf in his eyes
Prowling the corner along with two half-naked
implets of sin.
A swirl at an odorsome doorway, a volley more
foul than the rest—
Mouldy bread, putrid bones, scattered over the
stones,
A rush, and a morsel of toast disappears in the
clerical vest.
A grey-stubbled visage, all shame-flushed, glides
into the roar of the street,
And the implets wade in as they chuckle and
grin :
“ Say, Mick, now that ’ere wus a w’ite cove ! ’E
knowed we wus ’ard up for meat! ”
H.P.B.


Crowned heads of Europe have always
given their royal patronage to Ed. Pinaud, of
Paris, but never so much as lately ; his perfumes
are now recognised as incomparably the best in
Europe. The biggest hits of Ed. Pinaud have
been “ Violette Heine ” (quite different from
“ Rhine Violet ”), and “Preciosa,” the sweetest
and most delicate perfumes ever made; in fact,
they are known everywhere as the quintessences
of the richest flowers grown in France, and are
sure to be rushed by everybody.*
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Life Assurance Only. Purely Mutual .
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO POLICYHOLDERS.
ASSETS...
ANNUAL INCOME
SURPLUS
£38,513,663
8,053,406
5,490,123
RESIDENT BOARD:
(with power to ISSUE POLICIES, PAY CLAIMS, etc.)
(Wltu tv ivvvu / - /
Tfov Sir JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President of Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
Ihe Hon. biR WESTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Office for Australasia:
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
THOMAS P. PURYES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGES
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
Melbourne worshippers snort on finding
the local Anglican cathedral doors closed against
them when oratorios are the form of divine wor-
ship on tap. The alternative to going away and
making a night of it is to stump up half-a-crown,
and join in the melodious devotions. This is how
“the authorities” explain: “In moderating
what might be a somewhat unseemly rush we are
conducing to, rather than retarding, a spirit of
reverence.” And nothing less than half-a-crown
will assure “a spirit of reverence.” It is good,
worldly horse-sense —people respect the thing they
pay for, and cheapness breeds contempt. Ask
any theatrical manager. There is a tale of one
who actually went into the street and asked
people to enter his theatre free. “ What’ll yer
give us ? ” was the natural query. The analogy is
fair ; people won’t go to church now unless they
are paid to go or have to pay to go.
* * * *
The assets over liabilities of the Austral-
asian branch of the Salvation Army were, to the
end of September last, .£111,690 11s. 6d. The
Army will soon have a beam in its eye.
* * * *
Melb. : “ Seriously, where does the Salva-
tion Army get all the money ? It is paying
off .£19,500 on the Y.M.C.A. Hall which it bought,
and it dubs down £3OOO for the Model Lodging
House ; another lump to follow in six months.
But, drenched and almost demoralised with
money, they starve the bulk of their officers, and
the .£25,000, or what not, is saved out of the lady
chaplain’s—l mean captain’s—ragged clothing.”
* * * ♦
A pair of horses attached to a carriage
bolted down Pitt-st., Sydney, for half-a-mile the
other day, smashing all before them till they came
to a dead stop right against S.M. Herald office.
Their momentum was wasted on the inertia of
that solid old Conservative journal. The Tory
prejudices of the Herald are so ancient and so
firmly-rooted that they would bring up a good-
sized earthquake “ all-standing.”
* * * *
The juvenile Rechabites of Victoria have
not yet been called upon to take a pledge against
smoking as well as drinking. The question of the
dual oath was raised at the recent Rechabite con-
ference, but several delegates protested that it
would be inconsistent for the old ’uns to damn
tobacco whilst they themselves were “indulging
in the habit,” and the proposition was accordingly
lost. A decent regard for consistency also pre-
vents the matured Rechs. from imposing an anti-
financial frauds pledge upon their deah young
friends.
Obituary - notice
from M.L. mining-
ship: “Another
little prospector re-
called by the Great
Warden.”
* »
Harrowing anec-
dote dating from a
Melb. ooffee - palace.
A respectable visitor,
recently from a neigh-
boring province, had
engaged rooms, and
he retired at a rather
late hour with his law-
ful wedded wife one
night last week. The
eminently respectable
pair had hardly sunk
into a virtuous doze
when they were a-
wakened by a series
of shocks followed by
various dull thuds,
suggesting that the
roof was falling in on
them a rafter at a
time. As a matter of
fact, somebody was
“laying into” the
discreet gentleman
and his amiable lady
with a club. Shrieks,
shrill alto profanity,
and hoarse cries, in-
terspersed with the
steady thump of a
lethal weapon,
brought assistance
with lights, and a
muscular, elderly
lady, armed with a
fire-shovel, was dis-
covered battering the
bedded couple with
the energy of despair
and the fiery indigna-
tion of a wronged
matron. She was
pulled off and held
down, uttering spas-
modic gasps about
villains and hussies.
It was all an error, of
course. The athletic
female had hired a
room at the palace for
the express purpose of
“laying for ” her way
ward husband and
some “ depraved per-
son.” She thought she
had cornered the sin-
ners, but gracefully
admitted that it was
her mistake.
SINGING FROM THE SAME HYMN-BOOK.
WILLIE: “I say, May, who the mischief's been putting kerosene on the
hymn-book?”
MAY (suppressing a smile): “Eve not the least idea, Will!"
(Fact was Willie had got a sniff of the benzine the lady had been “ cleaning ”
her gloves with.)
* *
Divorce-Court Justice Simpson stated from
the Bench last week that he could not, under the
law, hear a divorce case in camera. Minister
Gould told Parliament, in June last, that a judge
could hear a case in camera where public decency
required it, and, as a matter of fact, several N.S.W .
politicians and others have obtained divorces in
camera. There is a little discrepancy here.
FILIAL AFFECTION.
JIM : “It was very fortunate for me, Billy, that my old man was sent here.”
BILLY : “ And it was very unfortunate for me, Jim, that my old man CAME here! ”
The Popular Preachers in Melbourne will
soon be in full cry on the text of Federation. Rev.
Alexander Marshall has made a start. “ Through
Federation,” said he, sermonising at Scots’ Church
on a recent Sunday, “the charm of a common
name and destiny will be upon us all.” Which is
distinctly pretty. But destiny in which world .
’Twas the Black Recording Angel of Damnation,
And he said “ For me this mighty cheerful looks,
And a devilish good thing is Federation—
It will very greatly simplify my books.”
Section XV. of N.S.W. Dog Act reads :
“ If any constable neglect to seize and kill all
dogs found at large, he shall for every such neglect
pay a fine of ten shillings.” Here is a chance for
citizens who think laws, because they are laws,
should be enforced. The fact that no constable
has yet been charged with such neglect proves
that the police are really without enemies.
Another infliction has been added to the
burden of the Melb. householder, whose life al-
ready consists of a series of interviews with
rabbit-men, fruit-hawkers, and obituary-poets.
The last pest is a greasy person with a large port-
folio, which he proceeds to unfold on his knee after
he has carefully inserted his toe into the door-
jamb. Then, opening with a slab of grovel cribbed
from the speech of some fat Legislative Councillor,
he perorates at length on the glorious reign of Her
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria. He raises his
belltopper respectfully as he pronounces the name,
and submits a number of designs for illuminations
—glaring scarlet profiles of fat women surrounded
by wreaths of vegetables, and with the words
“ God Save the Queen ”in big blue letters. The
illumination-canvasser is lOdeg. more virulent than
the book-canvasser, and when he doesn’t get an
order it is only because he is vigorously stoushed
by the eldest son, or because the house-hound has
chewed several pounds of meat out of him.
Meanwhile, the cunning Melb. business man is
preparing his gas-jets for the big celebration, so
as to combine perfervid loyalty with judicious
advt. Who does not remember the Melb streets
at the time of the ’B7 jubilee ? The whole city
scintillated with such devices as “God save our
Queen; good tweed suits, 305.,” or “ Fifty years
of a blameless life ; our best blood-sausages, 3d.”
* * * *
The newspapers in Sydney Public Library
are arranged in a row of old packing-cases. The
flooring is worn out, and the staircase absolutely
dangerous. And what did the Marble Bar cost?
A Chinese cook at a Yalgoo (W.A.) hotel
was about to dish up soup for dinner, when the
Jap. laundryman employed at the same place
dished up the China-Jap. war. Then the Chow
dashed the pot of soup over the Jap., saying
“ Wah foil you always talkee talkee Jap. killum
Chinaman, you yellow bellee ! ” The Jap. had to
go to hospital.
• • • •
“Beware of a pale woman with a large
appetite. ” —Barrie.
THE LADY CRICKETER.
It was a fair “ Forget-me-Not,”
A damsel known to fame
As one among the little lot
Who play our noble game.
She blushed a bright Vermillion
When quitting the pavilion
(The captain was to blame).
The maiden fluttered forth to scout —
The “ Sea-Foams ” being in ;
Her figure not at all too stout,
Nor yet a bit too thin,
Was clad in raiment simple ;
The sweetest little dimple
Adorned her dainty chin.
Her eyes an instant flashed in mine,
And tempted me to speak
As follows : “ Amazon div'ne,
Excuse my vulgar ‘ cheek ;
Pray, whither do you wander ?
Which favored spot out yonder
Doth Margarita seek ? ”
The color tinged her angry brow
Still deeper than before.
She muttered, “ Do not ask me now.”
I pressed her all the more
To name her destination,
Whilst a look of agitation
The modest vision wore.
“ Where will you stand to run them out,
Or catch them for an * egg ? ’
What is your title when you scout ?
O answer me, I beg.”
She whispered (libel shocking
On the limb within her stocking !)
“ They call me Short-Square-Leg.”
Melb.
E.F.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
P.C.G. : Returned without thanks W.J.C.
(Tas.): “W.” a very charming little thing Neil: Yes,
it will do The Stroller : Will print 0.0. : TheS.M.
Herald, you see, doesn’t like Premier Seddon Truthful
James : Thanks, but we have already been in gaol
Nemo : Very young and incompetent Gad: Merely a
love-sick Wail. We aren’t printing any Wail Justin :
The old man was a lifelong failure, so he went to a fire,
saved the life of a beautiful girl, and burnt himself to a
cinder. Now tell us something about the old woman
Reklaw : Bit too vague for print Josie : Stale ...
Nullah: Far too long for incident Jack B. : Spoilt in
telling Mach: Ballade flat El Alfa: It reads very
true, but little print-value C.H. (W.A.) : Unsuitable ...
Platypus : Beautiful subject for fire and brimstone
W.G.B. : About level with the local paper Bushy :
You seem a little mixed—or perhaps we are Swaggy :
Poem with fifteen splaj’ feet, and corns on every foot
Bunyip : One howl received P.S.G. : Other people,
whose word is presumably as good as yours, say they have
seen Mrs. Kangaroo put Joey there. Your denial that
she does boils down to the statement that you haven’t
seen her —which isn’t evidence Cassie : Unavailable.
C.P. (Moree) : “Father” will be printed Tom 0.
(Blackall) : Thanks Consumption :We know of no
nation which compels physical examination before mar-
riage J.A.S. : Martin Place, Sydney, was named after
the late N.S.W. Chief Justice J.S. : Cannot recommend
the society Jas. C. (Dun.): “Love” doesn’t justify
space Judicial Oath : Too heavy A.T.P. : Tell us—
What sort of milk is in the' cocoanut of Mr. Priesttnan,
who so energetically seeks to make out that Creswell is
Tichborne ? Suppose he establishes his ease? J. :We
don’t propose to let people know that “safe” way of
smothering infants D: The matter has to go to the
Supreme Court, and it will practically depend on the
unconscious bias of the Judge who gets the case as to
whether the word “permit” gives the ah abso-
lute right to a weekly half-holiday, or a right which can
only be enjoyed under the penalty of dismissal. The
draughtsman again?. ...W. Bhahg : Idea used up long, long
ag0...... J.P. (Geraldton): The merits of Cambridge Gulf
as a site for the Federal Capital will be seriously con-
sidered S.W.D. (Perth): Received Bre’ngle : Seem-
ingly your grievance is something about a slow delivery
of letters in Canada. That’s rather remote Tah L. :
Principally tears and wild cries of “ Dear George ! ”
M.X. : Not a story ; only the fragment of a shadow
G.L.D. (Launceston): Too much like Pecksniff moralising
in a church. You aren’t content with killing both men,
but severely lecture their dead bodies into the bargain.
The man who stands outside his story and remonstrates
with his characters is a Bore Buggins :As Sargood
isn’t in there is no need to waste space now in proving
that he should be out Cassius : Heavy Shakespearian
dialogue between Reid and Lyne duly thrown downstairs.
P. Binacki : Not worth proving in bad, blotched
verse that “Everything has an end.” James O’Bain :
No man will rhyme “frogs” with “screech,” and
“ horses” with “ haunted” in this paper unless he climbs
over our dead body to do it I’Enfant: Poem about
Butler to hand Constant Reader (Bourke) : There are
three railway gauges in N.S.W A. E. Henry : One
verse of your teetotal poem :
“ Don’t swipe till you knock your wife’s liver in
An’ the kiddies are shakin’ and quiverin’
Nor yet till your legs get the stutters
An' your carcase, blockin’ the gutters
A-lappin’ the slush is found.
Saint: Not up James O. : “ Assumed name” or any
other name—out it goes... ...Jack’s Brother: He tumbled
overboard into the open jaws, and she, yelling “Sharks
for two!” frantically followed Kenneth : It all boils
down to this : You’re male, and she’s female, and until
he catches her civilised male follows female with verses.
After she’s caught he mostly follows her with curses
Adonis: Our “ straight-out opinion ” is too horrible to
print F.S.F. : Weak L.M.D. : Pretty boshy ; ‘ th’
unemployed’ are a mixed lot Snooks: N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Dept, gives you seeds, and instruction, and
literature free, and you grumble because it doesn’t give
you more literature free! Seb. D.: (I) Believe last
batch seen and rejected. (2) Certain this batch ditto
E.W.: Solemn funning Florat: Unsuitable
Marret: Worthless G.S.B. : Doubtless there is a con-
nection between agricultural thickheads and long hours.
When a man spends all his energy with his body he can’t
use it with his brain Acarniel: Not up C.E.V. :
Regrets for the past are no use; start and regret the
future. Try not to abort any more verses like those
L.M. : You don’t improve on the bald statement that the
new barmaid was a male...... Sarah : Touching little
domestic poem. Our heart is concrete S.E.B. : Ger-
man poems translate badly. There is a lot of the con-
templative cow in the German character, and the average
German poem is very like the product of the cow—
darned mild. Heine always took brandy with his
Veldt: Verse pretty doggerelish, and there is a good, side
as well as a bad to “ going on the land.” In that
very Windsor district, in average seasons, many
farmers make over £5OO a year out of fruit
W.M.F. : Not up W.L.C. : Mostly disagree C.C.:
Possibly Bellerophon : Thanks R.S.T.: Considering.
Foederata : On the whole, Federation seems to incite
worse poems than either Dean or Butler. This is a good
sign, for it shows the leaven is working in the very lowest
skulls C.S. : Thinking over “In Artie”; “Box’’and
verse declined C.D. J. :It is not arguable. You can’t
effectively defend the action of anyone who comments
fiercely on a pending case, civil or criminal, with the
object of influencing the jury. If you claim the right to
try in the newspapers a man who is committed for trial,
you must) to be logical, abolish the Supreme Court
Konki : Not interested in the snarlings of the Sydney
chess-players and chess-writers. Let them all fight it out
—there will be murder shortly A. 0.8. : Ask E. J. H
Knapp, the great authority on everything under Heaven.
Address, Sydney Morning'Herald office Edmond L. :
You accuse The Bulletin of “turning yellow.” What
you really mean, of course, is that it hasn’t turned green
—whioh happens to be your particular color. Your car-
dinal error lies in assuming that greenness means Radi-
calism. The Bulletin is neither green or yellow—it is
Red Grawin : Hardly suitable J.B.D. : Thanks......
The Billy (Tas.) : Thanks, but no further evidence is
needed to convict the “Keekiefa” man of
altering “ Banjo’s” “Man from Ironbark” and palming
it off as his own Temora : The Bulletin is Re-
publican to the core, and it is Protectionist because,
amongst others things, it is Australian-nationalist.
The Australian Republican spirit lives, but sleeps
as yet. So far, Imperialism has contrived to bribe
almost all our best with social and other gauds
Altaville : It will do A.B.C. (D.): No, thanks
D.M.R. : Will print the first Damper: Too steep.


Tbs Next Pair
Of Gloves you want, try us.
We hold the largest, choicest and
most up-to-date stock in town. All
the latest shades and stitchings are
on hand. Prices to suit everybody.
Gloves for outdoor, driving, bi-
cycling, and evening wear.
W. T. WATERS &. CO.,
The Glove House,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
BUCKLEY & UUUIT Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “ Victoria ” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ ... ... ... £l6 and £3l
LADIES’ £lB and £2l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
TYPHOID:
Dr. Gresswell, Chairman
Melb. Health Board, says:
“Out and out Jeffery’s are the best filters.” The Pro-
fessor of Hygiene, Melb. University, says: “Ordinary
filters are powerless against germs so small as typhoid
germs; use a JEFFERY FILTER'' The
Jeffery Filter principle is highly recommended by the
President N.S.W. Health Board. Sole Agent for New
South Wales and Queensland—J. S. PEARDON 4 Bond
street, SYDNEY. ’ a ‘
CELEBRATED
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
. . Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
lations, See. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 16,1897.
Mr Dear Mtee—
Florence Schmidt, a Rockhampton girl and a
twelvemonths’ pupil of Signor Steffani, of Sydney,
has suddenly sprung into notice since her vocal
recital given last week in the Y.M.C.A. Hall,
before an invited company of professional and
amateur musicians. Her singing was quite sen-
sationally successful for a first performance, a,nd
worked up her audience—an afternoon one, which
is proverbially cold—into enthusiasm. Miss
Schmidt’s father was a German, but his daughter
displayed in her vocalization the impulsive tem-
perament of the artist, and made her success
chiefly in the florid arias of the Italian school;
her mother is Irish, and in the race struggle
the Celtic has overpowered the Teutonic type.
Steffani is immensely proud of his pupil and con-
siders her destined to be a great vocalist. “There
are plenty good voices in the world,” he says,
“ but very few singers. Miss Schmidt is one of
the few.’’ Her ambition has always been musical.
In Rockhampton she has appeared on concert
platforms as a pianist, and has preserved an en-
thusiasm for everything connected with music,
remarkable in a place where her only means of
keeping enthusiasm alive was by reading about her
favorite subject. Her voice is a clear soprano,
very pure and true, and, besides, she has the
gift of style and imparts a distinction to what
she is singing. One of her selections at her
recital was the well-known test piece, the
“ Shadow song,” through which she came triumph-
ant. The inevitable comparison with Melba is,
of course, a mistake at this stage —but this, at
least, may be said—should Miss Schmidt ever
rouse Oovent Garden to five recalls after the
Garden scene in “Faust,” it won’t be in spite of
her coldness as is the case with Melba ; her singing
is, even now at the beginning, thrillingly intelli-
gent and sympathetic.
In view of the anticipated boom m titles next
June, I should have thought that the market for
Windsor uniforms and gold-lace would have been
active, but the demand is still flat. At the
auction-sale of a C.M.G.’s furniture and effects
last week, “lot 62” was a “Court sword, riohly
gilt handle and scabbard ” —purchased by a dealer
for Bs. 6d., and carried off by him along with com-
monplace stair-rods and pots and kettles.
A sassiety man-milliner is at present hustling
to get all his orders completed for tailor-made coat
and skirt costumes. Not for years has there been
such a demand for tailor-built serges and cloths.
Some women are innovating to the extent of hav-
ing the jacket cut “Eton” fashion, but the
majority will be clad in the orthodox three-quar-
ter length coat, and all Sydney will appear arrayed
in one uniform.
Gatherings at the Victoria Club, in Phillip-
street, are becoming more dressy and less deserted
by men. Last week’s tea-party was a toney
assemblage, and graced by two of the Cri. co.—
Bessie Rignold, who sang, and Noney Seabrook.
The proprietress is ambitioning to have a “ salon
orchestra ” started, not necessarily of women
only—a female string band is always rather flabby
about the double bass, and the woman isn’t yet
born who can blow herself assertively into a
cornet; but, with men to do the heavy business, a
club-band ought to have a career.
Lesna, the French champion wheelman, knows
no English. Little Gulliver and he were intro-
duced to each other in a cycling store one day last
week, but could make no headway. “He jabbered
away in French,” said Jack of the Frenchmen,
“ but, lor, he might just as well have been talking
Chinee.” On Saturday afternoon at the League
Sports the natty Poignon, manager of Lesna,
screamed Gallec encouragement to him as he
whizzed past with Elliott gaining on him, “ Allez,
Allezl’’ “What’s he saying?” asked a maiden
of her attendant swain. “’Urry, ’urry,’’ he ex-
plained, “that’s the only English he knows.” The
male with explanatory comments is frequent
everywhere when he takes out his girl, but most
frequent at bicycle sports. He expounds loftily
to her things of which he is quite ignorant, and
she admiringly exclaims “oh, fancy ! ” To judge
by the queries of the young woman out with her
young man, the entire universe seems to be to her
an unintelligible parable of confused and meaning-
less sights and sounds until interpreted by the
explanatory male.
S. Churchill Otton issued gushtul programmes
fora “Federation concert” at the Town Hall on
Saturday night, as a tribute to the elected ten
whose names, in large caps, took up most of one
page of the programme. “ Federation concert ”
is a cheap - sounding name, like “Hampden
grocery,” or “ Brand laundry,” but served as a
draw to a fair audience which insisted on encoring
everybody. Items which bore out the title of the
concertwereajerkypolka tooted on two cornets,and
an original outpouring of patriotic sentiment by
Leon Caron and Bert Royle, sung by J. Simonsen,
which went with a sprint and had to be repeated.
Mrs. Tierney, in pink and green frills, like a grate
ornament, sang effectively, and Madame Caron,
after an Italian aria with many trills and shakes,
was handed up an inharmonious vegetable offer-
ing in yellow and pink. Miss Eva Mylott, in
white, hurled a powerful contralto at the audi-
ence which contained an uncommon number of
pretty girls—probably because it was Saturday
night, and the couples took their stroll Town
Hall-wards to have a shillingsworth.
A curious group collected at St. John’s Church,
Darlinghurst, on Thursday last, to see ex-Sheriff
Cowper face the matrimonial music at past-super-
annuation age. His bride, a tall, well-looking
young Maoriland lady, was married under her
original name as Miss Amy Bramley, and her
wedding-gown was a subdued and becoming grey
tint. Sir G. Dibbs acted father in the ceremony,
and subsequently refreshments were distributed
at a select Potts Point caravanserai to the guests,
whose names were withheld “by request” from
an inquisitive public thirsting for printed infor-
mation on the interesting subject.
The wedding of Capt. Ferguson and the Hon.
Margaret Brand has been fixed for a month
ahead (20th April), at the Cathedral, where, unless
extra cast-iron vice-regal precautions are taken to
prevent crowding, there will most probably be a
repetition of the villainous scenes at the two
famous “ crush-weddings ” Essie Jenyns’ and
Ida Hamilton’s, which were also, incidentally, of
course, J. A. Woods’ and Scot Inglis’ bridal
scrambles. But nobody ever thinks of tacking
the bridegroom’s name on to his own nuptial cele-
bration.
Why doesn’t some kindly trustee exhibit a
“ key ” along with the new N.S.W. Gallery pic-
ture, “The Judgment of Paris”? Visitors
admire cautiously, digging deep into their
memories for any buried fossil fragments of
mythology that would help them to find out what
the painting is about. The general impression is
that the shepherd of Mt. Ida is choosing a wife,
and that Venus, whose golden hair is a-hanging
down her back, is the favored object. Another
explanation finding many supporters is that Paris
is deciding between virtue, vice and respectability
—or that the male figure represents the first Federal
Premier choosing between Melb., Sydney, and
Bathurst as a site for the capital.
Florrie Young and husband Ri vington are stay-
ing at Manly until the sailing of the Ophir. The
Melb. soprano still cherishes the idea of making a
name in London stageland, though her husband’s
family are strictly opposed to any connection
appearing before footlights—especially in “ boy ”
parts.
“ The Bookmaker” has every appearance of con-
tinuing to lay the odds at the Criterion for some
time to come, though his second night suffered,
like all the other theatres, from the electrically-lit
bicycle carnival. Thornton shows a gaudy red
tie, many diamond rings, and the wrong sort of
brown boots, but isn’t otherwise aggressively vul-
gar in attire ; the usual vociferous checks of the
stage horsey-man are absent, and the actor depends
on his acting and not on his clothes to characterise
his part. Noney Seabrooke, who has patched up
her tiff with Thornton and is still leading lady,
looks an expert horsewoman as Lady Jessie, and
very much like herself taking her daily ride in
Centennial Park—Miss S. is an enthusiast for
riding who has not yet deserted her steed for a
bike. Her trim little figure displays the latest
mode in Rotten Row riding-rig—a rather full-
basqued bodice and neat checked waistcoat accu-
rately cut, over a just-long-enough skirt with a
glimpse of jaunty leggings, hat of “bowler”
shape, which is English for “boxer.” Bessie
Rignold is an intense-looking Sybil. She is one
of those girls who “ make up ” effectively. In the
street she looks like a skit on herself.
It is quite uncommon now to find an injured
wife going for judicial separation instead of seek-
ing to cut the painter altogether in the Divorce-
court and making a fresh start. A recent plaintiff
in a Sydney j.s. case admitted that her husband
would rather she went for divorce, but she wasn’t
going to do it. She wanted separate support, and
had nothing else in view. His surprised Honor
asked what she meant by that, and she
explained that a woman wanting divorce
has generally her eye on someone wait-
ing to wed her as soon as she has her
decree absolute. In America, divorce doesn’t
imply severing of acquaintance, and a woman
may have four or five ex-husbands all friendly
together. At a recent wedding of a much-divorced
lady in the U.S., she had her four previous ven-
tures acting as groomsmen at the ceremony of
uniting with hubby No. 5. It is a fact that the
first husband of R. L. Stevenson’s wife gave her
away—not in every sense--to the author, and
made an eloquent speech at the wedding-break-
fast, in which he very Americanly said he had so
much confidence in R.L.S. that he handed over to
him the entire family.
An exaggerated dress-bill alleged to be the ordi-
nary toggery-account of a wealthy Englishwoman
has been claiming its bloated total of £12,000 as a
usual amount for a British millionairess to spend
in wearing apparel. Such birds of Paradise don’t
come out to the kawlinies, at any rate. Most of
the touring duchesses and countesses whom we
have had the opportunity of inspecting on this
side of the globe have been chiefly remarkable
for a fondness for economical dust-cloaks and flat-
heeled, long-enduring boots, while their bonnets
might have been built in a back-blocks general-
store. On the mail-steamer, the first-class passen-
gers dress at each other, and have rival diamond-
shows every dinner-time, but it’s the Australian
toney who thus gleam in emulation —the English
globe-trotters are eminently dowds. There was a
frantic attempt to dress up to vice-royalty on the
P. and O. from Hobart, with the returning vice-
regal family on board, but His Ex. appeared at
his first dinner clad in tweeds, and a disappointed
shudder ran around the saloon.
Needs’ annual pupils’ ball was held on Friday
evening last at the rooms at Nithsdale. It was a
well - attended festivity with a business-like
air of dancing for dancing’s sake; every man
approached his partner with an eye to getting as
much waltz out of her as time allowed, and girls
consulted their programmes as carefully as bet-
ting-books and jotted down engagements ahead in
a thoroughly practical spirit. There was an easy-
running floor and a sufficient supper which was
taken by the dancers with a view to recuperation
for further sprints on the ball-room track.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Signora Coy’s benefit concert fell upon a mar-
row-searching night. Nevertheless, the audience
rolled up in force. Romantic patriarchs, eager to
witness the re-illumination of the lights of other
days,braved the biting South Polebreezesasstoutly
as the carping juniors who dropped in to quiz the
raptures of their progenitors and remained to
applaud. The beneficiare, her husband and
daughter, got bouquets enough and to spare, and,
like most of their fellow performers, let loose
floods of florid Italian vocalization upon their im-
pressed hearers. Upturned moustachios were
sufficiently prevalent in the Town Hall that night
to impart quite a flavor of fierceness to the alto-
gether. Otherwise the audience would not have
impressed the uninitiated onlooker as particularly
Uitlandish. Brunettes were hardly more plentiful
than usual. Australians, as a race, are darkening
faster even than the people at ’Ome, and such
blondes as there are run mostly to the tawny or
‘ strawberry ’ type. Before long, flaxen hair, from
its very rarity, will, by itself, qualify the owner for
professional belledom. Passing in review the
sharers in the Coy programme : Ida Osborne, for
example, looked far more like the typical Italian
of one’s fancy than either soprano Rebottaro or
the ingenue of the evening, winsome young
Cesca Vollugi. The latter, by the way, covered
herself and her teacher (Signora Coy) with glory
by winning an unusually spontaneous encore and
quantities of flowers, in addition to the pure white
posy brought along especially for the debutante
by the good-hearted wife of ‘Big’ Clarke the
Second. Poor old Signor Cecci would have re-
joiced in the initial success of his dead partner s
daughter. He had lived under the Vollugi roof
for 21 years, and his end was hastened by excite-
ment over a law-suit instituted to recover the
price of Mdme. V.’s piano from an indebted
compatriot.
“At the Coy concert it was remarked that
Madame Boema’s hair, which was only turn-
ing grey the last time she sang in public, is
now perfectly white, through worry and grief over
her only son’s illness. The young fellow is stricken
with consumption.
“ The members of W.C.T.U. are all agog at
present over the despatch of two dear creatures to
Europe and America on Conference business. The
lucky delegates, wichout spending a penny of
their own, will have a grand trip and unlimited
openings for yabber. Can’t you imagine you hear
them full tilt at this sort of thing? ‘Dear
sisters ! your hearts would bleed if you could only
picture one-half the awful intemperance of Aus-
tralia, the great Godless land represented by Me
at this Blessed Conference ! ’
“Really ! platform holiness pays. One gushful
W.C.T.U. delegate belonging to another pro-
vince parades over the country on behalf of the
Union, while her meek husband minds his
suburban drapery. Fortunately for himself, he
basks happily in reflected glory. ‘ There were
just the three sisters,’ he observes reverentially.
‘ One married Major Dash (Salvation Army), the
second wedded Mr. Blank, the third accepted
Me ! ’ The saint in question is no orator, but
she firmly believes in herself, and has been
known to start off with a complacent squeak to
this effect: ‘ Dear sisters ! as I speak, no doubt
some of you are thinking “ but we have not your
power of language, we could never address meet-
ings as you do.” Dear sisters ! have you not your
own opportunities ? Can you not collect money
for the Cause ? Can you not petition your pastor
to disallow intoxicants at Sacrament ? ’
“There is trouble among Church of England
folks in Melbourne because the people who run the
Cathedral show are charging 2s. 6d. for admission
to hear Bach’s ‘ Passion ’ music. As it will cost
about .£l5O to pay expenses on this occasion, and
as a collection only brings £3O, the charge is made
so that there may be no loss—cathedrals, like
theatres, abhorring a bad ‘treasury.’ Besides,
enough buttons have been taken in the collection-
bags to supply the trousers of all the bishops,
deans, canons, and choir-boys from now to the
Day of Judgment. The pious protests in the
papers are probably from people who have hitherto
enjoyed the music * on the nod.’
“ The charge of 2s. 6d. admission to the per-
formance of ‘ The Passion ’ at St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral seems somewhat excessive when the seating
accommodation is taken into account, for only
about half the audience will be able to see the
choir, and little more than that number will be
able to hear perfectly. The charge presses very
heavily on loyal supporters of the church, who
would prefer to pay a shilling for the pit.
“Melbourne’s Worth seems determined to
strengthen the growing taste for red, for his window
in Collins-street was a blaze of the Turkiest last
week, and the city is more than ever dotted o’er
with goblin touches. The red-flyer, with glimpses
of a red tie and hat-band above, scorches through
the streets, and Reggy Beau-Bright—l had almost
said Brummel —after a year’s visit to England,
returns with a red exotic in his button-hole. Even
noses are red since cyclones have been infesting
the coastal districts.
“ The wife of a gentleman renowned for his
smart waistcoats was carefully photographed in
the neglige ‘boudoir’ dress in which she languished
after the christening of the well-announced heir.
The portrait, now on view in a Collins-street
show-case, represents the lady as a sweet-eyed,
seraphic, fragile creature, on whom the hallowing
influences of a little event have shed subtle beauty.
An ignoramus who demurred to the exhibition of
this work-of-art was certainly never intended for
a happy father, and most people will think that
the photographer should be canonised for leaving
to posterity a picture so calculated to dispel the
gloomy suspicion that marriage is a failure.
“The poetry of matrimony—worse luck !—is a
luxury sacred to the gilded classes, and far
beyond the reach of ladies who turn a mangle, or
do a day’s cleaning for 3s. 6d. Even the bank-
clerk in a tidy collar finds ‘ baby ’ a terrible
awakening from love’s young dream as soon as
his Angelina begins to get about again ; and by
the time that their household treasure has com-
menced to ‘ take notice ’ the unloveliness of things
pertaining to its early career has entered into
Edwin s soul. The wife may be a good manager,
but when required to rock the cradle on a modest
salary, she is bound to hang up her aesthetic
yearnings along with the linen in the back-yard.
Which reminds one that if the world didn’t wear
clothes, more than half of the refining influence
of hard cash would become null and void in uppah
circles.
“ Melb. sassietyhas received yet another fashion-
able infant into its midst. For weeks be-
fore the auspicious event friends of the family
were invited to inspect the layette and bassinette
(by cards) at a leading draper’s establish-
ment in Swanston-street ! Astounding ! Just
supposing that—but no matter !In due course
one may expect to hear of the Town Hall being
engaged by a mother-expectant for a grand dis-
play of baby’s first trousseau, and cynics will need
to probe themselves with a safety-pin to make
sure they are awake.
Brassey did very well at the opening of
Melb. Cycle Show. In fact, she did very much
better than her stout spouse would have done
bhe was really graceful, in manner and speech'
instead of simply ponderous and stodgy. Gov’
Brassey would have quoted statistics as to the use
of the bike in the navy, and related how his
defunct father very nearly invented a bicycle-
also he would have said hum-ha, and waddled a’
great deal. But Lady Brassey is really ‘very
nice.’ In fact, having no objectionableness to
cover up with a title, it’s quite a pity she is a Lady
anything. She is good enough to be simply Mrs.
“A very smart audience filled the Princess's on
Saturday night at the premiere of ‘Two Vaga-
bonds.’ The play began at a quarter to eight,
and the d.c. box occupants began to arrive half-
an-hour later, so that the first two acts were
apparently gone through on the stage in dumb
show. Miss Elliott Page, by far the most distin-
guished-looking member of the co., endures much
gilded misery and displays wide expanse of bare
neck and shoulder-blade during this most most
affecting drammer. If Miss E.P. is an exponent
of the very latest mode of evening gowning we
must believe that the bodices are being snipped
away by fashion-designers in every direction, so
that to keep them on one’s bones at all appears to
be a perfect conjuring trick. An evening gown
of white satin, filmed over with cloudy grey
chiffon, has a bodice of insignificant proportions
supported by bands of steel sequins. Miss Fer-
rar’s most noticeable gown is of apricot silk cut in
a graceful Princess robe and has the long, up-to-
date tight sleeves. The pathetic acting of Miss
Florence Terriss silenced an unusually restless and
noisy house, and a louder audience nor a larger
display of white-handkerchief has never been seen
at this theatre than there was at the close of the
last act. Mrs. Maesmore-Morris surprised many
by changing on that evening from a merely pretty-
woman to a sympathetic actress. Her scene with
the dying boy was much applauded.
“A French comedy is in course of rehearsal
among the Nicest people in Melbourne —Lord
Shaftesbury and Miss Daisy Madden to the fore.
“One result of the rout of the Tory rump in
Victoria is that dapper little draper Sargood is
leaving the country for a few months. He is
going to England and America with his family. A
big party of employes and admirers was invited
to his place, Rippon Lea, for the Saturday after
the election. It was, of course, arranged to be a
sort of triumph meeting, with the victorious Sar-
good as the heroic figure in the middle. But the
electors spoiled the fun, and there were no con-
gratulations. The function was more like a wake
for one politically corpsed.
“Nothing more idiotic can be imagined than
the Military Tournament as carried out in
Melbourne. How a number of men could be
persuaded to make such fools of themselves is a
mystery. A crowd of lunatics meant to look like
Dervishes rush about anyhow, and another crowd
of Victorian Mounted Rifles and nigger minstrels
supposed to be Egyptians also rush about firing,
shouting, and * screaming, until Lieut.-Colonel
Hood flourishes his sword, shouts ‘Hurrah for the
flag,’ waves a bit of rag, and looks as much like a
conqueror as he knows how. Policemen could
never be persuaded to make such a stupid exhibi-
tion of themselves, but Victorian soldiers seem to
think they are showing the public what war is
like. They are not; they are only showing what
fools they are.
“ At the opening of the Military Tournament,
His Ex. and Lady B. drove up, followed by five
vehicles of various descriptions, each packed quite
full of the numerous ‘ house-party ’ at present
being entertained at Govt. House. The labor of
finding amusement for an assorted horde of guests
in this season in melancholy Melbourne must be
particularly heavy, and it was a frankly-bored-
looking party which filed on to the Exhibition
platform behind H.E. Lady B. wore seasonable
cream alpaca with touches of pale blue, and pro-
vided against climatic eccentricities with a pile of
wraps in the carriage. Mrs. Freeman Thomas
wore the bodice of her blouse low cut, with a lace
tucker, and left her pretty hands and arms glove-
less ; the Brand girls were in black and white.
These ladies don’t do much to convince a doubtful
public that Sydney modistes are as smart as Melb.
ditto.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Rev. E. G. Moberly does not go to Suva,
Fiji (writes a correspondent re a recent Bulletin
paragraph). He accepted the post, through a
telegram from Sydney, but on arrival found the
position filled, and that the offer to him was un-
authorised. Mr. Moberly is not a brother, but a
nephew of Bishop Moberly. He is brother-in-law
to the present Archbishop of Canterbury.
Hotplate Jaffray has taken back what he
said about the inmates of Melb. Benevolent
Asylum recently, and these “ pampered paupers ”
are to be supplied with warm crockery in future.
But, as a set-off against this concession, the com-
mittee has ruled that they shall, when the superin-
tendent chooses, be obliged to work, even if late at
night. Outside the Asylum, Chinamen are fined
for doing the same thing.
Barring Lyne, of N.S.W., who is non-
committal, the Opposition leader of every pro-
vince is more or less enthusiastic about the neces-
sity of his particular Premier going to England
next June, and wants to whoop the head of the
Government on the downhill track to destruction.
Lyne, who doesn’t whoop, is wise in his genera-
tion. If Reid goes with his approval, then Lyne
can’t well jeer at him for his inconsistency in
doing what he said Dibbs shouldn’t have done.
On the other hand, if he starts disapproving now
Reid may not go at all, and there will be nothing
to jeer about. Therefore, the best thing is neither
to approve nor disapprove till the eyeglassed one
has committed himself badly, and then uncork
the vial of contempt forthwith. Meanwhile, the
spectacle of Reid struggling desperately with his
mind, and trying in vain to make it up, and
asking people to “press” him, must interest
Lyne.
“The N.S W. Premier said he had endeavored to per-
suade the other Premiers not to go, but as they had all
agreed to visit England, he felt it had become a matter of
serious consideration whether it would not be a wrong
thing for the mother colony not to be represented. If he
decided to go he would call Parliament together, so as to
give members and the country an opportunity of prevent
ing him going if so desired.”
Omeward ’umble George would go
Could he say the People sent him ;
To his Duty here below
Pliant Reid has ever bent him.
Simply for his country’s sake
Joyous outing George will take
If the People don’t prevent him.
Georgy stop away ? No fear !
Naught but knighthood can content him.
ocruples ? They will disappear
Should Her Gracious compliment him.
oince ne feels ’twere very wrong 1
Not to, yield to pressure strong,
Don’t, O People, don’t prevent him !


Caledonian Liqueur Whisk j
T H. SQUIKE & CO.,
Photographic Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC,
AND
OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM FOR 12 EXPOSURES, 16 Each.
Filins Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists
Wm
®sr
rmwi
m.
m
il! 1 »
iIIK
•<iniiiiiiiiii
wmrJ&
wMm
m
I'IMII
no;
IlillMMa
\\K
m
IwMHffl!
Lil'tll
R&
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—op—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGHI
W BALCHIN. Agent. SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Any teetotaller in the Federal Convention 1
Lord Jersey is 52 years old to-day (Satur-
day, March 20).
The wife of Premier Forrest (W.A.) is
compiling a treatise on Westralian aborigines.
“Nosey Bob,” the N.S.W. official man-
butcher, has personally attended to 33 stranglings.
Many square miles near Hamilton (Vic.)
are almost solely peopled by M‘Leans, who
among themselves speak hardly anything but
Gaelic.
It is proposed to provide a bursary in
Sydney University with the old Jack Robertson
Memorial Fund. Why not found a Chair of
Language ?
At latest, Tom Bracken, the M.L. poet,
bad rallied somewhat from his severe illness, and
a fund had been started to send him to his people
in Ireland.
N.S.W. ex-Sheriff Cowper, just retired on
a pension, has got married again. The Bulletin
respectfully abstains from several first-class gal-
lows-jokes.
There is, as yet, no sort of stone to mark
the “Vagabond’s” burial place in Melbourne
cemetery. A “ Vag.” memorial fund started by
either of the local dailies would soon supply the
want.
OCULAR DEMONSTRATION.
SALVATION LASS : My good man , why don't you get saved? The Lord
objects to no one."
BOOZKR : “ Don’t doubt it, my dear, after tooling at you!"
In the matter of Governors the Home
Office is ringing the changes on Maoniand Ons-
low was English, Glasgow Scotch, and now, if
they get Arthur Hill, they will have an Irishman.
In a Melb. case, before Chief Justice
Madden, last week, a witness said one deceased
was cranky, because he stuck pins in Ins coat col-
lar. The C. J. :“ I have seven or eight in mine,
now 1 ”
Mr Butler-Harwood, on the voyage to
’Frisco, rebuked his fellow-sailors for swearing, it
was another Butler who wrote long ago about
those who—
Compound for sins they are inclined to
By damning those they have no mind to.
The Princess Royal was the shortest
woman, and Wales the shortest man of Queen
Victoria’s full-grown family. Each of the succeed-
ing sons was taller and slighter than his predeces-
sor, Leopold, the youngest, being a comparatively
lofty invalid. , ,
S.M. Herald proudly parades Sir Richard
Temple’s intolerably dull articles on Queen V ic. s
reign-regardless of the fact , that its own Henry
Lucy dubs him easily champion of all the bores in
the House of Commons !
Perky little Shenton, President of Wes-
tralian Leg. Council, has gone ’Ome ‘‘on his own,
to the record-reign celebration. He is the record
capital-city Australian mayor, having eleven times
filled the civic chair of Perth.
There is living now in Melbourne an aged
“ gentleman of means ” who is alleged to be a son
of George IV. George’s descendants are as com-
mon as banana-skins in Sydney, and can be picked
out a mile off by their startling resemblance to
Queen Victoria.
The Queensland Ministerial delegation to
the foot of the Throne will consist of old-man
Hughey himself, one wife, one son, three daughters
and Tommy Byrnes. Specially-prepared apart-
ments on board the magnificent Barbarossa will
accommodate the party. The British money-
lender will perceive that Queensland has indeed
turned the corner. ,
New Victorian motto : “Vox Populi, A ox
Davy.” The Age, unlike the other two Melb.
dailies, hasn’t got a motto. The above should
suit Mr. Syme.
Rev. G. D. Buchanan, Queensland’s lately-
appo:nted immigration lecturer, is a Yankee
barrister who turned Quaker and afterwards took
up Presbyterianism.
N.S.W. Justice Minister Gould, in addi-
tion to his State duties at <£1500 a year, exercises
himself running a private law-business and a more
or less intelligent country newspaper.
John H. Nicholson, author of “ Tlalek,”
revisited Springsure (Q.) the other day after a
lapse of 30 years. It was while “schoolmastering
in Springsure that he wrote “ Halek.”
A certain Australian Governor —out West
—it is said, casts longing eyes in the direction of
Tasmania, which he would much sooner govern
than the provinoe he now vice-regally rules.
Sydney Burdekin, in whose drawing-room
the Reid Ministry took form and shape, will have
his claim to the longed-for “ handle ” spiritedly
enforced when Premier Reid goes to London.
A Melbourne clubman having undertaken
to eat his hat if six M.L.C.’s were not elected to
the Fed. Convention, fulfilled his undertaking.
On the following Saturday night he ate a hat, a
brown boxer apparently, before several wondering
Fatmen. The hat was made of paste by a local
pastryoook.
The biography of
the late Alfred Stephen
is seriously hanging fire.
For the last twelve or
fifteen years of his life
the ex-Chief Justice gave
a portion of every week,
and often of several
consecutive days, to the
work. His method was
to turn his papers and
notebooks over, and dic-
tate the narratives they
suggested, one of his
daughters always acting
as amanuensis. A couple
of years before his death
he was able to forecast
the finish of what, from
the-bulk of manuscript,
should make a substan-
tial volume.
AN.S.W. barrister,
some years ago, appeared
before the Full Court
to argue two points on
behalf of a convicted
thief. “ Your Honor,”
said he, “I do not in-
tend to waste the time
of the Court arguing the
first point, as in my
opinion it is untenable
and should not have
been raised ; ” and then
he went on for nearly
half a day to argue the
second point. The
Court, per Windeyer,
promptly gave judg-
ment. Said His Honor:
“The Court decides
that there is absolutely
nothing in the second
point which has l>een
lengthily argued by the
— er ieamed counsel
for the prisoner, but as
the Court is unanimously
of opinion that the first
point, which the hum
—learned counsel con-
siders untenable, is ab-
solutely fatal, the result
is that the. conviction is
quashed and the prisoner
is ordered to be dis-
charged.” Whereupon the—hum —learned coun-
sel ’s face turned a beautiful pea-green.
Gov. Brassey got one big shock in Maori-
land. At Invercargill, he bumped right into a
constable the image of himself. So far, in N.S. W.,
there are two individuals who have been mistaken
for Gov. Hampden: one is a suburban bank-
manager, and the other a railway inspector.
Do you know why the people at large per-
sist in pronouncing the name of Griffith, Queens-
land’s Chief Justice, with a final “s”? It is because
of the uncontrollable desire to hiss, and that hiss—
like the smile of the Cheshire cat—will linger after
the name of the arch-renegade has ceased to be a
memory.
Of the Tas. Federal delegates two (Brad-
don and Fysh) are knights. Seven others are
“ Honorable” —some throughout the British
dominions, others “within the province only.
M J Clarke has nought but the plain Mister,
but, with four of the others, is a gentleman by
Act of Parliament.
Newspaper men over in Westralia are fly-
ing for Legislature honors at the forthcoming
general elections. Editor Vosper, of Coolgardie
Miner, and Rhyß-Jones, of the Mining Journal,
are trying N.E. Coolgardie ; “ Smiler ’ Hales will
go for Coolgardie, and Menzies Miner Mason
for North Coolgardie.
G. H. Reid, The Bulletin is told, did not
absolutely decline the knighthood offered to him.
He followed a precedent which is now practically
the etiquette of such incidents that is, he gave
an answer which leaves it open to him to accept
at a later date. Premier Laurier, of Canada, has
just used the same formula.
Thomas Elder, who has just died worth a
million, and Henry Ayers, who has been very ill
lately, were the only Australians with the right to
put 'G.C.M.G. after their names. Parkes and
Stephen also attained to that rank. For years
before his death Elder was a helpless imbecile, and
his will was made nearly seven years ago. He was
a bachelor, and his sister is the wife of Barr Smith,
his partner, now about the wealthiest man in S.A.
AT THE CALEDONIAN GATHERING.
David Syme, now loyally defraying the
expense of a Vic. rifle-team to the Diamond
Jubilee ” shivoo, is the proprietor of the same Age
which “threw off” so sarcastically about the
reception of the Duke of Edinburgh in Melbourne.
On that great occasion the Argus, describing the
illuminations of the Public Library, said:
“Cressets of flame adorned the portals of the
edifice,” while Syme’s organ brutally observed:
“ On the gate-posts were stuck two burning pots
of fat.”
Laureate Austin has omitted “Jameson’s
Ride ” from his new book of poems, but he gets
there just the same with some deplorable twaddle
about Henry Battenberg having been given a seat
at “the holiest of all English hearths.” Doubt-
less an eminently respectable hearth, Victoria’s—
but only to the born lickspittle is it any “ holier ”
than the hearth of the humblest of her subjects.
It’s a blunder which would never have been made
by Alfred the First, whose flunkey-verse was at
all events the degradation of his genius ; whereas
Alfred the Second never had any genius to de-
grade.
PASTORAL.
THE HON. JIM BOXER: “ Hev you any—er—work heah?"
OLD CADWALLADER : “ Yez; we waz wantin’ a man to tail cattle.
H.J.B.: “ What kaind of work is that?”
OLD C.: “ Well, you get a comb and scratch out the ticks from the
bullock’s tail!”
(But the Hon. Jim is “off.”)
It is chronicled of Robert Mills, an old
Brisbane printer who died the other day, that he
once worked on the late Parkes’ Empire. 1 his is
about the thousandth comp., to the present
writer’s knowledge, about whom that claim has
been set up. Either Parkes changed his staff
every day, or veteran comps, regard the old
Empire as a sort of Waterloo.
The British Sec. of State for the Coloniee
now adopts the mode of signature used bv mem
bers of the peerage, and signs his despatches and
letters simply “Chamberlain.” After all, you
can’t well blame him. Few men like to sigr
themselves “Joseph.”
Pastor Fitchett was on the nail at Melt.
Wesleyan Conference the other day. Anothei
clergyman brought up the draft of a eonventionallj
flatulent address to Queen Victoria, mentioning
how “ auspicious ” it was for the sixtieth year of
her reign to be attained. Mr. Fitchett hintec
that this might appear to have a double meaning,
wherefore the address was referred to literary
skill for shaping.
Privy Councillor Way left Adelaide foi
London on 17th inst., to be sworn-in. He intend!
to return to S.A. about Aug., after having dont
his first round of duty on the Judicial Committee
The other two Judges are inclined to be jealous,
as they get none of the honor ard all the extrt
work caused by the Chief’s elevation.
“The Cardinal’s customary feast to the
poor of Sydney,” says Sydney Daily Telegraph
“ which was originally fixed for the sth inst., hat
to be postponed until after Easter on account of
the Federal Convention election.” In the beaut)
ful words of Holy Writ—“ Feed. the hungry-
after the Federal Convention election.”
A big Tasmanian landowner goes near the
championship for “thrift.” On the local railway*
there is no intermediate rate for parcels between
3d. and 9d. A pair of boots weigh too much to
go for 3d., and so are charged 9d. To save the
3d., the city shoemaker is instructed to forward
squatter M'Misery’s boots one at a time.
Fitchett, in one of his Argus gore
articles, speaks of Hindoos during the Indian
mutiny as calling on the name of Allah ! It is tc
be hoped that the rev. blood-splutterer knowt
more of his own religion than he does, of othei
people’s. How would he like to have it printed
that “ The Rev. W. H. Fitchett offered up praveri
to Confucius ” ?
It is said that David Gaunson, who gained
almost the same number of votes in the Federal
poll as his old enemy, Purves, threatens libel
action against both Melb. morning papers fot
scoring his name off the advisatory lists. Gaun-
son holds that every candidate whose name was
published with a line through it was illegally held
up to public ridicule and contempt, and, there
fore, can recover damages. The Bulletin has nc
hesitation in saying that if this is the ground of
Gaunson’s contention he is very grievously ‘ out
in his law.
Editor Cooper really does deserve the
honor of that Sydney Union Club membership
Edinburgh people have been crying out for a
Radical paper these many years, and within the
last 12 months have formed the nucleus of a com
pany to produce an intelligent democratic journal.
The Scotsman began as a rank Radical. In nis
early life Cooper was Radical in word and
thought. But years passed, the Scot man became
wealthy, and Mr. Cooper discovered all the vir-
tues of Respectability. Scotch Tories are now
the chief patrons of the paper and of the little
errey man also. Hence the naturalness of that
Club incident.
The president
of the Westralian
A.N.A. is named
Sparrow ; a former
president of the
Vie. A. N. A. was
Peacock, “of the
loud laugh ” ; and
a whilom president
of the Queensland
A. N. A. was one
Raven. “Birdsofe.
feather! ”
At the time
Kipling was in Mei
bourne, an Argus
man was sauntering
down the Block af
ter the deliberate
manner of Argus
men when he en
countered two liter-
ary damsels of the
Austral Salon stand-
ing on tip-toe on the
kerb and gazing up
ward in an attitude
of adoration. Diag
nosing sunstroke,
the pressman step-
ped up to the girls
and asked what the
matter was. The
Salonites dropped
their eyes only for
a second, and then
resuming their vigil
and pointing to the
windows of the Yo-
rick Club on the op-
posite side of the
road, they hoarsely
whispered in uni-
son, “We can see
the back of his
head.” “He” war
Kipling, who was
calmly reading &\
the window.
Three of the N.S.W. Federal Convention
delegates (Reid, M'Millan, and O’Connor) “ao
quired the art of speaking in public ” at Sydnej
School of Arts Debating Society. A defeated
candidate was also a prominent member of the
same society, and narrowly escaped expulsion one*
for emptying a tumbler of water in the face of at
opponent in the “ hate of debate.”


But ticket'-selling in connection with
Cathedral worship must uppear to many
irreverent. "They will fear that some
subsequent performance will be announced
as with enormous artistic attractions, the
capable Mr. ft. S. Smythe—who will run
anv phmv—being possibly consulted both
as to the engagements and the wording of
flic programme
r to
3o Y
vja IMTED
MAiW'V
rouPL H.
|V|p N
USEFUL
MilK i •
/ ~ cosCl ar'
' f n f
arOKATORKTAT ST/ PAUL'S.
(THARHIXO FOR Aft>IISSION.
The net inn of the authorities St. Paul’*,
i rtthedral in deciding to make a charge for
Admission to the building at *he foilh-
coming production of Bach k oratorio, 'i lM*
Ikmsion.'* has revealed a difference of
'•pinion among member# of the church, and
ihe authorities have been accused of having
,**al last stooped so low as to turn the build-
ing into a place of entertainment."
As to the frequent reference to
the oratorio as an “entertainment," My.
t\ button points to the book of words issued
for distribution, which states that the pro-
duction is intended as “an act of worship,"
and indicates passages where the congrega-
tion - are expected to kneel. Hundreds of
people were turned from the doors on.the
production of “The Crucifixion" last year,
and the authorities believe that in moderat-
ing a somewhat unseemly rush they are
conducing to. rather than retarding, a
spirit of reverence.
The Plaintiff said .“ f live at Barker-street,
St. Kilda, your worships, and I took the odds
on Carlton at 25 to 1. There wus three men—
one wus calling the hodds, and that young
,man there (pointing to accused, why *e wus
a takin’ of the money. (Laughter.) I gave
phim 2s. —Is. wus for Miss Gladstone and Is.
wus for Carlton.
Sub-inspector Sharp; Well, what did you
see him do with the money ?—What did I «ee
*im ado with the money ? ’e put it in the
bag. (Laughter.)
Did Carlton win ?-—What a question to arat
me! Lord bless me. you know did. (Loud
laughter.)
/s£ rfc?~Y Mt* sj/'/o .
BENEVOLENT ASYLUM IN M A TES.
TO THE EDITOR OF TIIE ARGUS.
Sir, —Hearing that the inmates of the
Benevolent Asylum have only dry. bread tor
tea, several others and myself have united
to try and provide something better. 1
enclose £lO. We should like it to be
sj)eiit on butter or jam for Sunday night's
tea, as long as it will last. ]*oth can be
bought very cheaply wholesale.
Trusting other kind friends will also as-
sist. —Yours, &c.,
ESPLANADE HOTEL.
St. Kilda, March 10.
(/
[ 7 73/1 j, ov-cx.: I Lia>\ '- /
S Li. 71 c{ C\ -?2 / /j-
J/C Alt/- us-us "
MELBOURNIAN A.


GEORGE’S MASTERPIECE.
“The statement that Premier Reid might, while in England, advance the Aliens Immigration Bill, and so present the case as to secure the royal approval to that measure, has evidently
impressed Labor members. One of the party, referring to the position recently, said if Mr. Reid could obtain approval to this measure, as the result of his visit, it would certainly be time and money
well spent. He added that the party would hear what Mr. Reid had to say about the trip, and if, as seemed possible, the Premier brought forward good reasons for N.S.W. being r epresented by
him at the historical gathering, then'the party would support him in making the trip, Upon this view of the question being made known to the Premier, Mr. Reid replied: ‘Yes, this Aliens
Immigration Bill is a much more important matter than is generally imagined.’”
N.S.W. Labor-Member (after inspecting the picture): “ Decidedly , George , you ought to go ; even at the risk of being blighted (And then they both winked the other eye.)


OLD SAWS RESET.
*• CJ-A-VE the pennies ” —for a pound of -
n Billy Tea.
“ Once bit ” —always eaten ...
Gfra.nu.ma.
“ One man may take a horse to the water, ’
but unless he is an ass himself he will
always drink
Billy Tea.
GRANTTMA “gathers no moss,” but it makes
muscle.
GRANUMAandFODAH and pure BILLY TEA,
The more they be taken the better you be.
GRANUMA cures Indigestion.
BILLY TEA prevents all ailments.
“ TRUTH is always best.”
BILLY TER is TRUTH.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free for 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
A delicious cooling drink. The juice of
the lime fruit, as prepared in Rose’s Lime Jcioi
Cordial, supplies a beverage particularly whole-
some and refreshing in water —effervescing in all
mineral waters and an excellent stimulant
blended with spirits. It possesses valuable medi-
cinal properties, cooling and purifyiag the blood,
stimulating and assisting digestion. It is entirely
free of spirits. Recommended by the Lancet.
Sold everywhere. Purchasers should be careful
to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others being
imitations.*
Vy/ILLIAM FLEMING,
-—MERCHANT-^
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to A rr-ivo—
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE ajtd SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWB
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES
STATION \Y AGOXS, HARNESS, arc., arc.
Catalogue on application.
[FLUID SHEEP DIP ]
POWDER SHEEP DIP
iFOOT-ROT “CURE” J
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to-
MORRIS, LITTLE & SOM LTD..
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents
gaton,
uiwuuuii, cv vv. .LitQ.j jleiuourue duu oyunc\ | u Ajifid .>1 Hj\\ .A..N it
AP * SON, Launceston, Tasmania; ROBERTS & CO. Ltd., Hobart, Ta.-mania- ltimi
Brisbane; BLACKBURNE <fc CO., Christehorch, N.Z.; 11‘BEAN, BOWKER ’& GO
GEO FERGfTSnxr a ria ,aCELLES. AUSTIN jc w.
~~ WA AdeUlde: J GHN GRICE
4 C 0„
POLITICAL
POINTS
The greatest of all scandals in connection
with Melbourne Post-office mismanagement is
P.M.G. Duffy’s pretence that there have been no
scandals worth mentioning.
Tasmania’s ten Federal Convention dele-
gates are mostly the old familiar crowd : Fysh,
Braddon, Dobson, Henry, Lewis, Nick Brown,
Grant, Adye Douglas, Moore, Clarke.
Are the Mercadool inquiries and prosecu-
tions for dummying and perjury dead? And
when are the other “flagrant cases,” of which
there was so much talk, coming on for hearing?
It is either a case of embarras de richesses, or the
N.S.W. Govt, has already bitten off a lot more
than it can chew. Meanwhile, dummying in home-
stead-leases proceeds merrily.
The strong Conservative element in the
B.A. Federation representatives is due to the
neglect of the Labor leaders to organise and keep
their party in working order. Several Labor men
missed election by only a few hundred votes, and
city organisation would easily have put in
M‘Pherson. OLoghlin, Charleston, and M‘Gregor.
As it is, the Liberals have suffered a pronounced
defeat, the first for several years.
POT AND KETTLE.
SHE: “I wish you'd give up that stupid habit of saying 'By Jove!'
What do you know about Jove? The idea! ”
HE : “ I will, my dear, when you give over saying 'The idea!' What
do you know about ideas? By Jove!”
Up to the late election the M.L. Tory
party flatly denied that tfcere was any industrial
revival in Maoriland, and averred that the country
was persistently on the downward slither into
bankruptcy. Since the election it admits that
there is a great revival, but states that it is owing
to a restoration of confidence caused by the
strengthening of the Opposition at the polls. In
other words, the people voted so consistently for
Seddon that he starts the new Parliament with a
majority of 14. And the same people are so much
relieved to find that the majority is no more than
14 that everything is looking up through sheer
gladness. What a truly beautiful thing is Tory
logic! ___
The S.A. Single-taxers put up three
Federal Convention candidates, and the three
brought up almost the extreme tail of the proces-
sion ; they couldn’t get absolutely at the tail, for
that place was occupied by the deceased George
Ash. The best Single-taxer couldn’t muster 1700
votes against Kingston’s 24,000. Judging by this
and the results in the other provinces, the Single-
tax cult is dead and buried and forgotten and
busted and gone to ruin generally.
The Argus always turns dog—and a pretty
ordinary yellow dog at that —on its fallen idols.
It supported M‘lntyre and Gillies for the Federal
Convention all it knew, till they were shamefully
licked. Then, when it was no use holding them
up as strong men any longer, it stated that they
“were recognised as the weakest of the candi-
dates,” by way of explaining that it was their per-
sonal weakness and not their own and the Argus’s
principles that the people objected to.
According to the Govt. Statistician, N.S.
Wales, for the year ending February, 1896, spent
a trifle over .£200,000 on relief works ;it gave a
miner’s-right and rail way-pass and free-ration
apiece to 7093 men —the rations alone being valued
at £880; it also supplied rations to 6500 people
other than miners; and the total Government
relief expenditure during the year appears to have
been £330,000. This is proportionately more than
is spent on relief in that very poor and low-down
country, Ireland.
S.A. Register strongly opposed the intro-
duction of party politics into the Federation con-
test. Two days before polling-day, when the
candidates’ mouths were closed, it suddenly went
for Premier Kingston thus :
When he wants to work a point in his own favor—and
when does he not? —he goes blustering about the country
like a dog suffering from an incipient attack of rabies,
yelping at large and snapping viciously at everybody
from whom he does not hope to get a bone of personal-
political advantage.
And a column more, in the same strain.
That lazy and useless
politician, John Duffy,
Vic. Postmaster-General,
is going to Washington
Postal Conference. Du-
ring his absence, his De-
partment, which has got
into a hideously smellful
mess, is to be scrubbed
and disinfected by other
Ministers. Duffy will re-
turn to find everything all
right, so that he may goto
sleep and draw his salary
as usual. Duffy has been
in office as much as any
living Vic. politician ex-
cept Gillies and Berry ;
yet he never did anything
except make alleged
humorous speeches and
grow larger beneath the
waistcoat.
S.A. is the only
one of the seven pro-
vinces where the Post-
master-General is a per-
manent official who sticks
to business and doesn’t
fool with politics. The
plan seems to pan out
well—at least, S.A. is the
only province, barM.L.,
which makes any profit
worth mentioning on its
Postal department. The
post-office is a plain busi-
ness matter, like the rail-
ways and the Govt,
printing-office, and it in-
volves no question of
party politics except the
question of finding billets
in the department for the
P.M.G.’s political sup-
porters. There is abso-
lutely no more reason why
a fresh and perfectly
ignorant man should be
shoved into the billet with
each change of Ministry,
and made boss over a
large amount of intricate
electrical machinery
which he doesn’t even
know by name, than
there is why the Govt.
Astronomer should be a
member of the Cabinet,
and Kidd and Joe Cook
and Dan. O’Connor should
take turns at watching
the transit of Venus
through the big telescope,
according to which party
happens to be on top.
J. T. Annear, the bull-voiced Chairman of
Committees in MTlwraith’s province, is not feel-
ing very well. He was a great “ Lib.” in the old
days, and ratted just as smartly as Barlow, Dick-
son, or Foxton. Yet he only gets a miserable
billet while they become Ministers. Moreover,
Maryborough is getting restive. The democratic
lions roar just as Jacky himself used to in his
prime, and there is no tree in sight. To-morrow
there will be another skeleton on the plain.
The session of Tas. Parliament opened on
the 9th inst. lasted exactly 2h. 20min. Leave of
absence was granted to Attorney-General Clark,
and a new Speaker was elected. N. J. Brown, a
ponderous ex-squatter and ex-Speaker, took the
Speakership from Stafford Bird by 17 votes to 16.
The Ministry thus experienced its first defeat of
the session—also its last; but solaces itself with
the fact that the Opposition loses the debating
strength of the massive Brown and the Ministry
gains the ditto ditto of the dethroned Bird. The
latter was regarded as the author of the Great
Western gag incident of last session—hence the
defeat.
The succession - duties received by S. A.
Govt, from millionaire Elder’s estate should bring
the Treasurer out with a substantial surplus in
June, especially as the Customs returns on March
6 were .£41,111 in excess of the receipts for the
same period of last financial year.
At Sydney Federal Convention of 91,
Gillies, Nicholas Fitzgerald, and W rixon voted
hard against the proposal that a Federal Senate
should be elected by the people and not by Parlia-
ment. This time the people took care that they
shouldn’t get a chance to vote on the subject.
A MERCENARY HEROD.
NEW GOVERNESS : “ Why did Herod order the massacre of the
innocents?”
SQUATTER'S DAUGTHTER: “To get their scalps!”
Says Premier Reid: “Some people say
the railways should be federalised ; I don’t.” G.
Reid gives no reasons on this matter. He simply
dashes down his great mass of fat on top of the
problem and says “ I don’t.”
One of the N.S.W. ten says he will sup-
. onn aaa i c .l r' h#
P^jf 20 ’™ 0 the Governor-General of
the Federation He instances that Hotham and
Barkly got £15,000 a year each for governing
Victoria alone. Which latter is true, but irrele-
van t.
Solomon, M.P., who got tenth place among
the S.A. Federation Convention candidates, spent
about £lOOO in attaining to that honor, and he
1 j . j j jf a „ vwowvr
worked as haiH and almost as many
meetings as all the candidates put to-
YGtnGr. H.G is safe to opGii next session v/ppo _
Lion leader, and has already begun to intrigue to
get a strong party together-Copley, the present
» fw uuerly dolled.
The batch of Q. Govt, bailackers who
have been rewarded by being shoved on a Lands
Commission are staying at the Hotel Australia
—Sydney's most palatial hotel. Their “ labours ”
start with a pleasant picnic to enquire how things
are done in N.S.W”. By the way, there are
ructions on the Commission already, and J. T.
Bell, a little pig who has stayed at home, says
the Sydney picnic “ borders on the scandalous.”
Tasmania put up one howling anti-Fede-
ratiomst, Norman Cameron, and one parson, Wool-
nough, among its Federal candidates, and they
both had a great downfall. Cameron, who fore-
told the rum of everybody and the bursting-up of
everything through Federation, was 19th on the
list ; and parson Woolnough was only two re-
moves from the extreme end. March 4 vyas a
cold day for parsontcal ambition in two provinces,
Only 7500 electors voted at Tas. Federal
elections, and there are 31,000 on the rolls. As a
result, the delegates are for the most part promi-
nent stout persons whose chief recommendation is
that they have been fastened to Tasmania longer
than the rest of the barnacles. The one exception
is M J Clarke, a Launceston lawyer, who
managed to so far overcome the insular prejudice
against new-chums as to get m at the tail of the
en '
Writes “Fluffy” :
Despite my candid expression of the facts, Australian
Premiers are to be hustled to accept Adelaide for the
Federal Convention. The Federal Council tacitly admitted
that its insignificance was somewhat in consequence of
the political insignificance of Hobart, and Hobart is only
one shade worse than Adelaide, and Adelaide will do to
the Convention what. Hobart did to the Council. lam
surprised that Premier Reid takes so little notice of my
arguments. Forrest is different. He barracks for
Adelaide so as to spoil Federation. He sees the incon-
sequence of meeting in a small town 1000 miles away from
a great newspaper. Melbourne or Sydney should get the
Convention. Why, Adelaide can hardly provide the mem-
bers with decent lodgings near their w6rk 1
N.S.W. Public Works Committee now in-
cludes flabby little “Captain” Frank Famell,
Daniel Demosthenes O’Connor, and ex-Laboi
member J. Lionel Fegan—three costly puff-balls
who assist in dealing annually with schemes in-
volving millions.
S.A. Federation election served to settle
in a way the rival claims of Solomon and Copley
for the National Ass leadership. “Turncoat
Bill ” Copley was somewhere about 18th, whereas
Solomon was elected. Perhaps Copley will now
want to be a Liberal again.
Melb. Table Talk in-
dignantly repudiates the
charge of laziness brought
against Duncan Gillies and
says : “ Nearly forty years
of public service is his re-
cord, having filled every de-
partment of the public ser-
vice except the legal.” In
other words, DuncaD has
slept in every State Depart-
ment except the legal, and
would have slept in the
legal also if he had known
how. The present writer
was once shown a big tor-
toise with a reputed record
of 150 years of public ser-
vice—just the same kind
as Duncan’s.
The Victorian Purifi-
cation of Rolls Act, de-
vised by Premier Munro in
the days when that futile
old Scotchman was still a
little tin god, is getting to
be, a nuisance. It was
nominally intended to pro-
vide for the removal of
dead voters, absentees and
criminals, but it is so con-
structed that under its pro-
visions inspectors wander
round the country remov-
ing people off the roll*
wholesale with a shovel.
Even the man who moves
from one street to another
or who shifts into the next
house isdisfranchised under
this Act, if the inspector
gets his eye on him : ditto
in many cases the man who
doesn't remove. The gene-
ral idea of the Act, as the
Age pnts it, is that voting
is a crime to be suppressed
as much as possible. If
the Turner Government
doesn’t wake up and sup-
press the Roll Purification
bus’ness it will discover
some day that its majority
has been disfranchised
bodily.
S. A. Tories have been put into great heart
at the result of the Convention elections and by
the victory of ex-Mayor Willcox in the N.E. dis-
trict of the Leg. Council. They will, therefore,
make a big bid for success at the Council
elections in May. Retiring members :—Conser-
vatives : Richard Baker /President), Haslara,
Darling, Magarey, and Warren. Liberals : Addi-
son, Kirkpatrick, and Guthrie, the two last-
named being Labor members.
Trenwith, of Victoria, is the only Labor
candidate elected to the Federal Convention In
N.S. W., M'Gowen, the top man of the party, was
fifteenth, and the next one was twentieth. In
Tasmania, the highest Labor man stood nine-
teenth on the list. In S.A., the highest Labor
man, Charleston, was eleventh, 962 votes behind
Solomon ; while M'Pherson and Batchelor were
thirteenth and fifteenth. Judging by the fact
that S.A. Chief Secretary O'Loughlin was de-
feated—he only secured twelfth place on the list —
and that such hardshell Tories as Downer and
Baker were elected, it seems just possible that the
Kingston Ministry isn’t quite as solid as it looks.
It is remarkably solid for a S.A. Ministry, cer-
tainly, but that doesn’t mean much ; a S.A.
Ministry is just a shade more solid than a Mexi-
can president used to be, in the good old days
when there were 260 revolutions in half a century.


W. H. PALIN(S & CO.
limited,
INVITE INSPECTION OF THEIR MAGNIFICENT NEW
SHOW ROOM AND STOCK OF
(Diisicm Ihstriiihehts.
Viol i 05
Wc.. i ie models of all the Best Masters, at lowest possible prices;
also a large stock of Old Instruments.
CoroetS . .
Besson & Co’s “New Star,” Boosey & Co’s “Victor,” Couesnon’s
“ Student's Model,” a Marvellous Instrument at the price—viz.,
555. in case.
6tiitarS . .
Spanish, French, German, and American.
StriQSS . .
For Yiolin, ’Cello, Mandolin, Banjo, Guitar, or Harp, specially suited
to this climate.
FlGtss - -
Boehm & Pratten Systems ; also Boys’ Band Flutes at very lowest
prices.
AGtoljarps . .
Meinhold’s—Three and Six Bar—the Best Instrument in the market.
Mapdolips - .
Genuine Neapolitan, with Perfect Scale.
CooccrtiQaS . .
Very low prices. German, Best Anglo and English by the Leading
Maker of the World —Lachenal.
Accordeoos ...
“The Imperial.” These Instruments are beautifully finished, and
the quality and volume of tone it is impossible to surpass. Our prices
are extremely moderate.
Tbe PolypboQ MCiSical Box . .
The Latest Novelty. Repertoire of Music unlimited.
Catalogues and all particulars will be sent by Return Mail.
W. H. PALIN6 & CO., Limited,
338 George Street, SYDNEY;
AND AT BRISBANE &. NEWCASTLE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
A Skin of Beauty is said to be a Joy for Ever-
THEN WE RECOMMEND :
CLAYTON’S ALABASTER CREAM for the Complexion, to render the already
beautiful more so ; 2s. 6d. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, at 6d. per tin, will, if used in pastry, &c.,
aid digestion and so tend to retain beauty.
BERTRAND CO.’S CHOICE ESSENCES for the Ballroom, at 2s. 6d. per
bottle, emit a pleasing, lasting, and beautiful aroma.
Dr. THOMPSON’S COUGH LINCTUS, Is., and Dr. PETTIFER’S RE-
CARBONATED FLUID MAGNESIA, Bd. and Is. 6d., are both elegant
preparations.
Dr. JONES’ CORN CURE, Is. per bottle, removes excrescences, and causes
one to have beautiful feet.
SEND TO US EOR ALL YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
Prescriptions faithfully Compounded at Moderate Prices.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO., M’sP.S.,
160 & 260 Pitt-street, Sydney, and
CHURCH STREET, PARRAMATTA.
Every Variety of
VIES A. ?
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
*3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. -G*
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP
AGENTS:
M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
Ironmongers.
Send lor Illustrated Price List.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
• *
O' .4
r.O
9 >
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand finished, full-capped jewelled English Lever, £3 10s. Extra quality,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, t 7, £B, strongest, cheapest, and best time-keeper ever
made -3, 4,5, 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Open-face Keyless, 30s.
Double case, 40s, £2 10s. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d ; extra, 12s 6d ; superior
quality, 2j3s, guaranteed 12 months. Special Gold Keyless Walthams, patent
filled cases, £2 15s, £4 4s, tss ss, and £6 6s. Cases guaranteed 5, 15, and 20
years. We guarantee all our watches to give every satisfaction. Try us,
you will not regret it.
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new,79 6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold' Bar,. l-ss. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Gold quite new, Double Heart Amethyst, 21s
15c. Gold, as above, 355.
9&
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond, 30s.
Diamond and 2 Rubies, 355. ; 3 Diamonc s, £2
6 different Patterns, Gold
Links, 128 6d. Chain connec-
tion, 15s. Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and 6s.
Gold Amethyst Heart Coronet, 208.
16c. do. do. 308.
5 pure Diamonds, double-
cut, 18c. Gold Hand-
made, £4 10s. Larerer
Diamonds, £5, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s 6d
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
wAisnvm
JS*SWD
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 15c. Gold
Pearls and Rubies (latest), £2.
18c. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heavy, £2.
SomS
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 20s.
H 2 31
18c. Gold, 2 Diamonds
3 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s. 5 pure Dia-
monds, £4 10s.
L Hs
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, £2 ss, £3 ;
extra, £3 ss;
15c., £3, £4, £5, £6 ;
with key padlock,
10s extra. All se-
cured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
Solid Gold Chain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
3 pure Sapphires,
4 Diamonds,
18c. £3, £3 10s, £4,
£5, £6.
Beautiful Opals and
Diamonds, same price.
Send for size card.
Solid Gold, 3-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s.
Any .Name.
Solid Gold, 17s 6d. 15c., 25s and 30s. 18c.
Solid Gold, 30s, 355, i. 2.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame-
thyst, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Pure Diamond, 18c. Gold Band, £3.
Gold, Amethyst, and Pearls, 20s;
15c. Gold, 30s.
«• I27znw3
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Is. 6d., 2s 6d; steel-
lined, 3s 6d, 4s ; case,
All
Articles
Post
Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed
m
to
jut.
a
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting: Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
255., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. All
guaranteed.
So
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. 9c.
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold, -158; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s.
355, 40s. Send for size card.
j... >
'Jr*
i nmm
msm
m
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold „ 32s 6d.
'V-
Gold Amethvst. quite new, 20s.
15c. Gold, 30s.
„ nT? „„ LIST ILLUSTRATED,” post free, and when in town CALL ON A. SAUNDERS, and see the ERCHA INS .CLOCKS taev ft yle and price. A Brilliant
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDERS,
THE JEWELLER,
(NEARLY
815 George Street,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION).
SYDNEY, N
.S.W


A 2% eu town Sensation.
SUFFERED FOR NINETEEN YEARS.
A SUPPOSED INCURABLE CURED LN
TWO MONTHS.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PELLS AGAIN
\ ICTORIOUS AFTER HOSPITALS
PRONOUNCED A LADY INCURABLE
—THE AWFUL EFFECTS OF RHEU-
MATIC FEVER—A HUNDRED AND
FIFTY PEOPLE WATCHING HER—
A BRIGHT AND CHERRY PERSON-
ALITY—WHAT SHE SAYS ABOUT
THE PINK PELLS.
From the Australian Star.
The truest of axioms remarks that there is no
smoke without fire, and when the public talk in
warm and appreciative terms of the benefit they
have derived from the use of some specific, there
is always certain to be clear and honest evidence
behind to prove these words.
Hearing in especial of a local cure which had,
amongst numberless others, been effected by the
use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, a
reporter was despatched to the residence of the
patient in question to personally investigate the
case.
Mrs. Evans is the lady’s name, and her house is
situated at No. 105 Mary-street, Newtown, near
St. Peters.
When we entered we were met by a bright and
cheerful woman, past middle age, but still wearing
on her face the signs of recent illness and departed
pain.
We explained our mission.
“ Oh, ’ she said, “ sit down by the window there.
I'll tell you all you want to* know —and more
besides ” —she added, cheerily, “ about the mar-
vellous change that has taken place in mv con-
dition entirely since I began taking Dr. William*’
Pink Pills.”
“ You had previously been an invalid, had you
not ? ” we asked.
“ Yes,” she replied. “lam a widow, and the
mother of twelve children, and for nineteen years I
have suffered intensely bom the after effects of
rheumatic fever.”
“ And now?”
“ Ah,” she said, shaking her head and smiling,
“ I am much better now.”
“ How did you first hear of the Pills, then ? ”
“Well, a man left a pamphlet at my door
issued by the Dr. Williams Pink Pills Companv,
and I read it, and was struck by a case in it
similar to my own in which a cure had been
effected. ”
“ Did you get a box ? ”
“ Yes, I got a box, and just took the Pills about
the end of November or the beginning of Decem-
ber. ”
‘' And the improvement ? ”
“It dated gradually from that date, and as I took
each box I could feel myself perceptibly growing
better, until to-day I'm a changed woman to what
I was two months ago. ”
“ Were you very bad, then ? ”
“Yes. Before I began taking Dr. William*’
Pink Pills I couldn’t move my shoulder, neck, arms,
or hands. I couldn't think of using the sewing
machine. Now I turn the wheel quite easily with
my hand ; but before that I couldn’t lift it from my
side. Look what I’ve done with the machine,
thanks to the Pills.’’ And she she showed us a
number of ladies’ articles profusely ornamented
with fancy stitching and frills of deft embroidery.
Each stitch was white and regular, and each curve
cut with the nicest attention to detaiL
“You know I earn my living by this,” she said,
looking up, “and I’d be thankful for more cus-
tomers. But before I took Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I could no more think of using the machine
than I could of flying.”
“ Did you try much medicine before you bought
the Pills ? ”
“ Yes, continually for 19 years; and I could
swim,” she added reminiscently, “in all the lini-
ments and stuff I’ve taken. Bottle after bottle-
one thing followed another —and there seemed to
be no end to it,”
“ Didn’t you try the hospitals ? ”
“ Yes; I tried them all. But after I’d been at
each place a while they all declared me incurable.
Why, I walked into the Sydney Infirmary in
Macquarie-street but it did me no good, and I
had to be carried out.”
“ And you have had private doctors, I suppose?”
“ Yes, I have. Plenty of them —and too many,”
she remarked, with a laugh. “ But it was no
good. After they’d treated me a bit they all told
me the same : ‘lt’s no use,’ they said. ‘You’ll
never get better. We can’t do any more for you.’
So I wasted mv money year after year. One doc-
tor recommended me to go into the hospital and
have my sinews cut. But I wouldn’t agree to
that.”
“Then you ascribe the improvement in your
Condition absolutely to the use of Dr. William*’
Pink Pills ? ”
“ Yes, absolutely,” she repiled. “ I have taken
Beven boxes by now, and I’m using my eighth.
And I intend to keep on using them. They’re the
only thing I’ve ever had that have done me any
good, and I can’t be too thankful to them. I
believe absolutely in them.
“Why, look,” she added, quicklv, as she raised
her arms, and pinned her collar with the greatest
ease. “ I could not raise my hands from my waist
before I took the Pills, and was thoroughly useless.
Now I can earn my own living. And the awful
pains from my neck and chest and shoulders have
all gone away. I never feel them a bit now.
Though in the old days,” and she gave a little
shiver at the recollection, “ if I made the slightest
move sharp pains would dart all through my neck
and shoulders.”
“ Your case is exceedingly interesting.”
“ Do you know that there are about 150 people
who have heard of me and are watching my case ?
I’m a great object of interest to the neighborhood,
and as I get well others who’re also suffering are
taking the pills, and I recommend them strongly
to all my friends. I bless the day,” she added
conclusively, “ when I first bought a box of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. Many people know of me,”
she added, “through my late husband, who was
for several yearn a leading officer in the Sons and
Daughters of Temperance.”
Then the reporter read the interview over to her,
and she signified its correctness and signed her
name, “Honor Evans,” below. “Honor by
name,” she said “And Honor by nature,” we
added, looking into her earnest face as we bade her
good-bye.
As we left we felt that here,-under our personal
observation, was a case, similar to many, in which
the efficacy and marvellous effects of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills had been honestly and exhaustively
demonstrated.
* c Tales of the
Convict System.”
/ «/
Tbe
PON CASN
TRADING Co.’s
Popular Parcels !
V V E bave ext *nded OUR POPULAR PARCEL SYSTEM so as to embrace the whole of
▼ ▼ the AUSTRALIAN COLONIES. TASMANIA. NEW ZEALAND, and FIJL
these parcels is UNPRECEDENTED, and we guarantee to REFUND THE
AIUNE l m every instance where satisfaction is not given.
T-J 1 OL R ORIGIN AL DRESS PARCEL contains 3 Dresses and Linings, as follows:
~ . • - dress lengths of New Fancv Tweed, Cashmere, or All-Wool Serge; 10yds. good
l jre tty Delainette; Byds. Selic-ia, 24yds. Body Lining, and 4ydsT White Calico.
THE DON DRESS PARCEL contains 1 Good Dress, lining-; and Trimmings as
• follows: 7yds. double width of new Bouele Cloth, stvlish Tweed, or rich All-wool
oating Serge, 4yds. heavy _ beetled Twill Selicia (40in. wide), 2yds. reversible Body
ming, 4yds. new Sequin, Gimp, or Jet Trimming, 1 pair Silk-covered Dress Preservers,
Covered Bone, 2 doz. pretty Buttons, 4yds. Velvet Skirt Binding, Silk Twist, and
>Y ebbing. Unequalled value for 20s.
MQ OUR SPECIAL REMNANT PARCEL containing from 45 to 60yds. of Odd-
• JP-'OtSj in all classes of material, such as Dress Stuffs, Flannelette, Shirting,
caxatea. Calico, Print, Muslin, Holland, Embroidery, Lace, Ac., Ac. A most useful parcel
wnere nere is a family. Send 20s. for one of these Remnant Parcels. Remember, we refund
tne mongy if not approved of.
HHR SPECIAL PARCEL FOR LADIES contains 6yds. double width of our
cpr, c . amous All-Wool Coating Serge, unequalled for appearance and durability ; lvd.
o 2yds. fashionable Sequin or Jet Trimming, 4vds. fine Twill
cia, .Body Lining, 1 Ladies' Chemise, 1 N ight-dress, and 1 pair Ladies’ Knickers
manufactured from beautiful soft-finish Flannelette, and 1 Ancona Underskirt with circular
band. 1 his wonderful parcel post free for 255.
p " ONDERFUL HOI SEHOLD PARCEL is a marvel of cheapness, and
Pi■ *. 54yds. White Twill Sheeting 2yds. wide; 1 doz. yds. good Household
oi , - ' " lde ’ soft Saxony-finish Flannelette, in pink, white, cream, or fancv stripes ;
-*vas. heavy cream Linen Table Damask, very wide ; 6vds. pure Linen Apron Dowlas, 38in.
wide; and 4 doz. good White Turkish Towels. Post free, 255.
LADIES UNDERCLOTHING PARCEL has a complete outfit of really nice
sf. armer^ ts : ~2 Chemises, 2 Night-dresses, 2 pairs Knickers, all pure longcloth.
beautifully trimmed with Swiss Embroidery and Insertion (these garments will be sent in Soft
Saxony-finish Flannelette if preferred), 2 .Ml-wool Singlets, 1 pair Corsets (state size), 1 large
?^ Dd^ PrOD i,! "^ lte -^^ Ap^n Wlth frU1 > 2 Cashmere or 4 pairs Stainless Black
Cotton Hose, aU for 2os NOTE.-We will substitute one Red and Black Ancona Under-
skirt with Circular Band m place of the Aprons, if desired.
0P GENTS SUIT PARCEL. For 20s. we will forward post free to anv
“n * ? address 111 the Australasian colonies—one Gent’s All-Wool Colonial Tweed Suit *
well made and trimmed, any size from 3 to 7. Undoubtedlv the best suit ever offend for
the money.
THE DON SI IT PARCEL contains one Gents heavy Scotch Tweed Suit; a
• magnificent line for real hard wear, and can be thoroughly recommended. 20s.
B 8
T£Q JHE PARCEL—2 pairs heavy Mole Trousers, 2 strong
q or Flannellete Shirts, with or without collars, 4 pairs strong, well-finished
rwi 1 n ii ¥ at ) bLa f k or colored 1 pair of good Braces or strong Leather Belt, 2 large
Cotton Handkerchiefs, white or colored. State size of hat, shirts, and trousers. 255. the lot
Marvellous value.
Rl THE HON SPECIAL CLEARING PARCEL—I Dress length of All-Wool
"Ay • Serge or Fancy Tweed, 12yds. Soft Twill Flannelette, ldoz. yds. Pure Un-
dressed Family Calico, Iyd. wide, 6yds. Cream Dressed Holland, now so much used for aprons
6ydS * Pretty Prmted Cashmerette, in pink, blue, or marone. The lot post free
81l
THE DON BLANKET PARCEL contains 1 pair splendid White Whitnev
• Blankets with handsome border, extra weight, full size for Double Bed. 20s'
fiTWMQI Korcroin ' “
post free. A special Bargain.
T? 1 O OUR LADIES’ COSTUME PARCEL contains 1 All-Wool Serge Costume
Lied throughout, Blouse with Yoke Back and Full Bishop Sleeves, trimmed
either with Velveteen or nch Black and Gold Gimp, large Jet Buttons. This stvlish costume
packed in a neat straw board box, and sent post free to anv intercolonial address for 14- 9d
only. Measurements required : round bust under arms, waist, length of sleeves (inside
length of skirt from waist to bottom hem. ~ ”
D 1 O THE LITTLE STRANGER’S PARCEL contains a Complete Outfit of Baby
Linen as follows Fine Longcloth Day Gowns, Trimmed Lace; 2 Long
Flannels, 2 Flannel Binders, 2 WTnte Lawn Shirts. Trimmed Lace ; 1 Swathe 1 Embroidered
Head Square, 1 Beautiful Embroidered Muslin Robe, 1 Long Petticoat. Trimmed Embroidery
and 1 Box Safety Pins. Post free to any Intercolonial Address for 225. fid.
T3“| THE DON 5 EIAETEEN PARCEL contains 12yds. Beautiful Silk
810 • Finish Indestructible Pile Velveteen, m Black or anv of the Leading Shades •
6yds. Linenette Lining to match, 3vds. New Sequin Trimming, and 2 Dozen Fanev° Buttons’
Velveteen will be one of the Leading Materials for the coming Season, both for
and Complete Costumes. Send 255. for this Wonderful Bargain Parcel • the value will
surprise you. ’
817
Contains One Pair Gent’s Superior All-Wool Colonial Tweed Trousers—special
cut and finish. Post free any Australian or New- Zealand address for 7s. 9d
TTt Q THE DON PARCEL FOR YOUTHS, contains 1 Youth’s All-Wool Tweed
JAfV any sire from .ll to 24, 1 Pair Elastic Braces, 1 Silk Handkerchief (white
or colored), and 2 Fairs of Sox. 20s. v
R 1 Q BLACK CASHMERE PARCEL, contains 7 yards Rich Blue or Jet
JJI»7. Black Cashmere permanent dye, superior finish; 1 yard Rich Black Silk for
trimming ; 6 yards Silk finished Lmenette for lining, and 2 dozen pretty Jet Button* 20*.
Carriage Paid. *
OOA CHILDREN’S HANDSOME COATING
U • and Cuffs, Puff Sleeves, Yoke and Sleeves Lined. Size 21,L V iln .
3s. 6d. ; 27in., 4s. 3d. ; 30in., 55.; 33in., ss. 9d. ; 36in., 6s. 6d. Post Free Thi* orettv T) ’
can be had in any of the following colors : Navy, myrtle, brown, and marone i
taken from neck to bottom of skirt). measurements
821
ing Tweed manufactured specially for us, lined throughout.
Bto 10, 7s. 6d. A marvellous suit for real hard wear. Carriage Paid.
Sizes 2 to 7,6 s. 3d.
DO.l BOYS’ EXTRA HEAVY NAVY SERGE SAILOR SUITS 7
Di. trimmed with braid, lined knickers. Sizes 2to 7,6 s. fid ;Bto 10 Ss M
riage Paid to any Victorian address. Undoubtedly the greatest value : L Y7\- ~ r ~
Undoubtedly the greatest value e’ver offered in this line.
800 CHILDREN’S PRETTY WASHING FROCKS, manufactured fmm k.~T7,
Soft Floral Delainette imported specially for this purpose. An exa^di^^fv^ 1 /, 1 '
WE will forward any of the above WONDERFUL PARCELS, securely packed POST
PAID to any intercolonial address on receipt of amount stated. InterooWairt i
Postal Notes, and Postage Stamps must have exchange added. P 0 Order* r
C. Bethune. payable to
Tb« Poi) CasbTradiogCo.,
208 to 214 Johnston Street, Collingwood,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
—THE-
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HLMISPJfEKK, Eat, as many new arrivals
nave lately made New Sooth Wales their bom* it
may be a* well to let them know that there is sue*-
an arti eas JOSEPHSON ’S OINTMENT purely
theproduction of thecolony, corn posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application win relieve you ’
Read rajs letter and Try fob Yocrselyes
Messrs. F. Row' and Co.
Dear Sira, —I have tried your Joseph sons Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
usinjr it. Yon are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
nothing known to man eoual to JOSEPHSOX S
AU STB ALIAX PIN I MENT,
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTACT
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
r times a day • a wineglassfal for an
adult, smaller quantity for children!
Fot General Debility, Dyspepsia. Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
tne liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Penons snfferoK from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. Tot
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Laver.
See what a Medrcal Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E Row and Co.
o W - tl k tha ? for fu rwarding me a bottle ot your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
tried. Yours faithfully. HENRY
CHARLES CL RTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, lSsfi.
Baron Borzilius’
Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZIUCS- REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Drspepsia, in Chronic
Cataneons affections. T.e action of
Bi.chu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
, M - D - The Bitter is pure, and not like
others hi overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
", h u . d . < ; ra , nßed ’- ai< * rest ores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual c-ostieeness.
fiod Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, beinir pure and
strengthening : a stimulant to the liver. assLim; diges-
lion. I therefore thus recommend them.
WOOD, MD. —lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exert? a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
S T^DY HEALTH BY TAKING ROWS
bTEANE-S BITTERS.
Ihe great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled bv none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
citizen-— 1S Sworn tfl6t ’ Jnon y from a well-known
, „ Stall toby Declaration.
I, George Hewett. do hereby'solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows: J
RUf JXi 1 / 6 ? ** a i. duty 1 owe to the Public to
ctate that I have been suffering for manv Years
3O caJled INDI-
i * P r S'PEPbIA, and have been cured
t 4 rw - of ROWS
BITTER.^a day m alittle water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
'V 1 " ho suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and conffort kness ? f t! ? e Lungs, will gain more ease
BiriERS ma U r any Lore ' LL
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
uk '“ ,h '“ t! ““ *
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
equal to any best Champagne.
Rows Steane’s Wine
Saj"*" : V ld SUre Simulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
men, ,0 be followed b, pei,.,
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
take™ 1 depression of s P irifes cannot do better than
ROW’S STEAXET WINE
d
s “ er * l debuit J-- »>dy»
ig" this aewly-io.ented
lU.NIG answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
in n l atUre A and a for food
instead oi drink. As an anti-febrile is uusur-
mwSSLK tor 1
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Syclu ey.


Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Peregrine, Sat., March 20,12 noon.
Leura, Saturday, March 27,12 i ooii.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Peregrine, Sat., March 20, 12 noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Peregrine, Sat., March 20, 12 noon.
Connects with S.S. Konoowarra
leaving Melbourne March 27.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, March 20. 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, March 23, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Tyrian, Saturday, March 20, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat,, March 27, 2 p.m.
Uargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST tIKKI.M FAKKS TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWAED SMITH k SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynya'rri Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street, Sydney.
(juddart, Parker § Co’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HORAItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passer ge-s Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
—THE—
npELnipe steamship Co.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service fro and from West Australian,
South Australfc.tr, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOK
MELBOURNE 'j
ADELAIDE !
PORT PIRIE ' |
And GULF PORTS. )
5.5, Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Friday, March 19.
5.5. Wollowra (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, March 23.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Friday, March 19.
S.S. YVollowia (from Melb.)
Tuesday, March 23.
ESPERANCE'BAY [- Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Franklin, Tuesday,
March 23.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., f.TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
INGLAND
A by the
VIA AMERICA
il
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are apnointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBAN Y,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, .£25 to £7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Brincipal Agent.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCER KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over —Special Low Kates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal eities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,946,940 0 0
Reserve Fund .. _. .. .. 1,190 250 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,946,940 0 0
Total 5,084,130 0 0
Directors:
Jambs Richard Hill. Esq., President.
James Readino Fairfax, Esq.
The Hon. Charles Kinnaird Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison. F. W. Utker.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
•
London Office—Old I!road Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letiers of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,000
I’aid-up . .. .. £3,055,281 I Os.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Ojjice: 1 Hishopsffate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadueedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
** LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Hon. F. H. Hart, M.L.C., Chairman ; Hon. Boyd D. More-
head, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir A. H. Palmer, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ;
A. B. Webster, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macgreg'or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
jtdtSFL O'£SZ SR.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
rfl H E LAST OF SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es i., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Slnden and Wing, No. 1
Delahny Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
pheiix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... ~ £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed .£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S.° R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
l7 Bond Street, Sydney.
The NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “ Companies' Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,658,659 18 2
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 91,340 1 10
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches thioughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, E-q., Chairman; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirVV. A.ZeaI,K.C.M.G., M.L.C.;Aud tors: W.H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Ma tager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adilaide', with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. ,M‘Mil!an, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. M tnager: 11. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. VV. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
T. ,1. (MLIMN,
Member Ba’larat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
IF. A. Kingsborough,
sua it 12 Bit o k /: it.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
CLARKE & CO.,
STOCK & SHAKE BRQKEKS,
309 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone No. 311. Melbourne.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act of 1874.
Offices : 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
All business arising: out of Real Estate transacted.
Fixed Deposits received to limited amounts.
Address all communications—
THOMAS LEAFE, Secretary.
Notices.
Engineering and Electrical
EXHIBITION.
Under the Patronage of HIS EXCELLENCY
THE GOVERNOR.
A. D. Nelson, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman.
INTENDING EXHIBITORS are hereby in-
formed the DATE for RECEIVING
APPLICATIONS for SPACE has been
EXTENDED to MARCH 31st.
HENRY V. AHRBECKERI Joint
GUSTAVE FISHER J Hon. Secs.
Union Chambers,
70 Pitt-street, Sydney.
"p>ot3.a,lla, Cheese
" "* The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
| —{odLalla. "Bacon.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
' K Pocla, 11 a Ham s
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYONEY.
Tales of the convict system, by
Feice Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, 155. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S- IN. Coy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETLWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, .and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIA —Weekly.
Passetif/er Accornmodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd.
Business Announcements.
EVERY VARIETY OF
m
W3UKI
TTSiV
m
m
i
*
•ST*
H. P. GREGORY AMD CO.,
.Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of f •->
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
MINING MACHINERY
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
||ig!i-Class tailoring.
DAVID Bit AH AM & CO.
IMPORT DIRECT
All the Latest NOVELTIES in vogue in the
Fashionable World for
SCiitiogS.
OUR SPECIALITY SERGES are Guaranteed
—'Vickarman’s Ssrges and Vicunas—
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
Samples Posted Free on Application.
Ladies’ Tailoring
AT REFORM
- - PRICES
Ladies 9 Walking - -
or -Cycling Costumes
Made on the Shortest Notice.
This Department is presided over by a Cutter of
high-class London Experience in Ladies’ Trades.
CYCLING SUITS Made to Measure.
All Regulation Tweeds in Stock.
Cycling SWEATERS, GLOVES, and every
other Necessary for Cycling.
Our Celebrated KNITTED WOOLLEN ROAD
RIDING PANTS, 10s. Gd. ; postage, Is.
(Give size of waist when ordering by Post).
DAVID BRAHAM & CO. are the Sole Agents
for Cellular Clothing.
ri ELLULAR PYJAMAS.
The most comfortable that can be
worn.
CELLULAR SOCKS.
Cellular Underwear, Tennis and Day Shirts,
White Shirts, Linen Fitted, with Short Fronts
for everv-day wear. Dress Shirts, &c.
CELLULAR CLOTHING
DEPOT,
D. Braham and Co.,
Sole Agents.
384 GEORGE-ST.,
Sydney.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George and York Streets).


Packets
i
an
Cl CARS
M
pl/rc
MILD
nufdc
red
Payerne
Is.
WAHOO!
The Remedy of the Age.
For INDIGESTION, FIVER & KIDNEY
Complaints, CONSTIPATION, LOSS of
APPETITE, SICK HEADACHE, &c.
WAHOO
Is a purely Herbal tonic which has
effected the most Marvellous Cures
after the failure of Doctors and
Patent Medicines.
Its wonderful curative properties have been
proved by large numbers of relieved
sufferers, and confirmed by an in-
dependent Press enquiry.
WAHOO
Guaranteed to cure DYSPEPSIA
and to stimulate the WHOLE
SYSTEM.
From all Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/6 per Bottle
(90 doses), or Post Free from
Loasby’s ‘ Wahoo’ Mfg-. Co.,Ltd., 171 Kent-st.,Sydney.
PILES.—Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “Canna-
hn cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony
Australian Dep6t, 257 George-street, Sydney * '
2/6
2/6 CURES PILES.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. llderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says :
“It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
The Cassel Co.’s advertisement of applica-
tion to amend its N.S.W. cyanide patent, appears
on page 24 of this issue.*
Finney, Isles and Co., the well-known
Brisbane firm, notify that they have opened up
and put forward into stock 282 cases and bales,
comprising a second shipment of new autumn
goods. Up to date they have opened up no less
than 49G cases and bales of seasonable goods, and
invite application for samples, &c., which will bo
sent to any part of Australia post free.*
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
D
RINK THE RENOWNED
“BEBEAH
>»
Champion Prize Wines,
SOLE AGENT: WM. MCKENZIE,
379 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Strand Arcade. SYDNEY.
Finney, isles # cn.
ARRIVAL ARRIVAL
OF
Q.R.M.S. Duke of Argyll, French steamer
Australien, German steamer Barbarossa, etc.
Second Shipments.
COMPRISING
289— CASES & BALES— 2B9
Now Opened Up and put forward
into Stock.
Total Cases and Bales Autumn Goods to hand
to date, 496.
. . Finest Assortment to select from . .
Lowest Prices in Queensland.
Samples, Prices, Self-measurement Forms, Fashion
Plates, Catalogues, &e., &c., Post Free on
application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
9
a,-.,
PS
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CKKBCENT,’’ situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other ig
KING^TRFET' St^ CCt < Pa,aCt> *” situated s( >
K.IJNO SIREEI, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. tiBV. >V. EM.IS.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Newhaven collapsed like a pricked balloon in
the St. Leger, and suffered a defeat estimable in weight
at 141 b. from The Officer. His sides heaved distressfully
after the race, and he sweated very freely. Five days
later, in the Champion Stakes, when no exception could
be taken to Holmes’s handling of The Officer, Newhaven
beat The Officer about as easily as The Officer had beaten
him, and pulled up with scarce a stain upon his bright
coat. Surely’ this was a sufficiently extraordinary reversal
of form to have an explanation asked for.” —(Melbourne
Sportsman.) But an enquiry would have been calculated
to- “ shake public confidence,” and the great aim of all
ruling powers in Smellbourne is to—haw I—prevent1—prevent that
sort of thing, doncherknow.
•*• * .
The Newmarket Handicap winner, Maluma, is
thrown into the City and Suburban Handicap with 7st.
61b. The race should be a gift for Mrs. Langtry’s mare
unless the change of hemisphere has injured his constitu-
tion.
• * • •
Some of the superfine noblemen who write horse
paragraphs for Melbourne papers are protesting against
the “horrible,” “ nasty ” and “ vulgar” name of Nudity
for a two-year-old colt. Wherefore The Bulletin, fearing
that the owner of the animal may have laid himself open
to prosecution for obscenity, or insulting behavior, ad-
vises him to change its name to Fig Leaf. What a
triumph for the blushful purists of the sporting press—
Fig Leaf (late Nudity’)!
• * •
Victoria, according to the Racing Chronicle,
is fearfully and wonderfully prolific of up-country meet-
ings. N.S.W. is responsible for six meetings per week
throughout the year, the average being mainly built up,
of course, by holiday fixtures in rough and rural districts.
But Victoria runs 509 horse gatherings per annum, irre-
spective of perpetual pony racing at Ascot, where the
added money is occasionally a handsome sum.
One solitary Chow horse-owner has been dis-
covered by the Chronicle. The name of this heathen
pioneer in “Australia’s national sport” is sufficiently
appropriate—Ching Doo.
• * * *
Aurum has been backed, in bogus wagers pro-
bably, to win V.R.C. Derbv and Cup, “ at prices ranging
from 1000 to 30 to 1000 to 50.” A real wager of 20 to 1
about Aurum for a “double” that falls due next Nov.
would amount to strong evidence of lunacy in the fool
who accepted it. Granted that the own brother to
Auraria may be a “good thing” when the time draws
near, the St. Alban’s stable, always clever at dissembling
the truth, will manage to get some money on at a fairly
reasonable price.
» * * »
Writes a correspondent :—“ Brief-snatchers ”
have been decidedly obtrusive on Flemington Hill during
the present V.R.C. meeting, and their connection with
certain bookmakers has been so evident that a revision of
the V.R.C. registry is contemplated.
• • • •
“ Clean ” sweeps—Adams’.
* * * »
“Forfeit being paid on Ebor, leaves Norton to
uphold the hopes of the South,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “He may do it worthily, too.
He won the Tixhill Handicap, 3 miles, with 12st. up, as
he liked. From an authentic source I hear Daimio is all
to pieces—won’t eat, and won’t jump.”
* « * *
“On the declaration of weights for the Liver-
pool Grand National,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ it was decided by the sports and oracles
here that Ebor at 12st. 31b. held Daimio safe at 12st. 61b.,
though Norton at lOst. 71b. was likely to beat both. The
Australians are not considered seriously to have a
possible, though the English jumpers are at present a
very rocky lot. Ebor and Norton are in especially fine
form just now, but the general opinion of Daimio, based
on his first and only outing—when he performed much
better than the scribes said —damns the gelding as a duck-
footed, stuttering sky scraper, who may finish among the
first three in the 1900 Grand National. Cloister will cer-
tainly start, unless he has been turned into glue and
zoological beef by the eventful day.”
* * *
*
Zanonia, the angular and leggy cross-country
horse, will be sent for the Onkaparinga steeplechase, all
going well. Also, it is dead certain to win, in the racing
sense of the statement.
• * * *
It needs more close finishes to popularise trotting
about Sydney, but exciting finishes are not to be hoped
for whilst two-mile races are run. Should Mr. Deeble, of
Brighton, change his trots from two to one-mile dashes,
the writer feels assured he would be working in the inter-
ests of self and the trotting horse. Entries would
undoubtedly be larger, and the handicapper would have
a better show of bringing the field together, for a horse
would not have the time to spread-eagle his field and rob
the race of all interest, as is usually the case in a two-mile
event.
* * * *
Gold Medalist (by Medallion) is the flower of
the M.L. two-year-olds, and is doing what Carbine did as
a youngster here. As yet unbeaten, he is winning every-
where he starts. In him and Multiform “Yaldhurst”
Stead has a flying pair.
* * * *
A blight seems to have struck Dunedin (M.L.)
Cup. Only three starters for 500 sovs. this year. Cham-
pion Euroclydon (10st.), allegedly as good as Newhaven,
though his owner doesn’t think so, went lame a few days
before the race.
* * * *
A former well-known M.L. sweep-promoter
intends attempting the game at Hobart—but “Tattersall ”
needn’t tremble. Were consultations legalised in Maori-
land, an enormous amount would remain in the country
annually, and the incidental tax, together with the tote-
tax, would furnish a handsome contribution to the Govt,
revenue.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Be Tatt.’s sweeps and the
necessity of bribing owners to run and try. What is the
matter with drawing a sweep after the race or on the
very day of the race ? I am not a sweepist myself, and
may be only showing stupendous ignorance, but I’ll
chance it.—J.M., Maoriland.
• * * *
The five-“bob” banquet tendered to Premier
Reid, by his Melbourne freetrade admirers, was a small
thing indeed compared with last week’s send-off to book-
makers Arnfield and Sam Allen, who are about to go ’Ome
and glitter at the Longest Reign rejoicings. On this occa-
sion, more than a hundred red-faced capitalists staked 31s.
6d. each for the privilege of doing homage to the Free-
Raid apostles. The chair was filled to overflowing by Alf.
Joseph, and The Bulletin trusts that, for the sake of
uniformity, the banquet was “ served in Skinner’s best
style.”
* * * *
“A. W. Steel ” Eccles, who —er—departed,
some time ago, from Melbourne, and appears to be identi-
cal with the man alleged by cable to have broken the bank
at Monte Carlo, is a tall, bulky man, bearing a strong
general outside resemblance to Mrs. Madden's brother,
Frank Stephen. In his early days as a tipster, when he
shoved his way’ into the Melb. Hunt Club, and managed
to strike up a horsey acquaintance with Gov. Hopetoun,
Steel gave out that he came of a “ fine old Northumber-
land family,” but, after certain things transpired, one
heard less talk of blue blood.
* * * *
W. R. Wilson’s giant two-year-old, Majestic,
seems to be shaping better in public than was expected.
On Saturday the big ’un, starting at 4 to 1, won a £2OO
stake at Caulfield in workmanlike style. What are the
odds against Majestic being better than his stable com-
panion Aurum (they are both by Trenton) twelve months
hence ?
* * * *
Sunbury, who carried a lot of “ clever” people’s
money for the Newmarket Handicap, went for a recovery
in the St. Kilda Cup, at Caulfield, last Saturday, and
finally proved himself to be only’ a fair second-rater.
Just when Sunbury appeared to have the race won, Miss
Gladstone shot out and beat him cleverly.
* * • *
The recent improvement in the luck of the
Redleap stable has had a marked effect on Mr. Sep.
Miller’s florid countenance, which was rather down at the
mouth a while ago.
* * * *
“Elong ” to The Bulletin from near Mossgiel
(N.S.W.) : —“ Not long ago in The Bulletin was a sketch,
‘ The Stockman of the Future,’ on a bike. Two brothers
named Clancy, the well-known drovers of Booligal, passed
here on hikes, at 9.30 p.m., driving 15 head of horses.
Between here and Booligal.it is mostly salt and cotton
bush country’, and a few miles of lignum. The last seven
or eight miles of the journey it was quite dark, and 15
horses take driving at any time unless you have them in
a lane.” Clancy on a bike ! Two of him on bikes !
* » * »
George Giffen has finally arranged with Lyons,
Darling, C. Hill, Jones (S.A.), Trott and Trumble (Vic.),
Kelly, Gregory, M’Kibbin (N.S.W.), for the Westralian
trip at Easter. The team play’s in Perth, Coolgardie, and
Kalgoorlie, and will be away five weeks.
* * * *
Crioketer Blackham travelled all the \vav to
Nirranda (W. Vic.), the other day, to see that slashing
team, the Forget-me-Nots, play’ a match against the Sea
Foam sloggers. Both teams are, as their names suggest,
composed of ladies. The Sea Foam covey won by four
runs. After the match w’as over Blackham threw Miss
Lazzard, the wicket-keeper, into a flutter of delight by
remarking that she was his rival wicket-keeper. But the
teams are not likely to play a t their full strength next
season unless new recruits join them in the meantime.
The members are fast getting married.
• * • *
Hannigan, the Red fern (Syd.) bat, had rare luck
the other Saturday. Playing for Redfern against Pad-
dington, he put up the top score of 181 (three s’s and 21
4’s), and, whilst batting, news was brought to him that
he’d won £9O0 —a half-share in Wait-a-bit in Tatt.’s sweep
on the Newmarket.
* * * *
On this season’s form Victoria has only two
cricketers—Harry Trott and Trumble —who would be
picked in an Australian team.
* * • *
A West Victorian team of lady cricketers lately
played a married men’s eleven, and beat them badly’.
Most of the men were stumped—the usual penalty of
games with the allegedly softer sex.
• * • •
A full house greeted the N.S.W. Wheelmen
League’s meet last Saturday afternoon, and the night
meeting on Monday’ was another big score; a bumper
audience came despite the sharp southerly, and the league
was heartily’ cursed by theatre managers.
Walne, who has filled out and muscled up re-
markably, did an exhibition go in his heat of the First
Class Handicap. Starting from scratch with Porta he
quickly caught Payne (20yds.), steered his way through
the field, rushed to the front with the ringing of the bell,
snatched inside position a la Bilmartin, and cantered in
looking over his shoulder for a challenger. In the final he
pursued the same tactics, but a quarter-lap from home
Bilmartin suddenly outgeneralled Walne, Chapman, and
Megson. It was Martin who was inside, and nobody knew
how he got there; and in the run home the elusive
William put in a few tremendous plugs and won by half a
wheel. A blanket would have covered Martin, Chapman,
and Megson, but Martin took £l5, Chapman £3, and
Megson £2.
Porta shows his teeth now, when he bends over
and scorches. To watch Porta laboring convulsively’, and to
hear him panting, and to take note of the grinning rows
above the handle-bar, gives you the idea that the easy-
running cycle is as pleasurable as the treadmill. How-
ever, according to Dr. Muskett, the cycle more or less
cures baldness and wooden-legs.
Bilmartin bullocked like a son of Samson in his
heat of the First-class Handicap, until he caught his field,
whereupon he sat up and took his usual deep, full breath.
Edwards (England) and Ken Lewis also took a full breath
at the time. But they were off the track, and stretched
out on the grass. Except Walne, Megson and Martin, no
scratch-man shewed well in the handicap.
O. S. Prowse is an attractive pedaller, and won
his heats in the First-class Handicap and Sydney Wheel
Race with brilliant finishes. The crowd loves the man
who shoots out and comes home like an arrow.
Secretary Hunter went down on his knees to
Monsieur Lucien Lesna over the challenge race with W.
J. C. Elliott. Elliott was one of the four that Lesna had
beaten the previous Thursday, and Monsieur L.L. there-
fore reasoned that he could give Elliott a lap in five miles
and win smiling. However, during the week it became
evident that Elliott had made the match so well that he
had it won. Lesna, consequently, refused to start unless
he had all the best of the pacing and Elliott all the worst.
Elliott offered Lesna first pick of pacing, but Lesna
wanted Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th pick ; not Ist, 3rd, sth, 7th
pick. Hunter alternately’ threatened and entreated the
Frenchman, and at last got him to mount.
Rumors were rife that an arrangement had been
come to; that certain of Elliott’s pacers had been in-
fluenced into pacing their man so steadily that Lesna
must catch him. To meet this, Elliott warned the racing
committee that if his pacers did not obey his instructions
he would hold up his hand in protest and wheel off the
track.
The crowd’s excitement over this race was
tremendous ; and it soon reached boiling point. The
beginning was unpromising; with pistol crack Lesna’s
triplet dashed away with its man, but Elliott’s pacers had
no steam in them. Elliott thereupon spurted after Lesna,
caught him, and hung on to his opponent’s wheel.
Second lap Elliott’s pacers, stimulated by the
clamor of the crowd, picked their man up but so
execrably that he lost 20yds. to Lesna. Every time fresh
pacers picked Elliott up they lost ground for him. The
outcry of the crowd was deafening. “ Give Elliott pace ;
get going ; give Elliott a show,” &c., &c. Meanwhile,
Lesna’s pacers picked their man up and drew him along
with the precision of perfect machinery. The strangest
feature of the contest was the last. The full five miles
were run, with Elliott a quarter lap to the good, but the
bell was not rung until the race was really over, and
Lesna was therefore given an extra lap in which to catch
Elliott. And Elliott might have been caught had
he not, looking back over his shoulder, and seeing the
Frenchman’s pacers rapidly overhauling him, picked up
his machine, and, leaving his own pacers standing, come
away alone with a brilliant spurt. He won by 60yds.
It was somewhat remarkable, the easy precision
with which some of Elliott’s pacers afterwards picked up
Green, Porta and Walne. That several teams should
make the self-same blunder at, say, 3 p.m., and that they
should all improve equally by 4 p.m. wants a lot of ex-
planation. But Martin bet and lost £lO over the affair,
and Ken Lewis lost £2O. And Martin and Ken Lewis do
sometimes make mistakes.
Beautiful side touch to the Elliott-Lesna match.
The S.M. Herald, in its columns, claims that the match
was made at the Herald’s suggestion. Fancy the proper
old Herald being instrumental in bringing about a cycle-
match. Cycle-matches are as smellful as prize-fights.
Doubtless the next departure will be one of the reverends
of the Herald staff getting out upon the track in bloomers
to push Bilmartin off against Lesna ; or Mister James
himself seconding Plugger Bill when the plugger has a
knife-duel with Porta. The present scribe wishes that
the Herald would write to the League of Vic. Wheelmen
persuading that body to give its sanction to the Martin-
Lesna match. The Bulletin’s office-boy is just dying to
see Plugger Bill go for Lesna’s scalp.
The lap scratch races were mostly swift and
clever struggles. Megson came out hero ; very consoling
to him to down both Green and Edwards. For the En-
glishmen both “ did ” him in England. The walk-over in
several heats was a blunder of management. The lone
riders should have been pitted one against the other by
running two heats into one.
The paced race has caught on with the Sydney-
ites. Lesna v. Walne 10 miles evoked much enthusiasm.
If the flash tandem at the start hadn’t taken so much out
of Walne ere he had time to get his blood warm, Monsieur
might have squeaked a few times instead of winning with
an easy lead of 50yds.
Lesna behind pace both in movement and style
is the boss of the track. He clings to that back wheel
like an instinct. The only man who shapes with similar
effect is Green. And as Green’s distance is 10 miles, the
Englishman has his chance of giving the Frenchman his
Waterloo.
The athlete’s superstition ! Edwards did not
ride in his proper colors in his heat of the lap scratoh
races; he won his heat easily from sprinter Payne.
Ordered to put on his proper colors for the final, he did
so, and exclaimed : “Changing my colors! I’ll get
beaten ! ” And, sure enough, he was beaten hollow ; not
only by Megson, but also by Walne, who came out for the
lap final after his gruelling ten miles with Lesna. The
Bananalander was loudly cheered. He seems to be a
coming Bilmartin. His training has made him a big
fellow to what he was ; he is now a stone heavier than on
the day when he won his first big prize, £5O, at a League
carnival.
Those stockings of Bilmartin’s ! Everybody re-
marks them. Everybody would understand, however,
if they saw the little diamond brooch that Bill wears on
one of them. Those stockings make Bill feel well. And
Bill would rlo anything to make himself feel well.
* • * *
Charley Saiftuels, the phenomenal black runner,
came round to something like his old form whilst in
Callan Park Asylum, and has now gone to his home in
Queensland. Charley told an official in the Park that he
was offered £7OO to “go down” in his match with
Hutchens, and he has mourned ever since being such an
idiot as to refuse the offer, for, after all was over, his
“ party ” never gave him a stiver.
* * * *
A. W. Nicol, an enterprising young fellow from
Invercargill (M.L.) is in Melbourne just now with a new
“ starting-clock ” invention. By a simple arrangement of
pegs round the dial the clock-hand can be set to strike
any number of seconds or half-seconds (at appointed
intervals) within a given period. For bicycle or pedes-
trian handicaps constructed on a time scale, instead of a
scale of distance allowances, it seems bound to become
the starting-machine of the future. Meanwhile the in-
ventor, Nicol, wants to impress the advantages of time-
handicapping upon the unintelligent persons who manage
bike sport in Melbourne, and who, if they had any money
among them, would promptly form a syndicate for buying
the local fights of the clock aforesaid. In a time-started
race each competitor goes the full distance, the limit man
quitting “ scratch ” at the final strike of the clock, and so
on, until the last strike gives the signal for Bilmartin to
go in pursuit of the field. The new 33-stem would suit
spectators better than the present one ; it would also give
the handicapper a better grip of “ form” and the trouble
incidental to marking the track, and keeping a watch
upon starters all round the oval would be avoided. At
Invercargill, the clock was tried with complete success,
and the local club has decided to handicap by time in
preference to distance, henceforth and for ever. ’
* * * *
There is just now on view in Regent-street
* the smallest bicycle in the world,’ made for • Master Rudd
of Melbourne, Australia.’ The youngster is recorded as
being two years and nine months old, and the gear 44
The machine has the Simpson lever chain, that ingenious'
much-advertised, overrated power-intensifier, and all up-
to-date additions and supposed improvements. It is
noticed here,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “ that the toney people are withdrawing from the
bike-clubs, and there are other signs that society is tired
of the craze.”
* * * «
John Roberts’ fine attempt to give 12,000 points
to Peall, in a game of 24,000 up, may lead to another
match between the “ old man” and Frank Ives, provided
that the American wonder will consent to play cannon-
game, not only on an English billiard-table, but with balls
of the regulation size. When the men met three or four
years ago, Ives stipulated for conditions which gave him
a chance to get the balls jammed between the elbows of
a pocket, and by his greater skill in working a “ jam ” he
beat Roberts easily. Seeing that neither man was playing
the game at which he is champion in his own country
the chances are that Ives is the more versatile artist.
* * * *
The Customs shed on the Moama side of the
Murray bridge is pretty well filled bv the burly form of
ex-champion Tnckett. What isn’t altogether taken un is
filled with War Crys and other Salvation Army literature
for which the shed is a disseminating centre. Trickett’s
“ testifyings ” are always interesting, and his spare
moments are taken up rehearsing, casting a suspicious
eye on passers-by, and calculating the approach of Feder-
ation and the establishment of interprovincial Freetrade.
Megson, the first day he rode a Humber won
the mile-race in Melb.*
* * * *
Martin and his Red Bird won Sydney mile
March 4 ; Melb. half-mile and five miles, March 6.* ’
The immortal E. Y. Lowry, socialist-
alderman of Townsville (N.Q.) again (at Towns-
ville Council, the Town-Clerk being in the chair):
“ I beg to move, as an amendment, that Aid.
Lowry be Mayor. I am quite satisfied, having
known Aid. Lowry for so long, that, as far as
ability is concerned, he is quite as well qualified
for the position as any of his colleagues. If
elected, he will pocket the whole salary of the
office for the use of his wife and family. If any
vice-royal visitors come, the citizens will have to
put their hands into their own pockets if they wish
to entertain them ; he will not spend a penny for
that purpose. I believe that Aid. Lowry would
carry on the business of Mayor with credit to
himself and to the town.” After which testi-
monial to Lowry by Lowry, his colleagues beat
Lowry by 8 votes to 4.
The beautiful thing about the Federal
elections was that everybody was satisfied, and
everybody triumphed. Bruce Smith was the only
candidate who confessed publicly to “ personal
disappointment.” His rejection is no doubt due
to the fact that he has not been in Parliament for
several years. The Kyardinal considered that
“my candidature attained its full purpose ” when
he was jolly well licked. He never intended to
win, it seems—went through all the fuss and feud
with the idea of coming in fourteenth or there-
abouts. And Heydon, head of the Mangy Dog
party, said that the hairless canines had achieved
a great moral victory, or a virtual success, or words
to that effect; and they really never wanted to
get into the Convention at all. And everybody
else kept his upper lip stiff and talked in a similar
way—except the Labor-party. The L.P., some-
how, doesn’t feel quite well in its inside.
The Year, Book of Australia for 1897 is,
as usual, a splendid collection of information on
almost every subject, carefully compiled, up-to-
date, and arranged so that every reader can get at
the item he wants without breaking his neck over
other things that he isn’t in search of. There is
hardly any Australian subject concerning which
the Year Book doesn’t give information now ; the
present issue seems to be even more complete than
any of its predecessors. The only complaint is
that it is too exclusively Australian ; if the pro-
prietor could see his way to take in Tasmania and
Maoriland it would be perfect. Even if Maori -
land is too far off his beat Tasmania at least might
be included—its figures already appear in some
tables, but it wants to be included all round. So
far as the five continental provinces are concerned,
however, the Year Book is the best authority
going on almost every topic.


Edison’s [atest phonographs
Marvellous results, Light and Portable, working without
electricity. All Phonograph supplies—Finest selected
Records, Blank Cylinders, Sapphire Needles, Double
Resonant Diaphragms, Glasses, Twin Nuts, and all parts
and duplicates.
Representative Agent, MORRIS E. COHEN
(S. Cohen, Sons and Co., Wholesale Hardware Merchants),
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
IT YoO Waijt . .
TO BUY OR SELL AN HOTEL,
TO BUY OR SELL A BUSINESS,
TO BUY OR SELL A FARM,
TO BORROW MONEY on Mortgage,
Call on us or Write.
REYNOLDS BROS. & CO.,
Auctioneers, Hotel Brokers,
ESTATE, FINANCIAL and GENERAL
BUSINESS AGENTS,
73 Elizabeth Street , Sydney
(Near Kina Street).
W. ’W. GRBENER’S
Celebrated GUNS and RIFLES
/"lAN now be purchased through all the principal dealers
in the Australasian Colonies. Mr. C. H. Gorrick, the
champion pigeon-shot of N.S.W., used a Greener gun
when he wrested the championship the other day from
Mr. A. W. Eales. Address, C. W. Buckland, 16 Curral
Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vic. rep.), or Box 326
G.P.0., Sydney.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA,
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
TUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
• Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
O
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoo’s Noted Accord*oi)S,
Or call at one of our Branches —182 King-st., Newtown;
8 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COXON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
UOn>ber - -
Bicvcks
Are PERFECTION.
Sole Australasian Agents :
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT HAS ARRIVED !
IT HAS ARRIVED!
IT HAS ARRIVED !
The FOWLER.
The FOWLER.
Acknowledged by Experts in America and England
to be without rival for Elegance, Lightness,
Rigidity, and especially Easy Running.
When you see a High-Grade Bicycle with a
Truss Frame you will recognise
The FOWLER!
Australian Agency :
Hoffnung’s Buildings
171 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and see us, when the various improvements
will be exhibited to you.
“The Way we Love Now,” a farce, in
three acts. Patrimony, Matrimony, Alimony.
Nervous sufferers - will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
A
LL CYCLISTS
SHOULD
HAVE THE
DUntOP TSRE.
COMBINES
Speed with Streug'th
Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co.
(LIMITED),
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Branches at Melbourne, Adelaide, Christchurch.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle.
For LADIES and GENTS.
Ti'MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the hygienic saddle, make rough roads a
pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbe lotcrcbaQgcablc
With Genuine Wheels, Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber
Brake, Perry’s Humber Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire,
equals any machine procurable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tlx© ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
‘^'vc\^c\es>
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-.vear-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “High
Grade” as a sign of Excellence —have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The Greville,
ABSOLUTELY the
CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
Ascot: RaciQg: ClCib,
MELBOURNE.
November 1897 November
1300 “Kr 1030 SO Tn E s R tfk,2 NS 1000
The Great Ascot Gold Cap
OF
500 SOVEREIGNS 500
SECOND, 100 Sovs.;
THIRD, 60 Sovs. ; and FOURTH, 40 Sovs.
Offices : JOSEPH WEBSTER,
Maritime Chambers, Secretary and Proprietor.
135 & 137 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
“DOWKXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“ The Last of Six.”
LEAGUE
N.S.
HEELMEN
The Grand March Carnival
WILL BE CONTINUED ON
SATURDAY - NEXT - SATURDAY
MARCH 20,
SYDNEY C RICKET GROUND,
AFTERNOON AND NIGHT.
LeSQa, (Sreci), Martii), Edwards, Megsoi), Payi)«,
KCLLOW, WALNC, K€N. LEWIS,
a t ,t , APPEAE.
Martin and Megson meet in Third Heat of
Grand Paced Tournament,
Finals of Sydney Wheel Race and Tourna-
ment Sensational Handicap Races.
the permanent artillery band will perform.
Special Trams. Admission, Is.
PERCY HUNTER,
Gen. Sec. Race Committee
Parson Alexander, of North Melbourne,
who announced publicly that the son of a Jewish
rabbi had been converted and was going to be
baptised as a Presbyterian, has got a bad set back.
His converted Jew writes to the papers stating
that he isn’t going to be baptised as a Presby-
terian, and thereby creates a painful impression
that somebody connected with the story must
have been drinking. Considering that this Jew,
if he had come along, would have been almost the
only reliable Hebrew convert on record, the fact
that he isn’t coming is doubly painful. Converted
Jews are about as rare as are icebergs at Cooktown.
A thousand packages of dynamite, in the
manifest of a steamer just in at Melb., from
London, gave an agreeable surprise to the pas-
sengers.


Special Advertisements.
FRANZ JOSEF
Pilsener Eager Beer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
That Tired Feeling
AND
GENERAL DEBILITY.
The cause is poor, thin blood,
resulting in deficient vitality. To
overcome this, the blood needs to be
enriched and vitalized, and for this
there is no medicine in the world
equal to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. The
cures it has worked, the men, wo-
men and children it has restored to
health, are countless in number. One
such experience is related by Mr.
Robert Goodfellow, Mitcham, South
Australia, as follows: “I have used
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
in my family for years, and would
not be without it. I used to suffer
with boils and skin eruptions,
attended with great lassitude and
general debility. In fact, I was so
ill that I could not attend to my bus-
iness. Being advised to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I did so, and I am happy
to say that the medicine restored me
to perfect health. I have since used
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for my children,
in various complaints, and it has
always proved effective. I can safely
recommend it to sufferers as
The Best Blood Purifier
Bbwari? of imitations. The name — Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla— is prominent on the wrapper
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
AYER’S PILLS, IN SMALL, GLASS PHIALS.
MELUN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
ft Pleasure to-use
fjEVE^
INOING
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
KROPP
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
RAZOR
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garrett
& Co., London, W.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Melb.’s largest and smallest lawyers are
respectively the Irish giant M‘Kean, whose 20
stone is distributed over 6ft. Bin. of height, and
A. E. Jones, the sft. 2in. Hebrew who has stepped
into Sam Lyons’s police-court practice. The pair
appeared one day in a case at the Melb. City
Court, and, on Jones taking exception to some of
M‘Kean’s law, the big man turned and, looking
down, let out characteristically : “ Why, ye little
whipper-snapper, I cud putt ye in me pocket.”
“If you did,” responded the diminutive Jones,”
“ you’d have more brains in your pocket than you
have in your head.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
The most beautifying-, soothing, healing, and refreshing
milk for the skin ever produced ; it removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness, and Roughness, soothes and
heals all irritation, and produces soft, fair, delicate skin,
and a beautifully pure and healthy complexion. War-
ranted harmless.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL
Nourishes, Preserves, and Beautifies the Hair.
ROWLANDS’ EUXQNIA,
A Pure Toilet Powder in three tints—White, Rose, and
Cream.
Ask Chemists and Stores for Rowlands’ articles, of
20 HattonGarden, London, and avoid cheap poisonous
mitations.
Missing Friends.
WILL GEORGE NICHOLSON, of North
Erodingham, Hull, Yorks, England, who
left his home in Jan., 1887, communicate with
friends at home. Parents very anxious for news.
GEORGE KEILLOR, of Dublin, Ireland,
last seen in Sydney, September, 1893, is
anxiously sought for. Tram-shares profitably sold.
May have assumed another name. Age, 32;
medium height, prematurely bald. Authentic in-
formation about him will be rewarded. Address—
E. J. CARRICK,
__ 65 Pitt-st., Sydney.
IETTER for B. C. at Bulletin Office.
_A Please forward address to the Manager.
E X> W A R D S
I
WORLD-RENOWNED
air producer # Restorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE" Produces Luxuriant Hair.
&
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Eemedyfor Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other
injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4'6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
pitt, Son and Radgery,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
WOOL & PRODUCE SALESMEN.
Sydney, Isth February, 1897.
CIRCULAR.
Dear Sir,
We now beg to notify to you that on the Ist prox. we add to our well-
known Stock and Station Agency business that of Wool and Produce Salesmen.
This is quite a legitimate branch of our business that we now take up with
confidence.
We have secured the services of Mr. Edward N. Row, lately with Messrs.
Campbell, Nimmo & Co., formerly with Messrs. Goldsbrough & Co., and Dalgety
& Co., of Melbourne, who will conduct this branch of our business under the
supervision of our Managing Directors, and whose acknowledged business
capacity and energy, combined with the well-known position and standing of
this Company, are sufficient guarantee that any Wool or Produce entrusted to
our care will be disposed of to the best advantage.
Our Produce Stores are situated on the Circular Quay and Macquarie Street,
are large, well-lighted, and in every way convenient. Wool Stores we will secure
before the opening of next Wool Season, our present accommodation being ample
for any Wool offering during the Winter months.
As in our Stock business, you may rely that we will conduct this branch of
our business strictly as Selling Brokers only ; neither directly nor indirectly will
we entertain any interest in Produce committed to our care beyond that of realis-
ing the highest price. Buyers, too, may know that they will’compete only with
legitimate competitors. J
Our Produce Sales commence after the Ist March ; but our Stores are now open
for the reception of consignments, which, small or large, shall have equal attention •
a bag of cow hair, a few horns, sheepskins, or shank bones, will be cared for equally
with 1000 bales of wool, casks of tallow, or hides.
Kindly note also that we remove from our old offices to new and more com-
modious ones in O’Connell Street, on Ist April.
Yours faithfully,
W. WRIGHT, Secretary,
Pitt, Son & Badgery, Limited.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring's, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES
£ll 17s. 6fl.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H- HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer St Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles It Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade combined to nw nhWHnr, m-
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID DOWN COST IN SVONFV
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicvcle season , The whole of
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money R ’ S ° Wholesale an(l Retail
GOUTINE.
A New Scientific Remedy for CHRONIC GOUT
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, and
si-iAUtA Ihis wonderful discovery has now been
b ’ i.AWbON, 17 High-st., Prahran, MELBOURNE.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
9
Bender’s Food Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
"Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
I AND
The aced.
Dunn, one of the employers’ board for
fixing wages in the Vic. boot-trade, was, previously
t» his employing: days, an ultra-radical democrat,
of even an anarchistic cast. With Robert Jones
and one or two others, he was running a journal,
some years ago, embodying their “ acratic,” vege-
tarian and other views. A strike or so in his
boot-factory has presumably altered many of his
old opinions.
Dear Bulletin,— Be the Bermagui mystery;
it is generally believed that Lamont Young and
party were shot; but there really is not one atom
of evidence to warrant the thought. I was on the
field at the time and remember the circumstances.
On the Saturday morning Young came to
M‘Gregor’s claim and watched a dish of dirt being
washed; the yield was Boz., and Young with
others grew really excited about the matter. He
offered to buy a share, but Mac. refused to accept.
He then offered .£6O cash for a twentieth share.
Mac. again declined. “Mind you, it is cash—
come to camp and I’ll pay you now.’’ “No,”
Mac. said, “ I wouldn’t take one hundred and
sixty.” Young then went away. That night the
party disappeared. Next morning at daylight a
boat pulled off from near Young’s tent and went
out to sea ; she was then pulled N. W. and ran
ashore where that same afternoon at 3 o’clock she
was found with a hole chopped in her bottom and
several large stones in her —no doubt to sink her.
There were no bullet holes in her nor any blood
stains. There were 3000 men on the field, and, in
my opinion, some of the worst class of unhanged
ruffians. My opinion is, as it has always been,
that Young and the five others were poisoned for
the cash they had in their tents. As there were
hundreds of shafts varying from 10 to 20 feet deep
in the pure sand, what was there to stop the
bodies from being covered up, and all marks re-
moved by simply filling in holes—sun and wind
would remove all traces of where the shaft had been!
Lamont Young was either buried in the sand or
taken out and thrown overboard. There were
thousands of sharks about. The murderers, after
chopping and trying to sink the boat, could have
quietly walked back and joined the crowd and
then left at their leisure—which, if the mystery is
ever solved, you will find they did. — Cyril G.
A Bulletin correspondent’s dog-story :
“ One evening I saw a boy lead a retriever down
to the bank of the Tutaekuri River (Napier, M.L.),
tie a stone round the dog’s neck, and push him
into the water. The stone slipped, and the dog
scrambled out. _ The young butcher caught him,
knelt on him, tied another stone round his neck,
and pushed him in again. Once more the stone
slipped, and, almost suffocated, the poor brute
managed to struggle out. Just as the young fiend
seized him a third time a stalwart Maori rushed
up and slung the boy right into the current of
swirling eddies. And the dog? He plunged in
and pulled the boy on to the bank.”


N%
/
—*
Herr Hassmnssen,
Tin; celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOE THE —
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfalme Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice ; the
very fact of their having been before the public
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “ Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the uttermost parts of the earth.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Testimonials.
JSk. Few of Tlaem.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of ray friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Hetr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCK.HAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
I have derived ereat benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush. —Yours very truly, B. BUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that r having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
lthaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Pasmussen.
1 am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. X have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERYIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills contpletely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends. —Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of jour
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 16th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in-Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Piles.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from j r our Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J. KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfalinq Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
HERR RASSMUSSEH’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in w hich Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press: —
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.— *• Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary.testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Baity Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Itegister, Adelaide, S.A.—“Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bonafides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Chemist and Druggist Journal, Melbourne.—
“ Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depfit at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Truth Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to ri quire any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times. Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
The Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the w T orld, we
are assured thkt Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable.”
The Nord Aiistralisclic Zeitnng, Brisbane.—“We
speak from personal knowledge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 G-eorge Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING.
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
'! AWARDED.
TWO GOLD
MEDALS
busses
m?
!i
ILL
A L FA LIN E
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD »«. NERVES.
A Certain Cure for the Nerves
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
( registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affections,
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Fills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections,
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the-Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE “ NATURAL. DOCTOR.” A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “ Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheum a
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - - - 150 Bourke-street.
Brisbane - - - - 160 Queen-street
Charters Towers - Royal Arcade, Mosman-st.
Adelaide - - - - 154 Bundle-street.
N.Z. - -91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Perth, W.A. - Corner Hay and William-sis.
Coolgardie - Next Coolgardie Hotel, Bailey-st.
Kalgoorlie - 2 Liddell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


Amusements.
ijIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE,
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT’S
GREAT SPORTING SPECTACLE,
“Th.e Derby "Winner.”
It is Bright, Sparkling, Fascinating.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, od. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING, at 8,
The Sensational Sympathetic Success, by George R. Sims
and Arthur Shirley, entitled,
Two Little Vagabonds.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies. Day Tickets at
Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Caf6.
Legal Notices-
Patents Office,
Sydney, 12th March, 1897-
APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT OF
LETTERS PATENT UNDER THE
PATENTS LAW AMENDMENT ACT,
1895.
NOTICE is hereby given that any person or
Grsons intending to oppose this application must
ive at the Patents Office, within one month
from the 12th instant, notice in the prescribed
form of his or their objections thereto.
Letters Patent No. 453, 21st January, 1888,
granted to The Cassel Gold Extracting Com-
pany (Limited), for “Improvements in obtain-
ing gold and silver from ores and other
compounds.”
The Australian Gold Recovery Company
(Limited), as assignees of the Cassel Gold Extract-
ing Company (Limited) [through their Patent
Agent, Fred. Walsh, manager for Edward Waters],
have applied for leave to amend the Specification
of the Letters Patent above referred to.
The proposed amendments are as follow :
1. To insert after the paragraph terminating
with the words “or closed vessels” the follow-
ing
Whereas a claim simply and broadly for the
use of cyanogen or a cyanide or cyanogen-
yielding substance might be held to in-
clude solutions of any strength, and
whereas solutions containing cyanogen in
a proportion not exceeding eight parts of
cyanogen to one thousand parts of water
are most advantageous, having a selec-
tive action such as to dissolve gold and
silver in preference to the baser metals,
whilst stronger solutions, besides being
more, costly, are of less practical value, we
hereby disclaim the use of such stronger
solutions.”
2. In the claim to strike out the words
"cyanogen or cyanide or other substance or com-
pound containing or yielding cyanogen substan-
tially as specified,” and to substitute therefor the
following words :
“ A solution containing cyanogen in a propor-
tion not exceeding eight parts of cyanogen
to one thousand parts of water.”
A. PARRY LONG,
[8269] Examiner of Patents.
Business Announcements.
Do YUU w» r ,* M
CATALOGUE?
POST FREEv^»
WatcHes-Clocks-Jewellery- Birthday*
WeddiNc z Presents
H.N£Y/MArJ- 1755177-ELIZABETM Si*
OPPOSITE CtP.Q.
MELBOURNE-
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
LATEST LONDON NOVELTY.
15-carat Gold.
Twin Swallow
Brooches.
JBI 2s. 6d. per Pair
(post free.)
15c. Pearl Set.
Twin Swallow
Brooches.
£2 2s. 6d. per Pair
(post free.)
m/
///?
NOTE:
OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BeSSoo’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other Maker in the World.
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms.
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
~1 —» g« , ypjypr*c«
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
m
0*
-c-
&
' «
«a
/JU l
I®
ll
"SI RE
SOAP
AND SAVE THE WRAPPERS
FOR COLD A SILVER WATCHES.
— » ‘ ™ — UA—WA —ga, m\ ta—ra raa ra.
Sydney Soap a. Candle Co. Ltd
Sydney & Newcastle.
Amusements,
fIRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY.
U Lessee and Manager ... Frank Thornton.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING,
FRANK THORNTON,
As Sir Joseph Trent, the Bookmaker, and his NEW
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY, in J. W. Pigott’s
Successful Comedy,
Tli© Bookmaker.
A SURE SUCCESS. A SURE SUCCESS.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan, Nicholson’s. L. J. LOHR.
Her majesty’s theatre, Sydney.
Sole lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson and Musgrove’s Grand Spectacular Musical
Extravaganza, by Bert Royle and J. C. Williamson,
Matsa : QCi**Q of Fir*.
Plan, Nicholson’s. JVT" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and la.
gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE,
” (Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre),
237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
125 THOUSAND PEOPLE have already thronged the
beautiful Salon in Pitt-street. On the front of that same
Salon is emblazoned the legend, “ HERE TO STAY.”
This is no mere fanciful phrase ; it is the crystallised
expression of a comprehensive fact. Having just secured
another 12 months’ lease of the Salon, the Cinematographs
is here to stay. JAMES M'MAHON.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Henry Bracy.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS !
“Tbs Beggar StCideot.”
Under the Direction of Mr Henry Bracy.
SATURDAY, 20th MARCH, the World-renowned
Musicale Bouffonnerie,
“Nemesis; or Not Wisely, But Too Well, n
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
ipHBATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING 1
Mr. C. B. WESTMAGOTTS COMPANY
—in—
Tbe Sban?rock al ?d tbe Ro&c
(By arrangement with Mr. W. J. Holloway).
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. No Early Doors. Box Plan
at Elvy’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lesssee and Director ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
SUCCESS, ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS OF
Mir. Harry Rickards’a
PALACE VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
Each and every Artist a Star. Acknowledged to be the
Greatest Combination of Vaudeville Artists ever placed
before an Australian Audience. Prices—3s, 2s, Is. Matinee
Every Wednesday, at 2.30, at Reduced Prices.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 Hioh-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-To-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE-
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
■piJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
LAST PERFORMANCES in Melbourne of
The Brough Comedy Company.
March 18 and 19 —“ A Woman of No Importance.”
March 20—“ A Village Priest ” ... ... 6 Nights only
March 27—“ The Passport” ... ... 3 Nights only
March 31 —“ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” 2 Nights only
April 2 —“ Dandy Dick” ... ... 2 Nights only
Box Plan at Glen’s.
ASK EOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING,
And. see tliat you get It.
*7
PROOF
ONpfyl
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND,
HSIGITIIOS. * Cl.
LIMITED.
S
*
re
:
J
*
%
Wj
•A
V
a
.j -
» •!
PROO
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices —
Bligl) Chambers, Bligb-St., Sydney.
W orks —
Parramatta Riv/er.
£lOOO
for Is-
IS
THE
First Great Prize!
Or TWELVE MONTHS’ TRIP ROUND THE WORLD (First-class)
All expenses paid, and £6OO in CASH for incidentals.
2nd, £2OO
3rd, £lOO
£lOOO
.
and 123 other Prizes, value £lBOO.
A Fortune for Is. to be WON in the
EIGHT HOURS’ DA.Y.
41st ANNIVERSARY.
41st —EIGHT HOURS’ ART UNION—4Ist
Easter Saturday, April 17.
Grand Demonstration and Fete. EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR OF ALL!
Day and Night. Grand Programme of Sports and Amusements.
Bicycle Prizes, 413 Soys. The EIGHT HOURS’ GREAT WHEEL RACE, 335 Sovs. Total Bicycle Prizes 413 Sova
£lOOO for Is. Tickets, ONE SHILLING EACH, admit to the Sports and give a chance in the ever-popular Eight Hours’Art Union. " ’
This great Art Union will be drawn publicly at a Bazaar, to be held at the Hibernian Hall, Swanston-street, Melbourne, on the 29th APRIL 1897 t
STANCES BE POSTPONED. Every ticket sold, and no other, has a chance in this Art Union. Tickets for this great Art Union, Is ealh 11 for 10, TK,™! UNDER ANY CIRCUM-
of prizes, to any address on receipt of Postal Notes or P.O. Order (with stamp for reply), made payable to , or 10s., or 23 for £l, will be forwarded, with full list
CHAS. HARRIS, Secretary Eight Hours’ Committee, Trades’ Hall, Carlton.


Finney, isi.es * cn.
Preparing for Cooler
Weather,
FIRST SHIPMENTS,
COMPRISING
207 CASES AND BALES 207
- 3VTIE3A7V -
AGtOroo (aoods,
NOW READY FOR INSPECTION
IN ALL DEPARTMENTS.
Samples, Prices, Self-measurement Forms, &c.,
kc., forwarded Post Free on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
jßrisbane.
X
Reginald A. F. flGrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
v <.O a
V WITH f ,
SANITAS
COPY R!CHT BOOK
k'HOW TO DISINRECT’
S £ NT r REE
|L The Sanitas C 9 L ? M
Bethnai Green
LONDON
Cy a novelty i
ALXi KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists, £
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
- Street
e
The Pickering Steam Engine Governor.
SHUTTES “KORTING’S” Boiler Feed INJECTORS.
MASON’S REDUCING VALVES, for Steam and
LUDLOW GATE VALVES, for Steam and Water.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOUIIKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
X3T Send for prices and particulars.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
THE CELEBRATED CH LDREN S SWEET
Lawrt.
St. John s Works, W.C. LONDON.
The press is the Archimedean lever that
raises the wind.
The late Maoriland Premier is to have a
monument at Wellington with the inscription:
“ Ballance. He loved the people.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London,*
An indignant Anglican clergyman writes
to a recent Guardian, English Church paper,
because circulars are sent out, from trading rev.
gentlemen, to all the clergy, offering MSS. ser-
mons, any quantity, for lOd. each ! Suitable for
ordinary times or special, as weddings, funerals,
harvest rejoicing, times of drought, times of abun-
dant rain, and so forth—says the prospectus. The
point seems to be overlooked that the demand
makes the supply. Yes, the clergyman choked
with tears over the oak-coffined and gilt-clasped
corpse of his beloved friend, the Squiah, fetches
out the tenpenny sermon, in genuine MSS., mind
you, no pantographing, to show he did it all out
of his own head. “ Brethren, I feel I can hardly
proceed further.” Oh, boo-hoo! And then the
tenpenny MSS. (bearing the marks of the pint-
pot of the Rev. Julius Boozer, M.A., who wrote
the sermon for the sweater and got for it the price
of a couple of pints) returns thanks to Almighty
God for this glorious rain. God save Our Gracious
—Establishment. j
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 6Goft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
The tariff of a boarding-house, located on
the outskirts of a W.A. town among the big
mines, was—board, 275. 6d. a week, or single
meals 2s. Another started in opposition—board,
255., single meals Is. 6d. In close proximity there
was a small store with a wine-and-beer license.
The business of the store fell, as everybody about
the place went boarding, so the storekeeper started
a “ tin-dog boarding-house”: half-a-tin of dog,
glass of local beer and a piece of bread, one
shilling. Then the other two boarding-houses
shut up.
At Bloomsbury (England), a dressmaker
has been suing a parson of the Anglican Church
for the recovery of <£l, which she put in the plate
while in a state of temporary insanity. Asked for
evidence as to the insanity, she said she knew she
was insane because she put the pound in the plate;
she couldn’t have done so otherwise. She was
quite composed when she went into the church,
but presently a strange feeling came over her, and
she dropped her sovereign in the collection, and
didn’t fully recover her senses for three days.
Case dismissed. The law invariably shirks awk-
ward questions, and the question how much money
a sane dressmaker would naturally put in the plate
was too much for it.
C : Q. Postal department vagaries. If,
when travelling about Queensland, you leave a
township that you have intimated to your possible
correspondents as your latest postal address, and
if you take the trouble to go to the local post-office
there and inform the postmaster to forward your
letters on to another town, when you get those
letters you are charged extra stampage. If, on
the other hand, you don’t take any trouble to in-
form the local post-office, but tell your Mr. Public-
house or your Mrs. Hashfakir that you are going
on to “ Anywhere,”- when you get your letters
afterwards, you will see the old address marked
out and the words “Try Anywhere” blue-pen-
cilled, whereupon you are not charged any extra
fees for stamps. If you travel out of Q. and a
letter follows you into N.S.W., or S.A., you get it
all right in every case ivithout extra fees. Suppose
a case : X is travelling and Y is his correspondent
in Brisbane. Xis fool enough to inform each
postmaster at each stopping-place to forward his
letters to his next destination ; Y writes to X at
St. George, placing a twopenny stamp on the
envelope enclosing the letter. X has gone on to
Cunnamulla ; letter follows with “2d. to pay ” on
it (perhaps “4d.”). X has now reached Eulo;
letter follows with “4d. to pay.” By this, Xis
at Thargomindah ; letter on trail, with “ 6d. to
pay.” But X has gone on to Oontoo; letter dogs
him, “Bd. to pay.” Here, the P.O. finds that X
has crossed over the border to Innamincka (S. A.);
letter collars him there, with surcharges all erased
— nothin;) to pay ! The P.O. nearly all over the
world carries letters for shifting addresses “on its
own.” The land of Nelsonboodlethynne is the
grasping exception.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer,
I'll Try It.
unmuni
Posted (under cover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10 0
Sole A vents:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 Ge orge-st„ Sydney
Publications
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
"Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.; Loudon,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
“Friends no Longer/’ so b n o dr^j u f L '
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH ! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
lid. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE.
TRADE
MAW
KRUSES
—DESTOYS—
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and G-arden.
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c.,
Moth.
from
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of
Parasites.
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. - Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
%sisto's
FOB
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
m muTunD store, Ltd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
ft
HAIRDRESSERS AND Wl<l MAKERS
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe^mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d. ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
880 A 082 Cicorge Street, Sydney.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Company.
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with no
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz, Jougne,
France, and Birmingham. Introducer of the
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “Arbenz,” with trade
mark “ A ” in Swiss cross for first quality, and “ B ”
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne's Bronchitis cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice*,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney."
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and cbest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured. —J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S. W.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., tears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
Peafoess
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
AND HEAD
NOISES
Relieved
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crobrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n)brocatiofy-
MILLER’S
PURE TASMANIAN . . .
. . . BLUE GUM OIL
REGISTERED
Written guarantee that this article is the
product of the Eucalyptus Globulus ONLY,
without admixture or dilution with poorer
kinds of Eucalyptus. Bottles, Is. —all
Chemists. Wholesale: T. RHODES, 108
Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. P. Miller & Son,
. Distillers, Hobart.
pi you have a j)rink?
A6d. Packet CORNELL’S GINGER BEER
PO WDER makes 2galls. first-class Ginger Beer
A fid. Packet CORNELL’S MALTONIC BITTER BEER
POWDER makes 2galls light Bitter Ale.
All Grocers, or Post Free Bd. stamps.
W. CORNELL,
Ballarat, Vic.
THE SMELTING COMPANY S' AUSM'A
LIMITED,
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»
Managing Director: JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS:
Head Office—Mutual Life Buildings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rpHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and othpr Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all will he
tested for the guidance of those not fa' ~ , with ih_>
value of same.


Rtn > j Pg t0 P Bicycles.
THE REMINGTON,
owing to its special method of construction, is by far
the STRONGEST MACHINE for its weight made.
The Running is Perfection, and a High Gear can be
used on a REMINGTON with more ease and less
exertion than a low gear on most other Machines.
rJ
■ -*-•
I
•N
H
Ph .
<5
o
W
I
Eh
Eh
O
Eh
CQ
porters.
49 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY ;
428 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
lnternational Exhibition
Under the Special Patronage of the Queensland Government.
Committee of Management: Thomas Finney, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman; Messrs. J. D. Campbell ;
J. Forsyth, J. Greaves, J. T. Isles, T. Welsby. Secretary : Henry C. Wood. Auditor :F. A. Miille r ’
This EXHIBITION will he OPENED in BOWEN PARK, BRISBANE
on sth MAY, 1897, for 3\ Months.
AND BE DIVIDED INTO TWO DISTINCT SECTIONS-Namely,
1. INDUSTRIAL, embracing FINE ARTS, MUSIC, EDUCATION, FURNITURE,
POTTERY, GLASS, JEWELLERY, PAPER, PRINTING, TEXTILE FABRICS, LEATHER,
FOOD, CHEMISTRY, ELECTRICITY, LIGHTING, HEATING, CUTLERY. CARRIAGES,
MACHINERY, PRIME MOVERS, NAVAL ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING, MINING,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, FISHERIES, Women’s INDUSTRY & Artisans’ WORK.
2. AGRICULTURAL, embracing HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP, SWINE, DOGS,
POULTRY, WOOL, SUGAR, FARM and DAIRY PRODUCE, HORTICULTURE.
N.B. —For Schedules, Entry Forms, and all particulars, apply to
JULES JOUBERT, General Manager, Courier Building, Brisbane.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depst, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Qrands—iron-framed, walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will‘effect a saving of 50 per cent, as vcompared with’buying them from dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best-felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a is of unique. construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
ba.BS wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and'accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.‘
Hammer-shanks ol
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos
be nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a. full sonorous volume, in the bass;'a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss v in transit. . The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will be submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Waif a.
THE
‘ Plum *
pro
THE
4 Plum*
GENTLEMEIn who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price i S ! n £ le Tiazor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania , Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
6,
TiOOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4k/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by l) e Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Piping Hot, Nana, and all Zola’s Novels,
posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free, Is 3d.
romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Fox’s Sensational Series, French Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2s 6d each ; posted 3s.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
New Realistic Novels Wife in Name Only ;
Thais, or the Venoeance of Venus ; Decoyed ; Modern
Don Juan ; Rose's Confession ; With Unchaste Pur-
pose ; His Last Passion ; Spanish Decameron ; Is 3d
each, post free.
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Deoz, posted 2s.
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is.
Madame Bovary, from the French, posted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife, posted 2s.
The Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Maupassant’s Contes Choisis (in French), posted 2s.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
SOUTH
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
KENSINGTON
(Under Roy&l m ■■ ■■ ■
¥ Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with alt ■■ I EL La
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
I Tobacco
e most jfji&bTe Brand ®
I ‘ I!
d
IN Al/STI^ALI/A
TRY
Topi&o
Extra Larpe fares S?&/i
So/eAge/rft homeruletobacco^
BISCUITS are
1. The Standard of Excellence.
2. The Best Known.
3. Most Recommended.
4. Guaranteed Pure by the
largest and most reputable
Biscuit Manufacturer in
Australia.
WM. ARNOTT, Biscuit Manufacturer,
Newcastle, N.S.W.
Beware of
Imitations.
HOCMDD’S marvellous HHIR RESTORER
*-55
c/S
0q
T S rightly considered by thousands of people
J- who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest the premature decay and per
manently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
&
wm
*
as
Read the following Genuine and unsolicited Testimonial •
DEA f -f -ii i , Lansel Road ’Toorak.
I shall be pleased if you will pack securely two 10s. 6d. bottles of your Marvellous
Hair Restorer. I want them for a gentleman residing in Sydney. lam pleased vou are
doing so well with it. It is the very best preparation I have used 7 I have used many kinds
of restorers, and I could not get my hair to grow. Since I have used the Marvellous Hair
Restorer my hair has improved wonderfully.
„ Yours truly, Mrs M IVT‘Pir,,.„ c .A,T
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATATFIVT ” ' Tt
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for ‘‘ Restorer, ” or write KRATMENT. I*
Price per Bottle-38., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.-9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAN D, HAUI SJ ’ E %i
LIST, . . .
Collins-st., Melbourne.
BOSTEDO.”
“AMERICA’S
BEST"
GUARANTEED
12
MONTHS.
All Colors.
WEIGHT -231 b.
[adies’
Bikes
A Specialty!
FISHER &LIN6NAM 5 Sol* Importers,
VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY.
We are also Sole Importers NatioQal Cast) Registers !
agents wanted. Snjitlj Prenjier Typewriters.


SoftCa O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
><
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. J PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for th*
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Tbc Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
- ■ n-nrl Plmo T»OC*f 111 till P TVT fliVkfit.
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP. „ . + .
UOC “ ks Li ee. Cures and Prevents Scab a*xc3. I'ootrot.
m^ofhtT'llmiaeCm'e '(in bottles), *-pts., 1/6; pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine Blight Cure (in bottles), i-pts , 1/6; pts., 2/6 each
w S wH M A N n VcO„ “Rialto,” Collins-street, MELBOURNE; 63 Pitt-streot, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
MOPERNISEP & RENOVATEP at a cost of £30,00 0
The MOST PALATIAL FAMILY HOTEL
in Southern Hemisphere. Terms from £4 4s.
SPECIAL AUK AN GEM ENTS may be made by writing to the Manager.
The Mystery of Murboola .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Exhibition of 1880, locally de-
fined as a “national boon,” was so chiefly to Mel-
Dourne publicans, who spun webs to catch the un-
sophisticated from afar. These, identifiable by
the grass seeds, shreds of wool, and raging thirsts
they carried about their persons, were attracted
by thousands to the garish apotheosis of damaged
whisky. They brought, too, the flat-chested
females of their race, guiltless of curves, if not of
freckles and barbaric adornment. Those Austra-
lians who, surviving Melbourne publicans, police,
cabmen and calico jemmies, returned home, cursed
the City of Stinks categorically and copiously.
All did not return. Numbers went out —Heaven
and the local banditti only knew how. Some,
swollen, eel-bitten and carious, floated in due time
to the surface-slime of loathsome Yarra. Some
vanished for evermore. Others were variously
found after many days. Queer epoch ! Epoch of
money-grabbing brutality masquerading as “ pro-
gress ’’—epoch of sealskin jackets and burst boots,
of diamonds and dirty linen. Its secret history
remains to be told. Here, one insignificant page
only.
* * * *
Daniel Joad and his wife, Seba, from
Murboola, “ way-back ” nor’west of Victoria, were
among the visitors. Life was very real at Mur-
boola. The Joads had been married and lived
there four years. Joad was not “ nice.” He was
a mean man. He was cruel —unhappy when not
hurting something. Dogs, passing him, glanced
obliquely and soliloquised about his character ;
children shunned him ; white men yearned exceed-
ingly, sometimes irrepressibly, to kick him.
Revenge, lust, and chiefly avarice prompted his
marriage. Seba took him to demonstrate her
utter indifference to Tom Black, who, after mak-
ing hot, sweet love to her, had married “ that
odious, red-headed creature, Sarah Belsey.” And
then, to demonstrate her consistency, Seba had
selected Joad because there was strong physical
likeness between the two men. Mentally and
morally each was the other’s antithesis. Between
Sarah and Joad there had been passages. None
knew better than Joad that Black was indifferent
to Sarah and loved Seba, and that Black made a
loveless match to save the too-ardent Sally from
shame not of his causing—though the woman led
Black to believe otherwise. Yet the amiable
Joad proposed, when he gained possession
of Seba, to wreak on her the venomed hate
he bore for Black. The Blacks went away
to Gippsland. The Joads, after marriage,
journeyed nor’west to land bought for and
settled upon Seba by her father, whose only
child she was (and he a widower). The old
man farmed near Stawell, and worshipped
“that theer gell o’mine.” She, handsome, tall,
lithe, full-busted and Indian-eyed, had some edu-
cation, more imagination, read comprehendingly
of poetical and prose passion, and played, not
inharmoniously, on the metallic made-in-Germany
“ pianner ” which the old fellow carted home one
day with his seed-potatoes. She dreamt of fuller
existence, in which calves and butter had small
place, and yearned for the infinite—which meant
a good husband. That bill, her father’s neighbors
agreed, Joad did not fill. They wondered such a
girl, “ with a tidy bit of money, too,” should
marry “ that sneaking cur,” and trust herself in
a lonely land with one whose antecedents were
vague. Even new bucolic populations demand
pedigrees.
* » * *
Six months after marriage, Seba carried a
bruised face and battered body. Later, the best
revolver purchasable. Later still, Joad, presum-
ably by way of atonement, introduced a young
lady with rolling eyes and much cerise hair wan-
dering about a wanton neck and bust —“ t» help
with the house-work,” he explained. Ere many
days Seba drove a dishevelled female to the
railway, twenty miles away, returning with a
sturdy lock, which she fixed on the door of a bed-
room—in future hers alone.
“You lay hand on me or come into that room
and I’ll shoot you. If I miss, I’ll poison you with
as littl* shame as I would a dingo.”
Joad believed her. A new look had come into
her deep and once dreamful eyes—such a look as
Joad’s might have worn. He wished to kill her.
Perhaps he might have done so scatheless. The
nearest neighbors—save the men Joad employed,
who lived six hundred yards away and seldom
stayed more than a few weeks—were five miles
distant; the nearest pub., six, and Joad never
entered it, soaking slyly at home. Twenty miles
separated Murboola from the township. Thus
tragedy at Murboola had small risk of discovery.
Seba’s safety lay in the fact that she had willed
Murboola away from Joad, and he knew it. But
most of the money in the bank was in Joad’s
name. Seba didn’t know that.
* • « *
These tw« visited Melbourne in 1880. He
bitterly opposed her coming, but gave in with the
air of one who whispers to himself —“Wait!”
Arrived, they took cab for a third-rate hotel.
Blocked by street traffic, both —strange coincidence
—caught glimpse of Tom Black and Sarah, evi-
dently also just arrived. Seba crimsoned ; Joad
uncovered his teeth hyena-wise. It was Seba who
arranged for rooms at the shabby hotel. Joad,
never alighting, and saying he was going to the
bank, drove away. Seba, knocked-up, went
straight to bed, though it was afternoon. All
night she lay in waking stupor, varied only by
dreary nightmare. Four years of Joad had affected
even her healthy nerves. Towards noon she
dressed, and encountering a squalidly - smart
chambermaid in the untidy passage, begged for
some tea.
“Your man must be having a high old time,”
remarked this vestal; “Mrs. Corr, the lady as
keeps the hotel, says he ain’t been in all night.”
Seba loathed Joad. Yet the news dismayed
her. Save in dreams, she had seen no city. What
little she had seen of the bestial rush and selfish-
ness of this appalled her. Alone and penniless —
Joad on some pretence had borrowed her purse —
the city people seemed to her more arid and in-
hospitable than the cruel scrub in the blazing nor’-
west. She was too ill to remember that a tele-
gram would bring her money.
Presently Mrs. Corr herself appeared—Milesian,
robust, resplendent in satin ; bearing great gold
plates on neck and breast, as warrior’s armor;
her pudgy fingers bloated with rings—veritable
knuckledusters.
“ An’ what’s the matter wid you. Are ye ill ? ”
“ Yes,” said Seba, “ and I’m troubled about my
husband ; he’s not back, I hear, and—and he’s
left me without a penny.”
The grass-widow of Mr. Corr—he sweated for
gold at Temora just then—was rich in life’s ex-
perience, unscholastic wisdom won in miners’
camps and shady grog-shops. Irish by birth, her
education had been racy of earlier Australia.
With moral code more than elastic, chastity less
than doubtful, and a vocabulary speckled by pro-
fanity, she, a past-mistress in the art of lambing-
down, had yet for real modesty and distress the
soft heart not uncommon in bold, bad men. She
could respect a “square” woman. Seba was
assuredly that, was ill, and troubled with a hus-
band who evidently painted towns red. Men
were beasts —even Mrs. Corr admitted.
“ Get to bed, child. I’ll send up some proper
tucker. An’ ye needn’t bother ’bout money. Sure
ye can have what ye want. I’ll send one of the
chaps to look for your man. Give us his photo. ;
we’ve none of us seen him.”
She reappeared with breakfast, made Seba take
a little brandy —“ out o’ me own bottle ;no hurt in
it ” —opened the windows, lowered the blinds, left
the day’s paper, and went. Ten minutes after-
wards, this strong-armed amazon nearly laid-out a
cabman with a lemonade-bottle for attempting to
abduct an opulent and inebriated boarder.
The last thing Seba remembered was reading
the names of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Black in the pas-
senger-list of the Chimborazo, bound for England.
Towards night she felt worse, and a doctor
was sent for. No sign of Joad. One of the led-
captains so often in evidence in hotels gen-
tlemen who toil and spin not, but are ever
gloriously arrayed in liquor —discovered that Joad
had driven straight to the head office of the
bank he dealt with, and had there changed
many notes into gold. Five days in all passed
without further news of him. Seba was slowly
recovering. Then one of the Hibernian retainers,
suffering unwonted spasms of sobriety and lucidity,
suggested an information for wife-desertion. This
laid, a photo, was given the police, and they were
informed that the absentee had disappeared carry-
ing much gold. That evening the usual “ ener-
getic officer” made the usual “clever capture.”
He spotted his man, who was seriously, though
unaggressively drunk, mooning aimlessly about
Collins-street. Searched, the man had neither
papers nor money, save three one-pound notes
slipped into his vest lining. He was utterly
befogged ; the police-surgeon said he had been
dreadfully hocussed, probably with some prepara-
tion of opium—and more than once. The inspec-
tor managed to piece this story from the prisoner’s
incoherency—had gone with wife to unknown
hotel; wife had gone out; he, later ; forgot locality
and never knew name of hotel; had enquired at
another hotel, where had one glass of something to
drink, and—and it was “time to get the milkers
in.” Laughed idiotically when told he hadn’t
seen his wife for five nights. Opined it was
“jolly goo’ job.” Mrs. Corr bailed out the
“ bloomin’ deserter ” and drove him, still doltish
and at times unconscious, to the hotel. Seba
wouldn’t see him. She cried a good deal when she
heard he was back.
* * * *
On the second day of his return. “ Come
up and see your wife, you bloomin’ deserter,” said
Mrs. Corr. He didn’t seem either anxious or
lucid, but went. Mrs. Corr pushed him into
Seba’s room, discreetly retiring. As he entered
Seba rose with a darkening face and lurid eyes ;
but, looking up, went deathly white to the lips
and put her hand to her heart—“ Y ou ! you 1 My
God ! ”
* * * »
But the interview must have ended not
unpleasantly. When the man came out it was
with shining eyes and brightened intellect. He
laughed good laughter ; his voice was resonant
with new happiness. Mrs. Corr found Seba a
woman all transfigured—lovelight in her eyes, a
bride’s blush on her cheek.
“ Well, ye two bangs me ! I thought ye hated
him, and clivil a much he seemed to care for ye.
An’ now he’s shoutin’ the house down for drinks
for all hands and—and ye look like a philanderin
miss wid her first boy calf. My word ! but you’re
pretty, child.”
• » * *
Mrs. Joad and the “Deserter,” as the
landlady persisted in calling him, departed next
day ; but not before he had made addition to the
stupendous bric-a-brac which adorned her ample
person. She was loud in his praises—“ the foinest
feller iver came into the house; free wid his
money, for all he’d lost such a lot; must be well
in ; a proper man, that Joad,” and so on.
“ Wot d’ye call him? ” asked an old bush hand
who was knocking down a cheque of prepossessing
dimensions.
“Joad?”
“ Joad, as one time lived in Stawell ?
Ves J *
“ Don’t tell me,” said the old chap. “ I knowed
Joad, rot him ! Knowed him five, years ago, a
measly hound ! That wasn’t Joad.”
“You old fool, you’ll be seein’ tiger-snakes to-
night,” and Mrs. Corr fined him the drinks.
* * * *
Bht, after all, Mrs. Joad was fated to make
the journey without male escort. She stopped, en
route, at Stawell, getting to her father’s house in
time to close his eyes. He, long ailing, bad
steadily refused to bother “that theer gell o
mine.” As, however, she had “ got thro her
pleasurin’ and is come, I thinks I’ll take the
opportoonity to peg out ’’—which he did. It was
three weeks before Seba, still cavalierless, reached
Murboola. Her troubles must have made her
irritable. She found fault with everything the
men had done in her absence. Result, they de-
manded cheques, departing with blasphemy. That
night, strange to say, other men arrived to take
their places—which was suggestive of previous
rehearsal. It was a month before the Deserter
joined. For two years thereafter these twain
dwelt together as happily as it is given to mortals
to live. He had seemingly altered all old habits,
never stirring away from lonely Murboola, but
leaving Seba to transact all banking and other
business. Making no acquaintances, they were
no more widely known at the end of these two
years than before. Yet population was slowly
but surely closing round them, and they had
greatly prospered.
* * * *
Then the man was called away. News reached
them—news which took him swiftly and with
secrecy to Melbourne, thence to Sydney. There
he closed the eyes of a wretched woman who had
been battered to death by her—her husband.
The brute had escaped. Meanwhile a great dread
seized Seba—not apparently of loneliness, because
there were now married men at Murboola, whose
wives would have kept her company. But Seba
went, day and night, with pale lips and drawn
face. So haunted by this unspoken horror was
she that, for the first time for two years, she got
out, cleaned, loaded, and carried the pistol she
had bought to protect herself from Joad.
♦ * * *
Her terror was prophetic. The abomina-
tion she trembled at and expected befel. One
night a window was tried. The next minute it
was forced, and a man, or devil, dropped into the
room.
“ I have found you out at last, you ! ”
* * * *
Five days later the “deserter” returned.
He had not been an hour in the house before Seba
said :
“I’ll live in this vile place no more. I’ll sell it,
or burn it, or plough it with salt, but I’ll live here
never again.”
“ Well, that is strange ! ” replied the other. “ I,
or rather you, had a grand offer for it this morn-
ing. If you mean going, we could clear out in
two days.”
“ For God’s sake, yes,” she gasped.
* * * *
In the Spring of 1883 a Mr. and Mrs.
Sebath stayed at the Langham, London—“ estim-
able people who had made money in Australia.”
An old gentleman, who had a son in Victoria,
told them one day the story—then a little anti-
quated—of what the newspapers called the “Mur-
boola Mystery.” Briefly, this : Within a week of
the Joads leaving Murboola, the dead body of
Joad, strangely preserved, was found in a deepish
hole near the house. A gunshot wound in his
head and a revolver (one chamber discharged) in
his hand, clearly proved the case, said the doctors,
to be one of suicide. But—and here the essence of
the mystery—both Joads had, and without shadow
of doubt, been seen in Melbourne three hours
before Joad’s dead body was found hundreds of
miles away 1
* * * *
“ How remarkable,” drawled Mrs. Sebath,
with strangely-quivering lips.
J. EVISON.


Gentlemen, —We have now ready for free
distribution our complete price-list of gentlemen’s
boys , and youths’clothing, underclothing, water-
proof clothing, mercery, hats. Write to us for
one; it is bound to come in useful, especially if
you live in the country and unable to personally
select your requirements from us. Hordern
Bros., 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street /only)
Sydney. * J '*
The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
li
REPUBLIOUE
FRANCAISE^
A.& F.PEARS
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Off the Grass.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were boasting on “ The Greenhide” of their
nags of fancy breed,
And stuffing them with bran and oats to run in
Gumleaf Town,
But we hadn’t got a racehorse that was worth a
dish of feed,
So didn’t have a “ Buckley’s show ” to take the
boasters down.
For old Midnight was.in Sydney and we couldn’t
get him up
In time for Gumleaf Races if it had been worth
our while ;
The Chorus colt was far too light to win the Gum-
leaf Cup,
And we didn’t own a hackney that could finish
out the mile.
But we couldn’t watch them win it while we never
had a say, ‘
So we mustered up the horses, and we caught
old Myall King ;
lie’s as brave as ever galloped, but he’s twelve if
he’s a day,
And we couldn’t help but chuckle at the humor
of the thing.
But, though shaky in the shoulders, he’s the daddy
of them all,
He’s the gamest bit of horseflesh from the
Snowy to the Bree,
One of those that’s never beaten, coming every
time you call;
One of those you sometimes read about but very
seldom see.
He’s the don at every muster and the king of every
camp;
He’s the lad to stop the pikers when they take
you on the rush ;
And he loves the merry rattle of the stockwhip
and the tramp
Of the cockhorned mulga scrubbers when they’re
breaking in the brush.
He can foot the “Greenhide” brumbies if they
take a mile of start,
And if they get him winded in a gallop on the
plain
He’s as game as any lion, and he carries such a
heart
You can never say he’s beaten, for he’ll always
come again !
So we put up Jack the Stockman with his ten
pounds overweight,
And he lengthened out the leathers half-a-foot
and gave a smile:
“ I don’t suppose you’ll see us when they’re fairly
in the straight,
But we’ll make the beggars travel, take my
oath, for half-a-mile ! ”
And they started, and the old horse jumped away
a length in front,
And every post they came to gave the brown a
longer lead
Till it seemed that there was nothing else but
Myall in the hunt,
With his load of station honor and his weight
of mulga feed !
Then the bay mare Bogan Lily started out to cut
him down ;
She had travelled out five hundred miles to win
the Gumleaf Cup,
And she couldn’t well get beaten by a hack in
Gumleaf Town,
When she had to pay expenses for her owner’s
journey up.
So she started out to catch the old brown camp-
horse from the Bush,
And a furlong from the finish she could nose his
rider’s knee,
Then you should have heard the shouting of the
Bogan Lily push,
And the flinging of their hats up was a sight for
you to see !
But old Myall King had often been as nearly beat
before.
And he steadied off a little while the mare shot
out ahead,
Then he shook his ears and gripped the bit—you
should have heard us roar
As he came at Bogan Lily with his flanks a
streak of red !
And the little bay mare, beaten, gave him best
and threw it up,
And we heard her rider murmur as he saw the
brown horse pass
And Jack the Stockman drop his hands and win
the Gumleaf Cup—
“ Beat by a cripple of a camp-horse, off the
grass ! ”
Then we led him in a winner, and they cheered
him from the stand,
With the black sweat running channels from his
forearm to his foot,
And the white foam on his shoulder till you
couldn’t see the brand,
And the crimson bloodstains scattered over
spur and flank and boot.
So we carried off the honors of the meeting —and
the notes ;
And the men on Greenhide River, when they
see our fellows pass,
Will tell you this in whispers, “You can train
your nags on oats,
But be careful when you’re racing those d —d
scrubbers off the grass l”
W. H. OGILVIE.
Some time ago, at Zeehan (Tas.), a large
tree was blown down during a westerly gale. A
tent which stood in the line of fall just escaped by
being between the two main branches of the tree.
Only a little branch touched and tore the after
part, causing the balance to fall. The usual num-
ber of people rushed to the rescue of the man in
the tent, and were astonished to hear a voice from
beneath the canvas: “ None of yer darned jokes !
I’ll make yer pay for the blanky tent.”
Ed. Bulletin, —My own experience re
the “ N.S.W. Relief Works Swindle.” Eighty
men were engaged to thin out the Murray River
gum forests below Koondrook—wages, 6s. 6d. per
day and find themselves in tucker and cook.
Govt, found tools, utensils, etc. Their ration-bill
altogether ought not to be more than Bs. per week
per man (in local shearing-sheds the ration-bill
is less than that figure). The only men put on
at first were the unemployed from Sydney, who
travelled on free passes. Of the 80 first engaged
60 left within two months, mainly because they
wanted to get back to Sydney. Local men were
afterwards put on, as they considered 30s. per
week clear good wages for eight hours clean
work with the axe. But a local publican reaped
the biggest harvest.—Yours, &c., H.D.
The First Axiom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Well, what do you want ? ” Harley asked. He
had just been interrupted once in a difficult
explanation of an arithmetical problem, and this
second interruption was a little too much for his
patience. Harley was not a model teacher. He
couldn’t keep in a groove, he was too versatile.
There was no even tenor in Harley’s way. He
could explain the knottiest problem in the most lucid
manner, propound the wisest doctrine, unravel
the mysteries of the causes that actuated men to
certain deeds in history, teach for an hour in a
manner that held his hearers breathless, stirred
their intellects to solve, or their minds to apply—
but then Harley would shut off steam and drift.
Then the school drifted too. Harley’s brilliancy
was intermittent, his genius displayed itself in
meteoric flashes. He was no born instructor,
he was an elucidator—for an hour —and his hours
were far apart. The teacher must keep on, keep
on, cause and effect, effect and cause, a continuous
stream, logical deduction, logical conclusion. This,
however, is not notes of a lesson on school-
management.
Harley looked impatiently at the'child before
him —a little girl with dirty, naked feet, unkempt
hair, and untidy, torn skirt. Harley hated dirt—
he was cleanly to a degree. Teaching was all very
well, he used to say, but the associations in the
public schools were trying, very trying. With a
superior class of children he did not object to the
work, but the dirt, the uncouth manner, the
rough and vulgar speech, these were too much for
Harley’s patience. He never recognised that he
was there to remove them, to raise the standard,
improve the conditions, and so to find pleasure
and reward in his work. “ Why don’t you work,
child ? ” said Harley fiercely. The class tittered ;
Harley scowled, and there was silence; the class
knew Harley—there was a cane resting against the
easel.
The girl held out a note. It was written on a
leaf of an exercise-book, and it was dirty. Peters
took it:
piece i have to keep this girl atome for lissy smith
Beating her every day she is Coming home from school
she wated yestday and pulled her hair and theumped her
on the back witch maid my girl sick
Yours truly
Mas. Ryan.
* Oh ! ” said Harley slowly and questioningly.
The girl twisted a dirty part of her skirt into a
corner, and began to bite it, pulling it in jerks
every now and then from between her teeth.
Harley took up his cane and tapped on the board.
The whole school came to silence and attention
m a moment. The teachers fell back from before
their classes, or looked up from their work among
the pupils.
“ Mr. Brown, send Lizzie Smith to me.”
“ Lizzie Smith, go to Mr. Harley.” Lizzie
Smith rose and came.
“ The school—resume work ! ” said Harley. The
school resumed. “Old Harley might have got
that youngster without stopping all the school. I
wonder how he’d like to be pulled up every now
and then in his work,” grumbled onepupil-teacher
to another near him. “He himself is always pull-
mg up, that’s why he doesn’t see it. As is the
teacher, so is the school! Don’t growl, go in for a
yo u don’t like it,” was the answer.
I here are worse than Harley.”
Wellj Lizzie Smith, have you been thumping
Mary Ryan ? ’ Harley asked severely.
Please, sir, no sir; I never done nothin’ to ’er.
Please, sir, she’s alius callin’ us names, sir—me
an’ me sister,” answered Lizzie Smith, looking at
Harley with vulgar resentment, shocked that he
should think of asking her such a question, accus-
ing her of such an offence.
“Please, sir, she did !” asserted Mary Ryan,
nodding her head expressively at Lizzie Smith.
Harley took a long breath and looked at them.
“ Get along, Mary Ryan.” Mary got. “And as
for you, Lizzie Smith, leave Mary Ryan alone,
that’s all, or you’ll get into trouble ; go back to
your class. I ’ll enquire further.” Lizzie, indig-
nant, went.
Harley’s explanation was spoiled, he set his class
a silent lesson, and drifted. Noon came, and the
school was dismissed. The subject for the after-
noon was Euclid. Harley had resumed, and he and
his class were once more intent. Lizzie Smith
came in, ten minutes late. She handed a note to
Harley. More interruption ! Harley thought the
note was for.being late. “Go to your place,’’said
Harley, putting aside the note unread.
“ Please, mother says to read what she’s writ.”
Harley stared. Lizzie Smith looked vindictive.
Harley took up the note again.
“ Sir, I rite these lines to you to let you know that what
Mrs. Ryan said to you in her note was untrue, that I can
pruve by Mrs. Murphy she had to take her Children
from the publick school an’ send them to the privet
threw Ryans, they 7 no Children can move for her for she
chase them across the paddick with a broom when she
drunk, and if you take any notice of her that got to be
brought home in a Chinaman’s cart drunk and beging
beating other pepoles' Children for what she says you
find yourself in a nice box, for I antend to make more to
do about if you go to the mistress she tell you what Mrs.
Murphy had to take her Children from school for
kindly fourdard me the not(e) that Mrs. Ryan sent to you
if you don’t wish to get yourself into any trouble and I
don’t wish to get you into trouble as I never had no trou-
ble with no fo (of) the niberous (neighbours) before she
came to live next door my children never been able to
look out the gate for fear of her chasing them.
Yours, MRS. SMITH.
Harley held the note abstractedly, pondering what
he should do. He had kept Mrs. Ryan’s note, he
took it from his pocket and compared it with the
other. Lizzie Smith stood contemplating him,
expectant. The boy who had been demonstrating
a proposition upon the board, noting Harley’s long
abstraction, took up again his proof. His words
broke on Harley’s ears—“ And since things that are
equal to the same thing are equal to one another,
by the Ist axiom; therefore “Stop!”
cried Harley, “ I didn’t tell you to resume.” “Go
to your place, Lizzie Smith.” “Go on, now,”
he said, turning again to the boy. The boy had
solved the problem.
A.G.A.
Other times, other manners. Down to the
middle of the 16th century it was the usual thing',
not only to pay counsel with money, but also to
provide them with meat and drink while they
were on their client’s business. In an old bill of
costs (1485) is found: “For breakfast at West-
minster spent on our counsel, one shilling and
sixpence.” That may have been very well in
those days ; but fancy suitors having to provide
meat and drink—especially drink—for some of the
members of the N.S. W. bar !


AYER'S SARSAPARILLA
CURES
Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Loss of Strength and
Appetite, and Nervous Disorders,
1
%
\\\ V
%
iuWWv.v'.-T-'iW
\VS
I fflußnli
f'-l'l '<'y\
M'iy’ " ! ’
The following letter from Mrs. S. Gash, of Kent Town, So. Australia,
whose portrait is given above, is additional testimony to the remarkable
health-giving power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
“For two years or more I suffered considerably from indigestion,
sleeplessness, and loss of strength and appetite. When I did sleep I was
not refreshed, and I always had a severe headache in the morning. I was
induced to try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and was more than pleased at the
result, for after taking three bottles my complaints disappeared, and I
have been in the best of health ever since. I can strongly recommend
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to any one afflicted as I was.”
The wonderful success of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in purifying the blood and
restoring health and strength to systems enfeebled by disease, or the enervat-
ing effect of a warm climate, has led to the placing on the market of other
preparations called Sarsaparilla. Remember that imitation is the sincer-
est form of flattery, and be sure that you get AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
which has stood the test of time, has won the highest awards at the world’s
great expositions, and has been a blessing to the people of Australia, and
all civilized countries, for more than a generation. No other medicine operates
so effectually in removing general debility, languor, and all outward symp-
toms of the grave mischief caused by disordered nerves and impure blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
That Enriches and Invigorates the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS, Sugar Coated Mild but Effective.
Hotels.
tW" Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUOH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
“DRINK NO LONGER. WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South. Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
R AILWAY STATION).
MA.ORILA.MO.
Mrs. BOND’S CrcSQCfyt Notd,
INVERCARGILL,
“The” Health Resort
FOR AUSTRALIANS.
TAT TER BALL’S HOTEL.,
I'l i n tiers- st., Tote nsr i/le.
THOS. ENRIGHT ... PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position
being opposite the wharves and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Brandt’s REFRIGERATOR,
For Keeping BUTTER, MEAT,
MILK, &c., COLD.
The Hotterthe Weather, the Cooler
it is, as the evaporation of water is
greater. 6in. x 6in., 3s. ; loin, x
Bin., ss. ; and upwards. By post,
Is. extra.
BRANDT BROS, LAMP
MAKERS, 236 Pitt-st., SYDNEY;
& 422 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
7L ■
r-THE^
Ballet Ciiri,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic li*<-
Post Free 1/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at t.he Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Onlv of
MADAME PANZA,
Itox »Ul, (J.1’.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME'S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
AN ARTISTIC ANIMAL.
rv
t*f a
rr
ftp'/™
Mg' l ,w
I
u
V
Artist (sketching): "What a grand
opportunity for a fine study of a
cow standing in the water.”
c /
w
i/fe
" Rrchcr*
Cow: “Yes. Let me help you !
t s *" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medioinesdiave not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. fST" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
*
“ Worth a Guinea a Box.”
PERM'S
—FOR ALL-
Bilious & Nervous Disorders
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver, and Female Ailments.
LARGEST SALE OF ANY PATENT MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Beecham’s Cough Pills
STAND UNRIVALLED FOR
Coughs, Asthma, Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Ac., Ac.
In Boxes, Is. and 2s. 9d. each, with Pull Directions,
The Is. ljd. Box contains 56 Pills.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
Will Recommend Itself.
It is Efficacious, Economical, Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and
is a Reliable and Pleasant Dentifrice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of ALL DRUGGISTS, or from the PROPRIETOR
for ONE SHILLING-, postage paid.
PnrtMD Only by the Pboprtetob-
Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, England.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers Everywhere.
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS: also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
CIGARS:
MADRTNA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MIX DO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &e., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash ° r Time-Payment
£W Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEKET, SYDNEY.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Bust Quality).
BUT FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELI. & CO.,
278 Gecrge-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
"aWarMng scent?
H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
s
WHITE BOSE.
“The Sweetest of Sweet Odours.”
Delightfully and delicately fragrant.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ATKINSON'S ONLY GENUINE
Perfume, Toilet Powder, Soap, Tooth Powder,
Sachets, & all other specialities with this
s ‘ charming ” odour, of all Dealers through-
out the World & of the Manufacturers—
J. & E.ATKINSON, 24, Oldßond St.,London.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ABE —
W. MA M M ATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKSI
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
/SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDKTBY.
•ajxcunoscrißnAr ‘^aaj^s
~‘aooia aHi..
sxitnoo
ortbiQgtoi? P(in)pii)g Eogiije Co.
.(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
WORTHINGTON
•cnee
TRADE MARK-
Syd
ney, KS.W.
QUEENSLAND: McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA: T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street,
Launceston.
Agencies:
'NEW ZEALAND : E. Porter & Co., Queen-st., Auckland-
J, Anderson, Canterbury Foundry,
Christchurch.
IVortliingrton Pumps
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION
SINKING,
MINING.
CREAMERIES,
GARDEN SUPPLIES,
WOOL-SCOURING,
WOOL-DUMPING,
WATER-SUPPLIES,
SEWERAGE,
MARINE,
TANK-FILLING,
BOILER-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application•
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal plaoes of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either ot these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
' SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywhere. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
Ropp Furnace.
Huntington Mill.
Frue Yanner.
Challenge Feeder.
Dodge Rockbreaker.
Gates’ Rockbreaker.
Knowles’ Pump.
Ingersoll Compressor
Tngersoll Rock Drill.
Krom Rolls.
Dodge Pulveriser.
Roger Rolls.
Engines, Boilers.
All Fittings.
-S.A.
Prospecting Outfit *>* £l5O
Consisting of
3-head ‘ Prospector’ Battery
(2851 b. STAMPS),
with AMALGAMATING TABLE and PLATES.
4 H.-P. VERTICAL ENGINE.
UPRIGHT MULTITUBULAR BOILER,
WITH ALL FITTINGS AND CONNECTIONS.
DOX7BLB-A.CTIKTG F XT M F.
BcltiQg, PtillcVS, Tools, CtC-
/—S
'w'
Parke & Lacy Corppaoy Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES
For every class ol WorK. Agents Everywhere.
Baiho’s
Powder.
Scale of Advertising;
—IN—
“ THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed
••• 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
... 10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
for cash in advance.
Mallo
CIGARS.
The popular favorites. Equal in flavor and aroma to cigars of twice their
cost. Always reliable and in good condition. Best value ever known.
..MT -•
J,M.
i
MaluO
ei'iH
B
raff
r-:L
yJ
3 - Popular Remedies - 3
BoQQiQgtOO’S Irish Moss
Eor Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
Boi)i)ii)ltOi)’S Lii/ ? r Took
ior indigestion and Nervous Debility.
Boi)i)ii)gtoi)’s Pills
For Biliousness, Sick Headache, and
Liver Complaints.
