

CHRISTMAS
NUMBER OF THE
BULLETIN
Ydl. 18.—No. 930.
[Saturday, December 11, 1897
Roistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
66 The Spirit of the times shall teaeh me Speed .
IN’ ALL AGES and in all climes has existed—and will exist—a keen longing for speed, but at no period of the world’s history has there been such a desire
for speed as at present. The desire manifests itself in all directions, and it, not confined to sport. Ocean steamers vie with each other in crossing the
“ herring pond ” in the fastest time on record, and various railway companies race their trains with a similar object in view.
The following comparative table of various rates of progress serves to show how complete is the triumph of a high-grade machine like the
DUNLOP CYCLE, SIIOCX WitL Dunlop Tyros, over other means of locomotion.
Everyone should make a point of inspecting the
at the nearest Austral Cycle Agency’s Depot (see list
of addresses at foot), or sending for the superbly Illu-
strated Art Catalogue of these magnificent machines,
which will be sent post free on application.
DUNLOP CYCLE
RATES OE SPEED PER HOUR.
(The length of the black lines is according to a scale of l-Bth of an inch to the mile.)
A man swims
A man walks (Record)
A vessel sails
A man runs (Record)
A man skates (Record)
A horse trots (Record)
High Bicycle Record is
Tricycle Record is
Motor Car runs
Steam Boat runs (Record)
The DUNLOP CYCLE Record is
2 miles (about)
8 miles 270 yards (W. J. Sturgess)
10 miles (^bout)
11 miles 970 yards (Deerfoot)
16 miles (Donoghue)
20 miles (Lady Combermere)
21 miles 800 yards B. W. Attlee)
23 miles 800 yards (W. Ellis)
25 miles (about)
26 7-Btli miles (Lusitania)
WORLD’S RECORD, 32 miles 1086 yards, the
gieatest distance ever covered in One
Hour on any type of machine.
—ALSO—
World’s Record for One Mile -1 min. 35 2-sth sec., by J. W. Stocks.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE ACENCY LTD.
391 George Street, SYDNEY; 139 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Depots at Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Christchurch, Dunedin, Charters Towers, Warrnambool, &c.
SOLE AGENTS for the World-Famed
BEESTON - HUMBER. SWIFT, ai)d SIN<S€R CYCLES.


THE BED PAGE.
A LENGTHY memoir of Tennyson has
been published by his son Hallam.
Tennyson’s sense of beauty and power
over form make it permissible to call
him a fine poet; but he was not a,
great poet, and he was a small man.
His works are a husk of splendid words
with a shrivelled kernel of common
place ; himself was like unto them—a big
good-looking, well-draped figure of a fellow
with a priggish and womanish mind. Th
two vast volumes are the Prig’s Apotheosis.
• * • •
Son Hallam speaks of his father’s ‘ ric i
humour.’ Tennyson had as much humou
as the average woman, and no more. Imagin
Heine’s grin at the awful anti-climax
‘ Enoch Arden ’—
And when they buried him the little port
Had seldom seen a costlier funeral.
The average woman thinks that climax sub
lime ; and so probably did Tennyson. T
the last he could hardly have realised his
iniquity—for he, who altered or withdrew
so many of his lines, would not alter or with
draw these, which stand in the final editio
as a crowning example of Tennyson’s ‘ ric 1
humour.’
♦ * * *
‘ Miss Alfred,’ as his contemporaries in
stinctively dubbed him before physiology hac
come to explain how a woman’s soul gets
into a man’s body, wrote many grotesqu
things, but .none quite so grotesque as tha;
quoted—unless a reference in his correspond-
ence with Queen Victoria be counted level.
This correspondence shows Tennyson’s ‘ nc i
humour ’in exoelsis. The two commonplac
minds sisterise like two old washerwomen
chattering; grieve together over Glad
stone’s Liberal iniquities; drivel warm
expressions of mutual admiration basec
on admiration of self ; and pose ant
grimace as Heaven’s peculiar instruments
in a fashion surely never paralleled out o"
Britain. All Tennyson’s letters are lovely
crawlers ; all Queen Victoria’s shine with
mock-humility ; but Tennyson carries off the
bathos-honors. Queen Vic. is good, as when
sympathising with the mortal illness o’
Tennyson’s son Lionel, she writes on Apri
16, 1886 (just after Gladstone had intro-
duced his Irish land reform bills to the
horror of Ulstermen and Tories) —
God grant that you may get better news 1
Beatrioe shares my feelings, having known
Eleanor so well.
I cannot in this letter allude to politics, but
know what your feelings must be.
Yet Tennyson’s answer easily finds a lower
deep—
Our latest telegram was from Colombo, “ no
improvement; ” but in this pause, as it were,
between Life and Death, since your Majesty
touches upon the disastrous policy of the day, I
may say that I wish I may be in my own grave
beyond sight and hearing, when an English army
fires upon the Loyalists of Ulster.
Isn’t this worthy of the mind that closed
Enoch Arden’s tragedy with a whopping
undertaker’s bill—this combination of family
affection and politics, this courtier-truckling
to royal prejudices over a son’s deathbed ?
Tennyson was indeed a ‘ rich humorist ’ I
Queen Victoria cannot equal him, though
she tries hard. When, by-and-by, the bard
dies, she writes the deep of bathos calling
to the deep of grief at the noise of Death’s
waterspouts—
Most deeply does, the Queen feel for Lady
Tennyson, whose delicate health will, the Queen
hopes, not suffer from this great shock. The
blank will be so terrible.
The Queen prays earnestly that they may all be
sustained in this hour of grief and bereavement.
What was the cause of this fatal termination of his
very short illness ?
One * rich humorist ’ deserves another 1
• • • •
And further, when Tennyson the stage-
poet—who never all his life forgot that he
was playing a r6le—who dressed his part
deliberately—who shut out the mob from his
house while he toadied to the mob in his
poems—who pretended indifference to press
comments and raved hysterically when he
wasn’t praised—who wrote
The noblest answer unto suoh
Is perfeot stillness when they brawl
after he had published his vicious feminine
slap for Lytton ; when Tennyson lay letter-
perfect in death, with his Shakespeare in h
arms, making exit with the most ‘ poetica
•device he could invent, and commonplac
minds all the world over wept at the art
ficial pathos of the end—duly advertised b
the doctor—then Queen Victoria fell ignobl;
to the occasion—
Everything must have been most touching anc
beautiful, and worthy of what the great poet was
‘ passing away ’ with Shakespeare in his hand, th
very simple and affecting departure from his ow
beloved home, and the last sad ceremony whe
the mortal part of this great man was laid in i
final resting-plaoe.
It appealed to Queen Victoria as ‘ a prett;
•dying,' in fact—she was interested just
she would have been in ‘ a pretty wedding
and was concerned to know that ‘ everythin
passed off quite nicely,’ And Tennyson re
garded the business in precisely the sam
way. Queen Victoria couldn’t altogethe
have made a good Tennyson, but Tennyso
would have made an excellent Queen 7ic
toria. His continual long-cloak with th
velvet collar was a great comfort to hi
woman-soul; but he would have been muc
happier in a flowered satin skirt, with ap
propriate trimmings.
• * * *
A great many unintelligent people blamec
Tennyson for becoming a lord ; a few blamec
him for becoming laureate. He was bom fo
both positions. ‘ Good ’ people never seem
able to understand, whenweepingover victim
of ‘ the social evil,’ that a woman often pro
stitutes herself because she likes to—she’
frequently built that way. And assuredly
Tennyson prostituted his poetic pen on be
half of John Brown and Jlattenberg anc
the rest because he liked to—he was neve
happier than when his Muse was crawling at
the feet of royalty. He understood that
some people objected to that sort of thing
but he never understood why they objectec
—he c luldn’t understand. So he melliflu-
ously greased the departed Highlandman
and the married princelet, and was virtu
ously happy to think of himself as Queen
Victoria’s good and faithful literary lackey.
* • » *
Just as he loved being laureate, he lovec
being lord. His feminine ‘ refinement
always shrank from contact with a rude
democracy. His ‘ refinement ’ was the
essence of vulgarity ; but he did not com-
prehend that. His attitude to ‘ the common
people ’ was that of the typical Tory squire—
they were useful creatures, and their pro-
ceedings were interesting subjects for poems,
but they should be kept in their ‘proper
stations.’ There was a clear difference
between the flesh-and-blood of William
Pitt’s descendant and the flesh-and-blood of
Hodge the labourer. In a poem written at
fourteen Tennyson says—
Methinks an oak-tree never should be placed
But near the dwelling of some noble raoe ;
Eor it were almost mookery to hang it
O’er the thatch’d oottage, or the snug brick box
Of some sleek oitizen.
The oak-tree was designed by Nature as a
kind of aristocratic perquisite, you see.
Decidedly its beauty and majesty were not
meant to be wasted on mere plebeians.
All through his life Tennyson preserved
this contemptuous grand-seigneur attitude.
When he hid himself from visitors to the Isle
of Wight it was not because he resented in-
trusion on his privacy, or shrank from
flattery or notoriety (he was exceedingly
fond of notice and praise), but because he
nourished the awful thought that the
stranger watching hiip walk in his garden
might be a common grocer kind of person
named Bloggs, or Tomkins, or something
equally horrible. Tennyson would have
walked coram publico for eight hours a day
if he could have been sure the spectators
were all earls and duchesses. Consequently,
when they made him a lord, the title not
only gratified his feminine vanity : it pleased
his feminine class-instincts : he knew that
Providence had meant him to hob-nob with
peers and look down on the ruck of humanity.
Tennyson never had any sympathy with the
ruck of humanity except the drawing-room
sympathy which shudders at a distance, and
gives to a charity on condition that its
name is advertised in the ‘Times’ or the
‘ S.M. Herald.’ Just as a cat picks her way
among puddles, Tennyson’s lady-like Muse
picked her way among social problems and
social distresses expressing a lady-like
horror at the ugly blots on life, but carefully
gathering her skirts from pollution—with no
objection to getting their full rhetorical val
out of ‘ the warrens of the poor,’ but with
very decided objection to sacrificing on
good pulse-beat to get the poor out of the
warrens. His son’s memoir proclaim
Tennyson what his poems proclaimed him
an egotist, and rather a shallow egotist.
* • * »
Tennyson was rather poetical artificer tha
poet : an English Longfellow, his talent la
in gilding the trite and glorifying the o
vious. There has never lived a verse-writ
with greater mastery of rhythm and cadenc
with keener appreciation of the sensuou
beauty of words. Tennyson appeals bo
to the eye and the ear : his pictures are on'
less superb than his harmonies. In on
poem, ‘ The Lotos-Eaters,’ he compasses tl
perfection of verbal craftsmanship: i
melancholy melody attains and sustains
pitch of sobbing grandeur not elsewher
paralleled by the poet or by any poet. Tl
message of ‘ The Lotos-Eaters ’ is less
idea than a suffusing emotion, but it sui
the music and suffices. As a rule, the emo
tion of Tennyson’s poems is insufficient—
thin and feeble sentiment which the
sources of his diction may make charminj
but are impotent to make thrilling
majestic. His mind, overlaid with an elegan
veneer of culture, is at bottom all but barren
‘ln Memoriam,’his most thoughtful poem
has little depth or suggestion. Comparec
with Matthew Arnold’s or Browning’s work
Tennyson’s is like an artificial fountair
beside a mountain tarn or mountain torreni
The spiritual stimulus of ‘ The Buried Life
is as far beyond Tennyson’s reach as is th
lyrical thrill of ‘The Last Ride Toge f her
All Tennyson’s poems cannot yield the emo
tional exaltation of ‘A Grammarian’
Funeral ’ —coming not through the senses
but from conquest and inspiration of th
intellect.
* * • *
And even in the matter of sensuous charm
Tennyson’s art seems nearly always artifi
cial. His verbal magic is potent, but it i
never the natural magic of Keats. Keats
by the side of Tennyson is crude—a poeti
tyro ; yet his voice has a fresh, clear note
preferable to Tennyson’s sweetest honey
huskied tones. The seduction of both Keats
and Tennyson is a seduction of the flesl
(though Keats’s romantic vein lifts him to
higher plane of poetry); but the guiding
Genius of Keats is a woodland nymph
whose luscious charms are owed to Nature
Tennyson’s seems often a rouged anc
henna’d houri, made tenfold more voluptu
ous by Art.
• * * *
A great poetic artist, Tennyson is de-
servedly popular; but he would be less
popular were he a greater poet. As fre-
quently here explained, the majority ol
readers do not relish new or lofty ideas
loftily expressed ; they want the old common-
place ideas seductively gilded. The philo-
sophy of ‘ Crossing the Bar,’ for example,
is the smug philosophy of the Methodist
hymn-book, most musically expressed ; and
a hundred thousand readers have been en-
chanted to swallow their familiar pill so
deliciously sugar-coated. But compare the
note struck in ‘ Crossing the Bar ’ with the
note of the epilogue to ‘ Asolando,’ and
prefer, if you can, the charm of sense to the
force of spirit.
• * * *
To Tennyson fell the worse, to Browning
the better part. Flesh is good, but Bpirit is
better ; beauty is good, but strength is
better; female is good, but male is better.
These things are not mutually exclusive, but
they are mutually opposed ; and the ten-
dency of the one class is to daunt, of the
other to arouse effort. Beauty is more often
an opiate than a stimulant; strength blows
a bugle-blast to call the soul to battle. And
—another comparison—loving is good, but
fighting is better.
Love with its pleasures and love with its toys,
Love is for maidens aiid love is for boys ;
Love is for women and love is for men,
But when love is over, what rests to us then T
The Joy of the Battle!
Says Henry George—(that noble idealist
the other day dead with all his impracticable
ideals dead about him) —in the eloquent per-
oration to ‘ Progress and Poverty ’ —
Look around to-day. Lo! here now, in our
civilised society, the old allegories yet have a
meaning, the old myths are still true. Into the
Valley of the Shadow of Death yet often leads
the path of duty, through the streets of Vanity
Ifair walk Christian and Faithful, and on Great-
heart s armour ring the clanging blows. Ormuzd
still fights with Ahriman—the Prince of Light
with the Powers of Darkness. He who will hear,
to him the clarions of the battle call. How they
oall, and call, and call, till the heart swells
that hears them !
But they never called Tennyson.
The Suffield Case.
[Suffleld was tried at Maitland, N.S.W., on Bth April,
1891—-before the notorious Judge Windeyer, of Mount
Rennie—on a charge of criminally assaulting a woman.
He was found guilty and sentenced to ten years’ penal
servitude. The following astounding statement of the
gist of the case can be checked by a Bulletin pamphlet
containing all the evidence in the case and a plan of the
scene of the alleged outrage—price, 6d. ; post-free froi
Bulletin office, 7d.—nett proceeds for Suffield’s benefit.;
Suffield was found guilty on the sole and' uncor
roborated evidence of a woman who contradictec
herself—she swore at the police-court that sh
started home at a time whioh would have made : ;
impossible for her to get to the scene of the allegec
outrage at the hour it happened ; and at the tria
she put her evidence back twenty minutes and mad e
it tally with that of other witnesses.
* • * *
Suffield waß found guilty on the sole and un
corroborated evidence of a woman who contra
dieted, not only herself, but at least four othe
witnesses on her own side. She contradictec
the Croudaces, who picked her up, and sh
swore she was unconscious when they detail
consecutive conversation proving her conscious
She contradicted the doctor who examined her an
hour after the alleged assault, and she swore sh
was unconscious when he swore she was conscious
She contradicted her fellow-servant, and swore
that Suffield was pointed out to her while he wa
standing still, and Bhe saw his face ; while her
fellow - servant, who pointed him out, swear
Suffield passed them walking, and they only saw
his back !
* « * *
Suffield was found guilty on the sole and uncor-
roborated evidence of a woman who had never
spoken to him, and who positively identified him
fit 10 o’clock at night, after having once passed
him in a street at night several weeks before— the
only time she had seen him to swear to —and when
her fellow-servant, who knew him, swears they
only saw his back !
» * * •
Suffield was found guilty on the sole and uncor-
roborated evidence of a woman who, two minutes
after the alleged assault, when she was picked up,
attributed her injuries to the attack of a bull
(a bull which afterwards similarly attacked an-
other woman, and was shot for it); who all
night left her master and mistress and the doctor
under the impression that it was a bull who
had assaulted her ; who early next morning said
she had been attacked by a man, but mentioned
no name ; and who only some hours later on ac-
cused Suffield !
» ♦ * *
Suffield was found guilty on this improbable
and contradicted and uncorroborated evidence
although the dootor who first examined Ann
Chambers—an hour after the alleged assault —
refused to swear she had been assaulted by a
man; and although the doctor who examined
her two days afterwards, and on whose evidence
Suffield was apparently convicted, could only
swear she might have been assaulted by a man—for
the evidence on which he founded his suspicion—
not proof—was medioally quite inconclusive.
Suffield was found guilty on this improbable
and contradicted and uncorroborated evidence,
although two witnesses swore he was in his bedroom
at the time of the outrage, and never left it; although
the woman was a complete stranger to him ; al-
though his clothes and person bore not the slightest
trace of the violent struggle in which he was said
to have taken part; although he was an educated
man of the very best character ; and although, if
he did commit the assault, he deliberately allowed
his victim to walk nearly three-quarters of a mile
along a rough and lonely bush-road, with only two
houses on it; to enter her employer’s grounds;
and to walk to a spot 78 yards from her employer’s
house, where he assaulted her before the lights
were out, before the household were in bed, just
when she was expected home, and continued and
completed his assault in Bpite of her long-con-
tinued resistance, though her screams were imme-
diately answered by cooees and shouts that help
was ooming 1
* • * •
And nevertheless, in despite of this remarkable
array of evidence —whioh is by no means the
whole—to show that the jury made a mistake
in convicting Suffield, Mr. Justice - Minis-
ter Gould, of N.8.W., obstinately refuses to
do what the law expressly allows him to do when
“ any doubt or question arises as to a prisoner’s
guilt ” — refuses to permit an enquiry to be held into
the case before a justice of the peace Ilf
* • * 9
No more scandalous refusal to redress a probable
miscarriage of justice is recorded in Botany Bay
annals.
George robertson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from The Bullb-
thi) ; prioe, Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OP THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bullhtih), by Prioe Waning; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderio Quinn ; prioe, 2*. fid.;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Boole or Magatin* you wont.
“SIC TRANSIT GLORIA MUNDJ.”
Apropos of the Record Reign festivities. They have passed away,
are over and done with, and will soon be forgotten, and this genera-
tion will certainly know them no more. Not so with
Cigarettes.
Wh® one has been smoked, you can light another, and if the enjoy-
ment is not so fervid, it is more lasting, and to smokers more tangible
“Wishing yon a Happy Xmas and a good Hew ‘CAMEO.’”


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
FRiEisDSoi' sufferers
Second to Nome in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory.
DR. WADIiACE
(LECALLY -QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt, that
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite' worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here m symNUiY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thornauds in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they havp made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
ionic meh,
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfulness,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unlit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r>en.
MIDDLE-AGED & OLD MEN,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
without pain and
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
detention from business.
MAIL
means
• you
By this
can describe your
I roubles to the
doctors if living
away from the
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-
lises, NERVOUS
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
ry|f£
sHsaußi
SP-SSI
ilil Trams stop at the Door.
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn tlie
walls of the Consulting Kooms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing’ how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
OtfE copy ENT llt EL
FREE , in plain SEALE
Cover. Address:
OKI
‘ TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABoro Physical).”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.K.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
MttniioH this Fame.
Medical.
Dp. SPEER,
7 "STorli Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to t
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer, finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
Alii. CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
Eossibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
im so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT'S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box »20. 7 York Street, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC Effective.
Aa U pUR a iFIER BLOOD SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS?
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the woild.
Dr. Rieord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 06s. //sight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed,
Agents.for Australasia— Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MJSLJBO TTRNE.
AgentsforN.S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st. .Sydney,
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melboubne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
New Up-to*Date Publications.
rpuE Soiled Dove, the history of a young lady who ran
-L away from home and eventually went to the dogs;
also Miss Skittles, the girl with six husbands ; Sappho, or
Life and Love in Paris, each post free 1/6. The Ballet-
Girl, her theatrical history, “illustrated,” before and
behind the scenes, post free 1-. Maria Monk, Ovid’s Art
of Love, Byron’s Don Juan, each post fr»e 1 9.
R. W. SKINNER
Tiie Noted Second-Hand Boossecder, . .
105 Oastlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
Btories), Is. 3d
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Eooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy se.di-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, cr face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
60 prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
are destroyed by fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, Q-.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours :
9 to 5 DA 1 f/Y
EVENINGS Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday,
7 to 9.
i Mention this paper when writing,
i CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IMMIiOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Eipe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
’’ permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing' or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks'on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting' Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All canes are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the winters
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable ,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEIIR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S. A. writes I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for. some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted t«
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
/f
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so'many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cute. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DEN AH Y, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that 1
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cell
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming' a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over 201)
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be dont
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac.


TATTERS ALLS
• • I
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
Monster Prize List.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Summer 0.
December 27,
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Shares in the above.
Name-
Address
Carrington S. January 1, 1898.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Name
Shares in the above.
£
Address
ANNIVERSARY H. Jan. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address
P
LAUNCESTON C. February 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address,
Hobart 0.
9th February
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Shares in the above.
Name.
Address,
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


T7AT) GENERAL
Jl i/XL POORNESS
debility,
of BLOOD,
LOSS of APPETITE,
and NEURALGIA,
FORB6&’ . . .
PNOSFERRIN€
IS ft SPECIFIC.
In Bottles, 1/6, 2/6, and 4/6.
AN TTMTTffI A FIIT/\ICT is being ottered to the Public. The
- IjVLITAIIOJN GENUINE PHOSFERRINE has had
25 years’ steadily increasing sale, and is
PREPARED ONLY by
FORBES’ PHOSFERRINE
is one of the best NERVE
TONICS and CONSTITU-
TIONAL INVIGORA-
TORS ever offered to the public.
It cures NEURALGIA and NERVE WEAKNESS.
It is good for GENERAL DEBILITY and DEPRESSION.
It INCREASES the APPETITE.
It is useful for POORNESS OF BLOOD and ANA3MIA.
It STIMULATES the BRAIN and NERVES. ...
It is also a Specific for GENERAL WEAKNESS when ansrng from
overwork, worry, or fatigue. _
Foy those who aye BRAIN WORKERS, oy lead a sedentayy life,
it is WITHOUT EQUAL.
*
MARTIN & PLEASANCE,
Homoeopathic Chemists,
180 Collins St., Melbourne.
O
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Minins' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
& „„„ . „ M-miir Qt?nrv\Tr»-TT A NIT» DT.ATVTTS AT, WAYS AVAILABLE.
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1 000 Tons “Orh” ana “ Pyramifl ’
lo’ooo Castes xcmwnt, Bevan’s Cement
Galvanized Iron.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
R. A- HERVBY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and , Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Huston’s Patent ' Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Boston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BRO ADBENT S-
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven. HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & S6ns, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric_ Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Use “Pioneer” Sole Leather ,
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ABE
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
the best in the would.
uiumu
TANNERS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery: Lane Cove River.
mWVfc
(7ASCARA— HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Eestorative.
OAWADCOOC’O Full directions.
OnVntlLUUll 0 All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse's Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting - .
A.ixd. see tlaat you. get it;-
STfcDE
**7
PROOF
$
&aj eyJs
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“ COURIER ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
(\DE
I*7
PROOF
Bennington’s Sarsaparilla, 2/6
AN ALTERATIVE, TONIC AND BLOOD PURIFIER. Removes
Sores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
FOR LIVER, STOMACH, & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. Stimulates
and Creates a Healthy System.
K |
PMH
What is Health?
Tfheumatism, Sciatica,
- - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
vy
Before viTitinj the Of/ write t° the Manage/ for
Card cf Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended To.
THE -
<srosVeoorNotsl,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDKTEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
7fcUs<M
THE WOKLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDI SWAN
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE im a SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
VW Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
ROYAL of AFFOINTMEKrT to “ THE QUEEKT.’,
BY
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
SCHWEPPE.
Schweppes
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
SCHWEPPE.
SOD A WATER,. &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS,-AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.


AO&traliao MGtdal Provident Society.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
AH* POLICIES issued before the End of the Year will Share in the Bonus for tho Year (all
Bonuses vest immediately on Policies attaining a duration of two years). Tho Amount of Cash
Bonus distributed amongst Policyholders for the One Year 1596 was £423,797.
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or
through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of the profits for the year.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman >
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. •
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hotel
12/6 perda//& u/M ! a/
MEAU AND ATTENDANCE
Australia
CIGARS FREE
DROPo 0 . IN THESLO
i
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co., 637-639 George Street,
AND
/
i
£
r
II
r
n
PCs.BK
\
k
\
k
'b,
%
'or
V
preservative
pai* t
RUBEROID
DAMP.COURSE.
AGENTS EJ?ich &C924&26 O'ConnellST SYDNEY.
BU,Ld INo
P^ER.
Every Variety of
TESA S
AhD EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Ateherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
*3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH, ‘m
S(in>n7€rS(slts
Write or Send for Patterns and
Measurement Forms.
LOOK!!
Suits . - - 455. to 90s.
Trousers -12 s. 6d. to 255.
LONDON
and
MELBOURNE
Tailoring
Co.,
31 Erskine Street,
SYDNEY.
S6n?n?crS6itS
455. to 90s.
ALL WORK Guaranteed Best
Material and Latest Style.
Delivered Free to any part of
the Colony.
s. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FJiOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
r PHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
J with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without, Plates, by means of Bridf/emork.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, wilh or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 Ki33.e;-st., Svdney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
ugsgj
mm
Mgfejl filtiilii
MELBOURNE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms; and Caf<s open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
3TOK
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
(SECOND-HAND
*'■* AND
TffEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
k SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing: of the HOME of best
quality at fuliy 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georjre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
INSURE with AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Mead, Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19_Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes .£9Y,!763, divided in cash between
1 olicy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices ■ ■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
Hon. J. P. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73.072—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I. A., General Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo »*'* :-i.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e(c.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOK THE LADIES.
W. O- IEHIDIRXZDGKE & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promytty
attended to.
80 Toi)S n>ore Imported Leaf
tfyai) ail the other Tobacco
Factories Pot Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yaijkw Poodle.
Cljanjpioi).
The Oh
Cooqtieror.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
The Choicest Bright Cut and Pluo-.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Cei)tei)i)ial.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole,
S " Rothschilds.
Bonanza—4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, 4c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Dark Plug and Twist.


12,000,000
INGER
%
¥
S*\
CT>
Ui
3:
s
h-
&/)E MJ€
EWING
MACHINES
Are now in Use all over the World!
We make upwards of 400 different varieties of SINGEIt SEWING MACHINES.
The VIBRATOR, The OSCILLATOR,
A.TSTTD
. . AUTOMATIC . .
Leading Styles for Family Use. Special Styles for Manufacturing Purposes.
Every machine is made on the Duplicate Part System, and parts can always be purchased from us or our travellers.
We have TWENTY DISTRIBUTING CENTRES in different parts of Australasia, and over 300 Travellers using our wagons
and horses delivering machines direct to your home.
We sell direct to the users, and the major part of our business is on the Instalment Basis—at the rate of 2s. 6d. per week.
If you are in need of a High-class Sewing Machine leave your order with our traveller, or address as below.
We will be pleased to send you the latest Price List; also a copy of “The History of the Sewing Machine ” and “ The Evolution
of a Singer Needle ” upon application.
All Attachments for doing Fancy Work are given free with each Machine we sell.
Every SINGER SEWING MACHINE
bears our Registered Trade Mark —
None s*enuine without this Trade Mark
on the arm.
m
m
w3s&
A
43.
THE
JNGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA :
99 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Ja& McEwan & Go. Ltd.,
- EXPORT
Metal, Hardware, and General Merchants
FOR THE
Australian Colonies, New Zealand, India, South Africa, South America
and Fiji,
27 Lombard Street, London, E.C.
(ESTABLISHED 1859.)
SOLE PROPRIETORS OF THE
“Gresham” Brand of Portland Cement.
“GRESHAM” BRAND
White Lead, Blasting Ponder, Kerosene, Galvanised Iron.
“ Motor” Brand Kerosene.
AGENTS FOR
AOStralasiai) locaodeSceot 6as Light Co. Ltd.
Henry Pooley & Son Limited—WEIGHBRIDGES, etc.
Alldays & Onions Pneumatic Engineering- Co. Ltd —CYCLES.
Equifex Disinfecting- Appliances (Geneste-Herscher, etc., Patents).
Robey & Co’s Portable, Semi-Poijable and Fixed Steam Engines and Threshing Machinery.
CONTRACTORS
FOR THE SUPPLY OF
Railway, Engineering, Gas and Water Plant, Materials
ter Shipbuilding and Public Works, and Machinery of
all, kinds ; and
Importers of Colonial & other Produce on Consignment.
JAMES McEWAN & CO. Limited.
COLONIAL ADDRESSES:
Elizabeth and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne; • and Hay and Engine Streets, Sydney,
New Zealand Office AUCKLAND. (Representative: Mr. Thos. Wingfield, Lort Street.)


Anthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
• o «
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ONE !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USB
Spooler's
iROYAL NAVY DRESSING
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
r DF AIL DESCRIPIIONS
DIBcC I lONS FOR USE
nnmiruiimmutmiiuioimH 11
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
I\o. Bom 185, MELBOURNE.
MASON’S STEAM AND WATER REDUCING VALVES.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND* CO.,
BIWGrIKTBERS.
Please Note New Address :
845 Bourke-st., Melbourne; 74 Clarence-st., Sydney,
Prof. DDRCOT’S MUSKAL
Speedily produces a luxuriant growth of
i Hair on Smoothest Face or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. The only Remedy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d.. Double Size, 10s.
S. D. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., ENQ.,
i:r Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
The Lights of Cobb and Co.
[FOR THE BULETIN.]
Fire-ligl te 1, on the table a meal for sleepy men,
A lantern in the stable, a jingle now and then ;
The mail-coach looming darkly by light of moon
and star,
The growl of sleepy voices - a candle in the bar ;
A stumble in the passage of folk with wits abroad;
A swear-word from a bedroom —the shout of “ All
aboard ! ”
Tchk-tchk ! Git-up “ Hold fast, there ! ”
and down the range we go ;
Five hundred miles of scattered camps will watch
for Cobb and Co.
Old coaching towns already “ decaying for their
sins,”
Uncounted Half-Way Houses, and scores of “ Ten
Mile Inns ”;
The riders from the stations by lonely granite
peaks;
The black-boy for the shepherds on sheep and
cattle creeks ;
The roaring camps of Gulgong, and many a
“ Digger’s Rest ” ;
The diggers on the Lachlan ; the huts of Furthest
West;
Some twenty thousand exiles who sailed for weal
or woe ;
The bravest hearts of twenty lands will wait for
Cobh and Co.
The morning star has vanished, the frost and fog
are gone,
In one of those grand mornings which but on
mountains dawn ;
A flask of friendly whisky—each other’s hopes we
share —
And throw our top-coats open to drink the moun-
tain air.
The roads are rare to travel, and life seems all
complete; ,
The grind of wheeb o gravel, the trot of horses
feet,
The trot, trot, trot and canter, as down the spur
we go—
The green-sweeps to horizons blue that call for
Cobb and Co.
We take a bright girl actress through western
dust and damps,
To bear the home-world message, and sing for sin-
ful camps,
To wake the hearts and break them, wild hearts
that hope and ache —
(Ah ! when she thinks of those days her own must
nearly break !)
Five miles this side the gold-field, a loud, trium-
phant shout :
Five hundred cheering diggers have snatched the
horses out.
With “ Auld Lang Syne ” in chorus through roar-
ing camps they go —
That cheer for her, and cheer for Home, and cheer
for Cobb and Co.
Three lamps above the ridges and gorges dark
and deep,
A flash on sandstone cuttings where sheer the
sidings sweep,
A flash on shrouded waggons, on water ghastly
white ;
Weird bush and scattered remnants of “rushes
in the night;
Across the swollen river a flash beyond the ford :
“ Ride hard to warn the driver ! He’s drunk or
mad, good Lord ! ”
But on the bank to westward a broad, trium-
phant glow —
A hundred miles shall see to-night the lights of
Cobb and Co. !
Swift scramble up the siding where teams climb
inch by inch ;
Pause, bird-like, on the summit—then breakneck
down the “ pinch ” !
Past haunted half-way houses—where convicts
made the bricks —
Scrub-yards and new bark shanties, we dash with
five and six—
By clear, ridge-country rivers, and gaps where
tracks run high,
Where waits the lonely horseman, cut clear
against the sky ;
Through stringy-bark and blue-gum, and box and
pine we go ;
New camps are stretching ’cross the plains the
routes of Cobb and Co.
Throw down the reins, old driver—there’s no one
left to shmit;
The ruined inn’s -survivor must take the horses
out.
A poor old coach hereafter ! —we re lost to all
such things—•
No bursts of songs or laughter shall shake your
leathern springs.
When creeping in unnoticed by railway sidings
drear.
Or left in yards for lumber, decaying with the
year —
Oh, who’ll think how in those days when distant
fields were broad
You raced across the Lachlan side with twenty-
five on board.
Not all the ships that sail away since Roaring
Days are done —
Not all the boats that steam from port, nor all the
trains that run,
Shall take such hopes and loyal hearts—for men
shall never know
Such days as when the Royal Mail was run by
Cobb and Co.
The “'greyhounds ’’ race across the sea, the
“ special ” cleaves the haze,
But these seem dull and slow compared with
bygone Roaring Da's !
The eyes that watched are dim with age, and soul
are weak and slow,
The hearts are dust or hardened now that b-ok(
for Cobb and Co.
M.L., Sept., ’97.
HENRY LAWSON.
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
•Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 0«1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen.
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer,
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. Gd.
■*3>
m
“I’ll Try It.” Sole Agents ;
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George
The Result.
st,, Sydney
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s.;
Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. MILLIE R, 135 & 137 Snssex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Ilillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in tha
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one, do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
■^v
Positively the Best Dressing
EDWARDS^fIIR
u
Ki
%T&
/M,
ft
ks*
O
r>
FOR
PRESERVING Sc BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAKLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Palling Olf and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ ‘‘HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holhorn LONDON, W.C.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS in
Tl,e Fioe&t ai)d Largest tytiSic WareboOS?
IMT AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKTEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES Best Brand* Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin &. Complexion.
Dr. MA CKENZiE'S
CELEBRATED _ _ _ _
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexfonTee from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or Pimples Debciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
“to its harmlessmss, purity, and beautify ng qualities. Beware of injurious innta-
tfons. At o all Chemists & Stores! IVladame Adelina Patt. writes.: “I find Dr Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, _London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
[Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Birds
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.


NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS.
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR HOLIDAYS
TO THE
Snowy Mountains, Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury River,
Fitzroy apd Before Falls District, BlOc tyoGptaips,
Tbe Lakes, liiav/arra Pi Strict, National Park, 8t c-, &C-
. Special .
Exctir&ioo
Tickets
WILT, BE ISSUED
During 1 the..
Holiday Season
—BY —
SPECIFIED TRAINS,
at 2d. per mile First-Class
(minimum 55.) and Id. per
mile Second-Class(minimum
2s. 6d.), from Sydney and
Suburban Stations to
GOULBURN,
COOMA, ORANGE,
MUDGEE,
WEST MAITLAND,
NOWRA,
and intermediate stations ;
also to Sydney from Orange,
Mudgee, Goulburn, Nowra,
Singleton, and intermediate
stations.
—*—
•a**"
a c
■
■
im
" ‘ Wi
, :■
m
fegSE
li
& •>
mu
x *
5®
WOY WOY, BRISBANE WATER.
.CHEAP.
Intercolonial
FARES.
SYDNEY TO BRISBANE.
SYDNEY to BRISBANE
and vice versa : First-
class Return, £5; Se-
cond-class, £3.
SYDNEY TO ADELAIDE.
SYDNEY to ADELAIDE
and vice versa : First-
class Return, £7 6s.
3d. ; Second-class, £4
19s.
SYDNEY TO MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY to MEL-
BOURNE and vice
versa (by Mail Train):
First-class Return, £5
6s. 6d. ; Second-class,
£4 Is.
AMONG the many attractions of the Christmas
and New Year Holidays, not the least are the
numerous facilities afforded by the railways for
visiting the leading pleasure resorts of the colony,
enabling the dweller in the crowded, dusty city or
wide-spreading, arid plains of the interior to escape
to the cool, refreshing atmosphere of the mountain
range in the one case, or the delicious breezes of the
sea-side in the other, where, forgetting the toil and
worry of business life, he obtains the change of scene
so necessary to the recuperation of his physical and
mental powers The arrangements made by the Rail-
way Commissioners are of a comprehensive and con-
venient nature, including the issue of Special and
Holiday Excursion Tickets to encourage city residents
and dwellers in the country to visit any point they
may select. Full particulars of the various places of
interest will be found in an illustrated Railway Guide,
just published, price One Shilling, which also contains
an excellent map of the New South Wales railways.
Starting from Sydney, the Southern tourist district,
between Mittagong and Goulburn, is a land of en-
chantment. Here are the celebrated Fitzroy, Bel-
more, and other Falls, the scenic glories of Mittagong,
Bundanoon, and various favorite halting-places, with
even grander landscapes in the country beyond. The
cross-country trip from Moss Yale to the Illawarra line
offers a splendid journey. From Goulburn enjoyable
trips may be made to the Wombeyan Caves, or to Lake
Bathurst and Lake George, the latter being a notable
resort of sportsmen. From Cooina may be reached
the Yarrangobilly Caves, perhaps the most wonderful,
as they are the most extensive, of any in Australia ;
also the Snowy Mountains, where, on the summit of
Mount Kosciusko, and surrounded by eternal snows,
the visitor may enjoy the cooling Alpine breezes
during the warmest season of the year, returning (if
so desired) by way of Tumut and Gundagai to the
main Southern line at Cootamundra.
1
-■'rjwcM
tm
m
m
- - .
ON THE SNCWY MOUNTAINS.
SNOW -HELD AND CAVE NEAR lioSjlUSliO (MIDSUMMER).
N the Western line are the Blue Mountains, a
realm of shady glens, rippling streams, and all
the myriad charms with which Nature enchants
the lovers of the beautiful. Katoomba and Went-
worth Falls, the Yalley of the Grose, and the thou-
sand and one natural marvels, have been brought by
the railway within the reach, not only of the holiday-
maker, but also of the city man, by means of conve-
nient trains on Saturdays and Mondays. Again, there
are the Jenolan Caves, the great subterranean wonder-
world, which are easily reached from Katoomba, Mount
Victoria, or Tarana.
North of the Metropolis is the Hawkesbury,
perhaps the most beautiful river in Australia,
with its extensive reaches, unsurpassed scenery,
ever-changing views of lofty hill and luxuriant valley,
and numerous fishing-grounds, the most frequented 01
the latter being Cowan Creek, the head-waters oi
which are in the heart of Kurring-gai Chase. Beyond
the Hawkesbury is the extensive lake region of which
Brisbane Water, the Tuggerah Lakes, and Lake Mac-
quarie are the principal features. Here the lovers of
boating and fishing may enjoy themselves to their
hearts’ content, while in the surrounding country there
is an endless wealth of ferns and bush flowers.
On the other side of the Metropolis, down the
South Coast, is the magnificent National Park, a charm-
ing epitome of all that is delightful in Australian
scenery ; and a few miles beyond the famous Illawarra
district, the Garden of New South Wales, the mani-
fold beauties of which have irresistibly impressed
those who have visited it. Here, too, are the Bulli
and Macquarie Passes, Lake Illawarra, Clifton, Wol-
longong, and other sea-side resorts ; Kiaina, with its
great natural phenomenon, the “Blow Hole ”; Nowra,
the metropolis of the luxuriant Shoalhaven district;
Kangaroo Yalley; the Cambewarra and other lofty
mountain ranges, and other delightfully picturesque
localities.
Holiday Excursion Ticket
will be issued during the Holiday Season from all Stations to all Stations
(Suburban systems excepted), available for Return until January 31, 1898.
A RAILWAY GUIDE, just published, price One Shilling, containing full descriptf
of Tourist Resorts, Railway information, &c., and copiously illustrated; together with sn
handbills giving particulars of times of 1 * ..... 1
ions
small
_ * parture and Return, Additional Trains, Fares,
&c., may be obtained at Railway Stations, and at Central Booking Office, George-st., Sydney.
By Order of the CO V MISSIONERS,
H. M‘LACHI!/AN, Secretary,


The Suffield Case s
THE EVIDENCE at the Police Court and at the Trial, with a Plan of the Sceno of the
Alleged Outrage, and a Commentary on the Methods and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages. Price, 6d. ; Post-free from The Bulletin Office, 7d. in stamps.
Tbe Biggest, Best ai)d Sb>HiOg Books io tbe World
The Federal Music Books. Four New Numbers Just Published.
Price: One Shilling Bach ; Postage 2d. extra.
GLEN’S FEDERAL MUSIC BOOKS.
No. 48 No. 48
(The Christmas Number, for 1597-08.)
Contains the following Splendid Selection of
Songs and Dance Music :
Song, “ Love’s Sorrow ” 11. R. Shelley
Song, “ The Village Blacksmith ” W. H. Weiss
Song, “Many Happy Returns of the Day ’’
J. Blockley
Song, “ Over the Sea ” Mrs. Groom
Song, “ Shells of Ocean ” J. W. Cherry
Vocal Duet, “ Oh, Say Not Yet Good Night ”
Nelson
Waltz, “Wicket Gate” ...
Polka, “ King Pippin ” ...
Lancers, “Diamond Jubilee
Schottische, “ The Kirmess”
Waltz (Vocal), “ Ding Dong”
Two Step, “ The Banner ”
St. Maur
D’Albert
Ch. Stephano
L. Grayle
Coleman
Hall
GLEN’S FEDERAL MUSIC BOOKS.
No. 49 No. 49
Contains Fourteen Popular Sacred Sonr/s :—
“ Remember Now Thy Creator ” ... Topliff
“ Consider the Lillies ” Davies
“Be Thou Faithful Unto Death ” Mendelssohn
“ The Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers” Hemans
“Vital Spark”
“ Ruth ”
“ Let My Entreaties ”
“ Only Tired ”
" Lord, to Thee ”
“ The Grave Digger ”
“ Pass Under the Rod”
“ Hail Judea, Happy Land ’’ (Duet)
“ Sun of My Soul ”
“ The Hallowed Season ”
Davis
Stradella
White
Handel
Kalliwoda
Handel
W. H. Jude
GLEN’S FEDERAL MUSIC BOOKS.
No. 50 No. 50
Contains a Capital Collection of Favorite Violin
and Pianoforte Duets.
(Arranged by D. Carati.)
Minuet (The Celebrated)
Ballet, from “Orpheus”
“ Home, Sweet Home ”
“Ye Banks and Braes ”
“ The Last Rose of Summer”
“The Blue Bells of Scotland ”
“ In Happy Moments ”
Boccherini
Gluck
GLEN’S FEDERAL MUSIC BOOKS.
No. 51 No. 51
Contains the following Splendid Selection of
27 Students’ Songs, with Choruses :
“Did you Ever Hear a Nigger say Wow?”
“ Down on the Farm,” “ There is a Tavern in the
Town,” “Good-hye, Liza Jane,” “The Little
Brown Jug,” “The Old Folks at Home,” “ Pretty
Little Dark Blue Eyes,” “Clementine,” “I’se
Gvvine Back to Dixie,” “ Come Where my Love,”
“ Camptown Races,” “ Marching Thro’ Georgia,”
“Oh ! Dem Golden Slippers,” “Carry the News
to Mary,” “Ellie Rhu,” “ Dashin’ Thro’ the
Snow,” “Polly, VVolly, Doodle,” “Call Me Back
Again,” “ Mush Mush,” “John Brown’s Body,”
“Up I Dee” (Parody), “Good Old Jeff,” “Massa’s
in de Cold Ground,” “John Peel,” “Rule
Britannia,” “Dulce Domuiri,” “God Save the
Queen.”
JUST OUT!
No.
MY FIDDLE IS MY SWEETHEART ”
(Chirgwin’s Great Song).
Eorget-me not ”
Dreams ” (sung by Maggie Stirling)
w. H. GLEN i
Price One Shilling Post Free. GLEN’S MUSICAL CABINET.
31 Containing the following Marvellous Collection of Songs : No. 31
" The Old Broken Gate ”
“ Dream, Love ”
" At Eventide —Dear Home ”
Fost Free for
fc CO,
Publishers,
“Good-bye, Sweetheart, Good-bye”
“I’m Such an Awful Kid ”
(Sung by Little Ivy Scott)
“Sing me an English Song ”
“ When Love was Born ”
“ Love was once a Little Boy”
And the Popular “ Washington Post ” Dance
“LIBERTY BELL”
One Shilling.
272 and 274 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ;
and 359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SWALLOW and ARIELL’S
MANUFACTURES
SboOld io Every HoOseboid tbrotigboCit Australia.
Biscuits, Cakes,
Pure Jams,
Canned Fruits,
Agents in all the Capitals.
Correspondence Invited.
Plum Puddings,
Self-raising Flour,
Dessicated Soups
Canned and Compressed
Vegetables,
Christmas Cakes Extra Rich,
Factory ai)d Officcs--Port HdboOroe, Victoria.
•II
'ABSOLUTLY^
Tficr Contain
’'PtANO SOLOS
P/ANO WETS
VOCAL Dl/ETS
SO/VOS
| Lists
V
Popular fflusic for the Million.
111
rm
'ABSOLUTLYI
JHEgeST J
TfiEr Contain
r PIANO SOLOS
P/ANO OUSTS
yocAL duets
. SO/VGS A-9
V
Allan’s Australian Music Books.
Price, Is. ; or Posted, Is. 2a.
There are 39 Numbers ready, each containing* 12 to 30 different Compositions. The most
Notable Numbers of the series are:
KTO. 22-
Thirty Students’ Chorus Songs.
There is a Tavern in the Town
Clementine ...
John Brown’s Body
Polly-wolly-doodle
Hark, the Jingle Bells
Lncy Long
The Mermaid
Gum Tree Canoe
Mush Mush
Canadian Boat Song
Old Black Joe
Cricket on the Hearth ...
There’s Gold in the Mountain
Hen Convention
Ellie Rhee
. J. Picrpont.
... Thomas Moore
... Christy's
James E. Stewart
A. Briscoe
... Sep. Winner
Good Old Jef
Doodah Day
Upidee
True Love
Ye Banks and Braes
I’s Goin’ Back to Dixie
Massa’s in the Cold Ground
La Marseillaise
Two Little Girls in Blue
The Little Brown Jug
Wait for the Waggon
Dulce Domuin...
John Peel
The Old Log Cabin in the Dell
Auld Lang Syne
American
Lindsay Lennox
Old Scotch
... C. A. White
... S. C. Forster
Rouyet de L'isle
Charles Graham
a A. White
Arthur Briscoe
No. 31
Twelve Pianoforte Pieces.
KTo. 39.
Twelve Popular Marches.
11l
rABSOLUTLY'
,
ifity Contain
DtANO SOLOS
P/AHO DUETS
FUCAI DUCTS
l Lists
H^EE*
V
Complete Lists of the Series
Forwarded on Application.
LLA
II
TKey Contain
PfANO SOS OS
p/ano overs
rocAL overs
SO/VGS *•*
(.isrs
LED
;EE
%
SOIVGrS FOR EVERY HOME.
“GOD BE WITH YOU.”
Composed by Maggie Menzies Emblad.
ISAY it with its best, its oldest meaning:
May God be with you, dear, on land or sea,
And guard you through the long days intervening,
Till that glad hour which gives you baek to me;
May God be with you through the summer gladness,
Through wintry days, and nights of calm starshine ;
Through every moment’s joy, through aught of sadness,
May His care cherish you, 0 Love of mine.”
Sung by Ada Crossley, Maggie Stirmnq, Regina Nageu,
Ida Osborne, and Sara Lewis.
“HOME LOVE.”
Composed by Laurence Richardson.
HOME Love is where the heart is,
Where’er that shrine may be;
And in my dream of Home, Love,
Thy face is all I see.”
Sung by Ada Crossley, Maggie Stirling, Regina Nagel,
Ida Osborne, Belle Cole, Sara Lewis,
and Christie Fuller.
“ SUSIE-TJE.”
Composed by Fred. Gilbert, and sung by Miss Ada Reeve.
The Prettiest, Quaintest, Daintiest Song’ of the Year.
H, Susie-ue, do lub me, do,
Darkie boy am berry fond of you ;
Meet yer, honey, in de mornin’,
When de birds am all a-callin’
Susie-ue, mah Susie-ue,
Susie-us-ie, usie-usie-ue.”
j.iie r
“o
What The Bulletin says:—“Miss Ada Reeve emerges as
a ‘ Coon ’ in white with scarlet sash, and sings the great hit of
the piece, ‘Susie-ue,’ a haunting, tuneful ditty in the minor key
miles ahead of the ordinary Coon-song.”
ALLAN & CO.
THE BLOCK. COLLINS ST.,
PROPRIETARY
. . . LIMITED,
MELBOURNE.


Fisber * Co.’s FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC
For Eevmng 1 the Liver and Brain, and Restoring* Vig'or.
ie successful “ Pick-me-up ” known. It makes the weak Active and Strong. Sad men and women are made Cheerful and Happy. FISHER & CO.’s TONIC
with Soda Water before meals is the most Beneficial Refresher and Appetiser in the world. Cyclists, Singers, and Public Speakers “ swear by it.” During sultry and
oppressive weather it is a great Boon to the Ladies. Thousands of Ladies Drink it when shopping in Town.
The Talk of the Town. The Drink of the Season. Unintoxicating.
It is not a Sweet, but Bitter Drink,
Cleansing the Palate and
REVIVING THE LIVER & BRAIN.
This TONIC acts with the most remarkable rapidity
in restoring a weakened Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
lorpid Liver, Debility, and in Reviving the Brain from
the effects of Overwork and Fatigue. It stimulates and
strengthens the entire Muscular System, acting like
V>e gl ?’ , and rouses into Vigor and Health the whole
1 hysical energy of the Human Economy. To enable one
to enjoy a meal, a dose taken an hour or so before im-
mensely sharpens the appetite. With Soda-water, before
breakfast, it is the most beneficial drink in the world. It
vf a , ™ os ! ; m arvellous effect in checking the Craving for
Alcohol, in many cases having restored Inebriates to
their Normal Conditions of Life.
TV* rrc,™ » ~ North Sydney, June 25,1896.
Messrs. FISHER & CO.
Gentlemen, I cannot speak too highly of your ex-
cellent preparation of KOLA NUT. As a tonic, I found
it far superior to anything of the kind I ever used, and
have strongly recommended it to several friends, all of
whom (after taking it) are enthusiastic in their praises of
it. Kola Nut lonic has a most beneficial effect after an
attack of influenza ; on some of my acquaintances, it has
produced wonderful effects, particularly in strengthening
the muscles of the chest and limbs. Many of my cycling
friends swear by it. I notice its use has been adopted by
the Alpine Club as a STIMULANT and NUTRIENT
in mountain-climbing expeditions, etc., as it greatly in-
creases the power of the lungs, and keeps off muscular
fatigue, and wiH prove in valuable to athletes. I feel con-
fident lvola Nut Tonic will have a large consumption, for
those who once try it will always keep it in store.
Yours faithfully,
CHARLES WISEHEART,
Willoughby.
UNEQUALLED.
Police Station, Reef ton, via Temora, July 28,1896.
From F. J. Williams.
Sirs,—Please post me an amount of Kola Nut in the
form prepared for taking. F. J. WILLIAMS.
Sirs,—l lease post me another bottle of your Kola Nut
lonic ; 1 believe it to be without an equal’
August 9, 1896. Yours, &c., F. J. WILLIAMS
-r, 0 . Woodberry, Tarro, October 29, 1896.
nt i -^ ear . b,r V“ ;Kmdly send me another bottle of Kola
Nut lonic. It is an excellent tonic, and I strongly re-
commend it to all suffering from indigestion.
Yours faithfully, H. MACKAY.
Memo, from W. M. Maclardy and Co.,
82 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l have been using your Kola Nut Tonlo
f ®F„ a nur pber of years, and find it a grand appetiser. I
still use it, and find when low down from the worries of
business its effects are grand, it having wonderful re-
viving and stimulating properties; it seems to act on
Brain, Liver and Kidneys.
Yours faithfully, W. M. MACLARDY.
_ _ 134 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Messrs. FISHER & CO., 24th March, 1897.
George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have found the reviving powers of
your KOLA NUT TONIC ” most remarkable and
almost magical, especially after the worry and lassitude
attendant on a sedentary literary life. It is the best
restorative I have ever used. As a “Pick-me-up” and
Reactionary Agent in the place of Alcohol its effects are
certainly unique. I can heartily and safely recommend
it- Yours truly, J. L . PARSONS.
A MOST EFFICIENT PREVENTIVE OF SEA-
SICKNESS. NO TRAVELLER SHOULD
BE WITHOUT IT.
With |ced gingerbeer, [emonade,
or Soda ||Jater, 6d. per glass,
AT ALL HOTELS IN AUSTRALIA.
2s 6d and 4s 6d per Bottle;
POST, Bd. and lid. EXTRA.
To be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers, and be
sure you get FISHER & CO.’S.
l\
r*
r
3 u&
s
*
i
fi
■y
r~
(COPY). What Henry Bracy, Esq., says about FISHER *CO toatth
HENRY BRACY'S ENGLISH AND COMIC SYDNEY
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Lyceum Theatre u
Gentlemen, It is with much pleasure that I testify to the merits of vour K 1 AT t
Tonic. In my professional vocation I am very often tired nndfcS; A Nu *
worrying rehearsals, and I find great benefit at the t;7 r and 7 t " ned after lon g and
Tonic with a little soda-wate? if gvarfeMy hw 1 mSfc d °« ° y 0" r T K r° la Nut
quite fond of it.—Yours faithfully, H. BRACY' k g effect > and 1 have got
It Cures Indigestion and Makes You
Eat. A Splendid Preparation for
Strengthening the Nerves and
Heart.
f f HEART.— Professor Hecke
states that Kola, by the Caffeine and Theobromine which
it contains, is a tonic of the heart, whose pulsation it
accelerates, while it increases its power and regulates its
contractions. Professor Heekel further points out that
the principle, called Kolame, contained in Kola, prevents
ra jP. l , - t le * lssues during fatiguing exertions,
whilst the Caffeine stimulates the muscles.
PNEUMONIA. —Worry kills business men. Heavy
losses and hard times make them depressed in spirits,
lhe brain and body become weak; unknown to them
they are debilitated. It is then that the least chill strikes
them, and pneumonia carries them off. To fortify the
system and make the spirits buoyant, nothing can equal
1? isher & Co. s famous Kola Nut Tonic. It is the hiost
remarkable mvigorator and sustainer known
niARRH(EA. . Dr. Durian and Dr. Cunio have
both reported cures m rebellious diarrhoea under the use
A recent issue of the Planters’ Monthly contains a
description of this remarkable Nut and its uses : “ Kola
has the property of staying hunger, whilst supporting the
struggie for existence. If a supply of nuts had been in-
eluded in Mr. Stanley’s outfit his men would not have
suffered so terribly for want of animal food. As might
be expected, the value of Kola increases as its makes its
way into the interior of Africa, and some of the tribes
furthest removed from the sea pay for the dry powder an
equal weight of gold dust. In a despatch from Mr.
George Alexander Stevens, Her Majesty’s Consul at
Bahia, he calls attention to the great powers of endurance
m lifting heavy loads and transporting them to long dis-
tances in the tropical climate, attributed to the free use
of Kola Bean. An old African, after biting a piece of
the magic bean, lifted 179 English pounds weight on to
his head, and carried the same for a distance of four
miles.”
. “ Still another merit is named, however, which will
interest the temperance party. The negroes who chew
Kola Nut have no desire to drink rum, and hence save
money and retain strength.”
Dr. LEON ERNST MONNET, Paris, reports
“ 1 g av e a strong infusion of Kola Nut to a railroad-
track layer who was suffering from “ blue devils ” (hypo-
chondria) extremely, and within two hours he felt'like
going to his hard duties, and laughed and talked.”
ACTUAL PACTS.—A leading Sydney lawyer
called on us and stated that after a very merry night he
felt so bad and sick the next morning it was necessary to
see his doctor. The doctor advised him to go straight to
Pisherand Co.’s and get a draught of their Kola Nut
Tonic. In half-an-hour he was bright and fresh enough
to conduct an important law case, which meant <£2so to
him. He was quite positive it would not have been done
without the Tonic. The gentleman naturally will not
have his name mentioned in the papers, but it can be
made known privately. This gentleman is most enthu-
siastic in his praise of Kola Nut Tonic, and will now have
no other medicine.
Empire Hotel, Sydney, May 25, 1897.
Messrs. PISHER & CO.
Gentlemen, —Kindly send me a case of your remark-
able TONIC. Since coming to Sydney I have drank
your KOLA NUT TONIC, and find it wonderful in
giving me vigor to perform my arduous duties. I cannot
speak too highly in its favor for reviving and sustaining
the whole system.—Yours, etc,,
LEWIS JORDAN.
We attribute our strength, physical condition, nerve,
and perfect health to the use of PISHER & CO.’S KOLA
NUT TONIC.
LEWIS JORDAN, GUS. JORDAN, 1 THE
MAMIE JORDAN, NELLIE JORDAN, [ JORDAN
LENA JORDAN. J PAMILY.
UJith |ced Gingerbeer, [emonade,
or Soda (Hater, 6d. per Glass,
AT ALL HOTELS IN AUSTRALIA.
2s 6d and 4s 6d per Bottle;
POST, Bd. and lid. EXTRA.
To be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers, and be
sure you get PISHER & CO.’s.
WE hereby WARN the Public against Imitators of our Famous Tonic which has 13
can be obtained at all the PRINCIPAL HOTELS IN AUSTRALIA ' J>d
the public common rubbish. They are usuallv known UT _
so“Es:SoTid„;bT;hen«t i ;rforthTTofi'i
y is great beware of Impostors and Imitators. 1 ier * of this Great Tonic is a secret, and its wonderful success proves its
a! C »] S o“®'piArm ACY, 137 “IoRGE OTREET 0 SYDNEY 6 ’ 8 u r “"' •fj
Fisher & Co.'s KOLA NUT TONIC
’ ’ men are sure to endeavor to foist upon
in the MORNING Before going
to Fisher & Co.’s for Kola
Nut Tonic.
fisher
& CO
(registered).
PIL-KOLA
m, tjtTTO 'HttHbItRED).
p:u„ •'■ pf® contain all the properties of the famous KOLA NUT TONTiH in . . r.i r
Wp.l -sj J famous Kola Nut, to which is added valuable medicines which make tkm„ ‘ il - so form. The principal ingredient of these
I)mw’Tinovr a ar r) 6a^ ness ’ A oss of Appetite, Depression of Spirits Consfiintm* n | n^^ luable remedy for all diseases arising from
TRTP -P 'd three times a da y half-an-hour before tal in- food ? Child Indl g e 1 s , tlon > Palpitation of the Heart, &c.
TRTC TROUBLES, or CONSTIPATION it is better to take them after hal £ a Pllh p or INDIGESTION, GAS-
maotjpactvbebs Per P °’ tam free ' Bom -
FISHER &C, CO
Wholesale and Retail Chemists and “ J
m GEORGE Opposite GeiStl tost Offloe.
In the AFTERNOON—After going
to Fibher. & Co.’s for Kola
Nut Tonic.


MODELS 0
AM
INES
Strong Locomotive. Green Enamel, Brass
Fittings. 7s. 6d.; post, lLd.
Pretty Model Verti-
cal Engine. Brass
Boiler. Bs. Cd.;
post, lid.
“ The Dover. ” A fini3 model —all Brass and
Burnished Cupper. 205.; post, Is. 2d.
mill l m
U
Vertical Engine.
Brass Fly-w h eel,
with Lamp. 25.;
post, 6d.
ENGLISH MAKE.
Every One
Guaranteed to Work.
- :
Very powerful and well-made Loco-
motive. £1155.; post, Is. 2d.
All Brass Vertical
Engines, fitted with Taps,
eto. In two sizes. 12s. GA
90
60
50
Thermometers
of every de-
scription, best
English make.
From la.
Handy Spring Balances for
Letters, Chemicals, etc.
Is. 6d.; post, 4d.
vmgam
-' i
Splendid Working Model. Powerful Cylinders, Eight Wheels,
Safety Valve, Whistle, etc. £2 25.; post, Is. 2d.
Our “Stockman’s” Powerful
Field Glass for Day or
Night. In Sling Case.
As SPECTACLE MAKERS
WE HAVE NO EQUAL.
Sight Tested Free.
Brazilian Pebbles, ss. pair.
LET US INTRODUCE OURSELVES,
And bring under your notice some of the Goods
WE STOCK
SUITABLE for CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
OSBORN & JBRDAN
(Formerly known as FROST & SHIFHAM),
OPTICIANS, ELECTRICIANS, SPECTACLE MAKERS, etc.,
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s), SYDNEY.
Magic Lanterns $i Slides - - photographic Outfits, etc
Onr This Season’s Lanterns, “The Aladdin,**
are the best and cheapest we have ever had. They
give a wonderfully clear picture, have a dozen
beautiful slides with each, and are packed in
handsome cases.
No. 1301, showing picture in diam. 51-
No. 1302, „ 3ift „ 7/6
No. 1303, „ sft „ 12/6
No. 1304, „ 6ft „ 20/-
Extra Slides for Lanterns. A nice lot of New Designs just to hand. Excellently colored and
assorted. In boxes of One Dozen. 1301—Is. 6d.; 1302—25. 6d.; 1303—35. 6d. ; 1304—55. 6d.
Fairy Tales and Lecture Sets complete, with reading. If in. wide, Is. per box; 2in. wide,
Is. 6d. box; 3in. wide, 2s. box.
The “ Eclipse ” Hand Camera, the best
instrument made. Specially suitable Cyclists
and Tourists. Complete in case, with Three
Double Dark Slides; Jin. plate. £S.
Our “Student’s ” Camera at .£1 7s. 6d. A
wonderful instrument that will turn out first*
class photos. Outfit complete with everything,
and book of instructions, £2 2s.
The “ Otserp ” Magazine Camera, carry-
ing 12 plates. With good lens and simple
mechanism ; J-plate. £2 10s.
ELECTRIC BELL SETS.
Comprising Bell, Battery, Push,
Wire, etc.
7/6
With diagram and instructions
for fitting.
Our ‘ CluuaA-.” A splendid Lantern, made of Polished Brass,
and has oboioo selection of Slides, Stories, Travel, Oomios, etc.
sot. JBI 15r. complete ; post, 2s
Shows a perfect picture,
With readings for each
Galvanic Batteries and Electrical Machines. All
the best makes in stock. A powerful instrument
can be supplied for 17s. fid. ; post, Is. 2d. extra.
As good an instrument for all-round work as one could wish
to have, i-plate, =£2 12s. 6d.; £5 ss. Or complete
with everything necessary for taking photographs.
i-plate, £3 ss. ; i-plate, £(> 10s.


The BEST AUSTRALIAN BOOKS for
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
THE SNOWY RIVER SERIES.
The Man from Snowy River and
Other Verses.
By A. B. Paterson.
Withphotogra vu re
and vignette title.
Croivn Bvo., gilt
top ; cloth, ss. ;
vost free, ss. sd.
English Press
Notices.
The Times : “At
his best, he com-
pares not un-
favorably with
the author of
‘ Barrack Room
Ballads.’”
Pall Mall
Gazette: “He
shows real poeti-
cal power.”
Spectator : “ These lines have the true lyrical cry
in them. Eloquent and ardent verses.”
Athenaeum : “ Swinging, rattling ballads of ready
humor, ready pathos and crowding adventure.”
Literary World : “We turn to Mr. Paterson’s
roaring muse with instantaneous gratitude.”
Westminster Gazette : “ But Australia has pro-
duced in Mr. A. B. Paterson a national poet,
whose bush ballads are as distinctly characteris-
tic of the country as Burns’s poetry is charac-
teristic of Scotland.”
The Scotsman : “It has the saving grace of
humor ; a deal ot real laughter, and a dash of
real tears.”
Black and White : “ The material is new as the
treatment is artistic.”
Glasgow Herald : “ The poet has also a note of
pathos, which is always wholesome.”
Manchester Courier : ‘ ‘ True poetical spirit, keen
observation, and a capital swing of metre in this
interesting volume.”
North British Advertiser : “ Mr. Paterson can
produce charming poetry in sweet and natural
language. ”
Western Daily Press : “This book would be a
capital companion on a holiday trip, for the
epithet ‘ dull ’ cannot be applied to a single line
of it.”
Where the Dead Men Lie and
Other Poems.
By Bareroft Henry Boake.
Edited, with
Memoir, by A.
G. Stephens.
With Portrait
and 32 illustra-
tions by Ma-
hony, Lambert,
and Fischer.
Crown, Bvo.,
cloth, 55.; post
free, ss. 6d.
Press Notices.
Sydney Morn-
ing Herald :
“ There is no
question, can be
none, of the in-
timate faithful-
ness of every touch that gives ns landscape,
atmosphere. . . . The editor of the collection,
Mr. A. G. Stephens, has gathered all that
should be said of this short and tragic life ; and
the notes to the poems are particularly service-
- able.”
Sydney Daily Telegraph : “It contains poems
and pictures of a state of life that will not
alvvaysLe with us, in which the salt of difference
from the commonplace is very strong. It is full
of human interest. It is among the most excel-
lently printed and illustrated books issued in
Australia.”
The Australasian : “ There is enough merit in
these remains to show that Boake was, to say
the least, a writer of promise, and to make us
regret that his life was cut short in so sad and
untimely a manner.”
Adelaide Advertiser: “These verses are not
wanting in depth, in vigor, and in a fine poetic
enthusiasm.”
South Australian Register : “ Should be placed
on the shelves of everyone possessing anything
like a library.”
Evening News : “These poems were worth col-
lecting, not only from the fact of their being so
thoroughly racy of the soil, but also by virtue
of merits apart from that.”
Educational Gazette : “ Give marked evidence
of true poetic instinct, a vivid and fertile imagi-
nation, and descriptive power of no mean
order. ”
The Catholic Press : “ There are flashes of
genius on every page.”
In the Days When the World Rhymes
was Wide and Other Verses.
By Henry Lawson.
Author of While
the Billy Boils.
Withphotogravure
portrait and vig-
nette title. Crown
Bvo. , cloth, gilt
top, 55.; post free,
ss. 6d.
Press Notices.
The Idler : “In
The Idler for
August, Mr.
Richard le
Gallienne
says: “A strik-
ing volume of
ballad poetry.
... A volume
to console one »
for the tantalising postponement of Mr. Kip-
ling’s promised volume of Sea Ballads.”
Sydney Morning Herald: “The verses have
natural vigour, the writer has a rough, true
faculty of characterisation, and the book is racy
of the soil from cover to cover.”
Melbourne Age : “ ‘ln the Days when the World
was Wide ’ is poetry, and some of it poetry of a
very high order.”
The Queenslander : “ It is with no small degree
of p easure that we welcome the selection of his
poems just published ”
Bulletin : “ How graphic he is, how natural, how
true, how strong ! ”
New Zealand Mail : “It will rank as one of
our most treasured possesions, and we cannot
too highly recommend it to our readers.”
Otago Witness : “ Whatever is the theme of the
verse it is all—every line of it—racy of the soil.”
Canterbury Times : “ La wson has much of the
grim, fascinating mixture of humour and pathos
that was once deemed Bret Harte’s own.”
Brisbane Courier : “ Mr. Lawson and Mr.
Paterson have captured the Australian lovers of
literature, which is, in the truest sense of the
phrase, a native product. We are proud of
these books, which deserve all the good things
many critics have said of them, and proud of the
fact that they have been so promptly and gene-
rally appreciated by the communities from
which their substance has been drawn. The
volumes should have a place in every Australian
domestic library.”
From the Mines and
Other Lines.
By Edward Dyson.
Author ot
A Golden Shanty.
With Photograure
portrait and vig-
nette title. Crown
Svo., cloth, gilt
top, ss. ; post free
6s. sd.
Tress Notices.
The Queens-
lander : “ His
work has a ring
that will always
make it popular
in Australia.”
M elbourne
Punch : “ The
mines liave wanted a man to sing their stones,
and the hour and the man have arrived. The
hour is now, and the man is Edward Dyson.”
Daily Telegraph : “ The author has per-
formed his task with the trained intelligence of
an observant eye, a musical ear, and a mind and
taste in sympathy with his subject.”
Melbourne Age : “ A book that is sure to be
read with pleasure, and especially by those who
are familiar with the various phases of life upon
the goldfields, which he depicts in such a sympa-
thetic spirit and with so nice a perception of
their more picturesque aspects.”
The Australasian : “ Thoroughly racy of the
soil, and reproduce with great fidelity many of
the rougher and more striking aspects of Aus-
tralian society.”
Kimberley Diamond Fields Advertiser : “ The
lover of ballad poetry will strike a rich vein
here. The entrance of this book into the tents
of the river diggers would be a ray of sunshine.”
N.Z. Herald : “ ‘ The Rhymes from the Mines ’
are racy of the soil. They faithfully depict the
wavering phases of mining life, while through-
out the other lighter pieces runs a vein of light
humor and badinage.”
S.A. Register : “In this volume of racy verse
we have a true and vigorous picture of Aus-
tralian mining and prospecting life.”
25,000 of the Snowy River Series have been Sold within the last Eighteen Months.
CHEAP EDITION—JUST PUBLISHED.
While the Billy Boils Austra-
lian Stories.
By Henry Lawson.
Author of In the Days when the World was Wide.
Seventh Thousand, Croivn Bvo., cloth, gilt top, with
eight full-page plates and vignette title by F. P.
Mahony. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 4s. ; paper
cover, 25.6 d. ; post free, 3s.
English Press Notices.
Academy: “A book of honest, direct, sympa-
thetic, humorous writing about Australia from
within is worth a library of travellers’ tales.
Mr. Lawson writes of the wallaby track, of
swagmen and landowners, of squatters and
shearers. He shows us what living in the bush
really means. The result is a real book, a book
in a hundred. His language is terse, supple,
and richly idiomatic. He can tell a yarn with
the best. ‘ While the Billy Boils ’ can be re-
commended to everyone who likes full-blooded
man-to-man writing. And reciters in want of
new material should look at ‘ His Country—
After AH,’ and ‘ That there Dog o’Mine.’ ”
The Spectator : “In these days, when short
dramatic stories are eagerly looked for, it is
strange that one we would venture to call the
greatest Australian writer should be practically
unknown in England. Short stories are his—
none shorter—scrap sketches indeed, but biting
into the very heart of the bushman’s life, ruth-
less in truth, extraordinarily dramatic, and
pathetically uneven ”
The Times : “ Mr. Henry Lawson’s ‘ While the
Billy Boils ’ is a collection of short and vigorous
studies and stories of Australian life and char-
acter. . . . We have a tale of Australian
tramps, their adventures and devices, and a
tragedy ot a mining shaft, a little in Bret
Harte’s manner, crossed, perhaps, with that of
Guy de Maupassant. ‘ While the Billy Boils ’is
not a cheerful book, but it has an air of
veracity.”
Glasgow Weekly Herald : “Short stories of
great power and dramatic force.”
SONGS
From “The Man from Snowy River.”
The Bushman’s Song. By E. P. Truman.
Is. net; post free, Is. 2d.
Last Week. Humorous Song; by E. P.
Truman. Is. net; post free, Is. 2d.
Daylight is Dying. By E. P. Truman.
Is. net; post free, Is. 2d.
JUST PUBLISHED.
TEENS.
JUST PUBLISHED.
A Story of Australian Schoolgirls. By Louise Mack. With 14 full-page illustrations by F. P.
Mahony. ss. ; post free , ss. 7d.
The Australasian : “ ‘ Teens ’
is a pleasantly-written story,
and, being nicely bound and
illustrated, is very suitable
for a present or a school
prize.”
Sydney Morning Herald:
“Ought to be welcome to
all who feel the responsi-
bility of choosing the read-
ing books of the young
. . . its gaiety, impulsive-
ness, and youthfulness will
charm them.”
Sydney Daily Telegraph
“ Nothing could be more
natural, more sympathetic.”
-N
l. .rf".
t- m
Melbourne Age: “A very cre-
ditable production, both as
to its matter and the dress
in which it has been sent
forth by the publishers. ”
Brisbane Courier: “ Of school-
girl incident and adventure
and fun there is abundance.
The book will, without
doubt, be in great request
as a prize book, and de-
servedly so, for it interests
from the first line to the
last.”
Sydney Mail : “An excellent
story of schoolgirl life.”
Educational Gazette : “ The peculiar charm of Miss Mack's writing is its entire naturalness and
simplicity ; and consequently we have in ‘ Teens ’ a deeply-interesting narrative, brisk and lively,
with just a touch of pathos here and there artistically introduced. There is no room for doubt as to
the popularity of ‘ Teens.’ The tone of the book is admirable. It bears the stamp of success on its
every page. In fact, we can scarcely imagine a book which schoolgirls (yes, and boys, too) will
read more eagerly than this delightful story ; and we would add, in view of the near approach of
Christmas, that from no school prize-list should it be absent.”
Melbourne Leader : “Excellent work. Full of fun and girlish frolic, and in its sympathetic treat-
ment of youthful vivacity exhibits a charm which will be acknowledged by readers more staid than
those for whom it is principally intended. There is no ambitious straining after effect, but just a
natural narrative which reproduces with versimilitude the daily life and aspirations of bright and
happy girlhood.”
Hobart Mercury : “ Sure to be read with pleasure by the girls. It may be placed in their hands by
the most fastidious parent without a single qualm.”
Catholic Press : “ A delightful story of Australian schoolgirls, bright and full of life, and a welcome
addition to Australian literature.”
The Presbyterian: “ The girls are as fresh and lifelike as possible, full of fun and tricks, working
hard at their lessons most of the time and getting into the usual schoolgirl scrapes. We have not
read anything more natural since the days of Miss Alcott’s evergreen ‘ Little Women,’ and we are
sure that Australian girls will be delighted with ‘ Teens.’”
Maitland Mercury: “We have pleasure unfeigned in commending this volume to the reading
public, old and young. . . . The charm of the story is many-sided.”
Bathurst Free Press: “ There is a charm about the book which will appeal especially to youthful
readers whose school days are not over. The situations are most natural, and in the simple narra-
tive of home life and school experience common to this sunny land of the south, many a schoolgirl
will see reflected much of that with which she is personally familiar.”
Stock and Station Journal : “ I read the book without a yawn, and not only that, Tjhad enjoyed it.
. . . Louise Mack has a bright, humorous way of presenting the emotions of a schoolgirl, which
makes up for any lack of adventure. These girls are real, even down to their exclamatory prattle.”
The Spirit of the Bush Fire and
other Australian Fairy Tales.
By J. M. Whiifeld.
With 35 full-page illustrations by G. W. Lambert.
Crown Bvo., cloth, 55.; post free, ss. 7d.
*#* Miss Whitfeld has long been recognised
as one of our best writers of children’s stories,
and the issue of the present collection will be
welcomed by all who take an interest in young
children. The Australian character of the fairy
tales is distinctive, novel, and charming, and gives
an added piquancy to excellent literary work.
This will be the young children’s book of the
season. No such elaborate illustrating has hitherto
been attempted in Australia as Mr. Lambert has
given us in “ The Spirit of the Bush Fire.”
Australia to England: a Poem.
By John Farrell,
Author of “ How He Died.”
Booklet, in envelope ready for posting, Is;
post free, Is. Id.
Sydney Morning Herald : “ Patriotic stanzas,
in which there is the note of personal independ-
ence and sincerity.”
Daily Telegraph: “The lilt and swing of the
verses are the more noticeable and admirable
because the subject inspiring them is of public*
not personal, interest.”
The Growth of the Empire.
A Handbook to the “ History of Greateb
Britain.”
By Arthur W. Jose.
Crown Bvo., cloth, 7s. 6d. ; post free, Bs.
%* This book covers the period set for the
N.S.W. Public Service Examinations.
Simple Tests for Minerals; or,
every Man his own Analyst.
By Joseph Campbell, F.G.S.
Fourth Edition (completing the ninth thousand),
revised and enlarged. F’cap. Bvo., cloth, round
corners, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. 9d.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, 89 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY,
And all Booksellers.


CHRISTMAS
BULLETIN
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Voiv. 18.—No. 930.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1896.
Price, 6d.
AFTER YEAS
( F©r Sfoe ftdJlUfeto)
met her in a ballroom, ail arrayed id
WM5m s', lk attire. <
rings upon her and with jewels in her ftaih
jr rows of pearls ar< bund her neck:T could not but adipsre
foH&jr statelq grace of bearings her proucj patrician air,
even as 1 gaxed at ber ( round tbe room she swept,
' A some thing m her features did roq roerobrq arouse)
\ And across rnq rnmd.bq slow degrees,the recollection
t ZThat the last" time I had seen her she was
\\// '' P riving
M ' Home
y/v TbeCows
I .Mer father, I remembered f was a small selector, who
Wrestled hard for an existence with the squatters and the drought
ipHe cl a doz_en bead of cattle , and a weedq horse or two
j Ar»d if luck came evertohis door-it alwaqs found him out.
I 1 called there once upon a time but nobodq was in ,
f. A goat was try mg yiciouslij upon the roof to browse -
f The roof J maq remark was made of sheets of bark and tio-
/ "fhen I saw adittle maiden who wa^
Driving"
o
Home ,
in. The Covrs
/\lltouzled washer hair,and her little leg£3 were bare ,
Her small round face was freckled like unto aturkeu’s egg;
But with self- possession rare, she informed me then and there
That her age waster /ast birthdaq, and her Christian name
\ I kissed her, gave her sixpence-]c©uld then afford no more-
j And She straightway looked upon me as a sort of Santa Claus;
/ Bad she said was at the“Pulb bedMam was at the Store,
And ber business when she came fr°m school wa^
Driving
“ - ■». , .. M ° me Tb,: Cow i um
Mer Pad (lbeard_)Kad struck a‘patcb ; while grubbing up
Andfloated it-be called tbe claim H’Qaffneus Coldenrite,
~[hen straig'htwaq he went home-where be luckqtrorr) the
And sent his daughter A'larg’aretto aboarding scb°ol of style,
fheq Taught her all accomplisnmentjTbat captivate mankind .
.Trench , ILqetalian,and the language of theTraus ;
£>o ifs hardlq strang'e if she,with alHKis learning oohermmd,
Should forget she’olever known the 2xrf of
c Driving -^f§§
Home , .
y. The Cows
But did she ? WeII, tha't evening 1 was introduced to her
She looked so grand and stafelq that 1 almost felt afraid .
I Could scarce believe this ladq , so imperiallq fair
Mad ever beer a bare-legged littlefreckle-faced bush maud /
£>utmqfears were soon dispelled as with a charmin<g roguish smile
Atwinkle in her brilliant eqes a quiver of her brows,
We ve met before, she said "] owe you sixpence quite awhile.
Which qou gave me qears ago when 1 was p rivtr? -
me T»eCows
CREEVE ROT


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
terms to subscribers
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One 1 ound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
fhe Editor will carefully read and-aclcnowledge in the
Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted tor direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to 'be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office af the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F H
Solomon and Co., 23 Uout-st,., Cape Town, South Africa.'
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fwl Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia.
Westralia and. lHaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. Od. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. Thffr£jwiMrbe~naxu&eption to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage-lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special' Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland
Tfc^zzlZeizn.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1897.
The Man who writes “The
Bulletin.”
, Not many miles from Boolabong,
Beside the Baw Baw Creek,
There stands a pub where fiery, strong
And fatal liquors reek ;
Before their smell the white ants ran,
The snakes dodged in between—
And there it was I met the man
Who writes The Bulletin.
We sprinted down the Miepole road
At racing speed or near,
And panting through the bar we strode,
To loudly call for beer.
Our tongues were parched, our tongues were dry ;
But, though the bar was full,
There raised no eye to greet our cry—
No hand our beer to pull.
3'or hung they round an aitchless lout
Who talked with might and main ;
No heed was paid though called I out
Again and yet again.
At last in frenzy left and right
I banged a pewter pot,
And cried, “ Who is this drunken skite
That talks this tommy rot ? ”
he landlord left his resting-place
Behind the counter sped—
And from his weather-beaten face
The blending pigments fled ;
Ile whispered—and his accents broke
The while his face turned green
“ Why, bli-ine, that’s the blanky bloke
That writes The Bulletin.”
We begged an introduction, and
The landlord put us through ;
“ We trust,” we said, “you’ll take our hand—
You know we never knew—
We may be cyclists rough and free,
But still no harm we mean,
We d no idea you were he
Who writes The Bulletin.”
He hiccoughed : “Your apology,
Young fellers, I accept,
Although yer words is painin’ me
So croolly ” —here he wept.
“ These chaps,” the landlord in our ear
Said, “ aint like me and you ”;
And then he rushed and drew a beer,
And brought the poet to.
“It’s all my fault,” the writer cried,
“ My modesty’s to blame.
How was young coves like them outside
To know my proper name ? ”
He turned ; “ I s’pose yous of’en see
The poems * Banjo ’ writes ? ”
We nodded ; “ Them are wrote by me
When I go home at nights.
I mostly signs, though, by the name
Of Henry Lawson ; and
As Titus Salt I got some fame,
I'm led to understand.
At times as V.J.D. I jot
Some taking fancy down ;
And longish letters fiery ’ot
I send as Brigham Brown.
In leadin’ columns, week by week,
I give the Guv’ment ’ell,
Plain English, too, is where I speak
My mind to ’em as well.
Some days I feel I’m fairly broke,
The graft’s so hard and keen;
I promise yous it ain’t no joke
Ter write The Bulletin.”
He “ asked ” the push. It quenched its thirst.
We called a second set,
When it was hinted that the first
Had not been paid for yet.
I said, “ Well, let him make a start,”
When all cried, “ Whatcher mean !
Yer c’dn’t arst the bloke to part
What writes The Bulletin.”
The poet rose, with rage he shook,
The drink dripped from his hair,
A leery, beery, bleary look
He cast upon us there.
“Gerrout, ungrateful, shysling skitsh,”
He yelled with tragic mien,
No more you’re friends of him what writsh
The bloomish Bullshletin.”
And not so far from Boolabong,
Beside the Baw Baw creek,
We dropped our heads and whizzed along
That red-rimmed rugged streak ;
Behind there lurched a figure dim,
The waves of dust between—
That was the last we saw of him
Who writes The Bulletin.
McG.
A Purchased Reward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the married womanly world of Gaynton
this matter of a sister’s wrongs demanded endless
discussion not less than exhaustive condemnation.
No appeal had been made; in the words of
feminine emphasis, “ She would be the last woman
in the world to open her lips on the subject,”—
but in the name of insulted womanhood they rose
to protest against the depravity of the husband
who worshipped, and sacrificed, at the shrine of a
strange goddess.
1 o the cynical conception, the spontaneous sym-
pathy with which they clothed the wife was
chiefly instrumental in drawing attention to the
nakedness of her wrongs. But those who, with
eyes centred on that face, can regard their com-
passion as merely a civilised perversion of the
cannibalistic instinct we, as men, must expel from
our midst. Let them shriek outside, while we, on
our part, thank Heaven that to deaf ears they are
inaudible.
* • * .
He was a man of 45 at least; the father
of a family, and had been up to the present a re-
spected citizen of the world. The publicity of his
lapse into an iniquitous course, his seeming in-
difference to concealment, were regarded in some
weak quarters as implying that he was wholly
fascinated by the woman, and, therefore, partly
irresponsible. It is to be remarked that this ex-
cuse of him, emanating chiefly in the difficulty of
accounting for his fall from rectitude, was offered
by feminine minds rebounding from indignation.
His own sex obstinately refused to recognise any
extenuation. Their wrath—based chiefly on envy
was a far too decided force to be influenced by
mere sentiment.
Concerning the history of the woman who had
tempted him from moral paths, but little was
known. She had but lately arrived in Gaynton,
and had been at first regarded as an acquisition to
society. But her reluctance to disclose anything
about herself had opened the way to rumors con-
cerning her. And society drew off into the pure
atmosphere of odours it was more accustomed to.
It was at this time that Brand’s attentions became
most noticeable. Doubtless he intended merely
to offer his condolence. That his sympathy should
have developed so materially as to overshadow
the injury inflicted, was, in fidelity to the ways of
a contradictory world, both his loss and his gain.
* • * *
That she had been a lady was a fact suffi-
ciently established by feminine denial, without the
added evidence of her manner and dress. She
was spoken of as everything, from the widow of a
baker in a provincial town to the run-away wife
of an English clergyman. In years she looked
rather more than 30, and her bright, stylish ap-
pearance added to the darkness of her reputation.
That she dressed well was undeniable, but then,
since there was no defining the source of her
income, “she could so easily afford to,” A tra-
velled individual journeying through Gaynton
epread the report that he had met her in Adelaide,
where she had held court and defied society. He
had heard her spoken of as the divorced wife of a
Judge in South Africa.
But the absence of a piercing light on the mock-
ing mystery that surrounded her set minds aflame
with curiosity. There was an unexpressed feel-
ing that anyone who could expose her history
would be returned to Parliament if he wished.
That had happened to men for poorer service.
* * * *
The fact of her husband’s infidelity came
as a shock to Mrs. Brand. At the outset, she
refused to credit the possibility, but the evidence
was insistent. She was a woman of some force,
and accustomed to act on her own decisions ; but
here was a fact which threw her back on the help-
lessness of her feminine nature.
It was the discovery of the degradation to which
passion had led him, far more than the insult to
her wifehood, that sickened her to the soul. If his
own honorable feeling had been destroyed what
was she to appeal to ; of what use was any appeal?
lie grew hateful to her sight; the contemplation
of the contrast between the man she had married
and the man who had married her threatened to
shatter her whole belief in human nature.
To protest against his conduct would, she felt,
bo chiefly an addition to her own shame ; and had
the matter rested between only him and herself
she would have left his house without any un-
necessary word of explanation. But she had to
consider her children ; to do her utmost to shelter
them from disgrace. She was convinced that he
traded on the knowledge of how far her duty to
them would bind her. It was in such recognition
of the depths of his infamy, in the feeling that he
had lost all claim to manhood, that she found the
requisite strength to so far outrage her own purity
as to accuse him.
* * * •
He denied everything, but in a manner
sufficiently unconvincing to add to his guilt. He
expostulated violently against the insult she
offored ; he appealed to her respect for herself to
protect him from such accusations. He would
say that ho liked Mrs. Elliott, that he liked to be
in her company. As for the thing she hinted
at But his piteous request to consider the
woman’s reputation found only a halting utter-
ance. It was the scandalous, lying tongues of
the women about that had given her such unjust
suspicions. As she doubtless knew, Mrs. Elliott
was far superior to them, both by birth and edu-
cation, not to speak of good looks. And on these
facts was based the whole of the pitiless enmity
against her. He acknowledged to considerable
admiration for Mrs. Elliott, but their ground of
intercourse was purely intellectual. She had
read more than any woman he ever knew ; her
range of culture was unusually wide.
Conscious that her insistence on his guilt could
in its essence but reflect upon herself, she so far
relaxed as to ask him to discontinue his visits
to the woman for the sake of his own reputa-
tion. But he expressed the determination to be
supremely indifferent to all that could be said
about him. She recurred to the matter again
and revealed to him that she placed no reliance
on his word. It was in regard for her children, in
protest against the insult offered them, that she
spoke. Eor herself she did not care; what pride
she had had in herself he had succeeded in extin-
guishing. But he replied to her always from the
standpoint of innocence, and at length she threat-
ened to leave him.
* * * *
In their daily intercourse she ceased to
speak to him except under compulsion. The
children noticed and wondered. His attempts to
be affable in their presence, to present to them the
fact that their mother was bitterly changed to
them, were in accord with his coward y nature.
She foresaw that life was impossible on the terms
she had it. If this was a world of crime and
iniquity, what was she doing here ? Her piteous
enquiry whether it was he or she who was the
wronged creature remained unanswered.
Ihe attempt to regard the children as far more
his than hers was foredoomed to failure. Her
mother’s heart spoke for them, revealed them as
God’s gifts to herself in this hour of trial. She
could not leave them; for their sakes she could
not publicly proclaim his dishonor. But if he
himself continued to proclaim it ? There must
be a point that was beyond her endurance. She
would go away, taking the children with her.
There was her uncle’s legacy of .£3OO in the Sav-
ings Bank ; she could perhaps buy a partnership
in some business which would give employment to
the two boys. She could not look for brilliant
openings for them. Their father would in due
time be able to do much better for them if she
did not take them from him. How long was this
madness of his to last? And, apart from con-
siderations affecting herself, how far would the
moral welfare of the children suffer from con-
tact with him ?
She must do something ; yet the consciousness
that the one thing she could do would compel
her to begm life again on unknown terms kept
her undecided.
* * *
The mysterious departure of Mrs. EUiott
came as an intense surprise to the town. Society
people were blankly dismayed; the feeling that
ey had been robbed, if only of a common foot-
ing, justified their outcry. It was natural that
their sense of loss should find vent chiefly in an
midless review of the woman’s worthlessness.
, one knew why she was gone, but that fact
only led to almost unlimited choice of reasons
It was felt in some quarters that Brand’s black
looks threw some light upon the mystery. She
had evidently gone without his knowledge In-
deed, one man swore to the fact of Brand’s
amazed incredulity on being informed of the
flight. And he had rushed round to the woman’s
house to find her gone, and the furniture in the
nands of a dealer. There were others again who
insisted that there was ground, apart from the
mere laxity of morals, for believing that Brand
would make a good actor. They were confident
tfiat some deep-laid scheme was at work. Un-
foreseen circumstances had demanded her flight,
but she woukl return. Or, perhaps, Brand in-
tended to follow her.
The one who betrayed least surprise at the
new development of affairs was Mrs. Brand.
And any satisfaction she felt was seemingly
tempered by other feelings. It was regarded as
but natural that she should not be able to imme-
diately recover from her wrongs.
* • • .
There was no word passed between hus-
band and wife with regard to Mrs. Elliott’s de-
parture. felie watched his moodiness increase,
but said nothing. He affected an air of cn-
scious reserve in her presence, in the hope of
inciting her to a3k what had become of the
woman. He was anxious to protest his inno-
cence of any complicity in her flight, and was
ambitious enough to hope he could secure
orgiveness on that basis. It was doubtless
his disgust with the woman, far more tha>« any
disgust with himself, that sent him wandering
back to the paths of virtue. But his wife re-
mained incurious. She gave him no opportunity
to proclaim his reform. Did she take it for
granted that ho expected the woman back, or
was she satisfied in her own mind that he knew
no more than herself? In a Christian awaken-
ing to the fact that ho was being punished for
his sins, he determined on trying to bear his part
in silence. He was, perhaps, the more encouraged
s ° b y t he secret recognition of the fact
that if Mrs. Elliott did return he would have the
fewer good resolutions to transgress.
• * * •
A month passed, and the footing between
himself and his wife remained unchanged. She re-
vealed no express bitrerness towards him, but
rather a lofty toleranc- of his weak, demoralised
nature. His position grew intolerable, but he
could not escape from it. He hungered for some
sign of an even modified forgiveness, but, dared
not ask for it from the fear of being disdainfully
ignored. He was seized with a clamorous recog-
nition of the quiet joys of a righteous life. He
determined on confessing the sum of his misdeeds,
in the consciousness that it was serious enou ,r h to
almost insist on forgiveness.
“There is one thing I want to speak to you
about,' he said to his wife as he met her coming
out of her room.
, , that money ? ” she said facing him
boldly.
“Yes, about your money—that £3OO you have in
the cavings Bank. But bow on earth did you
know?
She stood with hands behind her and eyes
averted from him. “ I don’t care,” she said
defiantly. “You can say what you like ”
“ r?-° y ? u rnean that you won’t give it to me ? ”
Give it to you ! Wliat do you mean?” she
cried in surprise.
It was the endeavor to still his own sense of un-
easiness that enabled him to be lucidly definite.
You don t, understand, I think, Jennie. I want
the loan of your money. I will give it back to
1 can ‘ At P resen t lam in need of about
<£32o—urgently in need of it.”
She bit her lips in silence as she watched him.
She saw he was merely intriguing to force a con-
fession from her. “What do you want it for?”
she asked, crisply.
“To be quite honest about it, Jennie, I want it
to balance my books. I am that much short. I
speculating* and I have been struck.”
You are that much short. You have been
using other people’s money,” she murmured in
horrified amazement.
I hat is what it amounts to,” he ashamedly
admitted.
“Oh, it cannot, cannot be true,” she cried.
He went on with quiet insistence. “ I bought
shares in the hope of a rise. I thought it was
time I made a little money. But the damnerl things
went down from 10s. to lOd. lam sorry to have
to ask you for your money, Jennie. It seems like
robbing you. But I’ll pay it back. Before God I
will. 111 be a different man from now. I’ll pro-
mise you that. ”
She looked up at him with staring eyes, her
face a deathly color. “ You really owe this
money ? she whispered.
It has to be paid at once. It is no use telling
you how I feel about it—how soriy I am. That
can do no good now. I have to get the money
somewhere. If I don’t Well, you know what
will happen.’’
“ What? Oh, say what you mean,” she cried.
1 cannot credit it all.”
“ I shall be arrested for embezzlement.”
“ Heaven pity me ; has it come to this ! ”
The consciousness of hovv deeply he had wronged
her made him patiently humble. “You will “let
me have it, Jennie? As I said, I feel that I am
robbing you ”
“But you do not understand” she cried. “I
have not got it now.”
“You have not got it! What, in Heaven’s
name, have you done with it? ”
“ I gave it to that woman—to buy her off,” she
murmured, in wild despair.
JOHN REAY WATSON.
h Fortune
for
7/6
Your own face is always an
interesting study to your-
j seif and to your friends. .
Very often a face is a for-
tune, so if you possess the
exact counterpart of your
face you will possess a for-
tune, and in this sense we
offer you
V,
A Fortune for 7/6
THE IDEAL PORTRAIT CO.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground FLOOR. NOBTAIRB.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
Six Enamelled C abinet Portraits,*\
with Beautifully Finished Knlarge- 1 //l
ment in Permanent Bromide or ( #7O
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras )


The River Maiden.
A PAGE OF VERSES WRITTEN FOR “THE BULLETIN.”
No damsel of patrician ilk
Wfis -shs, arrayed in
Rich robes of satin or of silk,
My River Maiden.
Her gown was simple woven wool,
But, in repayment,
Per body sweet made beautiful
The simplest raiment :
For all its fine, melodious curves,
With life a-quiver,
Were graceful as the bends and swerves
Of her own river.
Her round arms, from the shoulders down
To sweet hands slender,
The sun had kissed them amber-brown
With kisses tender.
For though she loved the secret shades
Where ferns grow stilly,
And wild vines droop their glossy braids,
And gleams the lily,
And Nature, with soft eyes that glow
In gloom that glistens,
Unto her own heart beating slow,
In silence listens :
She loved no less the meadows fair,
And green, and spacious ;
The river, and the azure air,
And sunlight gracious.
I saw her first when tender, wan,
Green light enframed her ;
And, in my heart, the Flower of Dawn
I softly named her.
The Bright Sun, like a king in state,
With banners streaming,
Rode through the fair auroral gate,
In mail gold-gleaming.
The witch-eyed stars before him paled—
So high his scorning !
And round the hills the rose-clouds sailed,
And it was morning.
The light mimosas bended low
To do her honour,
As in that rosy morning glow
I gazed upon her.
My boat swung bow-ward to the stream
Where tall reeds shiver ;
We floated downward, in a dream,
Far down the River.
The River that full oft has told,
To Ocean hoary,
A many-colored, sweet, and old,
Unending story :
The story of the tall young trees,
For ever sighing
To sail some day the rolling seas,
’Neath banners flying.
The Ocean hears, and through his caves
Roars gusty laughter ;
And takes the River, with his waves
To roll thereafter.
But Love deep waters cannot drown ;
To its old fountains
The stream returns in clouds that crown
Its parent mountains.
The River was to her so dear,
She seemed its daughter ;
Her deep translucent eyes were clear
As sunlit water;
And in her bright veins seemed to run
Pulsating, glowing,
The music of the wind and sun,
And waters flowing.
The secrets of the trees she knew :
Their growth, their gladness,
And, when their time of death was due,
Their stately sadness.
Grey gums, like old men warped by time,
She knew their story ;
And theirs that laughed in pride of prime
And leafy glory;
And theirs that, where clear waters run,
Drooped dreaming, dreaming;
And theirs that shook against the sun
Their green plumes gleaming.
All things of gladness that exist
Did seem to woo her,
And well that woodland satirist,
The lyre-bird, knew her.
The butterflies around her sailed
Their colors bold in—
Vermilion-starred, and silver-grailed,
And scarlet-golden.
And there were hidden mossy dells
That she knew only,
Where Beauty born of Silence dwells
Mysterious, lonely.
No sounds of toil their stillness taunt,
No hearth-smoke sullies
The air : the Mountain Muses haunt
Those lone, green gullies.
And there they weave a song of Fate
That never slumbers :
A song some bard shall yet translate
In golden numbers.
A blue haze veiled the hills’ huge shapes,
A misty lustre—
Like rime upon the purple grapes,
When ripe they cluster :
’Twas noon, and all the Vale was gold—
An El Dorado:
The damasked river seaward rolled,
Through shine and shadow.
And, gazing on its changing glow
I saw, half-sighing,
The wondrous Fairyland below
Its surface lying.
There all things shone with paler sheen ;
More softly shimmered
The fern-fronds, and with softer green
The myrtles glimmered :
And—like that Fisher gazing in
The sea-depths, pining
For days gone by, who saw Julin
Beneath him shining,
With many a wave-washed corridor,
And sea-filled portal,
And plunged below, and nevermore
Was seen of mortal —
So I, long gazing at the gleam
Of fern and flower,
Felt drawn down to that World of Dream
By magic power :
For there, I knew, in silence sat,
With breasts slow-heaving,
Illusion’s Queen Rabesquerat,
Her web a-weaving.
But when the moon shone, large and low,
Against Orion,
Then, as from some pale portico
Might issue Dian,
She came through tall tree-pillars pale,
A silver vision,
A nymph strayed out of Ida’s vale
Or fields Elysian.
While stars shone out with mystic gleams
The woods illuming;
It seemed as if the trees in dreams
Once more were blooming.
And all beneath those starry blooms,
By bends and beaches,
We floated on through glassy glooms,
Down moonlit reaches.
Ah, that was in the glad years when
Joys ne’er were sifted,
But I on wilder floods since then
Have darkly drifted.
Yet, River of Romance, for me
With pictures glowing,
Through dim, green fields of Memory
Thou still art flowing.
And still I hear, thy shores along,
All faintly ringing,
The notes of ghosts of birds that long
Have ceased their singing.
"Was she, who then my heart did use
To touch so purely,
A mortal maiden—or a Muse ?
I know not, surely.
But still in dreams I see Tier stand,
A fairer Flora,
Serene, immortal, by the strand
Of clear Narora.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
At Evening.
Like your eyes, the Evening ! The light is holy
As Day and Night in the dusk are met;
The air is kissing the dumb Earth slowly
Till her dreaming brow with its tears is wet;
The skies grow deeper above the sleeper,
And stars of sorrow are in them set.
And your eyes are Evening ! Pure stars of sad-
ness,
In a trembling twilight of gray and blue,
How shall ever the heat of a noonday madness
Be strong to call me away from you ?
I hate the sight of the Dawn’s delight!
That passes; while Night is the one thing true.
I wait while the bold sun sets in splendour,
A heartless splendour of rolling flame ;
Then across the gloom comes a light more tender,
And you and the world are again the same.
The stars aloft shed their radiance soft
Upon my lips as I name your name.
Vic.
WYVIS.
Illusion.
Oh, garden, garden ! Yes, evermore,
Awake or sleeping, or passed or passing
The secret gateways of Death’s demesne,
My heart shall haunt thee for joy thou lost thee ;
My soul shall search thee for vanished pain.
Oh, garden, garden ! The gate is closed,
And locked and barred with an ivy’s tendrils
Till none can see where the door was set.
And all forget that this waste was garden,
But I, waste place, I do not forget.
Oh, garden, garden ! The early morning
Throws tender green on your yellow grasses,
But lark, and lilac, and rose are done.
The white queen cactus is chained with ivy,
Thou art too large, and too late, kind sun.
A sun there was that was small and near,
A flower and sun that could bloom, and shine,
When all the garden was winter-wet,
And life was lonely, and work was worthless.
It sank, dear garden ! and our suns set.
And now I wonder if lark and lilac,
And gleaming cactus, and white pear-blossom,
Were ever shining in these grey ways.
Or were her whispers the gay lark’s trilling,
Her eyes the lilac of other days !
LOUISE MACK.
On the Grey Gulf-water.
Far to the Northward there lies a land,
A wonderful land that the winds blow over,
And none may fathom or understand
The charm it holds for the restless rover.
A great grey chaos —a land half-made,
Where endless space is and no life stirreth ;
And the soul of a man will recoil afraid
From the sphinx-like visage that Nature
weareth.
But old Dame Nature, though scornful, craves
Her dole of death and her share of slaughter
Many indeed are the nameless graves
Where her victims sleep by the Grey Gulf-
water.
Slowly and slowly those grey streams glide,
Drifting along with a languid motion,
Lapping the reed-beds on either side,
Wending their way to the Northern Ocean.
Grey are the plains where the emus pass
Silent and slow, with their grave demeanour;
Over the dead men’s graves the grass
Maybe is waving a trifle greener.
Down in the world where men toil and spin
Dame Nature smiles as man ’s hand has taught
her;
Only the dead men her smiles can win
In the great lone land by the Grey Gulf-water.
For the strength of man is an insect’s strength,
In the face of that mighty plain and river,
And the life of a man is a moment’s length
To the life of the stream that will run for ever.
And so it cometh they take no part
In small-world worries ; each hardy rover
Rideth abroad and is light of heart,
With the plains around and the blue sky over.
And up in the heavens the brown lark sings
The songs that the strange wild land has
taught her;
Clear in my vision her sweet song rings,
And I wish I were back on the Grey Gulf-
water.
THE BANJO.
Bluebeard's Chamber.
She turned the key, flung wide the door,
Defiant of a sudden doom,
And with wild eyes that sought for more
Stared at a dark and empty room.
The secret—where ? Her flickering lamp
Just showed a white wall, blank and high,
A duller ceiling, stained with damp,
A window shuttered from the sky.
The secret—quick ! Some loosened board,
Some trap-door in the wainscot set,
Must surely mask a treasure-hoard
Or hide a lurking oubliette.
With stealthy steps about the floor
And trembling hands against the lime
She sought to probe the secret’s core—
Frail huntress of a husband’s crime.
And every tingling sense alert
Stung like a snake her baffled brain;
The soft evasive darkness hurt
More than a torturing hell of pain.
A woe behind the shadows grew
That mastered all her woman’s pride,
And each impatient breath she drew
Became a sob before it died.
Fear clutched her at the quivering throat:
She turned to flee with feet of lead:
Then, clamoring at the unbridged moat,
Her husband called —and called the dead.
N.S.W.
ISHMAEL DARE.
The End of Love,
“ The test of Love is Death.”
But yesterday I walked the streets about,
Never so carelessly, so joyously,
For all my world was happy as could be.
I can remember dim a warning shout,
Two maddened horses bolting through the rout;
Then someone falling weakly—was it I ?
And now they say—to-night I have to die.
But yesterday I had a love as fair
As any maiden in this thousand years.
To-day, her face is marred and spoiled with tears;
And, oh ! the shame of it, I cannot care—
Her pain is nought to me, to my despair.
The sun is slipping from me as I lie,
And, oh, my God ! to-night I have to die 1
There are so many things I want to say,
And, ah, so many things I ought to do.
If I had only known, I might go through
My trial fearlessly; but now the day
Is vanishing too fast for me to pray.
My wailing love stands weakly weeping by—
Useless : she cannot even help me die.
Ah, curses on your tears ! They rack and jar
My very soul. Why should you fret and pine ?
What is your pain or fear compared to mine?
The cruel sky is growing black and far—
And out there —O my anguish !-see, a star !
It means the night is here— the hour —and I
Must leave my only Life, dear God, and die !
N.S.W.
AMBROSE PRATT.
Resignation.
In the tangles of thy hair
Hopelessly my heart is netted—
Yet I strive not in despair
In the tangles of thy hair.
Never was so sweet a snare !
Churl were he who chafed or fretted.
In the tangles of thy hair
Hopelessly my heart is netted.
Q-
MACHETE.
Three Fancies.
AT HER DOOR.
“Open ! open ! open !
I am here at your door outside;
The sea’s blue tide flows speedily,
But ebbs a thin red tide.”
The woman rose from her warm white bed,
Threw back her hair and smiled ;
The ears of scorn heard the words of love,
And the winds and the words were wild.
“ Wake ! awake ! awake !
And hearken the woe outside :
The moon is hid in cloudiness,
Calleth and calleth the tide.”
The woman stood in the silence still
As a thing men carve from stone,
Her eyes burned largely in the dark,
And the smile, like a stain, stayed on.
“Listen ! Listen ! Listen !
Hear you the rain to-night ?
A warm dark rain is falling too,
And I grow ghostly-white.”
The woman took three steps and bowed ;
The smile waned from her lip ;
She heard the dripping of the rain
And a soft thick other drip.
“ Open ! Open ! Open !
I die in the dark alone.
My voice goes up in weariness
Against your heart of stone.”
The moon to a cloud-cleft stealing
Gazed down on the yearning tide;
The woman opened the soaken door
And stood in the rain outside.
Silence ! Stillness ! She whispers,
“ Ah, Love, that death should be 1 ”
He sighed, “ Your lips are loveliness ! ”
And she sobbed, “ Woe is me ! ”
The woman pressed his dead white face,
With her face as deadly white :
The moon drew in behind a cloud
And looked no more that night.
FAIRY GOLD.
There was a woman and I loved her :
She was marble and nought moved her.
High she sate enthroned serenely,
Vestured rich with garments queenly.
Fancy’s marbles she lies under :
Mind that warmed her lost its wonder.
Cheated spirit mourns her graces,
Looking into earthier faces.
Low hath fallen the high-seated !
Thoughts were sweet, but thoughts have cheated.
Pensive grew the soul and pondered
On the Beauty something squandered:
Beauty pure, elusive, tender,
Lika half-lights that hint whole splendor.
Never poet fully pleased him
With dear visions, but there teased him
Some gay truant light or color
That made dull his work and duller :
Thoughts that would not stay for question,
Fleeting naiads of suggestion ;
Now he glimpsed them —sweet perception !
Now they failed him —lost conception 1
Now he saw the White Ideal,
Seized his pen—and 10, the real!
Gold of fairies hand-enfolden,
Ope the hand —dead rose-leaves olden 1
Fairy gold or fairy woman,
Old dead leaves—and only human.
STAR-QUEST.
Many go forth
To the East and the West,
The South and the North,
’Neath the spur of acquest;
Search hither and thither
With dust to reward them,
The gods in aloofness
With cold eyes regard them.
Many go forth,
’Neath the spur of a quest,
And a tiling of no worth
Is their portion at best.
Of all the gay Jasons
That seek for gold fleeces,
The nearest to madness
Who searches for peace is.
To the North ! To the South !
To the West ! To the East!
There’s thirst in the mouth !
But there’s wine at the feast!
The stars in their courses,
The planets in session,
Although they shine coldly
Have red-hearted passion.
Go, question the Night,
And the Night will reply :
“ I saw a red light
Hurtle swift through the sky ;
“ By millions and millions
Of sister-lights ran it,
An auburn-haired glory
That sought a green planet.
“ But Death oped his arms,
And it rushed on his breast,
Dark, dark grew its charms,
And frustrate its quest.
“The stars shone as ever,
The green worlds rolled under,
And none paused a moment
To weep or to wonder.”
RODERIC QUINN.


Daniel’s Reform.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
Young Daniel wasted his substance in
riotous living.
He vas of negative virtue and salesman in a
wholesale Sydney house until he won =£2ooo over
the Melbourne Cup.
Whereon he explained to the bo°s, with super-
fluity of adjective, that the latter could get another
salesman, and that boss and business could go to
—blazes. Then Daniel went out and bought an
oppressively-refulgent sulky, silver-platedharness,
white reins and a trotting mare he hadn’t nerve to
drive when quite sober, and which dotted him
like milestones over the roads on his head when
he wasn’t —which was frequently. He lived at
the ra f e of pounds an hou>', patronised fighting-
meh, betted at races, and, temporarily, by en-
couragement of Satan, won more money.
Naturally, ihe day came when he paraded the
Domain with straws in his hair, blue death-adders
in his bulged boots, mid his otherwise void pockets
stuffed with old-gold tarantulas. He recovered.
Some Samaritan who had himself trodden the
whisky-tnnglrd Via Dolorosa gave him a suit -of
clothes, and Daniel, despite his infelix reputation,
got a billet. For months he lived on the smell of
an oil-rag, saving money and reputation. Then his
jamboree was very regal. He awoke therefrom
to the knowledge that Sydney was played-out for
Daniel. He did not arise and go unto his father,
who was a struggling cocky, walnut-faced, and as
destitute of imagination as of Bibfical lore. Had
Daniel essaved the role of Prodigal Son, the old
man would have fallen on his neck with a fence-
rail —or bitten him. In Melbourne, however, re-
sided a brother of Daniel’s mother—Uriah Tregea,
merchant, prosperous, married into Toorak and
money, auste-ely respectable. This uncle, whom
he had not seen for years, he determined to treat
to the felicity of a prodigal nephew. Precisely
how Daniel got to Melbourne he never knew, but
he arrived —stone-broke.
• * * *
It was Sunday morning, and the Sabbath
bells were ringing when Daniel sighted his uncle’s
villa. The prim ornateness of that residence dis-
composed him. “ Bloomin’ high-toned ! ”he mut-
tered. He would temporise with fate. Ho nicked
a blade of grass to ruminate upon, sought tho
shade of a spreading elm, propped a zinc fence
with his hack, and watched Uncle Uriah’s garden-
gate. Anon it opened, and the lady from Too- ak,
a perfumed haze of laces, ribbons and flowe-s,
floated out in command of a very small boy suffer-
ing from Sunday clothes. Mr. Tregea followed.
Uncle Uriah, from the crown of his tall, shiny
hat to the sole of his immaculate hoots, was the
auotheosis of modern male Christianity burnished
for church parade. In his coat a choice gardenia
bloomed ; under his arm a gold-headed cane ; on
his hands —and this spectacle greatly depressed
Daniel —faultless, tender-hued kid gloves. A
well-looking, well-knit, highly-colored dark man
■with penetrative eyes, a large, richly-gilt church-
service, and a cold manner.
Daniel’s boots were hurst, his linen more than
doubtful, tho heelsof his trousers deep-gnawed by
Sydney pavements ; the mire of travel and the
stubble of an incoherent, beer:! encrusted him : his
hand shook—but he had a piece of soiled blue
ribbon—emblem of a whiskyless life - in his button-
hole. He detached himself from the fence and
slouched forward.
“ Speak to you, ’f please ? ”
The lady swept him with the far-away gaze
with which haughty Toorak surveys without see-
ing Little Bourke-street. Uncle Uriah halted.
He put his Angers into the pocket of his splen-
did waistcoat, extracting a shilling.
“ Don’t fatigue yourself to talk. Your poor old
father is dying in Ballarat; you want to wire him
your forgiveness, but have no money ! Take this
shilling. They charge threepence each for your
sort of teleg ams—long ones—at the—the office
down that street. You enter at the front door—
not at the jug and-bottle department.”
It was a great temptation—four beers!—four
long, long beers ! Ah !
“But I’m I’m your nephew I’m Daniel
Pye! ”
Uncle Uriah remained calm. He did not bring
forth “the best robe.” He did not order fatted
veal for dinner.
“Weil?”
“I thought, uncle —perhaps—! ”
. “ Spa-e yourself the exertion of detail. When
- when did you last wash ? ”
“I-I-”
“ Precisely. See that lady? ”
“Yes.”
“ Your aunt! She objects to young Australia
nngroomed and perfumed with colonial beer —bad
beer, I should judge, by the odour. Prejudice,
d übtloss ; still —her way. Come with me.”
He led the young man down a gra«s-grown
side-street, to the door of a rural pub. The land-
lord stood without, praying that he might do a
good Sabbath trade —that being illegal, and con-
sequently universal.
“Come inside, Potts.”
Potts followed, widely smiling
“ This young man will stay here. He wants
well, he wants curry-combing first, then a warm
bath, a shave, and clean linen. Please have him
seen to. After he’s scoured, give him one big
drink, another in the afternoon, and one at night
—no more.”
“ But I’m a teetotaller, uncle.”
Mr. Tregea languidly waved his gloved hand.
“ See he attends my office, sharp ten to-morrow,
will you, Potts ? ”
As Uncle Uriah and Potts went out Daniel
voiced acute discontent:
“You might make it four drinks, I think,
nncle ! ” , ;
When Mr. Potts returned Daniel said, haughtily,
“ Bring in a bottle of whisky, boss.”
“ No, you don’t! Come and have that there
bath. ”
• • • •
Next morning Potts, acting under in-
structions, conveyed Daniel into Melbourne for
refittal. An (externally) amended Daniel, with
much shirt-collar, a white waistcoat, horticulture
in his coat, and a quavering jauntiness of de-
meanor, waited upon Mr. Tregea.
“ Permit me to do the talking,” said tho latter.
“ I am in possession of your interesting biography.
You have done everything but steal. You have
no morals ; you can work—by spasms. Sick of
industry, you revel in long beers and debauchery.
I’m going to reform you—going to make you
morally sweet and clean, or expend you in tho
effort. You will come into this office. You will
live near me so that I can personally supervise
your reformation. If you as much as smell liquor
I propose to make you very sorry. When you
have worn off the odour of dissipation I will in-
troduce you to your aunt. The example of
virtuous and pure-minded people may redeem
even you. The manager will now show you your
work. That will do.”
• • • •
The old hands in uncle Tregea’s business
thrust tho tongue of derision into the cheek of
contempt at Daniel. But not for long. He
worked early and late. In three months he was
teaching the boss salesman how to sell. As he
grew in grace he was introduced to his aunt, who
accepted him with toleration, as another develop-
ment of her husband’s eccentricity. The atmos-
phere of uncle Tregea’s house was surcharged
with gentility, so much so that Daniel, who had
an undistinguished perspicacity, sometimes fancied
that his uncle was a trifle bored by the Toorakian
culture which fenced him in by night as by day.
THE EXACT ARTICLE.
No JUDGE: "But I want a draught-horse. This broken- winded thing of yours won't do me.”
DEALER (eagerly): “ W’y, he’s the very horse you wanl just listen to the draught in him!”
Occasionally, when he and Daniel were alone,
uncle Uriah would consume a bottle of what the
prodigal nephew contemptuously teemed “soft
tack,” with a gentle sigh, but whether a sigh of
enjoymentor as a tribute to the absence of whisky—
Mrs. Tregea totally tabooed alcohol and tobacco,
owing to their innate vulgarity—Daniel could not
determine.
Sometimes his uncle would express a tempered
satisfaction w th Daniel’s progress towards virtue.
“ Isn’t the consciousness of living cleanly and
morally, of being associated with good people who
neither smoke, drink, nor swear, but who have
tone and culture, infinitely nobler and more satis-
fying than wallowing in drink and the rest ? ”
Daniel agreed—without torrid enthusiasm. He
had acquired, however, a deep veneration for his
uncle, the more profound because he could not
understand how any man, let alone one with
money, could load so immaculate a life, Daniel
almost yawned himself into tears when he thought
of that uncolored existence, that Sahara of
respectability, without a single oasis of razzle-
dazzle. But he regarded uncle Uriah as a model
man, while admitting to himself that, outside
commerce, “ uncle isn’t very fly.”
* * * •
“ How long have you been with me ?"
“ More’n six months, uncle.”
“And totally abstained all the time ? ”
“Abstained 1 never even sniffed a cork, uncle.”
“ Think you’re reformed ?”
‘ Certain— wouldn’t go on a bend now for any
money.”
“ You excruciating young ass. Don’t you see
you’re not resisting temptation, but only running
away from it 1 ”
“ How f ”
“You must face, touch and taste drink, and
beat it —not let it beat you.”
“ Oh ! ” said Daniel, with a clear glint in his
dark eyes.
“ Yes, I’ve thought this out, and, though I
hate to do it, I mean to fly round —that’s what
you call it, fly round ? with you of a night. You
shall take me to just the sort of places you U3ed to
frequent—hotels, billiard-rooms, races, and other
low resorts, I presume. And you i-hali learn to
take your liquor and to face these vulgar excite-
ments without descending to brute-level. When
you can d i that you’ll be really reformed.”
“ Yes ! ” said Daniel, solemnly, with a gentle
smacking of his lips. He added “ But—aunt ? ”
“ Well, I loathe deceit, but in this case the end
sanctifies the means. Your aunt thinks we have
work that will keep us, and for many weeks, late
at the office of a night.”
“A h-h !”
* * • •
“ Suppose you’ve saved money, eh?” en-
quired Uncle Uriah one night after they had dined
copiously in town.
“Saved all my screw, uncle, except what I
pay for board.”
“ Very good ; we play billiai'ds to-night—for
money. I abhor gambling, and I shall play solely
in your interest.”
“This is going to be a very soft thing for
Daniel,” chuckled the prodigal. “Don’t suppose
uncle can play for sour apples.”
Yet, when Daniel counted the cost, ho whistled
dubiously. “If uncle was anybody else. I should
place him as a swagger billiard-sharp 1 ” he sadly
soliloquised.
For long, the young man relaxed himself with
noble moderation. One night, however, as they
were proceeding towards the station, cn route for
home, he exhibited symptoms of quicksilver
poisoning—the mercury apparently coursing about
liis system. His legs would suddenly go limp, or
his spine bulge, or his head start « obbling like
an articulated porcelain nodding Chinese man-
darin. Contemporaneously, his manner visibly
swelled, acquiring a conVa'ivaness utterly foreign
to his normal deference towards his uncle.
“ Made a beast of yourself, I see ! ”
“ Wash that ushay unci’ ? ”
“ I rema ked you had turned to your wallow,
like any other hog ! ”
“ Lookereuncl’; won’tletshu n’anyother mansh
talkmelikethatsh. I disho wn you—disho > n you !
Put up your propsh—goi Vto biff you unci’ 1 ”
And the wretched prodigal actually smote his
benevolent relative somewhere about the thud
waistcoat-button smote him scientifically and
hard. The e suing scene was swift and d stiess-
in t. Uncle Uriah threw out his loft, then swung
his right in a deja id but painful manner. Result
—Daniel on his back in the gutter, contemplating
the cerulean dome of heaven with one partially-
open eye, the other being closed utterly, pending
repairs. Then his uncle picked him up with one
hand, pitched him into a cab, and sat on him.
Daniel, subsequently cogitating, never qu te
reconciled his uncle’s rapid right with his uucle’s
unblemished respectability and innocence of
worldly affairs. “ Wonder where he 1-arnt that
trick 1 S’pose that’s a cultured, pure-minded
right of uncle s. It's terribly sudd in, thmgh,”
he reflected.
The prodigal went into retreat, to mend. In a
fortnight, with misgivings, he reported himself o
his uncle.
“Go to your work. I said I’d reform you, and,
by high heaven, I will! ”
Daniel, pondering all these things in his heart,
felt that ignoble advantage had been taken of his
youth and ill-regulated thirst. He i elated his
afflictions to the'present writer. “You see,” he
said, it s all very fine for uncle, who’s genteel
and strong-minded; he sips about two drinks, I
expect, while I’m filling myself up—then he gives
me peculiar goss for not having self-control. I’d
like to know who’d have self-control when uncle
keeps raying, ‘ Fill the gentleman’s glass
please Miss ! ’ ”
“Fill him up,” I suggested.
“ Strike me, I will! ”
I learnt later that the ingenuous youth had
poured, at his own expense—which was contrary
to his principles—large quantities of whisky into
Mr. Tregea, while slyly th' owing his own liquor
away. When they adjourned Uncle Uriah, frigid
as the Antarctic Pole, spoke to Daniel seriously
and at length, regarding the “ brutal avidity *'
with which the younger man consumed intoxi-
cants. “ You don’t drink your liquor, you eat it,
sir ! You make me shudder to see you. But I’ll
reform you yet! ”
Daniel was very dishear ened.
“And there’s billiards,” he sighed to me; “ I
never smell a single game. Uncle flukes some-
thin’ sickenin’, but ho always gets there. He
owns he flukes. He’s won a pot of money off me.”
“ Try him at euchre, Daniel.”
Which Daniei did, stacking the cards fright-
fully. Mr. Tregea’s soul revolted against cards.
He said so. But he sacrificed himself in the
cause of reform, and broke pobr Daniel up badly
at the new pastime.
About this time the latter frequently woke up,
suffering, in the morning, with a fancy that his
uncle had been badly tangled the previous evening,
and that he (Daniel) had piloted—the blind lead-
ing the blinder —him home. But when later, he
beheld uncle —spick, clear-eyed, and garbed more
gloriously than Solomon—and heard uncle deplore
his (Daniel’s) easy fall to temptation, the latter
knew his fancy for the baseless fabric of a
* * * •
A crisis in the prodigal’s reformation ap-
proached. They were waiting one afternoon at a
suburban station for a Melbourne train —Daniel in
a mental condition favorable to sarcasm. A huge
butcher’s slaughterman pushed against him rudely,
and Daniel explained to the man that he would
find the pig-trucks lower down the station, whereat
the butcher knocked Daniel on to the permanent
way. There were brief proceedings, and a par-
tially- laughtered slaughterman was cari ied away
to be sewn up and to apply the familiar bullock to
his bulged eyes, while the stationmaster and a
guard were appraising personal injuries resultant
on inj udicious interfei ence.
* * * *
Two mornings after, Mr. Tregea handed
Daniel an official-looking letter.
“ This came to my house ; kindly have your cor-
respondence directed to your own residence.”
Daniel read and turned eau-dc-nil tint.
A lofty railway official wrote that legal proceed-
ings for desperate assaults and language would be
taken against Daniel Pye. Before framing the
very serious clia ges, the official would be willing
to hear anything which could be urged in extenu-
ation.
Daniel, trembling, handed his uncle the letter.
“ Just so ! ” said uncle Uriah. “ Taken into the
bosom of my family, afforded every example of
rectitude and virtue, you disgrace me and pollute
my home by your loathsome appetites and mur-
derous violence.”
“But what did I do, uncle? Wish I may die ’f
I know. I clean foiget everything. If I was
accused of murder I couldn’t deny ir.”
“ That’s about what it is. You murderously
assaulted a butcher. Certainly, he hit you first;
but you struck the railway people, and your lan-
guage made my blood run cold.”
‘ How did they know my name, though ? ”
“I —I gave them your card, to prevent you
being locked up.”
“ But I never carry cards when —when I’m out
for pleasure.”
“No? Well, I happened to have one of your
cards in my pocket.”
“ .Say—uncle ! ”
“ Well? ”
“ I’ll clear for Tasmania.”
“You won’t. You'll go and see this railway
officer, tell him the truth, and beg for meicy. If
you as much as mention me in the matter l will
myself compel the railway people to prosecute
you.”
Daniel saw the official. Dressed in deepest
mourning, wearing a racking c -ugh and -his left
a m in splints, he wept copiously into a large
cambric handkerchief and explained to the
augu-t presence that he was an orphan, also that,
previous to the day of his misfortune he had been
in bed for six months (consumption, he feared).
He had been induced (by a bad companion) 10 go
to the races, and had taken one—only one—glass
of sp rits— the fir t lie had ever tasted in his life.
It was wrong to do so. Wrong to go to
He had a billet to go t >, to-in o'row, in a bank;
all his poor orphaned little brothers and sisters
were solely dependent upon him; he was their
broad-winne ■; a public scandal would, of course,
ruin him and them. Perhaps the gentleman had
so is of his own ?
He had, and was quite touched by Daniel’s
pathos and penitence. He lectured Daniel
gravely (then Daniel put away his pocket-hand-
kerchief) ; he could not undei stand how a person
of Daniel’s physique could have inflicted such ter-
rible punishment on that butcher (Daniel couldn’t
understand it either*; however, the butcher was
the aggressor; he had hit Daniel’s companion
(Daniel did n>t correct the statement); but there
w re the assaults on the railway servants —serious
offences !
Eventually the official consented to forego pro-
secution—which would certainly entail imprison-
ment —on condition Daniel paid <£s to Melbourne
Hospital and apologised to the wounded railway
men.
Daniel went straight out and button-holed the
station-master, and grovelled befo e him for hav-
ing polluted his station by shedding the gore of a
butcher thereon, and having incidentally damaged
the station-master.
The latter stared very hard, and simply said,
“You must be off your chump, I think.” He
probably said more than that, but no artifice ever
succeeded in making Daniel repeat what he then
heard.
• • * •
“ It’s this way,” said Daniel to me next
day ; “I shall never taste again - not as long as
poor uncle wants me with him. You see, I’ve
only just dodged Pentridge this twist. Next time
it’ll be murder, and I shall swing, certain. 1
don’t know what I do, and I don’t know whn
some other folks do, when I’m full. ’Cute ? I
thought I was pretty fly, but I’m a mug, I am.
I’m not in it with high-tone and culture. Uncle’s
a good man ; he’s been good to me ; but—but
uncle’s cunnin’, he is; I don’t suppo3-i there’s a
cunnin’er man in Victoria than uncle Uriah 1 He
took me to reform me. Well, he has! ”
“ What d’ye mean ? ” I asked.
“ Never mind —/ know ! No more liquor, n
more sprees for Daniel; he’s reformed, Daniel is.”
Said Mr. Tregea to me, “ I think I’ve made %
job of that youngster. I’ve reformed him ; I sai *
I would. There was more vanity than vice in
him. He was touch : ngly inexperienced.”
•“ Do you know,” I remarked, “I think Danie
is under the impression—he’s been talking to th
stationmaster—that it was you who smashed th*
butcher, and you who damaged the railway peoph
and used lurid language. Was it?”
“My dear sir,” he replied, “you must have
taken leave of your senses. ME! Why, just
Heaven, they e’ected me churchwarden only
yesterday. ”
“Oh ! ”
Sydney.
J. EVISON.


The Creak of the Door.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coachman and the baker were at a decided
discount that night in the kitchen of Bargo Villa.
The cook and the housemaid had the new con-
stable from Brisbane with them, and they were
excited and elated, for this handsome young man
in blue had been admired and sportively claimed
by quite a bevy of girls since attending nine
o’clock mass on the previous Sunday.
The glory of roping him in first having been
achieved by the cook and housemaid jointly, they
allowed no shadow of rivalry to trouble them at
first, although the delightful uncertainty of their
feelings unconsciously improved the situation. As
soon as the slight awkwardness attending the
constable’s entrance was entirely dispelled by
congenial topics, the housemaid hazarded a vital
question.
“ I suppose you’ve left your gurrl in town, Mr.
Mulrooney ? ” she said.
“ I hev not,” the young man replied slowly.
“ I had one wunst, and she died, and I t-olt her
I’d never hev no other.”
His tone and manner were solemn to a degree,
and he kept his eyes down to hide the twinkle in
them. The girls made woebegone faces at one
another until the silence became oppressive.
“Never mind, tell us how many old shirts
you’ve got,” the cook ventured with tender solici-
tude.
A minute later a squeal came from the next
yard. “ He’s cot a holt of her,” said the police-
man, showing his teeth, and the ship was straight
again.
The golden hours, however, brought a change to
the girls. They became suspicious of one another,
and the suggestive meaning of the young man’s
commonplace remarks gradually ceased to prompt
mysterious giggling and sly kicking under the
table. The fact was, Constable Mulrooney had a
very tender glance, and he shed it impartially,
a id this impartiality had the reverse of a soothing
effect, although it spurred the rivals to fresh
effort. The chime of nine o’clock surprised the
y >ung man, and appeared to suggest a fitting time
for a pleasant duty. He looked at the girls ad-
miringly, and very much as if he had a romp in
his mind. They were nice girls, flushed just now
with the excitement and, perhaps, the competition
of the evening.
“Is the folks all out?” he asked, indicating
with his thumb the front portion of the house.
“ All but the old lady’s ’tendant, an old maid.
She wont, come in.”
A step came along the verandah. The police-
man sprang up. “By Jove! what’ll I do?” he
asked. The housemaid went to parley at the
door. The young man looked round and saw the
scullery door open.
“Come in here,” he said, drawing the cook
with him.
“Let me go. They’re coming in,” she whis-
pered, struggling. He dived thoughtfully behind
the door, and she went out and met the house-
maid and the elderly attendant, and, as the house-
maid’s eyes went straight to her tossed hair and
loose apron-bib, both blushed—one in smiling
confusion, the other angrily.
“ Like a fool I make goot gruel. I haf got to
make more,” said the new-comer.
She was a Miss Kaspruh, a German, about as
attractive as a smoked slab, and heavy and slow
of speech.
The housemaid had an inspiration for the sauce-
pan, which was behind the scullery door. She
emerged in the same plight as the cook, but the
others were hunting for the groats and missed her
pleased embarrassment.
When Miss Kaspruh had her wants supplied,
the girls sat down—not to talk, but to listen, as
the lady was very talkative. The only interesting
thing about her to the girls was the invariable
male element in her conversation. A man moved
the balance-wheel which regulated her thoughts.
Miss Kaspruh was in a very good humor, appa-
rently just beginning to enjoy herself, and every
remark pirouetted round a man.
“ Ah, if sis vas only for my own ole chap ! ” she
sighed as she stirred the gruel. “ Oh, you can
laugh, but I haf hadt blenty shaunce. You know
se top of a boat ? A captain ! yes. He vas nearly
mad varnting me, only every night he lay down
in front of se boat mit trink, and his back was so
stooped ”
“That you could hang a kettle on his coat,”
suggested the cook.
“If you like. And he walk like sis.” Showing
elastic-side boots and coffee-hued stockings she
walked round, accomplishing a corkscrew twist
with one leg before putting it to the ground.
BUSH SKETCH BY HOP'S UNDERSTUDY .
No music in the Australian bush? Then, that's easily remedied.
They laughed heartily, but, to Miss Kaspruh’s
idea, not more heartily than the occasion war-
ranted.
“Se vas a young man,” she continued, “kavite
a sentleman, and such a fine figure ; but he haf an
ugly hedt, and I could not sink of dat hedt on se
billow beside me.”
“It makes no matter. Before your legs are in
bed your’re asle.ep,” said the cook.
“Yes, but I vas too easy disgusted. Anusser
young man vas very handsome, but very short
lages. I vould haf liked his hedt on se pillow, but
ven I looked down. Ugh ! ” The scullery-door
creaked sympathetically, and shy, roguish glances
were thrown towards it. Miss Kaspruh heard
the creak, and it set her pondering. Their bright
appearance and perhaps excessive laughter flashed
the truth to her.
“ Sey might haf giv me se vink,” she whispered
to herself, and her small eyes- blinked spitefully as
she poured out the gruel.
“Now you have nothin’to do but hobble in to
your old man,” said the housemaid.
“Miss Kaspruh turned on her way out and
looked at them. “ You haf no shaunce,” she said
loudly, “ because morn, noon, and se night you
sink and talk, talk, of nussing but se men. When
you hold your tongues and your thoughts you haf
shaunce too ! ”
Q’sland.
MARY LLOYD.
Arahuta’s Baptism.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arahuta was a punarua, one of two wives.
Maurea was her co-wife, and Tamahue was their
husband. Maurea was the wife of Tamahue’s
youth, but she was childless ; so he had married
Arahuta also, which was an arrangement quite
tika and correct.
Maurea had received Arahuta as her fellow-
punarua with every mark of affection. The
three lived peacefully together. There was no
suspicion of jealousy between the two wives of
Tamahue. Maori women are, for the most part,
large-minded in matrimonial matters.
Tamahue’s wives used to plant his kumeras,
and dig them up when ripe, and cook them ; they
weaved flax garments for him, and ministered to
his comfort. And in return Tama’ abstained
largely from those fierce ebullitions of temper so
frequent in Maori chiefs, and was generally con-
tented, and loved his wives very much. And they
were as happy as bell-birds that sing in “bush.”
♦ ♦ * *
When Arahuta had borne three children,
the new karakia came to Papatea. Karakia is
the native word for religion. Of course the
Maori tohungas, or priests, said it was a poor sort
of karakia compared with theirs ; but as theirs
was excessively vague and indefinite, and in many
respects a nuisance, the people said they would
give the white man’s karakia a trial. The Maori
mind deeply loves a new sensation. And the
pakeha’s karakia can be made a really interesting
thing to the savage, if the exponent does hut
know how to use the startling incidents of the
Old Testament.
As for Tamahue, the kauwhau, or stories, told
by the white tohunga, fairly “ fetched ” him. He
took Kitione (Gideon) and Rawiri (David) for his
patron saints, and was fully convinced that the
atua of such heroes must be worth worshipping.
And he worshipped.
* * * *
The man who brought the new karakia to
Papatea was a German named Gottlieb Riemen-
schneider. And when he got back, this is how
he spoke of the matter to the head of his mission:
“ Dere is moch seed for der gaddering at Papa-
tea. Tamahue, der chief dere, is brebaring for
babtizm. Bot it is bery deeficult mit Tamahue,
for he haf two wifes. Dees wifes he married in
der heathen days, in goot faith and quite in keep-
ings mit der customs of ze peoples ; und he don’t
like putting one of zem away, pecause he lofs
both dose wifes bery moch, and dey are beautiful
wimmins. So I bromise to stay two dree veek
mit him somedime when I next go dere, und we
will talk it ofer, and I dink Tamahue he come
along all right und put away one of doze wifes of
his, and den I babtize him. Und I dink Tamahue
get crate plessing ven I get him babtized and
done.”
• * * *
Arahuta was sitting on the sea-beach cry-
ing. The white, frothy little waves of the blue
land-locked bay almost laved her feet; white sea-
birds flew screaming past her ; the chubby infant
that she nursed divided his attention between his
mother and the encroaching sea. But Arahuta
paid little heed either to child, sea-birds, or sea.
Her tear-blurred eyes constantly gazed at the con-
course of people in the village, some 300 yards
from where she sat upon the beach.
One of the chiefs was addressing the people.
Arahuta could hear his voice lifted high upon the
still air ; she could see him walking up and down
in front of the crowd, and gesticulating wildly in
emphasis of his speech. Arahuta knew the
speaker to be Tama’, father of the child she
nursed.
Tamahue’s speech was a long one, and when at
length it was ended, there was a great shouting
in acclamation of what had been said, and che
whole audience, at the direction of the speaker,
trooped down to the beach, where they clustered
under a great pohutukawa tree whose branches of
crimson flowers threw a cool shade upon the
yellow sand. The people grouped themselves
round a large font, decorated with rich red flowers
from the tree above.
Then from the village there came down a man
dressed in white, and with him were the chiefs of
the village, and Tamahue. This man in white
was the pakeha priest, who had brought the new
karakia to Papatea. And the new karakia had
become the fashion, and everyone wanted to join
it—except Arahuta.
Riemenschneider came solemnly down with the
deeply serious air common to all tohungas, brown
or white, of whatever creed. Por a while he
stood wrapped in silence beneath the flowering
tree, the sleeve of his surplice covering his face.
Then he made oration —which, too, is a practice
common to all tohungas. And after he had
finished speaking, there was much commotion
amongst the people, and they seemed to be arrang-
ing themselves in a semblance of order around
the font. Then Riemenschneider once more
covered his face with his sleeve, and spoke to his
atua, and all the people stood still and silent, with
bent heads. Then he called his converts up before
him by families, and sprinkled their heads with
water from the font, and said an incantation over
them, and gave them their new names.
Arahuta watched from afar this iriiringa of
the people. The last to step before the white
tohunga was Tamahue, and with him Maurea, his
wife, and Arahuta’s two children. Arahuta
watched their baptism, breathless, and clutched
her babe the tighter to her breast, And the
tohunga gave Tama the name of Abraham, and
the woman he called Sarah. He must have had a
grim sense of humor, that tohunga.
When the ceremony was ended, the people
trooped back to the village to feast. Only the
pakeha remained behind. He had taken off his
White garment, and stood regarding Arahuta as
she crouched, weeping, on the yellow sand.
By-and-bye he walked towards her till she could
hear his voice. In deep guttural tones he said.
“ My child, why do you stand alone outzide der
fold ? Der new karakia ” But Arahuta fled
from him along the beach.
Night had closed down on Papatea. The
feasters had sung their last hymn; the cooking
fires had died out; everybody was fast asleep.
The village was as quiet as death —the only sound
the breaking of the waves upon the shore.
The moon shone upon the dark waters, and the
streak of sand along their margin looked in the
grey light like a white path.
On this white band of sand there was a dark,
moving speck. It was Arahuta with her child,
coming back towards the village. .She paused
beneath the great pohutukawa tree, whose red-
ness was now become black, and laved her hands
in the holy water which still lay at the bottom of
the font.
Presently she sprinkled with a few drops her
sleeping child, and made marks crosswise on its
forehead. Then for a while she called on the
unknown atua to curse the white tohunga and all
his tribe. The mournful tones of her voice reached
the village, and a wakeful cur harked at her. At
length her incantation was ended, and she
walked down the beach into the sea. With her
babe upon her back she swam far out into the
moonlit waters, till she appeared only a little
blot upon the sheet of silver. Suddenly the blot
vanished.
* * * *
The Rev. Gottlieb Riemenschneider, at
the next annual meeting of the Auckland branch
of his society, addressed his audience thus :
“We haf had crate plessings at Papatea, for
which I gif tanks to Gott. Dere was 76 gandi-
dates for babtizm at Papatea, and mit dem Tama-
hue, der chief. Der bolygamy question crop up
dere, and almost made a deeficulty. Tama’, he
had two wifes, nice, goot-mannered young
wimmins, and he lof dem very moch. One of
dese vas der wife of his youth, but she haf no
schildrens ; der odder she was a most loftly young
womans, which Tamahue he took furder on, and
she haf dree schildrens, which make him a very
broud man. Und dey all lif happy togedder,
midout quarrelling und strife. So it seemed
a crate pity to disturb such peace und harmony,
but der rules of der society are strict; like der
Persian laws, dey cannot be schanged. No one can
be babtized mit more zan one wife, so Tamahue
he haf to put one of doze wifes of his away. And
l wondered mit myself which he would keep. So
he tinks und tinks a goot lot, und den he says he
will keep der first wife, und der udder, like
Hagar, he send adrift on der vorld. She took mit
her her leetle Ishmael at der breast, but her two
odder schildrens Tama’ he keeps for himself.
Und so der crate deeficulty was ofe gome, and
Tamahue, der chief of Papatea, was babtized, for
which I gif efery day braise und tanksgiving to
Gott. ”
But of the baptism of Arahuta the Reverend
Gottlieb Riemenscbneider said never a word.
M.L.
ALFRED. A. GRACE.
THE
LIFT BOY'S
MASH
When, quartered at a tall hotel.
You wish to take the lift,
But, though you ring the ’lectric bell,
The cage sticks half-way down the well,
Nor seems to try to shift.
You wait awhile and ring again,
And form conclusions rash—
The boy’s dropped dead, or got a pain!
You ring and ring, and snort in vain—
The lift-boy’s got a mash,
My friend,
The lift-boy’s got a mash.
A damsel, “just about the age,”
Is with that gay young spark,
A.nd therefore doth he stop the cage,
Not opposite a landing-stage,
But somewhere in the dark.
He’s buttoning her tiny glo,ve,
Their fingers gently clash—
Behold the rosy dawn of love!
'Twixt earth and Heaven high above
The lift-boy hugs his mash,
My friend,
The lift-boy hugs his mash.
O, lodger at the tall hotel
Kept waiting for the lift,
Don’t agitate that beastly bell—
The boy’s alive and doing well
By industry and thrift,
With her he dreams of going shares
In hearts and hopes and cash.
Don’t ring again, but walk upstairs,
And hum solt, [sentimental airs—
The lift-boy’s got a mash,
My friend,
Tho lift-boy’s got a mash.
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISHER


The Great Drift.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The autumnal equinox had gone. A half gale
from the south had introduced it, bringing a
week’s wet. Then the wind worked round the
east and north in the fine weather cycle, and ulti-
mately brought up in the west, whence it blew
bitterly.
A silver army was coming northward. Far
down as Green Cape and Twofold Bay the
watchers rocking in their boats saw the disturb-
ance on the waters and knew its meaning. The
annual migration of mullet had begun. Then
from point to point the news moved speedily.
Nets were mended, brown sails hoisted, and boats
sailed seaward. Under the stars the sea-harvester
sat and smoked, and waited for the crop. At the
same time an atmospherical depression made its
appearance in Bass Straits, and meteorologists
predicted violent squalls.
• • • •
At twilight, fisherman Christian and Jonsen,
his partner, ran their boat out from a quiet cove
at the end of a beach to the north of Port Jack-
son. Christian’s wife stood by holding her infant.
She was young and robust, and her complexion
duskily rich, like that which often warms the
cheeks of fisher-folk.
She cooed to the infant, and said something to
the men, and as they rowed away it was notice-
able that her gaze rested on her husband’s part-
ner. It was to him also, when he looked back-
ward, that she fluttered a red scarf taken from her
round brown throat. And when they had made
an offing, and the west wind filled their sails, it
was not the evening star that won Jonsen’s land-
ward gaze, but the woman in grey and the infant
at her breast.
Night came along, and the sails flapped unex-
pected news to the two men. The west wind was
dying, and in a little while it was dead, nor did
any other arise from the four quarters to replace
it. But, instead, the great Polynesian Drift
tressed its green hair about their keel and took
them south, and all the stars in the sea looked up
at them. When they were thus forsaken by the
wind, Christian looked aloft for a sign of un-
usual weather. He saw the Cross and the
Pointers, and they shone white and near through
the clear and brittle air. But save for
the Magellans—hung high where no winds
might prevail against them —the blue was
cloudless. Still he felt changes in his blood
that were a mystery. A fierce exalta-
tion charged his system, like that which high
winds call into being. Nature had found an old
boat on an open sea, and the man feared that she
was unsheathing her claws preparatory to some
feline prank. At length he lay back in the stern-
sheet, lit his pipe, and smoked. His partner
occupied the bow, only half alert for any move-
ment on the water, though at any moment the
silver river of fish might roll in sight. Christian
looked at him and thought of the wife on the beach ;
Jonsen, safe in the darkness, looked at the
stars down in the sea, and thought of the same
woman. Christian looked aloft at the weather,
LITTLE NORAH (whose father has just beaten her, to Ethel, whose pa is “ doing time ”) :
"your father is in gaol."—(Ethel weeps.) — "Oh! I didn’t mean to hurt
your feelings. I only wish my father was there too! ”
and mused on a twofold treachery—on twin things
that deceive, On the other hand, Jonsen so lost
himself in pleasant thinking that his pipe went to
ashes, and he did not know he smoked.
“ No signs yet,” said the man in the stern, re-
ferring to the fish.
“ None,” the other replied, “ but they will come
In time.”
“ the sooner for a smoke,” said Christian,
passing his tobacco.
The other filled his pipe and made a light, but
turned his face away so that Christian should not
read anything there. Christian, however, saw
the action and guessed the motive, and his heart
hardened.
• • * •
All this time they were going south at from two
to three knots an hour, for the Polynesian
Drift had work to do and warmth to carry.
They were at a distance of four or five
miles from shore, and away to the north-west
stretched the beach where Christian had his
home. It was J onsen, however, who turned his
eyes most frequently in that direction, and ’twas
he, not Christian, who fancied he could see the
windows gleaming in the dark. The woman
sitting by the fire, her foot on the cradle
and the red, resinous grass-tree roots painting her
figure, was a picture in his brain only—surely a
guilty place to hang so sweet a picture.
“ How clear the stars are ! ” said Christian.
“Yes,” answered Jonsen, looking into the sea,
“ aloft and below.”
“ The sea is like a mirror.”
Jonsen said nothing, but listened to the sluicing
of the boat, and Christian puffed awhile in
silence. Then he took the pipe from his lips, and,
leaning over, spilt the ashes into the sea.
“Jonsen, if you stood before a mirror, what
would you expect to see ? ”
“ My face,” said Jonsen, starting in surprise at
the question.
“ And if it was not there ? ”
“ Ho.w could that be ?—I would think myself
mad.”
Christian gave a low laugh.
“ You are right,” he said, “’twould be impos-
sible —but if, instead of a blank, you saw another
man’s face staring into your eyes—what would
you say then ? ”
Jonsen paused a moment before answering—
something in the other’s voice making him un-
comfortable.
“ I would still think myself mad. But such a
thing could not happen.”
“It has happened,” said Christian, “and it is
not a sight that mad men see, only one that makes
men mad.”
“ Who has seen it ? ”
“I,” Christian answered.
“ When ? ” said Jonsen.
“ A month ago. Listen ”
“Go on,” said Jonsen, with a laugh, “it must
have been trickery.”
“It was—of a kind,” Christian replied in dry
tones. “ I came from the city,” he continued,
“ and all the way home I was filled with a yearn-
ing to see my own face. It was an odd yearning,
and yet it has troubled me more than once. The
air was full of rain, and the drops hung in my
beard and hair, and dripped from my ears. It
was a grey evening, and I plodded through the
sand ; for the tide was out and the beach sodden
and heavy to walk. There was a hard, dull light
on the sands, with scarcely gleam enough in it to
reflect the red feet of the sea-birds that chased
the back-draw. As I neared home the yearning
grew unendurable. Has the like ever happened to
you, Jonsen ? ”
“ Never,” said Jonsen, “ nor to any other man. ’
“ Fool! ” Christian sneered, you do not under-
stand. I was not the first by many men to feel it.
It troubles everyone at some tide in his life.”
“ I never heard a man talk as you do,” said
Jonsen ; “ either you are mad or dreaming.”
“ Patience,” the other answered; “I am telling
a truth, and you will know it as such in this life,
or ’’—and his words fell distinctly on Jonsen’s
ears— ‘ ‘ in-the-life-to-come. ”
* * * *
In the silence that ensued Jonsen shoved his
A SIDELIGHT ON NEVER-NEVER SOCIETY.
BARMAID (to station hand): “ What sort of man is Mr. Crushpen, he ashed me to
marry him?”
STATION HAND : “ Just you collar him; and I'll collar his ‘ gin!’ ”
face forward, but the darkness concealed its ex-
pression. Christian —on the other hand —leaned
backward, and veiling his eyes beneath long
lashes hid a revelation from the other’s scrutiny.
“ The life to come,” repeated Jonsen ; “ what is
it you mean ? ”
“ Nothing,” the other answered ; “but let me
continue. I reached my door and opened it. You
were elsewhere mending nets, and my wife stood
before me with open arms and a kiss. I hardly
pressed her lips, and told her to go instantly and
bring the mirror. Then she went away and
brought it, and held it up that I might see. I
looked at it long and earnestly, but —God have
mercy on you, Jonsen! —it was your face that I
saw ! ”
“Mine?” exclaimed the other, and in the
marvel of the moment he might have been dead
for all the sound that his breathing made.
“Aye,” answered Christian, “your eyes—your
mouth—such a face as yours might be, if God
stripped the treachery and the sin and the years
from it.”
“ And you awoke —and all this was a dream,”
said Jonsen, with a half-laugh.
“No,” Christian replied, “I was wide awake,
and in the moment’s agony an impulse itched my
hands to crush the thing that replied so foully to
such a sweet question. But my wife withheld
me, saying I should do no harm, and I looked in
her eyes and cursed her.”
“Ha!” whispered Jonsen, and Christian started
and breathed deeply at the sudden interest in his
wife’s doings. Reaching a hand he wrenched the
tiller from its place, and lifted and lowered it
almost at the same moment.
‘ ‘ And now do you know what this mirror was ? ’ ’
“No,” said the other.
“ Well, ” Christian answered, drawing closer, and
gripping the tiller with a tense hand, “ it was— ”
The net —the net, quick! cried J onsen, leap-
ing up.
* * * *
Christian dropped the tiller, and stood a
moment in surprise. A luminous mass was on
the waters —a cloud of light moving up at a rapid
rate. The surface, hitherto sheeted like glass,
became ringed and rippled by a thousand tails
and fins, and the noise of leaping and bubbling
and splashing fish disturbed the silence. The
starry stillness of sea and air—invaded hy
the phosphorescence and liquid noises—grew into
a theatre of mad turmoil, and the fishermen for-
got everything in the passion of their work. They
cast their net into the living sea and hauled
strenuously at its freight. But it were better had
they asked for less. The power of mass—repre-
sented by so many fish—drew the boat down on
one side till her gunwale sipped. Then Nature,
who cannot be predicated to take sides with any
creature against another, loosened a wrath in the
south, and it struck the boat, heeling her over
and sending the two men down amongst the
myriads. They came to the surface together,
spat the water from their mouths, and headed for
the boat. On his way thither, Christian touched
the tiller, and grasped it as he would a friend’s
hand. Then he swam on, reached the boat, and
climbed astride the keel.
Jonsen was not so fortunate. Twice he touched
the boat, but twice it slipped away from him and
he sank. At length he gripped the bow and held
on there, knowing that Death was tugging at his
heels.
The wind came in fierce squalls that shoved the
boat before them, and already white caps were on
the water dappling the dark. Jonsen knew a
mighty sea would be running before long. When
the South wind fights the Drift, Titans are
in combat and the sea runs to mountains.
Therefore he called to Christian to succor him
in his peril, but Christian wiped the trickle
from his eyes and laughed. And—worse than
this—when cold, freezing the blood in Jonsen’s
veins, spurred him to an effort that might
have ended in success, Christian lifted the tiller
and struck him on the forehead. Jonsen fell
hack to his old position and held on as best he
could, while Christian talked to him from his place
of comparative safety.
“ I will not kill you, although I should,”he said,
“ for to kill a man God has forbidden. But I will
let you hang on there till the strength leaks from
your fingers, and all the death-bells in your brain
begin to ring.”
* * * *
For an hour the wind rose and the sea mounted,
and Jonsen’s arms grew torn and tired with the
effort to retain his hold. Death crept on him by
inches. Already his legs were dead, his body
dying, and his brain alone lived—burned with life.
He was ill-situated to resist the three great seas
that swept down and submerged him. When he
rose from the last he breathed with effort, and
heard—as in a sleep—Christian on the keel talking
of a mirror.
“ In the world to come, Jonsen, ask whom you
meet what the mirror is. Say a man hurried
from loneliness and the shadow of death, and
hoped to see his face in it as his wife held it in her
hands. Say many men have hoped in like fashion.
Say, also, that they hoped in vain, because the
Devil and a perfidious wife ordered otherwise. ”
Then, with a gurgle and some bubbles, Jonsen
slipped beneath; but it is not recorded that he
asked the question afterwards —or that he needed
to ask it.
And as for Christian, he was saved —lest his wife
should grieve.
RODERIO QUINN.
A Westralian red-dust track ; evening.
Swamper with swag, camped, intently regard
ing fire, Footsteps in the distance; second
swamper appears, looking a degree or two worse
off; throws down his swag uninvited with: “ Any-
thing to eat, mate?” “Nothing,” growls the
other, “ only a billy of tea.” “ H’m ! ” says the
other, “that’s bad.” Presently, first swamper:
“ Any water along the road ? ” Second swamper:
“ Yes, I’ll show you how to find it if you're going
on. You see,” and he picked up a sapling and
drew a circle round the fire, “ about ten miles
along there’s a paddock with a wire fence. Right
in the centre of the paddock there’s a dam ; that
would be just here ” —and he dumped the sapling
with all his force in the middle of the fire. “Blast
you ! ” yelled the other, “ you’ve squashed my
damper!” “No fear,” said the man with the
sapling, “ you haven’t got any damper, you’ve
only got a billy of tea. ”


You and Us.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
You do your pioneering,
You clear the forest lands,
To ploughing and to shearing
You give your yeoman hands ;
But we were toilers ever,
And we were exiles ever
What was, it yet shall be ;
We found the way, down under,
To your appointed plunder,
We opened up the Sea.
Now, what was Father Noah,
Except a sailor-man ?
Yes, who was Father Noah 1
Just tell us if you can—
A LIGHTNING CHANGE.
“ I was up to see Bill at the Orsepital yesterday."
“How ’is he?"
“ You wouldn't know im. They gives the poor feller a barth
every mornin ’!”
A shellback hard and crusty,
A shellback rude and rusty,
Who, maybe, couldn’t read ;
Longshoremen raised that rumpus—
He had nor chart nor compass,
But saved the human breed !
And when his cruise was over
Say, what did Noah do ?
Like any good old rover,
He took a drink or two.
He’d brought his great tank through it,
He’d drove his big tub through it,
And fetched her to the pier ;
So, when he’d paid their wages,
’Tis logged, on Bible pages,
He went upon the beer.
You talk ! You talk of horses,
Of running brumbies down,
Of fording water-courses
And bein’ like to drown;
You boast of lonely tramping,
“ THE WAY OUT.”
MISSIONARY: “ Let me see , now —let us take
for our first lesson the book of Daniel.”
Of sleeping out and camping,
Of bravin’ wind and cold,
Of meeting desert dangers
Prospecting savage ranges,
And starving after gold.
You had your share of doing,
You had your work to do,
But you had wives for wooing
And homes and kiddies, too.
You heard the olink of glasses,
You heard the laugh o’ lasses,
Had time to rest and play,
So let your racked souls borrow
In promise of to-morrow
Some comfort for to-day.
But us ! We crouched together
’Longside our ripping rail
To see the howling weather
Slog down the stinging hail,
We heard Hell’s legions shouting,
What time all Hell was flouting
Our souls —give up for dead ;
With brine-cut, bleeding faces,
We manned the weather braces,
When you was safe a-bed.
We ship with brave Columbus,
We sign with Captain Cook,
To make the sea romances
That make the lands-
man’s book.
Eor we are toilers
ever,
Eor we are rovers ever,
To-day and yester-
day ;
You toil, and there
you’ve said it,
You toil and that’s
your credit,
But us ! —we show the
way /
We found the Western
highways
That opened up the
East,
We left along its bye-
ways
Our bones the sharks
to feast.
And when they later
wanted
Dare - devil dogs un-
daunted
To head for Hindo-
stan,
With cutlass sharp and
handy
We worked, and wore
the dandy
East India Merchant-
man.
We cruised with Bass
and Elinders ;
Boscawen knew us
well
Before the smoke and
cinders
Of ocean liners fell;
Magellan sometimes
praised us—
The sea-girt earth that
riased us
Was not so narrow then —
And Dampier often told us,
Though Satan bought and sold us,
That we were proper men.
We know the Nor’-West waters
Where spouts the bottle-nose,
Up where the seal-man slaughters
For furs among the floes ;
We know the Strait o’ Behring,
We know the place of herring,
The cod-fish grounds know we;
We’ve seen the dugong swimming,
We’ve seen the cow whale trimming
Her great flukes in the sea.
You fight with Death, and ever
You get the corn and oil;
We fight with Death forever,
But Death is all our spoil.
Now to our combat’s fitness
Let weed and coral witness,
Dark coasts and darker waves,
Wrack, thirst, gaunt wretches raving—
Blood-mad, alone, death craving—
Lost hopes, and unmarked graves.
Despair has been our master,
The winds our enemies;
We’ve hob-nobbed with disaster,
And slept with mysteries—
Storm-flogged and starved and stinted,
Eor pay, hot coin fresh minted
By Beelzebub below—
Fresh scenes, and fleeting blisses,
Deep drinks, and hot, quick kisses,
Heave up, “ Good-bye,” and go.
You plough the lands we find you,
You burn some powder too ;
But when your work’s behind you,
You spell and take your due.
But we are toilers ever,
And we are exiles ever ;
’Twas foretime, ’twill be thus.
You get the virgins, brothers :
We get, God wot, the others—
Your cast-offs come to us.
You make your women mothers ;
’Tis right, ’fore God ! the others
Should derelict to us.
Eor you the clink o’ glasses,
The homes, the kids, and lasses —
Your leavings, dregs, for us.
Sydney, 1897.
E. J. BEADY.
0n a H illston (Lachlan, N.S.W.) station
blackfellow “ Jacky ” used to earn his rations by
catching fish for the house. The storekeeper was
the man to whom he generally took his morning’s
basket for acceptance. Thus storekeeper and
nigger. Storekeeper : “ Well, Jacky, what fish
to-day?” Jacky: “Baal, big fellow lot this
time.” Storekeeper: “How many you got?
Jacky : “ Only five.” Storekeeper : What you
want for them ? ” Jacky (spreading the fish out
in a line): “I tink tsugar belonging that feller ;
blour belonging that feller; tea belonging that
J£, lcr . bac ca tonga that feller.” Pause. Store-
keeper: “ Well, what you want longa last on©—
the big fellow? ” Jacky (scratching his head) *
“ Oh, I tink it whisky belonging thttf feller,
The Parson and the Scone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was dinner-time. And weren’t we hungry I—
particularly Joe ! He was kept from school that
day to fork up hay—work hard enough for a man
—too hard for some men—but in many things Joe
was more than a man’s equal. Eating was one of
them. We were all silent. Joe ate ravenously.
The meat and pumpkin disappeared, and the
pile of hot scones grew rapidly less. Joe regarded
it with anxiety. He stole sly glances at Dad and
at Dave and made a mental calculation. Then he
fixed his eyes longingly on the one remaining
scone, and ate faster and faster. . . . Still
silence. Joe glanced again at Dad.
The dogs outside harked. Those inside, lying
full-stretch beneath the table, instantly darted
up and rushed out. One of them carried off little
Bill—who was standing at the table with his legs
spread out and a pint of tea in his hand —as far as
the door on its back, and there scraped him off and
spilled tea over him. Dad spoke. He said
“ Damn the dogs ! ” Then he rose and looked out
the window. We all rose—all except Joe. Joe
reached for the last scone.
* * * *
A horseman dismounted at the slip-rails.
“ Some stranger,” Dad muttered, turning to re-
seat himself.
“Why, it’s—it’s the minister!” Sal cried —
“ the minister that married Kate.”
Dad nearly fell over. “Good God!” was all
he said, and stared hopelessly at Mother. The
minister —for sure enough it was the Rev. Daniel
Macpherson was coming in. There was com-
motion. Dave finished his tea at a gulp, put on
his hat and left by the back door. Dad would
have followed, but hesitated, and so was lost.
Mother was restless —“ on pins and needles.”
“ And there ain’t a bite to offer him, ” she cried,
dancing hysterically about the table —“ not a
bite ; nor a plate, nor a knife, nor a fork to eat it
with ! ” There was humor in Mother at times.
It came from the father’s side. He was a dentist.
* * * *
Only Joe was unconcerned, He was employed
on the last scone. He commenced it slowly. He
wished it to last till night, His mouth opened
and received it fondly. He buried his teeth in it
and lingered lovingly over it. Mother’s eyes hap-
pened to rest on him. Her face brightened. She
flew at Joe and cried :
“ Give me that scone !—put it back on the table
this minute ! ”
Joe became concerned, He was about to pro-
test. Mother seized him by the hair (which
hadn’t been cut since Dan went shearing) and
hissed:
“ Put — it — back — sir 1 ” Joe put it back.
* * ♦ *
The minister came in. Dad said he was pleased
to see him —poor Dad ! —and enquired if he had
had dinner. The parson had not, but said he
didn’t want any, and implored Mother not to put
herself about on his account. He only required
a cup of tea —nothing else whatever. Mother was
delighted, and got the tea gladly. Still she was
not satisfied. She would be hospitable. She said:
“ Won’t you try a scone with it, Mr. Mac-
pherson ? ” And the parson said he would—-“just
one. ”
Mother passed the rescued scone along, and
awkwardly apologised for the absence of plates.
She explained that the Andersons were threshing
their wheat, and had borrowed all our crockery
and cutlery—everybody’s, in fact, in the neigh-
borhood —for the use of the men. Such was the
custom round our way. But the minister didn’t
mind. On the contrary, he commended everyone
for their fellowship and good-feeling, and felt
sure that the district would be rewarded.
* * * *
It took the Rev. Macpherson no time to polish
off the scone. When the last of it was disappear-
ing Mother became uneasy again. So did Dad.
He stared through the window at the parson’s
sleepy-looking horse, fastened to the fence. Dad
wished to heaven it would break away, or drop
dead, or do anything to provide him with an
excuse to run out. But it was a faithful steed.
It stood there leaning on its forehead against a
post. There was a brief silence.
Then the minister joked about his appetite
—at which only Joe could afford to smile—and
asked, “ May I trouble you for just another
scone ? ”
Mother muttered something like “ Yes, of
course,” and went out to the kitchen just as if
there had been some there. Dad was very un-
comfortable. He patted the floor with the flat of
his foot and wondered what would happen next.
Nothing happened for a good while. The minister
sipped and sipped his tea till none was left . • .
Dad said: “ I’ll see what’s keeping her,” and
rose—glad if ever man was glad—to get away.
He found mother seated on the ironbark table in
the kitchen. They didn’t speak. They looked at
each other sympathisingly.
“ Well ? ” Dad whispered at last; “ what are
you going to do ? ” Mother shook her head. She
didn’t know.
“ Tell him straight there ain’t any, an’ be done
with it,” was Dad’s cheerful advice. Mother
several times approached the door, but hesitated
and returned again.
“ What are you afraid of 1 ” Dad would ask ;
“he won’t eat y’. ” Finally she went in.
• * • •
Then Dad tiptoed to the door and listened. He
was listening eagerly when a lump of earth —a
piece of the cultivation paddock—fell dangerously
near his feet. It broke and scattered round him,
and rattled inside against the papered wall. Dad
jumped round. A row of jackasses on a tree near
by laughed merrily. Dad looked up. They
stopped. Another one laughed clearly from the
edge of the tall corn. Dad tui ned his head. It
was Dave. Dad joined him, and they watched
the parson mount his horse and ride away.
Dad drew a deep and grateful breath. “ Thank
God ! ” he said.
STEELE RUDD.
The very worst Judge—from an elocu-
tionary point of view—in Australasia will prob-
ably retire shortly, and many people will be glad
when the old man departs. This ancient person’s
speciality is summing up a case. He takes notes on
all manner of small paper scraps, and seems to get
thenotes of three or four cases mixed up together on
his desk. Then he clutches one of them and starts
to sum up in a monotonous mumble :—“Gentle-
men of the jury, this is a case—eh —oh, yes—(here
he reaches for another scrap of paper)—a case
referring to a promissory note which—er—which
—ah—(here he drops that paper, and reaches
hurriedly for another one) —on —ah —er —I mean a
case referring to a—er —disputed conveyance—l
mean the defendant says the goods weren’t de-
livered—er—er. The plaintiff says—eh—says
that the—er—goods were delivered. If you—er—
ha, hum —believe that the—er—statements of the
plaintiff are correct, you will, of course, find for
the—er—plaintiff. (Here his Honor turns over
a number of scraps feebly.) If, on the other
hand er—er —you believe the plaintiff I
mean the—er—prisoner—er—that is, the —er —de-
fendant—of course—the defendant—you will—er-
er-er-buz-z-z-z-z —ha-hum. The defendant’s wit-
nesses—l mean—er —the plaintiff’s witnesses —er
—oh, yes—er —the plaintiff didn’t call any wit-
nesses—but—er—relied on documentary evidence
—ha, hum —er —of course —hum. The defendant’s
witnesses —as you may observe—er—directly con-
tradict the plaintiff’s witnesses—er—ah, yes—the
plaintiff—of course —called no witnesses. If you
believe the—er—plaint—l mean defendant’s wit-
nesses, you will—of course—er —ha, hum—km-m-
-m-m-m-m-m-m-m. The defendant’s witnesses—l
may —er —say —seem quite—ahem—credible. The
plaintiff’s evidence —1 mean—ah, yes—seems also
—ahem—credible —quite credible. You will there-
fore consider the case and—er-ah-eh-hmn—buz-
z-z-z-z-z-z. You will now retire—ah, one moment—
you will, of course, bear in mind —er —that is to say
you will have noticed—er—l mean it cannot have
escaped your attention —that —er —ha, hum —that
er—in short you will —of course—give diie weight
to —er-er-er-er-er-er —I mean—that is—oh,yes—eh
—oh —ah—buzzy-z-z-z-z-z—ahem. I think that is
all —er —gentlemen. You will now—er —consider
your—er —ahem—oh—ah .” His Honor has
been doing this sort of thing at a big salary for
more years than Thk Bulletin can well remem-
ber, and the bar in his province has pretty nearly
got brain-softening as a consequence.
THE WAY:?
To CATCH
A
MAN.
' F°f\ TA & Bil LIS-fA)
Dainty boots on her dainty toej, ,
Dainty JhaDs scarce a span;
Dainty tip on a dainty rvo^e-
{ And this ‘S the way To catch a man.y
Elyey, thaT laugh as she come;and ooey
that hide in a fairy fan
.Blush and b*l°°rn of a budding rose-
('This IS theway To caTch a man*, j
Queensland
lock;? tk*T cjrooja &r>ej curi,
the-m pend«lous'»f |ou c.fcr\)
d)iTnles tKzvY bre&k through a gaTe of pear!"
'This ib the wav to cafc.ll a ir\ar\,)
, S
Give Her these ar\c| a Trifle then
Just To finish the charmino plan,
Only a dowry of Ten ~
Trtib is w WAY to catcHaman 1 .)
P.LUPTIO


By the Bones of his Mother .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Susuga is very ill,” they said to me.
“Naturally,” I answered. I wasn’t at all sur-
prised. Susuga’s liberal diet for some time past
might be represented as a Samoan equivalent for a
course of suet dumplings, Devonshire cream, fat
bacon and Welsh rabbit. His good health would
have astonished me considerably.
“ Susuga will die,” they said.
“ Not at all,” I retorted ; “ he has only to drink
plenty of salt-water ” (the native term for Epsom
salts) ; and I forthwith administered a dose which
must have startled the arrears of food compacted
in the Susuga interior. Samoan faith in Epsom
salts is unlimited. I felt I could leave results to
take care of themselves with a clear conscience.
* * * *
But either I had over-calculated my dose
or the Susuga interior was in a worse condition
than I supposed. The results were formid-
able. I had apparently administered an emetic
which threatened poisonous consequences, and
Susuga’s last state, after his introduction to
Epsom, seemed to be even worse than his first.
He groaned, he moaned, he screamed, he drew
rasping breaths, he loudly asserted that he must
die, and his fond relatives agreed to the necessity.
In vain I pointed out that the throat irritation
which so alarmed him was the necessary conse-
quence of an emetic ; that the internal agony was
merely an effort of self-assertive nature. I might
as well have discoursed eloquently to the winds.
In vain I requested them to send for the
white man’s doctor if they had lost faith
in their own Samoan fomai. I was assured that
it was quite ridiculous to bring doctor’s and medi-
cines into the question at all. Then, when I
pettishly inquired what was the proper argument
to introduce into the question, I was gravely en-
lightened as to the real state of the case ; Susuga
had a devil inside of him, and that devil was under
oath to kill him.
* * * *
“ Stuff and nonsense,” I ejaculated angrily,
“ it is quite hopeless to attempt to help people
with such notions. The devil inside Susuga is
made up of fat pork, cocoanut-cream and half-
cooked taro. If you would attend to your diges-
tions a little more and bring on fewer pains in the
stomach you would not have to invent poor devils.”
But this only proved me to be an outer bar-
barian not worth listening to save as a matter of
courtesy. From a similar sense of courtesy I was
permitted to doctor the suffering throat; it could
do no possible harm ; such small matters as lini-
ments and soothing appliances could not affect a
determined internal devil, and any apparent relief
was only a ru<- of his the better get his own
way.
* # * m
That night all Susuga’s nearest and dearest
relatives sat up in his hut round the comforting
blaze of the circular cocoanut-fire. They crooned,
sighed and prophesied, told authentic tales of dia-
bolical possession, condoled with Susuga on his
approaching demise, and speculated as to the form
it would take. Susuga groaned and wailed in har-
mony. Altogether, it was a very cheerful gather-
ing that I glanced upon in the early dawn.
“ Why on earth don’t you teach them better?’’
I said wrathfully to the native missionary who
was coming out of the house ; “ what is the use
of your sermonising and your Sunday-schooling if
TALL CROSSWISE.
FAT MAN : “ What are you staring at me
for?”
THE OTHER MAN : “I am just thinking how
much easier it would be to jump over
you than to walk round!”
you can’t drive this devil nonsense out of their
heads?”
The dark missionary in snowy-white raiment,
who had been praying beside the doomed man,
looked at me reproachfully. “ You should not talk
in that way of the devils,” he said with grave unc-
tion, “ it is not the way to help me cast them out. ”
“Cast them out, indeed ! Do you mean to tell
me that you, with all your Christian profession,
encourage these superstitions ? ”
The missionary still eyed me gravely : “ Did
you never read the Bible?” he enquired in his
suave tones.
It was very early in the morning, and the morn-
ing, in Samoa, is not the time of day
when your nerves feel most equable.
Mine were on edge.
“ You know perfectly well that
that is a rude question to put to a
papalangi,” I answered, quite crossly.
“I apologise,” quoth the placid mis-
sionary, “but papalangi should not
forget that Christ’s time was much
taken up with casting out devils.
Who am I that I should refuse to
follow the Master’s example ? But,
alas, I lack His power.”
* * *
The ground was suddenly cut
from under my feet. It was, of
course, useless to offer any comments
on nineteenth-century civilisation to
this quiet-spoken gentleman whose
voice may be heard thundering half-a-mile off
when he occupies the pulpit. He was some cen-
turies behind me in general knowledge, but very
much ahead of me in diabolical lore. I left him
and the devil and the patient to have it out
together.
• * * *
Apparently the devil had rather a b..d
time of it. True, Susuga did not exactly recover,
but neither did he die ; such vacillation was ex-
tremely annoying. Samoans understand mourn-
ing energetically and rejoicing energetically, but
suspense is not at all in their line. Why did not
Susuga make up his mind to die or recover ?
“It is very trying,” observed a devoted rela
tive, “the preparations for the funeral feast are
all made, and now we don’t
know what to do ; we can’t
afford to distribute the
food lest he should die
after all and so cause a
double expense, and we
can’t have a funeral feast
without a death.”
“I suppose not,” I
agreed dubiously, “but
could you not have a re-
covery feast ? ”
The other shook his
head. “He has not re-
covered ; we can hardly
expect him to recover, the
devil would think it bad
manners to let him go after
holding him for so long;
that is just where our
difficulty comes in. But if
he does not die to-night we
have a plan.”
“Oh ! you have thought
of some new treatment ? ”
He shook his head mys-
teriously.
“It is Samoan treat-
ment, ” he said, “ papalangi
would not understand—
Samoan treatment of the
devil. ”
* » *
Next morning I really
thought Susuga had died
satisfactorily. There was
an amount of cheerful
bustle, a chopping of sticks,
and hanging out of lava-
lavas, and filling of food - baskets that sug-
gested funeral excitement. But I was wrong.
Susuga was very much exhausted, but he had
not yet had it out with his devil; it was ap-
parently a “ waiting game,” and the question
was which could hold out the longest. Just
as I was speculating on the cause of the
bustle I saw Susuga carried out of the hut.
He was strapped on a chair, very pale,
very weak, carefully wrapped up, with an
air of set determination in his worn face.
Presently the chair, slung on a pole, was
raised, two strong men carefully ad-
justed the pole to their broad shoulders,
and a procession formed.
I stepped forward hastily.
“ What are you going to do now ? ” I
expostulated, “ Susuga does not look fit
to be off his mat. Are you going to kill
him outright ? ”
“ We are taking him over the moun-
tain,” was the astounding answer.
“Over the mountain! Twenty-five
miles of rough bush-track. Have you gone
crazy ? ”
“ Susuga was ever a good son; we take
him to see his mother. ”
“ His mother is dead,” I an-
swered, very angry at this char-
acteristic subterfuge.
“ To see the bones of my
mother,” corrected Susuga’s faint
voice from amid his wrappings.
“We think the devil may respect the bones of
his mother,” explained one of the bearers, pitying
my vacant look.
“ And where are the bones of his mother ex-
posed to view ? ” I queried, supposing that they
represented some saintly relic.
“ Oh, they are not to be seen at all; we shall
have to dig them up and shake them in the face of
the devil. If he has any sort of conscience he will
WHERE THE PANG CAME IN.
SYMPATHETIC VISITOR: “After all, a husband is not an irreparable loss.”
INCONSOLABLE WIDOW “ No, perhaps not; but my husband was more like a friend!"
flee before the bones of a good mother, and Susuga
will recover.”
I ventured no further remonstrance. I felt
assured that if I took objection to the proceedings
some scriptural precept would be hurled at my
heretical head.
* * * •
“ How is poor Susuga 1 ” enquired a white
friend later in the day.
“Dead by this time,” I answered, shortly;
“they are probably digging his grave on th
HOSPITALITY OUT BACK.
" It’s a pore ’art what won’t feel for another, p’r’aps in misfortun'
thro’ no fault o’ hisn. Here, take this axe, and chop down
a few o’ them trees, a dozen, say, an' I’ll give you a feed
with all my ’ art!”
mountain-top and lamenting the distance that
separates them from the funeral feast. ”
“ I don’t know that you are right,” commented
my friend, after hearing details. “I dare say the
jolting over the mountain will be the best thing
in the world for his inside, and that he will arrive
better than he started.”
“ And die of fright when his mother’s ghost is
evoked,” I concluded. “ Why, it will be a worse
affair than the witch of Endor’s ; it makes me
creepy even to think of.”
* * * *
‘ ‘ Talofa, ” said a soft voice at the gate a
fortnight later.
“What!” I cried, “Susuga alive and looking
well! lam delighted. But how is it you are not
dead ? ”
“I know I ought to be,” he answered, with per-
fect gravity ; “ the devil meant me to die, but the
bones of my mother were stronger.”
“So it seems. Tell me how they helped
you ? ”
“ I arrived almost dead,” said Susuga, squatting
cross-legged on the verandah and proceeding to
light a salui, “and when they laid me down in
the house next my mother’s grave and began to
dig for her, I felt still more dead. I thought the
devil was having it all his own way with me, and
I begged them not to disturb my mother, who
had alwaysbeenaquiet, timid sort of woman. You
know it isn’t very pleasant to be dug up to fight
the devil. They took no notice of me, and I don’t ■
know what happened, but it seemed a very long
time before their work was done, and the devil
inside me got angrier and angrier and nearly tore
me to pieces. Then at last they came in, moving
slowly and singing the song of the Dead Bones,
and when they held them up and rattled them in
my face I suddenly lay as the dead and my soul
left my body ; it is what you white people who
don’t understand call a faint. But it was only
the devil who had clutched my soul when he went
out of me himself. You see, lie could not stand
the bones of a good woman who was guarding her
son; they mocked his power and scared him, and
he had to go. But he hoped to spite her by taking
me witli him. Only my mother’s soul whispered
so lovingly that mine was drawn back to its own
body, and lay there trembling for two days. After
these two days of weakness I sat up and took the
ava bowl and poured the ava on the ground to the
memory of my ancestors, and drank some myself.
Then the strong life began to return, and I ate
food, and stood, and walked, and prayed on my
mother’s grave, and here I am back again without
my devil.”
“ Mind he does not return, Susuga,” I said, with
my'mind running on the dietary scale.
Susuga shook his head. “He will not forget;
he has sworn by the bones of my mother not to
return.”
* * * *
I was greatly impressed. The march of
civilisation struck me as a waste of valuable
energy. When 1 return to the Wicked World
and its manifold dangers I propose to hang round
my study with Samoan bones. They will protect
me from the devil and his works.
Apia, Samoa.
ROSE DE BOHEME.
M‘Ginnis and M‘Cormick.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In an ugly, yellow gully where a heap of mullock
lay,
I encountered “Rip ” M'Ginnis in the middle of
the day.
He was sitting by his windlass, with a melancholy
air,
Just the image of misfortune and the picture of
despair.
He was wearing “moles” that hung about his
skinny legs in strips,
And his boots were tied together, and his shirt
was mostly rips;
His scanty locks were twined about the fragments
of a hat,
And on his breast the clay had baked in patches
as he sat.
He was sev’nty-two, he told me, and his shoulders
seemed to bear
All the weight of all the work he had accom-
plished year by year.
“ What’s wrong, old man 1 ” I asked him, and he
slowly shook his head.
And he spat into the bucket. “ She’s a shicer,
mate ! ” he said.
“ I’ve bin fossickin’ this country round fer fifteen
years or so,
An’ I kep’ this as a stand-by—’twas a likely kind
o’ show ;
It was nasty graft to sink her ’cause o' drift, an’
needed care,
But I reckoned she’d reward me—an’ there ain’t
the color there 1
“ Yes, I’ve got a mate —M’Cormick. This has
put him in a funk.
An’he’s gone across to Waddy for a consolation
drunk.
He is sixty-four, an’ happy, an’ he’s breakin’ up,
I think,
Any little thing upsets him now an’ drives him to
the drink.”
As I looked down on M'Ginnis, sitting sadly on
the keg,
And I thought of poor M’Cormick, with his old
rheumatic leg,
I was filled with admiration for these ancient men
and brave,
Sinking duffers when the common sort is digging
at a grave.
Just then “Rip” disturbed my musing : “This
here place ain't fit fer men,
But I s’pose we’ll take the cradle down the blasted
creek again ;
We had reckoned if she panned out fer our passage
and the rest
We would roll our swags at once an’ make a fresh
start over West.”
EDWARD DYSON.


Mitchell and Matrimony .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I suppose your wife will be glad to see you ?
said Mitchell to his mate, in their camp by the
dam at Hungerford.
They were overhauling their swags and throw-
ing away the blankets, and calico, and old clothes,
and rubbish they didn’t want—eve ything, in fact,
except their pocketbooks and letters and portraits
—such things as men carry about with them always
—as are found on them when they die. It was the
end of the shearing season, and Mitchell and his
mate, having been lucky enough to get two good
sheds in succession, were preparing to take the
coach from Hungerford to Bourke on the way to
Sydney. The morning stars were still bright as
they sat down to a final billy of tea, two dusty
johnny cakes, and a sc"ag of salt mutton.
“Yes,” said Mitchell’s mate, “and I’ll be glad
to see her, too. ”
“ I suppose you will,” said Mitchell. He placed
his pint-pot between his feet, rested his arm against
his knee, and st'r-ed the tea meditatively with
the handle of his pocket-knife. It was vaguely
understood that Mitchell had been married at one
period of his chequered career.
“ T don’t think we ever understood woman pro-
perly,” continued Mitchell, as he took a cautious
sin to see if the tea was cool and sweet enough, for
his lips were sore. “ T don t think we ever will
we never took the trouble to try, and, if we did,
it would be only wasted brain-power that might
just as well be spent on the blaekfellows lingo ,
because, by the time you’ve learnt that, hlackfel-
lows will be extinct—and woman will be extinct
before you’ve lea nt her. . . . The morning
star looks b ight, docsn t it ? ”
• « * *
“ Ah, well! ” said Mitchell after a while, “there’s
many little things we might try to understand
women in. I read in a piece of newspaper the
other day about how a man changes after he’s
married how he gets short and impatient and
bored (which is only natural), and sticks up a wall
of newspaper between himself and his wife when
he’s at home ; and how it comes like a cold shock
to her, and all her air-castles vanish, and in the
end she often thinks about taking the baby and the
clothes she stands in, and going home to mother
for sympathy and comfort.
“ Perhaps she never got a word of sympathy
from her mo her in her life, nor a day’s comfort at
home before she was married, hut that doesn’t
make the slightest difference. It doesn t make
any difference in your case, either, if you haven t
been acting like a dutiful son-in-law.
“ Somebody wrote that a woman’s love is her
whole existence, while a man’s love is only part of
\is —which is true, and only natural and reason-
able, all things considered. But women never
IN “PUSH” SOCIETY.
LADY: “ This is ALL RIGHT, Bill. I
could stand this for ever !"
GENT (who has hired the boat) : “ Yes, but Lor’ blime! not at a ' deener ’ an
hour!”
consider, as a rule. A man can’t go on talking
lovey-dovey talk for ever, and listening to his
young wife’s prattle when he’s got to think about
making a living ; or nursing her and answering
her childish questions a hund ed times over, and
telling her he loves his little ownest every minute
in the day, while the bills are running up and
rent-mornings begin to fly round and hustle and
crowd him.
“ He’s got her, and he’s satisfied ; and, if the
truth is known, he loves her really more than he
did when they were engaged —only she won’t be
satisfied about it unless he tells her so every hour,
every minute, in the day. At least, that’s how it
is for the first few months.
“ But a woman doesn’t understand these things
—she never will —she can’t —and it would be just
as well for us to try and understand that she
doesn’t and can’t understand them. ’
Mitchell knocked the tea-leaves out of his pan-
nikin against his boot, and reached for the billy.
“ There’s many little things we might do that
seem mere trifles and nonsense to us, but mean a
lot to her—that wouldn’t be any trouble or sacri-
fice to us, but might help to make her life
happy. Yet we never think about these little
things wouldn’t think them worth thinking
about, in fact —they never enter into our intel-
lectual skulls.
“For instance, when you’re going out in the
morning you might put your arms round her and
give her a hug and a kiss without her having to
remind you. You might forget about it and never
think any more Of it —but she will remember.
“ It wouldn’t be any trouble to you, and would
only take a couple of seconds —and would give her
something to be happy about when you’re gone,
and make her sing to herself for hours while she
bustles about her work and thinks up what she’ll
get you for dinner.
OUR GODLESS EDUCATION SYSTEM.
BUSH MISSIONARY (travelling the benighted Backblocks, calls at hut of boundary rider, a crack
shot): “Are there any Baptists in this part of the country, my good woman?"
THE GOOD WOMAN: “I don’t know-I don’t think my husband ever shot one. If you call
again I will ask him.”
Mitchell’s mate sighed and shifted the sugar-
bag over towards Mitchell. He seemed touched
and bothered over something.
“ Then, again,” said Mitchell, “it mightnt be
convenient for you to go home to dinner
something might turn up during the morning
you might have some important business to
do, or meet some chaps and get an invita-
tion to lunch, which you couldn’t very well
refuse—and all when it’s too late, or you haveirt
a chance to send a message to your wife. Well,
you should think of the trouble she takes to get a
good dinner,andhow
she keeps it hot be-
tween two plates in
the oven, and waits
hour after hour till
the dinner gets
dried-up and all her
morning’s work is
wasted. Think how
it hurts her, and how
anxious she’ll be—
especially if you’re
inclined to drink too
much —for fear that
something has hap-
pened to you. You
can’t get it out of
the heads of some
young wives that
you’re liable to get
run over, or knocked
down, or assaulted,
or robbed, or to get
into one of the
fixes that a woman
is likely to get into
. . . And all this
time the dinner is
waiting. Try and
put yourself in her
place. W ouldn’t
you get mad under
the same circum-
stances ? I know I
would.”
‘ 4 1 remember once,
just after I was
married, I was
invited unexpect-
edly to a kidney
pudding and beans—which was my favorite grub
at the time—and I didn’t resist, especially as it
was washing-day, and I had told the wife not to
bother about anything for dinner. I got home an
hour or so late, and had a good explanation
thought out, when the wife met me with a smile
as if we had just been left a thousand pounds.
She’d got her washing finished without assistance,
though I’d told her to get somebody to help her,
and she had a kidney pudding and beans, with a
lot of extras thrown in, as a pleasant surprise for
me.” , , _ ,
“ Well, I kissed her, and sat down, and stuffed
till I thought every mouthful would choke me. I
got through with it somehow, but I’ve ; never
cared for kidney pudding and beans since.’
Mitchell felt for his pipe, with a fatherly, far-
away smile on his face.
“ And then again,” he continued, as he cut up
his tobacco, “ your wife might put on a new dress
and fix herself up and look well, and you might
think so and be satisfied with her appearance and
be proud to take her out; but you want to tell her
so, and tell her so as often as you think about it—
and try and think a little oftener about it than
men usually do. ’ ’
* * * *
“You should have made a good husband,
Jack,” said his mate, in a softened tone.
‘ ‘ Ah, well, perhaps I should, ’ said Mitchell,
rubbing up his tobacco. Then he as iced, ab-
stractedly, “What sort of a husband did you
make, Joe?” T ,• j »
“ I might have made a better one than i did,
said Joe, seriously—and rather bitterly. “ But I
know one thing : I’m going to j; try and make up
for it when I go hack this time.
“We all say that,” said Mitchell, reflectively,
filling his pipe. “ She loves you, Joe.”
“ I know she does ! ” said Joe.
Mitchell lighted up. “ Any mate would know
it who had seen her letters to you, he said, be-
tween the puffe. “ She’s happy and contented
enough, I believe ? ”
“Yes,” said Joe—“at least, while I’m there,
She’s never easy when I’m away. I might have
made her a good deal more happy and contented
without hurting myself much.”
Mitchell smoked long, soft, measured puffs.
His mate shifted uneasily and glanced at him a
couple of times, and seemed to become impatient,
and to make up his mind about something-or
perhaps he got an idea that Mitchell had been
“ having ” him, and felt angry over being betrayed
into maudlin confidences ; for he asked abruptly :
“ How is your wife now, Mitchell ? ”
“ I don’t know,” said Mitchell, calmly.
“Don’t know?” echoed the mate. “Didn’t
you treat her well?”
Mitchell removed his pipe and drew a long
breatb
“Ah, well I I tried to,” he said wearily.
“Well . . . did you put your theory into prac-
tice ? »
“I did,” said Mitchell, very deliberately.
THE SIGN OF A GENTLEMAN.
“ Boolga, did you see a gentleman pass?”
“ Baal giblum. One man.”
“How do you know he wasn’t a gentleman?”
“ Too much dirt alonga nail.”
Joe waited, but nothing came.
“ Well? ” he asked impatiently, “ How did it
act ? Did it work all right ? ”
“I don’t know,” said Mitchell—(puff)—“ she left
me.”
“What!”
Mitchell jerked the half-smoked pipe from his
mouth and rapped the burning tobacco out against
the toe of his boot.
“ She left me,” he said, standing up and stretch-
ing himself. Then—with a vicious jerk of his
arms * 4 she left me for for another kind of
fellow.”
He looked east towards the public-house, where
they were taking the coach horses from the stable.
“Why don’t you finish your tea, Joe? The
billy’s getting cold.”
HENRY LAWSON
A Ha’penny, a Woman, and a Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Did you find a ha’penny with my keys yester-
day ? ” a man asked his wife, cheerily.
“ Yes,” was the answer in a strange tone. “It
was the only coin among the keys, and had a
peculiar scratch upon it.”
“If you have it now kindly give it me; I don’t
want to lose it.”
“ Why? ” still strangely; in fact, suspiciously,
the man thought.
“ Oh, no very important reason; a fancy
merely.”
“ Won’t another do?”
“ No ; another is not that one.”
' “So it would seem” —coldly, with increasing
suspicion.
“ Good heavens! do you know where the
ha’penny is, or have you got it, or what ? You’re
acting very strangely ! ”
“ I think it’s you that is acting strangely.
What does it matter about a ha’penny ? ”
“ That’s what I want to know.”
“So do I.”
“Well, anyway, do you know where the ha'-
penny is ? ”
“ I’m not sure that I do. What do you want
it for ? Here’s a penny, that’s two ha’pennies. ”
“ Oh, damn the penny ! ” he cried, “ and the
ha’penny too for that matter,” he added under his
breath, and went out vexed. He wanted that ha’-
penny. He kept to himself that morning, and
said little to his wife. She regarded all his actions
with suspicion. He wondered what new cause
had arisen now. Some hours after she came into
his room where he was writing.
“ Why did you want that ha’penny so particu-
larly ? ” she asked.
“ Oh, I just wanted it, that’s all, as I told you
this morning.”
“There’s some mystery about it.”
“ Oh ! is there ? ”
“ Fancy a man, a grown man, treasuring a ha’-
penny ! ”
The grown man looked up wonderingly.
“ Don’t sneer ; it doesn’t suit you ; besides, you
don’t know what you are sneering about.”
“ Don’t I ? So you think.”
“Very well ” —assented the man, and resumed
his work.
“If it were a boy of about eighteen who trei
sured up a coin with a scratch, or initial on it, 1
could understand it” —the voice was even more
sarcastic.
“Ye gods!” the man' thought to himself,
“ here’s a play of mind ! ” He put down .his pen
and looked at his wife.
“ I don’t think you know what you’re saying ! ’’
he said quietly.
“You told me something like that just a minute
ago. Do you want the ha’penny to put under
your pillow ?”
The man was silent, watching the workings of
the mind before him, absorbed. in a manner his
wife little dreamed.
“ You see, you can’t say anything to that. Why
don’t you gild the precious coin, and bore a hole
through it, and put it on a string round your neck,
where it may rest above your heart ? ”
“ You’re a fool,” said the man ; “ go out of the
room ! Though lam interested, yet you make me
angry by your sneers. ”
“Of course, I do everything, you nothing.
Fancy treasuring a ha’penny ! ” The man was
about to rise ; the woman went out.
Then the man’s anger subsided. “ I shouldn’t
have got angry ; that spoilt it; it was a pretty
play. By Jove, women are strange creatures.”
He laughed heartily and long.
Presently the door opened, and the woman came
back, put down the ha’penny, rm-i was going out
again silently.
Then she stop-
ped. “You may
have it,” she
said; “Iwonder
I touched it.”
“ Thank you,
come here ! ” he
said kindly.
She came
submission,
jealousy, pique,
doubt, and some
sorrow com-
mingled in her
face.
“ I'm sorry
there’s been so
much bother
over this ha’-
pe n n y,” h e
said. “But
since you have
brought it back,
I’ll tell you why
I was so foolish
as to wish to
keep it.”
“ You need-
n’t,” she said,
in injured,
martyr tone.
“ Oh, yes, I
will—it will be
better for you
to hear. It is
this way I
play cricket and
am often cap-
tain, as you
know. Well,
whenever I toss
with that ha’-
penny I win,
so I’ve kept it
carefully.”
A sudden
change passed
over his wife’s
face. He noted
it with in-
terest.
“But you
thought,” he
went on, “ that
that coin was
a memento of some woman someioveaffair
some simple token of a love for ever lost
though burning still with unabated fire, he said,
fine irony in his closing tones. She was
“ Don’t be silly any more,” he advised kindly ;
“ jealousy is the greatest bane tc>womaffs|
h " An”! y« knew affl’ end ell that
made me act so over that ha’penny, and yet you
let me go OI1) and wouldn’t tell me, just that you
might amuse yourself by studying my mind. Bah !
h™ Lm stem™,! out. The* “ k hi >
ha'penny and turned .t over reflectively
A.G.A.


The Mother of an Invention .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun was across the lime-hedge opposite, and
the long spike-shadows climbed down over the
sullen entrance to the gaol. A crouching woman
blinked at the sky, and the false carnation in the
bonnet nodded against the masonry. A Salva-
tion Army girl approached—touched her shoulder
gently.
“ They’ll be out at six,” she whispered. “You
are waiting for your husband, or” —she drew back
—“ your son ?”
The croucher lifted her head and the carnation
pecked. “ Son! ” she shouted. She was deaf,
but guessed the other’s question.
The girl sighed and edged to the kerb. “He
beat you,” she ventured sweetly, “ or he was poor
and stole ? ”
“Never put a finger on mein his life.” She
took out a biscuit and cracked it. “ Six months
’ard ’e got for throwin’ an ’ammer at ’is foreman—
Ruddle at the boot-factory. ’E never throwed the
’ammer ; ’e’s good enough to settle things with ’is
’ands. ”
“Pray that he may find God ! ” pleaded the
girl. But the crone was deaf again and kept to
the point.
“ The ’ammer ’it Ruddle ’crost the mouth—
knocked ’im coughing onter a pile of ’Merikin kid
tops. My Tommy never throwed it. Listen!”
* * * *
An inner door clanked, a clean-faced stripling
marched down the passage and out of the gaol
entrance. He glanced swiftly up and down the
naked road.
“That’s ’im—my Gawd, that’s ’im ! ’
He laughed as she hobbled towards him, hold-
ing the wall.
“ Halloa, mother ! ” He held her by the shoul-
der while her shaking hands fumbled across his
breast. Then he winked sagaciously and stole
tip-toe to the east corner of the gaol. Her eyes
followed him, and her lips parched ; he was going
to ask her a question, and when she answered it
he would strike her over the mouth, or on the
breast that had suckled him ; she wondered if his
blows would hurt.
He examined every nook and cranny in the
masonry ; he peeped over the lime-hedge.
“Where’s Lil, mother? —where’s my wife?”
He drew up stiffly with his back to the wall.
The woman coughed hoarsely.
“ She ain’t ’idin’ from you, Tommy.”
“Not hiding, mother ? ” He frowned. “ Where
is she ? ”
The woman retreated to the kerb. It was
better to brazen it out from a distance.
“You left me and ’er without a copper ; it was
winter an’ bitter cold. ”
“I was arrested.” He laughed savagely.
“Let’s have the truth, mother.”
“You shall.” She moistened her cracked lips.
• * * *
“ I’m sixty an’ I went out scrubbin’, but there
was ’undreds of young ’uns as wanted to scrub,
too ; I got left. Lil’s on’y a bush mouse, fright-
ened of the town an’ always ’idin’. I took ’er
round to the shops an’ places. No go, she ’ad no
experience. So we stopped ’ome an’ starved a
bit, starved without any dam fuss either. Ruddle
took to ’angin’ about the back yard an’ smokin’ ’f
big cigar over the fence. ‘ I’m sorry for yous, Mrs,
Brown,’ ’e sez, ‘an’ I’ll take keer of you, although
Tommy did ’is level best to kill me with an
’ammer. I’ll send yous wine and poultry. ’ Lil she
stood by, ’idin’ behind me, and tremblin’ like a
leaf. ‘ Will you take food from ’im that sent
your’usband to gaol?’ I sez, ‘speak to’im, my
dear ! ’ But ’is ferrit eyes was on ’er, an’ ’e
gets talkin’ about theatres an’ circuses,
until Lil was open-mouthed. Nex’ day a cart
brings a ’eap of groceries an’ flash tucker. ‘ Will
you ’ave these things, Lilly ?’ I sez. I watched
’er close, for the starvin’ ’ad been pretty reg’lar.
She catches at the table an’ turns ’er white face
round. ‘ Send them back ; I’ll get work to-mor-
row—l’ll get work ! ’ She ended by droppin’ to
the ground afore I could ketch 'er. You’d done a
month then, Tommy.”
Tommy winced ; his chest labored painfully.
“Go on. let’s have it! ”
THE NEWSPAPER PIRATE. “ BETTER LATE THAN NEVER.”
“Nothin’ ’appened, on’y Ruddle an’ ’is cigar-
smoke at the end of the garden. Smoke was bad
for caterpillars, he sez. ’E wanted to take keer
of ’er , every man that ever looked into ’er pretty
face wanted to take keer of ’er —God curse ’em—
an’ Lil, she ’adn’t a penn’orth of force, she’d ’ave
said ‘yes, sir,’ to everything if it ’adn’t been for
me—me —me. So I took to swearin’ and bully-
damnin’ ’er to bed every night. I found a packet
of lollies in ’er pocket wunst; she’d taken ’em from
’im : God, she must ha’ been ’ungry! I used to
wait till she was asleep, then I’d turn in after
drownin’ ’er little feet an’ ’ands with tears. I
couldn’t ’elp it, Tommy, an’ she never knowed I
was that weak. You were into month number
three then, an’ the regilarity of ’avin’ nothin’ to
eat was tellin’ on your mother ; I’m 60 come last
Anniversary Day.
* * * *
“ The caterpillars was gettin’ bad in the garden,
an’ Ruddle used to swing ’is legs on the fence an’
sing comic songs, an’ when he lifted ’is big ’ead
you could see the blue ’ammer-mark stretchin’
acrost ’is lips. ‘ You coward! ’ I sez, ‘ ’ave you no
pity on ’im or er 1 ’ ’E grinned like a monkey,
an’ puffed ’is dam smoke in me face. ‘ The garri-
son is gettin’ weak,’ ’e sez, ‘ an’ the cold, wet
weather’s ’bout due. I’ll beat you yet, Mrs.
General Brown, but I’m sorry for Lil; she’s too
good for your gaol-bird of a son, she’s for me.’
“I ’ad a knife, an’ I might ’ave given it ’im
where ’e stood, on’y Lil grabbed me an’ started
cryin’
“ ’E’ll ’ave ’er, thinks I. The animal love is in
’is blood-red neck. ’E’ll ’ave ’er, and fling ’er
away like an old shoe. And I shakes ’er off me.
‘ Clear out of this ’ouse to-morrow,’l sez,’ ‘l’m
sick of watchin’ you ! ’ But ’er ’ands were around
me afore I could stir. ‘ Mother,’ she sez, ‘ where
shall I go ? ’
“ ‘ Leave my ’ouse ! ’ I couldn’t say more. I
shut me eyes, or I’d ’ave taken ’er in me arms an’
kissed ’er pretty face.
“Then Ruddle climbed off the fence an’
PUTTING IT GENTLY.
S.A. SELECTOR (to insurance agent, whom he
has invited to dinner): “ What! No more
crow-pie, mister? I s’pose you city gents ain’t used to
dinin’ noon-time!”
INSURANCE AGENT: “ No , it isn’t THEA T—I never did care much for GAME!”
grinned—grinned until the blue ’ammer-mark
split ’is face into ’alves; then he quitted.
* * * *
“ That night I sat in ’er room thinkin’ —thinkin’
—an’ the devil came an’ brought me peace, but
’e didn’t know that I was schemin’ to keep ’er
pure. Next day Ruddle took a ’oliday, an’ spent
it walkin’ past the ’ouse, in ’is best clothes. She
was whimperin’ on the bed, so I bustled ’er
“ Pack up, you ’ussy, an’ clear out now ! She
’ad a box, but the lid flapped. ‘Go into Mrs.
Simpson’s an’ get some
string,’ I sez. Mrs.
Simpson, I knowed, was
at the market. Lil
went in for string, an’
I crept down the
garden to
a
cry. I
wanted ’elp for
’er, an’ I called out
your name, Tommy—you
that was locked behind
the bars! I was that
giddy an’ sick I could
’ardly stand; but I’d
set me mind on keepin’
’er from the man-ape ;
I’d ’ave kep’ ’er from
God Almighty!
“ Somebody coughed
- over the fence ; I turns
and looks, and there’s
Mrs. Simpson. ‘Mrs.
“HER FACE WAS HER
FORTUNE."
“I see, men, you have not
made much more headway
with your shaft since my
last visit.”
MINING MANAGER AND SHARE-
HOLDER: “ You see, if we
SINK we can't FLOAT.”
Brown,’ she sez, ‘ your daughter-in-law ’as been
in my house 1 ‘ She wanted string,’ sez I. ‘ I’m
much obliged,’ she sez, flarin’up, ‘but wasn’t it
the time she was after ? My Billy’s silver watch
’as gone off the table ! ’
“ ‘ I’m not ’er keeper, Mrs. Simpson,’ I shouted,
* you’ll find ’er in the ’ouse. She’s going to-day. ’
* I’ve sent for a pleeceman,’ she snapped, ‘ an’ if
it’s no trouble
we’ll ’ave a look
round your
place. ’ The trap
came sniffin’
with ’is ’and on
'is belt, an’ look-
ing bigger than
the ’ind part of
a whale. Lil
was sittin’ on
the bed, but she
jumped up all of
a shake.
“ ‘They want
to look into
your box, Lilly, ’
I sez. ‘ Stand
back, my dear ! ’
Afore you could
wink Mrs. Simp-
son’s ’and was
inside it an’
out came the
watch ! ”
* *
The crone
rocked back-
wards from the
swift hands that
held her by the
throat.
“ It’s a lie ! ”
He flung her
against the gate.
“ Lil’s as honest
as Christ ! ”
She caught
his wrists and
pulled herself upright; her eyes flamed.
“ I put it there, an’ she got three months. No
place stronger than a gaol would ’ave kep’ ’er safe
from ’im. It kep’ ’er pure—it kep’ ’er pure ! ”
She sat on the kerb wiping the blood from her
mouth. The man stared at her stupidly, half
penitent, half inclined to kick her with his heavy
boots. A voice—the Army girl’s—came round the
gaol-angle. She was abjuring an erring sister to
find God. The crone crouched forward peering
under her shaking fist.
Ear that ? it’s Lil’s step : ’er time’s up to-day.
Go to ’er, Tommy ; I’ve kep’ ’er pure ! ”
* * * »
The shape of a girl tottered round the east-
angle—arms outstretched and calling a name.
The man choked.
Lil . . . oh, my dear ! ” He caught her in
his arms.
ALBA DORION.
Joe, just 15 (in conversation with the pal
of his bosom): “ Yes, old Smith was at our place,
and they was smokin’ on the verandah. I sez to
the old man—he was smokin’ cigarettes—l sez •
‘ Give us one, dad ; ’ I didn’t think he’d take on.
All right, he sez, ‘ when you’ve bin sick once
it 11 be a lesson to you.’ So I takes one, and he
sez, ‘ Better take a ’older, you’ll bite through the
end, not bein’ used to it ’ —he was just narkin’ at
me. So I sez, 1 1 don’t smoke ’olders, they’re bad
foryer. I waxes the end. ’ The old man looks at
me a bit, but he’s scared to say anythin’, ’cause
old Smith’s there; so I waxes it and lights up.
Then I takes a big draw, and I sez, ‘Watch this,
dad. Fine day, ain’t it?’ An’ out comes the
smoke outer my mouth and nose, and I sez, ‘ ’Oo
sez I couldn’t do the drawback.’ An’the boss
sez, ‘ I’m afraid you’ve developed too great a
liking for cigarettes,’ or some kid like that, and I
sez, ‘ Gam ! Smokin’cigarettes ’s like kissin’ yer
sister. I chucks the cigarette, outs with my little
self-cleaner, fills and lights up, and I sez, ‘ That’s
wotyoughter smoke.’ The old man never said
nothin then, but if there ain’ bin some fun at our
place since—well, just you tell me I don’t know a
Duke’s Cameo from a plug o’ Two Seas. ”
Who’s Hiding Old Harlequin
Now?
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
They are mustering cattle on Brigalow Yale,
Where the stock horses whinny and stamp ;
And where long Andy Ferguson, you may gc
bail,
Is yet boss on a cutting-out camp.
Half the duffers I meet would not know a fat
steer
From a blessed old Alderney cow ;
Whilst they’re mustering there I am wondering
here —
Who is riding brown Harlequin now ?
Are the “ pikers” as wild, and the scrubs just as
dense
In the brigalow country as when
There was never a homestead and never a fence
Between Brigalow Yale and The Glen?
Do they yard the big “ miclcs ” ’neath the light of
the moon ?
Do the yard wings re-echo the row
Of stockwhips and hoof-beats ? And what sort of
coon
Is there riding old Harlequin now ?
There was buckjumping blood in the brown geld-
ing’s veins,
But, lean-headed, with iron-like pins,
Of Pyrrhus and Panic he’d plentiful strains—
All their virtues, and some of their sins.
’Twas pity, some said, that so shapely a colt
Fate should with such temper endow—
He would kick and would strike, he would buck
and would bolt—
Ah ! who’s riding brown Harlequin now ?
A demon to handle ! a devil to ride !
Small wonder the surcingle burst:
You’d have thought that he’d buck himself out of
his hide
On the morning we saddled him first.
I can mind how he cow-kicked the spur on my
boot,
And though that’s long ago, still I vow
If they’re wheeling a “piker”—no new-chum
galoot
Is a-riding old Harlequin now !
I remember the boss—how he chuckled and
laughed
When they yarded the brown colt for me :
“ He’ll be steady enough when we finish the
graft
And have cleaned up the scrubs of Glen Leigh ! ”
I am wond’ring to-day if the brown horse yet
live,
For the fellow who broke him, I trow,
A long lease of soul-ease would willingly give
To be riding brown Harlequin now !
“ Do you think you can hold him?” old Fergu
son said —
He was mounted on Hornet, the gray;
I think Harlequin heard him —he shook his lean
head,
And he needed no holding that day.
Not a prick from a spur, nor a sting from a
whip,
As he raced among deadwood and bough ;
While I sat fairly quiet and just let him rip—
But who’s riding old Harlequin now ?
I could hear ’em a-crashing the gidgee in front
As the Bryan colt streaked to the lead,
Whilst the boss and the niggers were “ out of the
hunt,”
For their horses lacked Harlequin’s speed ;
The “ pikers ” were yarded and skies growing dim
When old Fergie was fain to allow:
“ The colt’s track through the scrub was a
knocker” to him —
But who’s riding brown Harlequin now ?
From starlight to starlight—all day in between
The foam-flakes might fly from his bit,
But whatever the pace of the day’s work had
been,
The brown gelding was eager and fit.
On the pack-horse’s back they are fixing a load
Where the path climbs the hill’s gloomy brow ;
They are mustering bullocks to send on the road,
But—who’s riding old Harlequin now ?
THE BREAKER.


A Hasty Word .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The new trader was entertaining a visitor,
aii old fellow from a station 50 miles distant, who
hsd sailed over in his cutter to “ have a pitch ’
with his nearest white neighbor. And the new
man—new to this particular island made much
of his grizzled visitor and listened politely to the
veteran’s advice on many subjects, ranging from
the “doctoring” of perished tobacco with mol-
asses to the barter of a Tower musket for a
“ werry nice gal.”
* * * *
The new trader’s house looked “snug-
gei-’n anything he’d ever seed,” so the old trader
had told him ; and the new man was pleased and
very liberal with the liquor. He had been but a
few months on the island, and already his house
was fu nished, in a rude fashion, better than that
of any other trader in the region. He was a good
host; and the captains of the Fiji, Queensland,
and Samoan “ blackbirders ” liked to visit him and
101 l about the spacious sitting-room and drink his
grog and play cards —and tell him that his wife
was “the smartest and prettiest woman in the
group.”
Blackett was especially vain of the young Bonin
Island half-caste wife who had followed his vary-
ing fortunes from her home in the far north-west
Pacific to the solitary, ghostly outlier of Poly-
nesia—lonely Easter Island, and thence to and
fro amongst a hundred other islands. He was
vain of her beauty—the beauty that had led him
to all but abandon for ever any intention of
returning to civilisation ; he was vain of the dark,
passionate, love-lit eyes, the soft, wavy hair, and
the proud little mouth inherited from her Lusi-
tanian father. Of this latter person, however,
neither the trader nor Cerita, his daughter, was
over-proud—he had sold her to her husband at a
very stiff figure, even for an avaricious “Dago”
living in a place where women can be bought
cheap, and where Captains Hayes and Peese had
established a standard price for them.
* * » *
The young man, finding it impossible to
make Hutton drunk or get him to turn in, resigned
himself entirely to the old pirate, who, glancing to
the far end of the room, to where Cerita and his
own wife, a tall, lithe-limbed Aoba woman, were
lying together on a mat smoking cigarettes, pro-
ceeded to pour out the story of his countless murders
and minor villainies.
Blackett himself was a negatively-moral man.
He could shoot a native as well as Hutton could,
but not simply from the love of shooting ; and the
old trader’s brutal delight in recounting his pot-
shots only excited a disgust which soon became
visible in his face.
* • * *
“ That’s all right, Mr. Blackett,” said
Hutton, with a hideous grin distorting his
monkeyish visage; “I’m only a tellin’ you of
these here things for your own good ... an’
I ain’t afeered of no man-o’-war a-collarin’ me.
This here island is a place where you’ve got to
sleep with one eye open, an’ the moment you sees
a nigger lookin’ crooked at you put a lead pill in
him—that is if he’s a stranger from somewheres.
An’ the more you shoots the better you 11 get on
with your own nigs ; they likes you more and
treats you better.
With a weary gesture, Blackett rose from his
seat. “ Thank you, Hutton, for your advice. If
I thought a nigger meant to send an arrow or a
spear through me I’d try to get the drop on him
first. But I couldn’t kill anyone in cold blood on
mere suspicion. I could no more do that than
than you could kill that Aoba wife of yours over
there.”
Old Hutton rose, too, and put a detaining hand
on Blackett, “ Look here, now, an’ I suppose
you think I’m lyin’. If I thought that that there
Aoba wench was foolin’ me in any way sech as
giyin’ away my tobacco to a nigger buck, I d have
to wentilate her yaller hide or get laid out myself.
Blackett shuddered. “I’m going to turn in.
Let us have another drink, Hutton. If the Dutch
firm’s schooner shows up this month 111 clear out
of this accursed hole. I hate the place, and so
does my woman. ” He used the term woman
instead of wife purely out of deference to Island
custom ; hut Hutton noticed it.
“ Ain’t she really your wife?” he asked, inquisi-
tively.
“No—yes—what the devil does it matter to
you ? ” And Blackett, whose patience had quite
worn out, filled the glasses, and passed one to his
visitor, who uncouthly apologised. Then the two
shook hands and laughed.
* * * *
The night was close and sultry, and Cerita
was lying on the cane-framed bed, fanning her-
self languidly. The man was leaning, with his
face turned from her, against the open window,
and looking out into the jungle blackness that
encompassed the house. He was thinking of
Hutton’s query, “ Ain’t she really your wife ?
His wife ! No ; but she would be yet. He would
leave this infernal island, where one never knew
when he might get a poisoned arrow or spear into
him. He was making money here, yes; but
money isn’t worth dying for. And ’Rita was more
than money to him. She had been the best little
woman in the world to him —for all her furious
temper.
“ Yes, he would leave these blackguardly Solo-
mons, with their hordes of savage cannibals . . .
and go back to the eastward again . . . and Syd-
ney, too. He could easily stow her away in some
quiet house while he went and saw his people.
And so Blackett thought and smoked away till
’Rita’s voice startled him.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Give me a match, Harry : I want to
smoke. I can’t sleep, it’s so hot, and my arm is
tired fanning, and the screen is full of mosquitoes.
That devil of a girl—where is she ? ”
“There!” said Blackett, pointing to beneath
the bed, where Europuai, his wife’s attendant,
lay rolled up in a mat.
» The black beast! ’’—and the half-blood rose
from the bed, throwing the mosquito-net angrily
aside—“and I thought she was sleeping near the
Aoba woman, the wife of that drunken old Hut-
ton,” and, stooping down so that her black hair
fell like a mantle over her bare shoulders, she
seized the short, woolly head of the sleeper and
dragged her out.
Blackett laughed. “ Easy, ’Rita, easy ! You’ll
frighten her so that she’ll clear out from us. Let
her take her mat over there in the corner. Give
the poor devil a chance. She’s terrified of old
Hutton, so sneaked in here to hide. She’s only a
wild bushy ’’—and he looked compassionately at
the almost nude figure of the girl that his wife had
bought from a bush town for a musket —because
she wanted “something to worry,” he used jok-
ingly to say.
The savage creature took the mat sullenly, went
to the far end of the room, and covered herself up
again.
“ You’re too soft with women,” said Rita, scorn-
fully.
“ I know I am—with you,” he answered. And
then the angry gleam in the star-like eyes died
away, and she laughed as only women can laugh
to those they love.
* » * *
Two days had passed. Old Hutton had
returned to his station, and Blackett was return-
ing with copra from a village across the bay.
Heavy rain-squalls tore down upon the boat at
short intervals, and Blackett, drenched to the
skin, began to feel the first deadly chills and pains
of an attack of island fever. Usually light-hearted,
SOME SMALL RESERVATIONS.
DINNIS (to station visitor): “'Is the mare quiet,' y’ say. Oah, like a lamb; but when ye'r
away be aisy how yer flop the crupper on to her, fer she might kick; and when yer
start, go a bit slow fer she mig h t bolt: and when ye mount her stick like wax, cos
I’m certain she'll buck—otherwoise she's very quiet.”
he now felt angry, and savagely cursed at his
crew when the heavily-laden boat touched and
ground against the coral knobs that lay scattered
about her course. It was long past midnight when
he reached his station, and, stepping wearily out
of the boat, dragged his aching limbs along the
beach. Rita had heard the boat, and Blackett
could see that a bright Are was burning in the
thatched, open-sided cook-house, and that Rita
herself was there, with a number of native
children, making coffee for him. The quickening
agonies of fever were fast seizing him, and, enter-
ing the house and throwing himself on a seat, he
felt his brain whirling, and scarcely noticed that
Tubariga, the local chief, was bendiDg over him
anxiouslv. Then Rita came with the steaming
coffee, and one quick glance at Blackett’s crouched-
up Agure told her that the dreaded fever had got
him at last.
« * * *
Rita proved herself what Blackett always
called her, “one of the smartest little women
going.” With Tubariga’s help, she carried him
to the bed, and sent out for some women to come
and rub and thump his aching joints while she
dosed him with hot rum and coffee. And then
Blackett asked her what she was doing out in the
cook-house. Hadn’t she a cook ? Then the sup-
pressed rage of the hot-blooded girl broke out in a
flood of tears. Europuai, the wild bush-girl, had
been sulky all the time he was away, and she had
given her a little beating with a bamboo. And
then the black devil had run away, and—here the
angry beauty wept again—she (’Rita) had to go
out into a filthy cook-shed and boil water before a
lot of man-eating savages. No one would help
her, because they were all such fools that she
always lost her temper with them.
* * * *
Blackett —under the combined influences
of rum, strong coffee, fever and woman s tears
got in a rage and glared angrily at the chief, Tu-
bariga. _
“You’re a d d nice fellow,” he said in Eng-
lish ; “ you get my wife to pay a good musket for
a girl, and then as soon as I am away you let that
girl run back into the bush. You re a bad
friend.”
Tubariga felt hurt. He prided himself on two
things—his knowledge of English and his friend-
ship for white men. He rose to his feet, grasped
his rifle, and made for the door.
“ Here, come back, Tubariga. Perhaps it isn’t
your fault. Let her stay away. She’s no good,
anyway.”
Tubariga came hack. “Tell me, white man,
do you want your servant to come back ? ”
“ Yes, d you! ” answered Blackett, who now
again was seized with that hideous brain-whirl
that in fever is simple delirium, “ bring her back,
alive or dead.”
The chief nodded and went out.
y * * *
Next morning the first fierce violence of
the fever had temporarily left him, and Blackett
was lying covered up with rugs, when the grim
figure of Tubariga entered noiselessly, and stole
to his side. Motioning the trader’s wife away
Tubariga’s savage features relaxed with a pleased
smile.
“Well, Tubariga, how are youT” said Blackett.
“ Rita tell me I damn you too much last night, eh?
Never mind, old chap, I was mad about that girl
run away. You can tell her people to keep her —
and the musket too. Rita don’t want her any
more. Ship come soon, then we go away.”
Again the pleased smile spread over the chief’s
face. Bending over Blackett he placed his
hideous lips, blood-red with the stains of betel-
juice, close to his face, and said with the simple
pride of a child, “Me pinish him."
“ What ? ” said Blackett, with a strange feeling
at his heart, “ What you do to that girl,
Tubariga ? ”
And then, sitting down with his rifle across his
knee 3, the chief told Ihe conscience-stricken trader
that he had followed the girl to a bush village,
where he, Tubariga, as their chief, hid demanded
her from her parents. They insisted on her going
back, but she whimpered and said that the white
man’s wife would beat her. She sprang for
the jungle, and, ere she reached it, a bullet frog}
the chief’s rifle struck her in the side. And then,
with a deadly chill of horror, Blackett listened to
the rest of the horrid tale—the poor wretch, with
her life-blood ebbing fast, was followed up and a
spear thrust through her heart.
• * * »
He was sitting at the table with his face
clasped in his hands when ’Rita came in. She
was smoking her inevitable cigarette, and the
thin wreaths of blue curled upwards from her lips
as she leant one arm on the table and caressed
Blackett’s ice-cold forehead with her shapely
hand. Suddenly she stood beside him and sought
gently to remove his hands from his face
“ Harry, are you very ill, old fellow 1 What
can I do for you ? ”
“ Do for me ? ” and the sudden misery that had
smitten his heart looked out from his pallid face,
“ give me hack the peace of paind that was mine
ten minutes ago. Reave me to die here of fever
for you I have become a mui derer a man no
better than Hutton. The blood of that poor g 1 rl
will ”
“Will what?” and she drew away from him,
and her lips curled contemptuously.
“ Part us ! ”
“As you will. I thought you were a man.
Harry”—and here her voice softened dop t
grieve over it It wasn’t your fault . . . and I
have been a good little girl to yon. Hop c sepd
me away from you becapse of such a little thing
as that. If Tubariga hadn’t killed her, I daresay
I would have done so myself She was a sulky
little wretch.”
» * ? ,*
I knew Blackett well. The horror of that
day never entirely left him. But for that one dark
memory he would have married ’Rita—who would
have most probably run a knife into his ribs
later on, when the influence of her beauty had
somewhat waned and he began to look at other
women. The fateful impulse of that monient
when he told the chief to bring tack the girl dead
or alive wrecked and tortured his mind beyond
description for many a long year.
His ’Rita and he left the island soon afterwards
to wander away back to Eastern Polypesia, but
his continued fits of melancholy annoyed the gh]l
so much that she left him, and made a fresh
matrimonial engagement with a naan less given to
mawkish sentiment.
LOUIS BECKE.
TO BE ’POUNDED.
[FOR THE BULIETIN.]
Jacky with his dusky" gin came
To the farmhouse on a day ;
Placidly the child of sin came —
“ Beer and ‘ baccy ’ ” was his lay.
Jack was making for the city—
“ Get it blanket by him Queen "
And he left his help-mate, Kitty,
Loafing round there, more’s the pity—,
Kitty was not overclean, .!
Charcoal Kit from Cooraleen.
Kit was fat, and aged, "and ugly,
With an ugliness that hurt,
Dressed without display but snugly.
In a blanket and a shirt,
And she haunted Doobledandy,
Always odorous, often drunk,
Entering any humpy handy,
Camping in the tent of Sandy, >
Curling down in Peter's bunk —A
\ Peter, too, was half a monk, //i
Pete sought Jacky in the city, '
Found him camped beside a pub.*
Begged him to remove his Kitty
Or correct her with a club.
Jacky to the fierce oration.
Listened carelessly and frowned,
Blanked his troublesome relation ;
Then there came an inspiration
Stated with contempt profound—.
“ Damn! Put Kitty by that pound.’
SILAS SNELL.
The Pearls of Sorrow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My suffrings were a millstone unto me
That drew me down beneath the dreary deep
To where the awful brood of Darkness sleep
In Sorrow’s wild, unfathom’d, sunless sea.
My suff’rings were a diver’s weight to me
That drew me down beneath the watery
whirl
To where I found full many a peerless pearl
In gem-lit caves ’neath Sorrow’s sunless sea.
N.Q.
P. LUFTIG,


THAT COW-BELLE
TS-CS
'I
<^ a \lss PoU-/was A Wiy? p>uSf-\ CURJ-
1' '\ E /> V' H / /ou K,NoW;
o ivep
2
[Ap
/^md /er A scaap
5
A\OTh|’£^ N 5A k IP' E HAN JacK
P KftfljE TojJ. W£K£ PE/\P;
vvi-\il.e Fa i A £f\ swo(\e iFAN/Aspi^e
lEP
4
BuT L on/ £ Wi(L aT sTqj-
B/ Wo/aan's WiT
/Anp i 011/ Puxz[_ep ouTaPlaM
/ F iT .
SAIp" Wh|eN A|j. S>T|H
_/\ fsl p iET as a /A 0 uS £ ,
|a'<sE IM KANP ANP
0 0/v\ e. Ti nk^linc; R,ouNpTh|e House,
6
ANP 1^0 W AS Ao,
o£ B/aE ,
Q^u ESTi o/AS A^'F^ThaJ - j 5 y°ur^Tz^s K.
dusT w/AtT aNp /oU §H\A\_e sE. E-
'’Vtt Po/Li
WAf AWIIP ® U S^\
r
7
TH e /slicHT 500 M O[P AVNf'J PA/AE
Sought PEACE b^inc^
WVtH
| HC BE[U SECyIM To _
g
K/N<* SoTT Ap|p UoW, A$ (ToW-B£(lS CyO,
x c epse BEStPe
/Now STU/V\p
9
'?ou-/ T\\z o[p /v\ak HoaßEp" LET uP "
a w a/ •
Tn E
A S <5 A 5 A-i c°A e ST4E pa/
I o
P(^> et ? AS ry\Y BE o^ss^
Ouf ?o(ty ;
Vs/e U- Sh\E ToT/NP t>\£' cow
yvoKyE
11
THevvi[p HEP<;e Kps£ Ify\T Th^ow^
|?o(l/ Less T A iR x
me SWEPT XPuISP
fN p \\\ SsE P J-)E^STJ^e A/V\!.N Q MR^.
SWo^E
HEP Pu N ;|j f^EAP
' 2-
j W/TH (jlTlf TeeT 50 £T
6> Tf\l P?E P ACposs U|E [AWN ; •
/ 3
T />tcsT Te^U
17(e bel l [_oa!qe(^Ti Hi^ep
(HE
“pjE
* -V *c ;*
/4
|)ac\S sTeap/aoW, <;uiPE.S P(. ou< »*t
I
| v ess t H e
Jh|aT i'Vo^A§°R.
/ £>"
*^anpsoa e bo^ 500 a! Ttjei^c)^
, P(a/§ aKodnp Pm\A'
AEAPERTS a^o>N-BEEU
\p 6^ahp h? ok A^A'
Tran e
T,
L ANP.
StK -£i
/ >: 80^
i SOof4j CIK^ o W/VfO
Tuen^Joy/'


pf hm'M ii iiemabti potior, im iln ftlf jlffiliw ‘lntondTalWm ijscas yw w #W.
ltd 0u ktd'mjty litw stoplltM ICfou/arra
<( 6te”rcj)W fcfflagVsftafe, suppressutg afirearioloffitj), 11
if of dmfy - mMrni Cyckc of SorroW or disaptfiwil flat fwltl tfe, at a fatk, tkltoae (fc Act ji rwciffe of a
j ■ !Mm warty cnmtdfii m duration- h/itl ijoi iM h ml Mil ulas\"
■ was a hush. of awful Wrotetful silem nslk old matt paased hi# bou/al bid mffy'ytytimlliixM
iiatttfiil pods of w oitet fill fd -Jit fraffc fo ip? ted. com/ulsmiy- as le itpftd % a torse atop, ‘ riffle %<§, of
_ps m h Ms 1 " (s>hm Was twlf a dry eye til tie court-rwj.
THE FLOWING BOWL.


Her Point of View .
[FOR TEH BULLETIN.]
The neat maid handed the tea, cake, sugar, and
cream, then left the room. Mrs. Shard settled
herself more comfortably in the wide padded
chair, and turned towards her hostess.
“My coming to you to talk over the matter
seems unaccountable, doesn’t it ? but, really,
lam sure it is wisest. Of course, George does not
know of it.”
Edith Tranham was sitting bolt upright, her
hands tightly clasped in her lap, her eyes fixed on
the carpet at her feet.
“ Of course, I was exceeding my rights in read-
ing your letter to George,” Mrs. Shard went on.
“ He must have imagined I was out of the house,
or he would not have left it for a moment on his
table. Having begun it through curiosity, I finished
it through greater curiosity, and, if you will allow
me to say so, with some degree of pity.” The girl
winced.
“ I am not in love with George, and never have
been ; apparently you are, always have been, and
always will be. He is in love with you—that goes
without saying; but what is to be done? Your
letter was a farewell, a renunciation ; I’m sure it
was most touching.” Mrs. Shard tasted her tea,
then rose. “You’ll allow me to add a little more
sugar ? ” she said, advancing towards the table.
Edith Tranham nodded. She could not trust
her voice to speak.
* * * #
“ Well, of course, this letter has opened my
eyes very considerably, and given me full posses-
T HE EARLY BIRD AND THE EARLY
WORM.
sion of current events. Ido not think I suspected
anything before that ; lam not jealous by nature,
and George really is a most honorable man, and
you are a very sweet girl.”
“God help us ! ”■ she murmured.
“ Ah, yes, I hope He will; lam sure it is very
nice and creditable of you to turn to Him in your
trouble; but I think we must come to some
definite arrangement, don’t you? You see, though
you spoke of broken hearts, final farewells, and so
on, that meant very little. A curt note forbidding
him to see you again would have been more to the
point, wouldn’t it ? No man with any feeling
could leave what you wrote unanswered ; you
have expected a letter by every post, I am sure,
though you may have deceived yourself into think-
ing you did not.”
“ Don’t torture me. Tell me what you wish me
to do.”
“ Torture you ! That is rather an extravagant
word, isn’t it ? I just want to come to some sim-
ple, comfortable arrangement, and thought you
would help me. You and George are great friends,
grew up together, and that kind of thing. He
fell in love with me in London ; we were married
after a month’s engagement. I never was very
devoted to him, but I liked him, and I like him
still. His ideas and ways are a bit beyond me;
he’s like the man in one of Browning’s poems,
‘ Courtship made perfect; no least line crossed
without warrant.’ Of course, that kind of thing
is very beautiful, but I like a more ordinary,
every-day, let us say selfish courtship. George
soon got over his passion for me ; it was with my
looks he had fallen in love, not with me. We
travelled about for some years, came out here, he
met you, you talked of old times, and ” She
paused expressively. “ What is to be done,
though ? ” she went on; “ won’t you suggest some
more comfortable plan than surreptitious love-
letters, and all the attendant discomforts ? ”
“I am going away. lam making arrangements
to leave on Tuesday.”
* * * •
Mrs. Shard put down her cup and saucer and
leant back again among the cushions. “I hope
you will not do that, it will make everything so
miserable. George will mope round the house in
the evening like a sick fowl, and do everything I
ask with guilty obedience.”
Edith started to her feet, and confronted her
adversary. “There is nothing ‘guilty.’ You
have no right to use that word. That letter you
speak of and one other are the only two that have
been written since ” She hesitated.
“I understand,” said Mrs. Shard cheerfully,
“ since you discovered your lives’ tragedy ; go on.”
“It was that night at Colonel Yeitch’s dance,
and we have not seen one another since. You
have insulted and tortured me enough. Will you
go now ? ”
Mrs. Shard smiled amiably. “ Certainly I will,
in a few minutes ; but I am enjoying myself so. I
have never been one of the chief actors in a scene
before. I have always longed for scenes, but they
have never come in my way. And this is quite
unique, you know —everything is so delightfully
fin de si&cle. You, the adored one, accuse me, the
injured wife, of cruelty ; and I come to ask you to
stay and be friends with my husband, and you
scorn me, and insist on never seeing him again. I
should be a dowdy, and in tears ; you should have
laughed, and told me you held George by iron
chains. Really, I am devoutly thankful to you
for all this—it takes me out of myself, cures me of
ennui for at least a day or two. Everything is so
in keeping. This drawing-room is sweet. Your
golden-red hair is the most charming frame for
your agonised white face, and it was sweet of
you to wear that white gown. It goes in such a
chaste way with all those golden chrysanthemums,
and those handsome hangings behind you.”
*** ’ *
Edith Tranham stepped forward hastily. “Do
not talk in that dreadful way ! Have you no
heart, or is it because you must hide what you
feel from me, that you speak so ? I have done no
wrong, I could not help what has happened. For
God’s sake have pity, and go away ! ”
Mrs. Shard looked at her critically for a moment.
“ You are neither so good-looking nor so well-
dressed as I am. Men have raved about me, and
yet I know quite well I could never make George
fall in love with me all over again. There ought
to be some nice, easy way out. I believe I would
give him to you if I could—l hate people to be
miserable, and I am very good-natured, but I can-
not do that, can I now ? ”
The girl had sunk back on a lounge, and buried
her face in her hands.
“ I wish I were in your place, I would love it
all so. I have always longed for a tragedy. Fate
is very careless, it gives things of such value to
people who are utterly incapable of prizing them.
I’d be absolutely happy if I had a tragedy; I’d
treasure it, and croon and cry over it, and sit away
in the dark, and cuddle it close ”
“ Mrs. Shard, do go ; I cannot bear this. I can-
not believe you are hurting me just to while away
an hour, but at least you are more mistress of
yourself than I, so please—please do go. I cannot
bear this longer. ”
* *
Mrs. Shard looked at her curiously. “ Don’t
you understand that you have just got the very
best thing in the world ? I do not mean George’s
love—just because it is George’s’’—she added
hastily. “ But don’t you see it is I who am to be
pitied— not you ? I am not loved, and Ido not
love. The only real thing in my life is boredom.
Nothing has ever really touched me. Perhaps if
I had a child’’—she said slowly—“but I wak e
lacking interest, I go through the day lacking
interest, and sleep is the only good thing in the
world, and only death is better than sleep, for
from it there is no waking.”
Edith Tranham was crying, but she made no
answer.
1 1 have plenty of pluck, I know—it requires a
daily stolid courage to face eternal ennui without
flinching. Do you know why so many people sin ?
It is through boredom, not from vice. I crave for
sensation because I have no interests, and I can
make none—none that have any claim on me.”
She stood up and laughed. “My trouble is
greater than yours simply because of its paltri-
ness ; there is nothing noble, nothing heroic. I
am sorry for you and George, but I envy you from
the bottom of my heart. You will go away, he’ll
do his best to be super-honorable, and you’ll both
have a tragedy to comfort you, and I’ll have
nothing—do you hear?— nothing, just my own
little miserable boredom. Isn’t it all cruel and
contemptible, and utterly paltry. And I came to
insist that you should have a sort of platonic
friendship with George—you are capable of it,
both of you—but you prefer your tragedy, and I
think you are right. But, remember that, though
you break your hearts, that’s nothing to the lonely
horror of never finding your heart to break it. I
am going now. I can find my way out alone. I
have other calls to make, and this dress, I flatter
myself, is an event of interest in any drawing-
room. You’ll send me a p.p. card, I hope—it’ll
be something to comfort George with, if you decide
not to write again. Good-bye.”
And Mrs. Shard moved briskly to the door;
opened it; passed out; and closed it courteously
behind her. A minute later she was in the street,
graciously acknowledging the bow of a passing
acquaintance. Edith Tranham, with her hands
clasped in her lap and her head bent down, was
still crying steadily.
S.G.G.
After Long
Years
FOR - THE -
BULLETIN:
md pave 1 char) Q'ed ? she asked ,
I and as she S>p«oke
the old smile o'er her paje face
bravely broke ,
Arid ir\ her ecjes dead worlds of
patho> woke
(ifr, irys '
? Wher\ 1 knew again fhe of tack
/ Remembered Trick of gesture , fanner speech ,
And fell" Hie b eauhj (hatno nears Qoald reach
x X will g'o back with Ljowithout" regret” ,
"F°r noT crvc word ljoci spoke I dare forget,
And A<vdl\ each kty, of 1 Tremble net”. "
Me, i| cq hetye Taken ejeur wau) ( ]' took mine ;
A -word fnacj Tick oar severed lives entwine ,
N or will a kiss the shattered cjearc, combine
pul” her arms around-tne , hold me near
forward To her lonely path and drear
She turned her wan face, without a tear ,
V
/V\a-°'"i letted
ARTHUR H ADAMS
(The Great Australian Adjective.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sunburnt stockman stood
And, in a dismal mood,
Apostrophised his cuddy:
“The nag’s no good,
He couldn’t earn his food—
A regular brumby.
! ”
He jumped across the horse
And cantered off, of course !
The roads were bad and muddy !
Said he: “ Well, spare me days
The Government’s ways
Are screamin’ funny,
! ”
He rode up hill, down dale,
The wind it blew a gale,
The creek was high and floody,
Said he : “ The horse must swim,
The same for me and him,
It something sickenin’,
He plunged into the creek,
The horse was weak,
The stockman’s face a study !
And though the horse was drowned
The rider reached the ground
Ejaculating : “ ! ”
<< [ >1
Orange.
THE COLONEL.
The Curse of the Country .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Oh, yes, I moved into town last week. I liked
livin’ out the back of the Park right enough ; but
I used to come in here now and again for a nip
and a yarn, and some of the boys’d propose a
game of nap till 12 o’clock, no later; and then it
was the same old pitch— at 1 o’clock we’d say
‘ We’ll make it four-nap at 2,’ and at 3 o’clock we
wodld make it four-nap ; and as soon as Kitty was
took I’d hurry downstairs, and it give me a creep
to hear the key gratin’; and when I sneaks out,
blow me if there wasn’t always a swarm of them
darned little sparrers sittin’ in the road waitin’ for
me ; and they’d start chirrupin’ and chirrupin’
and chirrupin’, and runnin’ along peerin’ at me,
and talkin’ amongst themselves ; and down at the
corner another lot, twitterin’ and twitterin’ and
twitterin’, you never heard the like; and I’m
hardly inside the Park before there’s four or
five black - and - white birds, peewits they
call ’em, screechin’ out ‘ p ee-ivhit, p ee-whit,’
the most unearthly sound you ever did hear, and
me feelin’ like a man that’s got buried alive and
rooted himself up to a daylight he don’t reconise ;
and more sparrers everywhere, chirpin’ and
chirpin and tellin’ each other to look at me
stealin’ home; and just as I’m tappin’ so gentle
at the shutters, cuss me if five or six of them
jackasses doesn’t begin laughin’ fit to kill them-
selves, and rousin’ up the whole house ; and after
I gets in and gives the old woman two pound to
buy a new bonnet, I’ll be hanged if she don’t buy
one with a dead sparrer on top of it. I’m glad I
shifted, anyway. Them sparrers is the curse of
the country.”
Parramatta, N.S.W.
LESLIE OAKES.
Mac Haggis, an old hunks who for years
had starved and saved pound after pound until he
was known to be the richest and stingiest ancient
on the country-side, lay dying. As he had neither
kith nor kin, he had been fawned on by many—
women ogled him, parsons intimidated him,
bankers courted him, lawyers pursued him—all to
little purpose. Lawyers were his special aversion :
two had bested him in a money transaction years
before, and he had to be revenged before he died.
He had made his will privately some time ere he
fell ill, and when he felt the end approaching he
sent for his two legal enemies and asked them to
be seated, one on either side of his bed. Then,
affectionately taking a hand of each, he made
them promise to remain just as they were until he
died. This they undertook, wondering the while
what such a demonstration of reconciliation might
signify. Presently Sandy, his eyes dim and his
voice weak and quavering, looked from one to the
other and said, brokenly: “Na doot ye’ll be
wanting to ken what this means ? Weel, I thought
I should like to die just like our blessed Lord—wi’
a thief on each side o’ me ! ”


What the White Pig Said to
Lela.
[FOR TEH BULLETIN.]
There were two uncertain quantities in the home-
life of Mrs. Binks, a W.C.T.U. lady, of North
Queensland.
One was a clever, cultured, but —alas ! un-
saved ’’ husband ; the other a Kanaka-girl named
Lela, who performed daily and well all those
important, but unmentioned, services that make
real comfort possible, but who—alas ! was ripen-
ing into full-orbed maturity, and growing prettier
than she’d any business to.
Mrs. Smith believed in the “sheltered ” system
for young servants, so Lela had few pleasures
other than churches and prayer-meetings ; though
she used often to spend the evenings when Mrs.
S. was out in leaning over the gate and watching
the people pass.
One warm evening (Mr. and Mrs. Binks were
out) she talked brokenly over the gate with a half-
caste girl, Nita, who lived next door. This half-
caste girl was wise in all the lore of warm
womanhood, and she talked long because her lover
was away that night, and the next best thing to
having him in tangible bodily presence was to
talk of love to a sympathetic listener.
Lela’s blood ran faster as she heard for the first
time things new and very sweet.
True she had been brutally assaulted as a child
on the labor-schooner, but that was only a dull
memory of pain and fright, and as Nita spoke she
felt with a curious new sensation that a man was
the best thing in the world for a woman. After-
wards Nita told a certain charm to find a lover.
It was a secret of her native mother’s people, who
long ago found out that white pigs were wiser
than men.
The girl who wanted a lover had first to find a
white pig, then to make a suitable offering of food
to it. After that, if she visited it any evening
after sunset, except at the time of a full moon, she
would be answered truly in all things she inquired ;
but she must speak while the pig was eating the
offering.
Lela asked for detailed instructions, but heard
suddenly the soft grunt of one of their pigs in the
backyard sty. So Nita came in and gave a
demonstration of the process.
The pig wasn’t quite white, Nita said (it would
nave been gross flattery to have called the beast
piebald), but it would do for a first experiment.
Lela brought a jug of sour milk to the pig, and
asked it if she would have a lover soon. The
reply was “Yes” (by the requisite number of
grunts). “ Would her lover be a white man ? ”
“Yes” (by the same method). “Would she
travel to meet him ? ” “ No.”
So question after question were answered till
Lela went away with a glad heart at the new joy
she was promised.
* * * *
A day or two afterwards, when Lela was serving
at the table, Mr. Binks remarked, in French, to
his wife what a lovely girl she was growing. Mrs.
Binks replied in the same language that ‘ she
didn’t see anything to rave about.” There had
been one pretty girl in that house before, and
there had been trouble, so Mrs. Binks kept her
weather eye open, but saw nothing, except that
Lela was dreamy at times.
Mr. Binks never
flirted with her (per-
haps he didn’t get
the chance), and
HE WOULDN'T NEED TO.
“ I wouldn't marry you if you were the only man in Australia."
“If I were the only man in Australia I wouldn 't think of marriage."
while the food left over at tea-time began to dis-
appear mysteriously Lela went about with gun-
shine on her dark face, for had not the wise pig
said quite surely that her lover would come soon ?
A doubt crept into Lela’s mind at the end of a
month or two. She had been content to slip
down the yard after washing-up in the evening to
feed her pig, and tell it in a low voice about her
future happiness ; though she didn’t ask questions
now, for Nita said that asking the same question
twice would break the charm. But her doubt
was about the color of the pig. Perhaps a pig
only partly white could only partly tell the truth,
so she went about heavily for a few days, and the
pig looked in vain for its evening feast.
By this time, Nita’s lover had grown bold, and
often used to climb over the back fence of the pad-
dock next door, and Nita and he met under the
shadow of the fence.
Once, Lela crept along her side of the fence,
and listened to their low laughter—even saw with
one eye between the palings their kisses and em-
braces. They had practised long, and did them
artistically now ; but Lela’s heart, as she crept
away, was heavier than lead. Nita had the joy
of love ; but why did her own lover never come
along ?
A lover was already looking for her, if she had
only known it, in the person of Mr. G. Mutcher,
otherwise “ Sandy,” the carroty-haired driver of
the grocer’s-cart. He confided to his mate that
there was a “fine, nuggety little piece up at
Binks’s,” and tried to wink at Lela when he left
the groceries; but the awful presence of Mrs. Binlcs
in the kitchen doorway checked his fell designs on
those occasions.
He commenced to hang about the Binks’s back-
gate o’ nights, and whistle and smoke bad ciga-
rettes, but Lela didn’t know the whistle was for
her, and was beginning to despair altogether, until
it occurred to her to try the charm again with a
real white pig. There happened to be one in an
open sty not far away that was white—every-
where a p'g could be white.
* * * *
When the evening came round that she could
safely pay the white pig a visit, it happened that
Mr. Mutcher was distinctly in the blues. He had
tried to make friends with a previous sweetheart,
who had “given him the bloomin’ chuck,” and
had been badly “sat upon.” He had no money
to go to the 4 4 show ” that was 4 on that night,
and concluded to loaf round Binks’s way, on the
“ off chance of pickin’ up soinethink.
Lela carried a parcel of choice things such as
pigs love, and quietly crept out of the gate un-
seen towards the audience-chamber of the real
white pig. She hadn’t gone half-way before Mr.
Mutcher “spotted ” her, and followed on the trail
like a detective out of one of his favorite books.
When she stopped, he came nearer, and watched
her a few minutes. . . , ,
His description to his chum of what happened
subsequently was something like this:
“ I dropped on ’er in Hairs’ paddock, and 1
thought she’d gone a bit dotty. Blessed if she
wasn’t talking to that white pig of Jenkins. 1
wasn’t on for lettin’ her waste her time on a pig
when tWere was me about —not me —so I sailed in
and did a mash. Did I make the runmn ? Rather ;
and I tell vou, me boy, she’s a daisy. A bit shy
at first, of course, but in ten minutes we was as
thick as thieves.” _ , .. , „
For many months afterwards Lela continued to
bloom and grow, and her figure to fill out, until
she was a perfect model of womanhood.
It doesn’t seem to matter much what kind
of alleged individual women love Sandy
Mutcher was an unworthy object enough, but
he had satisfied her with such love as he had
to give at a time when her nature was crying out
for love with a longing that was beyond endurance.
Under the influence of her love for him her
whole nature expanded, and. she became sweet and
kind and thoughtful, and quite won over the heart
of even Mrs. Binks, who went so far as to say to
her husband: “ Really, I notice it myself now.
I never thought a little island girl could grow very
pretty ; but did you ever see a girl look so bright
and happy ? ”
Binks had seen that look of perfect contentment
on another girl’s face years before, and knew what
it meant. Also, he had learned the penalties of
admiring enthusiastically other women than Mrs.
8., so he smiled and said that if Lela were a white
girl she would be pretty ; and as to happy—well,
didn’t some chap or another call those happiest to
whom from day to day no evil happened ?
* * * *
No evil had happened, so far, for Nita taught
Lela much worldly wisdom in the stray chats
they had over the dividing fence, and Lelas wor-
ship and devotion very nearly made a man of poor
Sandy Mutcher.
Mr. Binks went down the paddock one evening
and found out the secret by almost walking over
the absorbed lovers, who didn’t hear his approach.
To his honor be it said Sandy didn’t follow his
first impulse to run away and jump the fence, but
stood up to face whatever terrible doom the next
few minutes might bring.
Mr. Binks, however, had too fine an instinct of
refinement to see anything humorous in the situa-
tion, and too much heart to give needless pain ; so
he spoke kind words, said if they loved one
another there was no reason they should not meet,
told Lela he would keep their secret at present,
and leave the door open for her to get in.
Then he said goodnight, and went to his den,
where he smoked and drank unnecessary whisky
but was sober enough to write in his commonplace
book something out of a volume he was reading
about “falling and rising again with eyes turned
towards Heaven, being the highest that could
come of man, accepted in its imperfection by the
Infinite Grace that pities mortal weakness.”
He went upstairs—balmy— to receive from the
wife of his bosom plenty of forcibly-uttered good
advice. He had a defence ready, however. He
stood in front of the looking-glass and put his
hand over his corporation solemnly and said,
“ My dear, when the Lord gives a man a recep-
tacle like that, it ’d be gross ingratitude not to
put something good in it. ”
One afternoon that Mrs. Binks had to attend a
meeting of the Dorcas Club, Binks came home
early. He let himself into his own room, but
soon called Lela to him. Her face lit up with
pleasure as she came in and stood before him.
He made her sib by him, and told her quietly that
THE SPREAD OF THE GOSPEL .
FATHER O'MAHONY (a bit of a wag): “ How do you account for the exceptionally pale color
the natives around your homestead , Dalton?”
KIERAN DALTON (a wealthy back-block settler) : “ Why, your reverence, to the spread of
the Gospel, to be sure.”
Sandy wanted to marry her if she agreed. Sandy
had got the management of a branch store some
miles away, and would have to go at once, but
could come back for her soon. He (Binks) would
give his permission and help them if he could. ?
There were hardly any coherent words in Bela s
reply, but her arms were around Mr. Binks, and
he seemed to enjoy the particular form her grati-
tude took, for he didn’t repel her to the extent his
duty to Mrs. B. demanded.
* * * *
In due time Sandy came back and claimed his
bride, and they began life at the little branch
store.’ It was a queerly assorted union, but had
many of the elements of success. Sandy was
cunning and pushing ; Bela strong, docile, good-
natured, and so lovely that she attracted more
business than she knew. Sometimes her savage
nature showed itself, as when she threw a cat into
the fire because it scratched her, and when she
tried to stab a drunken drover who wanted to
give her kiss. , ,
Against this there were the important facts that
her half-civilisation prevented her from knowing
the vulgar littleness of her husband, and from
comparing him with better men. Who was she
that so great a happiness as a white husband and
a home should have been give her?
She was good at business ; had a wonderful
memory, and knew quickly everything in the store
and its price, and how to say, unblushingly, that
they were only just out of an article she had never
heard of, but of which her husband was ordering
a new stock. ~
There came a long, dreary spell of wet weather,
during which she mastered a couple of card games,
and could play slowly both euchre and whist by
the time the rain should have stopped but didn t.
Bela knew nothing of floods then ; but a broad-
shouldered, blue-eyed man, who swung himself off
his horse and asked for a night’s shelter, whistled
to himself as he looked at the sweep of the valley
and the level of the store premises. The stranger
said nothing, however, but bought and paid for
on the spot a rather extravagant ration for his
horse, took his coat off, and rubbed him down
himself. , ...
After this a wash, a meal, a few love games with
Bela and some with Sandy that left the latter a
few shillings richer, and the visitor retired early.
Next morning the stranger spoke earnestly to
Sandy, and Bela heard. He said : “ Mr. Mutcbsr,
you’ve treated me well, and I’m much obliged ;
now, perhaps you know as much as I do, but take
my tip anyway and don’t leave a shilling’s-worth
of stuff in'this store another fortnight. I’m going
down further to fetch away a couple of my boys
who don’t know enough to come in out of the
rain, and you’ll get the water on top of you before
they do if you don’t get pretty soon.”
Sandy thought he’d wait orders from the firm,
but these orders'came too late, and the water rose
till escape was cut off. Of course, they could have
got away themselves, but they never quite believed
the water would rise high enough to sweep away
their home. .
When the plot of ground round their store
became an island, they suffered from “ creeping
things innumerable, both small and great beasts,
driven in from the paddocks, now covered with
swirling masses of muddy water. All the usual
formalities of flood-time were, of course, observed
—and Bela and Sandy chanted always in their
hearts the flood litany : “From crawling things
without number, from fires that light not, from
billies that boil not, from wet wood, tinned meat,
drowned beasts and sodden damper—good Bord,
deliver us ! ”
# * * *
There was a lull for half-a-day in the rise of
water, and Sandy had a streak of luck. He
managed to secure a large canvas canoe that had
floated down and caught in some obstruction near
their store. It was more than half-full of water
and had some holes in it, but these were easily
patched up by Bela while Sandy improvised a
paddle. A trial on a shallow piece of water showed
that it would carry two at a pinch, and one easily.
Bela went back to the store buoyantly, and com-
mitted a burglary of the firm’s goods to the extent
of a tin of coffee and milk, and some salmon ; and
broke up a packing-case to get a real fire.
Sandy stayed in the canoe, and got so confident
that he paddled some little distance out to a case
that was floating in a backwater. He went back
for a clothes-line, and, with much difficulty and
many stoppages by obstacles, he towed and
dragged it home. It turned out to be a tin-lined
case of soft dress materials worth about twent>
pounds, previously unopened and quite uninjured.
“Good business,” said Sandy; “and there’s an-
other bigger case farther out I’ll ’ave a try for, and
then we’ll ’ave a bit of tucker. It’ll get dark soon.
No one ever saw Sandy again, or knew what
happened to him.
Lela took food to the fowls, and the few animals
left—a horse, the dogs, and a white pig that Sandy
bought because Lela took a fancy to it. Then she
went to put the tucker out neatly and boil the
billy. All was soon ready, but he didn’t turn up.
She looked out, in the direction of the big case,
through the gathering dusk, and coo-eed ; but
there was no answer, only the indescribable soft,
sobbing murmur of a rising flood.
She lit the lamp and sat in the kitchen, and
waited with an expressionless face, listening
silently for the rough greeting that she would
never hear any more now.
The fire burnt out and the dogs stretched them-
selves and whined uneasily, but Lela didn’t move
or speak.
All doors and gates had been left open to give
the animals a chance to shift for themselves, and
the white pig waddled in and sank down a shape-
less mass on the floor at Lela’s feet.
The horse put his head in the doorway and
whinnied piteously, but there was no othor move-
ment or sound in the kitchen until after mid-
night.
About one o’clock a thin, snake-like stream
came slowly and irregularly over the kitchen floor
and touched Lela’s feet.
The water that had taken Sandy down to the
s ea had come for her also.
» * * *
With the touch of the cold water the strain
snapped, and Lela went “a bit dotty” for the last
time. She spoke aloud in a monotonous voice—
“ Yes, it is a good charm ; ” “ the pigs are wiser
than men ; ” and “ a happy sign—the white pig
has come to me.”
Then, with the offering and necessary ritual, she
asked about all things her heart desired. She
smiled and sang with delight when she learned
that it was well with Sandy, and that she would
soon see him again.
In a ’auguage older than any human tongue she
heard that night a message more wonderful and
beautiful than she had ever dreamed.
It was a true and great message also, for the
High Powers speak to mankind in their last ex-
tremity through the gods they know, be these what
they may.
And for my part I shall be well content, when I
near the ultimate sea, to hear words as wise and
sweet as those the white pig said to Lela.
ARTHUR BATISTE KELLIE.
Waitin’.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
You’re a-wan tin’ me,
I’m a-wantin’ you ;
What’s we waitin’ for ?
Life’s a-wearin’ through.
What’s we waitin’ for,
Lookin’ still an’ sad ?
Life ain’t watchin’ round
Hopin’ we'll be glad !
Time’s no good to us,
Life ain’t nothin’ sweet
While I’m livin’ here
’N’ you acrost the street!
Kiss me on the mouth,
Kiss me lovin’-fair ;
What’s we waitin’ for,
No one else ’ll care.
What sh’d come between,
Partin’ of us two !
You a-wantin’ me,
Me a-wantin’ you.
What’s we waitin’ for ?
Kiss me straight an’ true,
You a-wantin’ me,
Me a-wantin’ you.
Tas.
M.J.C.


SO FREE LIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas. the pressman at the wicket—
He who ne’er requires a ticket
When on earth, but always «ets there just
Hie same upon the nod—
That St. Peter intercepted,
Saying, “Nods are not accepted;
have absolutely no free list up here, so
help mo
Then the pressman—sighing sadly,
Said “ You wrong mo, Fetor, badly,
Cm no common deadhead bummer, for I
represent the Press ;
j And you, knowing this, refuse me . ,
j Said St. Peter, “ Please excuse me,
j Press alone, of courso, oxcepted—here's your
halo; kindly dress."
EIFFA
In a Country School .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Ernest Rawson, 8.A., was appointed to
the head-mastership of Waradgeree Superior
Public School, the town hugged itself compla-
cently, and imagined its children’s names in the
Sydney dailies among the lists of candidates who
had passed the Junior with many A’s.
Jimmie Rush, the chemist’s son, had “ got
through ” last year with 3 B’s : Elinor Manning,
the eldest daughter of the C.P.S., had passed with
2 A’s and 2 B’s, and had won immortality and the
silver medal for geography ; John Sanders, from
Boolee Boolee, would have had 3 B’s and 3 A’s
after his name had he not been plucked in the pre-
lim. These three had coached themselves, too ;
had worked early and late to gain the knowledge
which the old schoolmaster called scornfully
“ very small beer,” and the township felt that its
local talent deserved nothing less than a B.A.
from Sydney University to nurture the processes
of its dev- lopment.
Ernest Rawson, E.A., was pale-haired, with a
large, st-aight nose. He had neither beard nor
moustache : yet he could hardly be said to be
clean-shaven. His upper-lip was a remarkable
thing in i s way, for it was so long that Nature
had made an a" empt at a pleat in the middle of
it. He had a high, square, very shiny forehead,
and wavering eyebrows, and his eyes suggested
late hours and bad print. You knew at a glance
that mathematics were his strong point, and you
could imagine him translating the Bucolics into
absolut.egra.mil ar, with the kind of literalness that
affects one like a slate-pencil drawn at right
angles acoss a new slate.
His French accent was painstaking. “ Lar
Sooard et lar Eanlarnde composed oon royome
large dongveerong ...” His theory about French
was that every syllable must be rendered into
Engli-h-sounding equivalents, and he represented
to his class that the difference of pronunciation
between on, an, en, was ong, am, unn.
* * * *
He stood in the space of floor before the rising
lines of desks one Monday morning, and tapped
the black-board impatiently with his piece of
chalk.
“ Come now, you girls. Can’t anybody do this ?
Now look here, you boys. A certain party buys
a load of wood.” He spoke slowly, and all the
raw edges of his voice came into one’s mental
vision.
“ Please, sir, there’s somebody knockin’at the
door. ” A boy in the back seat was stretching up
his arm, his five fingers working convulsively at
the end of it.
Riwson walked across the schoolroom and
opened the door.
A little woman, with a black velvet toque rest-
ing on her dark, frizzy hair, walked in.
“ Are you Mr. Rawson ? ” she asked.
He bowed his little, stiff, public-school bow.
“I have come to see you about my daughter’s
analysis.”
He brought a chair forward, but she declined
to sit down. She stood beside his desk, with her
frilled parasol resting lightly against her left
shoulder, and her right foot advanced a little
beneath the skirt of her red dress,
“Your daughter’s analysis? ” he repeated after
her.
“ I am Mrs. Sam Landers,” said she.
“ Oh,” said Rawson. He was not enlightened
by that.
“ Yes. And I have come about Edie’s analysis.
Now, Mister Rawson, I am a person who speaks
tuy mind. Every Saturday I have Edie bring her
books to me, and I look carefully through her
exercises. And, Mister Rawson, last Saturday
she showed me some analysis she had done for
you, and I can assure you, Mister Rawson, it com-
pletely overwhelmed me. Now, Mister Rawson,
I have studied analysis. I know analysis. And
I know that nobody can ever make anything bnt
a verb stand in the predicate. ”
“I don’t know what you are talking about,”
said Rawson, somewhat roughly.
She laid an exercise-book on the table before
her, opened it, and began to turn the leaves for a
certain place.
“ Mister Rawson, you gave my daughter this
sentence to analyse—“ He—often—told—his—chil-
dren — that — his —own — father — was — a—soldier—
still, ’ and she analysed it in this way : Subject,
‘ father ’; enlargement, * his own ’; predicate,
* was a soldier ’ ; extension, ‘ still.' She put ‘ was
a soldier ’ in the predicate, and you allowed it to
go uncorrected.”
* * * *
Rawson recovered himself a little. He could
see the boys and girls sitting with intent expres-
sions in their eyes, and their mouths a little open,
the better to hear with.
“ Wait a bit.” He turned to the class. “ You
boys, do this sum, and stop your gaping.” He
chalked a sum on the blackboard with lightning
swiftness, said “Eire away,” put down his chalk,
and turned to his visitor.
“ I’d like to know what you mean by this.”
“ Don’t assume that tone,” severely. “ I have
come here to enquire into the matter as much for
your good as for mine.”
“ I corrected that exercise,” said Rawson.
“ That ought to be quite sufficient. ■ I’m not in
the habit of teaching the women as well as their
children.”
Mrs. Landers’ mouth curled downwards till the
corners of it all but touched her chin-bone. It
lingered there a minute, and she looked steadily
at him with her head well hack and murmured,
1 ‘ Blunted instinct! ”
“ And I’ll have to ask you not to interrupt me
again, please, in the middle of my teaching.”
“ But I will interrupt you, Mister Rawson. I
speak my mind —at the root of all real education
lies analysis, I must have my children taught it
correctly. Now, Mister Rawson, I studied En-
glish. I was five years studying, I matriculated
and I very nearly became a doctor. And I
thoroughly understand analysis. It was a sub-
ject in which I always took highest marks.”
“ That analysis was quite right,” contemptu-
ously.
“ Mister Rawson, nothing but a verb can ever
go in the predicate. ’
“Allow me, Mrs. Landers; the verb ‘to be’
cannot stand alone in the predicate. ”
* ‘ Mister Rawson, nobody can teach me analysis. ”
“ You can see my authorities for it, if you like.”
“ I don’t care about authorities. I know analysis,
and I know. ”
“ Well, look here, Mrs. Landers, I’m not going
to waste time arguing with you. I don’t know
who you are, or anything about you, but you’ll
have to —(You boys, what are you looking round
at ? Give me the square root of 5678934 — at once)
—find some other way to learn English than by
interrupting me. lam not going to put up with,
it.”
“Your expressions are extremely coarse.’”
Again the sweep of lip to chin-bone. “ But r
really, what can one expect from a public school-
master ? ” Her voice died away along a sentence
which ended with the words “much brains as a
rabbit.”
Rawson’s temper had now swelled itself to its'
jimits, and was prepared to burst over.
“ I will trouble you to make yourself scarce,”
he said. “ I can’t stop humbugging like this, I’ve
got my work to do. ”
He waved his chalk towards the door, then
turned to the blackboard and began to set tre-
mendous sums upon it with incredible rapidity.
By and bye the door slammed a little, and he
knew she had gone. /
» • * *
Now, Mrs. Landers lived in the only two-storey
house in Waradgeree, and from the height of her
two stone storeys, and her superior education, she
considered herself the one intellectual light of the
place. Her husband was Inspector of Dingoes,
and her position in the society of the district
was an assured one. Everybody called on
her, and she either returned their calls, or not, as
she pleased, but none of the station families round
about ever asked her to come and stay with them
from Friday till Monday, and that was Warad-
geree’s most frequent form of invitation to its
friends. It was 15 years since she had come to
Waradgeree, and for 15 years Waradgeree had
called her husband poor Sam Landers.
And for 15 years she had made her visits of in-
spection to the public school, and one teacher
after another had fought her, and been snubbed
by her, and insulted her, and her children had
been taken away and sent back, and taken away
again, and sent back again, till they hardly knew
whether they were at school or not.
Those sentences of Rawson’s : “I will trouble
you to make yourself scarce,” and “ I can’t stop
humbugging here like this ” rankled in her with
exceeding bitterness. She told Sam about it at
dinner, and rolled her eyes, and cu led her lips,
and emphasized her “Misters,” and said “I
said,” and “he said,” and “I said,” and “he
said,” till Sam said, “ You’re a fool, ’’and went and
smoked a sad pipe on the verandah. He believed
in her intellect as firmly as she herself believed in
it, but he was ashamed for her, all the same.
She was not ashamed, though. Notes began to pour
in on Ernest Rawson ; “ Kindly allow Miss Landers
to leave school at four sharp. Honoria Landers."
(That was because he had kept Edith in ten
minutes after four to explain a proposition to her.)
Or, “ Mrs. Landers will trouble Mr. Raivson to cor-
rect Miss Landers' exercises in pencil, not red ink.”
Or, "Mrs. Landers would like more particular
attention directed to her daughter’s handwriting.”
Verbal messages came too. “Ma says will you
look at that grammar you corrected ? She thinks
you made a mistake.” “Ma says she would like
me to have more arithmetic, and not so much
algebra.” “Ma says will you please teach me my
French verbs negatively? They always have
them in the Junior.” Rawson’s face used to turn
white with wrath sometimes, and, had Edith
Landers not
been his most
promising
candidate for
the forthcom-
ing examina-
tion, he would
have found
some means
of ridding the
school of her,
and thus of
her mother’s
interference.
As it was
he put a curb
on himself for
a while, ignor-
ed all the
notes and
messages, and
worked away
at his cram-
ming system
with the light
of a great star
shining on his
near future,
the star of
the highest
honor of the
Junior, the
EairfaxPrize,
which he
dreamed o f
winning for
his school
through Edith
Landers.
One dayshe
worked an
ari thmetio
paper with
such accuracy
that he was
startled into
a sudden re-
velation of his
dreams.
“Look here,”
he said in a.
roughly jubi-
lant voice,
waving the
paper at her;
“if you keep on in this style you’ve got a jolly
good show for tile Fairfax. Just you work down-
right hard for a bit and you’ll get it.”
She went home joyfully and told her parents.
Sam’s face brightened and vicarious vanity shone
in his fatherly eyes. But Mrs. Landers’ face
grew strangely long. The honor of this would he
to Rawson !
* • • *
The time came for sending in the names of can-
didates, and Rawson announced to the school one
-day that those who were going up must bring
their fees next morning, and he himself would
forward them to the Registrar with their applica-
tions. It was next morning that Edith Landers
stayed away for the first time that quarter.
Rawson was furious, and as soon as school was
out he put on his hat and went to find the reason
of her absence. In High-street he met Sam, and
told him where he was going.
“ Why,” said Sam, “ didn’t they tell you ? Mrs.
Landers and Edie went down to Sydney by the
mail-train last night for a few days’ change. Edie
must have forgotten about the fees. Will it
matter? I will pay them now.”
Rawson was very angry. “ She ought to lose
no time now,” he said; “but, of course, that’s
your look-out.”
“Perhaps she will work while she’s away,”
said Sam. “ I know nothing about it.’’
“Perhaps,” said Rawson, stiffly.
“And, at any rate, Mrs. Landers will be back
in a week.” So he sent her name in, and his own
under it, to show that it was he who had coached
and crammed and pressed her, and it was he who
was the author of her glory.
But when one week was up she did not return.
Nor when two weeks were up, nor three, nor a
month.
In fact, it was a whole month after the exam,
before she and Mrs. Landers were seen in Warad-
geree again. They stayed on and stayed on, and
Mrs. Lander’s letters to Sam ignored the subject
of the Junior, and Rawson bit his fingers half-way
to the quick, and fumed, and fretted, and thinned
away under his eyes with worry, and grew un-
healthily pale with rage and anxiety, and on the
day of the exam, cursed Mrs. Landers with the
curses common to his kind.
* * * *
In November the results were published, and in
November Mrs. Landers and Edith came home.
Simultaneously one morning two people in their
respective homes were straining their eyes down
tho lists of names in the just-ar ived daily papers.
The eyes travelled along the A’s, B’s, C’s. D’s, on,
on,'till they reached L’s. There they stopped.
Rawson, in his schoolroom, gasped. Mrs. Lan-
ders, on her verandah, turned a filmy green.
“Well, I’m dashed I ”
“ Oh, Edith, Edith ! ”
There, among the L’s, were two announce-
ments
Landers, Edith Honoria, Eng. B, Arith. B ,
Geog. B. Coached by Honoria Landers, “ Frcombi ,”
Waradgeree.
Landers, Edith Honoria, Eng. B, Arith. B,
Geog. B. Coached by Ernest Rawson, 8.A.,
Waradgeree Public School.
Mrs. Landers had taken her to Sydney, and
sent her up for examination as her own pupil.
Rawson had sent her name in with his list, and
the confusion resulted in the double announcement.
And she had passed just as badly as it was
possible for any candidate to pass. Indeed, there
would have been more honor in not passing at all.
AT THE CIRCUS.
THE RINGER: “I say, Jim, the cove as keeps t'other end of ’IM shorn ain't got no
rosy billet! ”
Waradgeree knew all about it ten minutes after,
and, to outsiders, the joke was a creamy one.
The richest of the cream lay in the fact that both
the “ coaches ” now refused to acknowledge poor
little miserable Edith as a pupil. “ Mr. Rawson
prepared her. ” ‘‘ Mrs. Landers took her away from
me.” But to Ernest Rawson there was no joke,
for all his pupils had done infamously, and the
township was crying out that he had over-crammed
them ; and to Mrs. Landers the cream was of the
very sourest.
LOUISE MAOK.
“Piety is the nostalgia of a lost Paradise.”
“ Men study women as they study the
barometer ; but they do not understand until the
day afterwards.”


LAYS OF SHEARING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Green-Hand Rouseabout.
A POLYONOMOUS SUBJECT.
SHE : “I wonder why sailors always call their sweethearts ‘Polly’?” HE ! “ Because there are so many of her perhaps!"
Call this hot ? I beg your pardon. Hot!—you
don’t know what it means.
(What’s that, waiter ? lamb or mutton! Thank
you—mine is beef and greens.
Bread and butter while I’m waiting. Milk ? Oh,
yes—a bucketful.)
I’m just in from west the Darling, “ picking-up
and “ rolling wool.”
Mutton ste«ed or chops for breakfast, dry and
tasteless, boiled in fat;
Bread or brownie, tea or coffee —two hours
gi aft in front of that;
Legs of mutton boiled for dinner —mutton greasy-
warm for tea —
Mutton curried (gave my order, beef and plent }
greens for me'.
Iheakfast, curr'ed rice and mutton till you'
innaids sacrifice,
And you sicken at the color and the smell o,
curried rice.
All day long' with living mutton —bits and belly-
wool and fleece;
Blinded by the yoke of wool, and shirt and
trouse s stiff with grease,
Till you long fo" sight of verdure, cabbage-plots
and water clear,
And you crave, for beef and butter as a boozer
craves for beer.
Dusty patch in baking mulga—glaring iron hut
and shed —
Peel and smell of rain forgotten—water scarce
Mid feed-grass dead.
Hot and suffocating sunrise—all-pervading sheep-
yard smell —
Stiff and aching green-hand stretches—“ Slushy ”
rings the bullock-bell.
Pint of tea and hunk of brownie—sinners string
towards the shed —
Great, black, greasy crows round carcase—screen
behind of dust-cloud red.
Engine whistles. “Go it, tigers! ” and the agony
begins,
Picking up for seven devils out of Hades—for my
sins;
Picking up for seven devils, seven demons out of
Hell!
Sell their souls to get the bell-sheep—half-a-dozen
Christs they’d sell !
Day grows hot as where they come from—too
damned hot for men or brutes ;
Hoof of corrugated iron, six-foot-six above the
shoots!
Whiz and rattle and vibration, like an endless
chain of trams;
Blasphemy of five-and-forty- prickly heat—and
stink of rams !
“ Barcoo ” leaves his pen-door open and the sheep
come bucking out;
When the rouser goes to pen them, “ Barcoo ”
blasts the rouseabout.
Injury with insult added —trial of our cursing
powers—
Cursed and cursing back enough to damn a dozen
worlds like ours.
“ Take my combs down to the grinder, will yer ? ’’
“ Seen my cattle-pup ? ”
“There’s a sheep fell down in my shoot —just
jump down and pick it up.”
“ Give the office when the boss comes.” “ Catch
that gory sheep, old man.”
“ Count the sheep in my pen, will yer ? ” “ Fetch
my combs back when yer can.”
“ When yer get a chance, old feller, will yer pop
down to the hut ?
Fetch my pipe—the cook ’ill show yer —and I’ll
let yer have a cut.”
Shearer yells for tar and needle. Ringer roaring
like a bull:
“Wool away you (son of angels). Where the
hell’s the (foundling) Wool !! ”
Pound-a week and station prices—mustn’t kick
against the pricks—
Seven weeks of lurid mateship—ruined soul and
four pounds six.
What’s that? waiter? me? stuffed mutton ! Look
here, waiter, to be brief,
I said beef! you blood-stained villain ! Beef —
moo-cow —Roast Bullock —BEEF !
“The Boss Over the Board.”
When he’s over a rough and unpopular shed,
With the sins of the bank and the men on his
head ;
When he musn’t look black or indulge in a grin,
And thirty or forty men hate him like Sin —
I am moved to admit—when the total is scored —
That it’s just a bit off for the Boss-of-the-board.
I have battled a lot,
But my dream’s never soared
the lonely position of Boss-of-the-board.
’Twas a black-
listed shed down
the Darling. The
Boss
Was a small man to
see—though a big man to
cross —
We had nought to complain of —
except what we thought,
And the Boss didn’t boss any more than he ought;
But the Union was booming, and Brotherhood
soared,
So we hated like poison the Boss-of-the-board.
We could tolerate “hands ”
We respected the cook ;
But the name of a Boss was a blot in our book.
He’d a row with Big Duggan—a rough sort of
Jim —
Or, rather, Jim Duggan was “ laying for ” him !
His hate for Injustice and Greed was so deep
That his shearing grew rough—and he ill-used the
sheep.
And I fancied that Duggan his manliness lower’d
When he took off his shirt to the Boss-of-the-board,
For the Boss was ten stone,
And the shearer full-grown,
And he might have, they said, let the “ crawler ”
alone.
Though some of us there wished the fight to the
strong,
Yet we knew in our hearts that the shearer was
wrong !
And the Crawler was plucky, it can’t be denied,
For he had to fight Freedom and Justice beside,
But he came up so gamely, as often as floored,
That a blackleg stood up for the Boss-of-the-
board !
And the fight was a sight.
And we pondered that night—
It’s surprising how some of those blacklegs can
fight.
Next day at the office, when sadly the wreck
Of Jim Duggan came up like a lamb for his
cheque,
Said the boss, “ Don’t be childish! It’s all past
and gone;
lam short of good shearers. You’d better stay
, on.”
And we fancied Jim Duggan our dignity low’r’d
When he stopped to oblige a damned Boss-of-the
board.
We said nothing to Jim,
For a joke might be grim,
And the subject, we saw, was distasteful to him.
The boss just went on as he’d done from the first,
And he favored Big Duggan no more than the
worst;
And when we’d cut out and the steamer came
down —
With the hawkers and spielers— to take us to town,
And we’d all got aboard, ’twas Jim Duggan, good
Lord 1
Who yelled for three cheers for the Boss-of-the-
board.
’Twas a bit off, no doubt —
And with Freedom about —
But a lot is forgot when a shed is cut out.
With Freedom of Contract maintained in his shed,
And the curse of the Children of Light on his head,
He’s apt to long sadly for sweetheart or wife,
And his views be inclined to the dark side of life.
The Truth must be spread and the Cause must be
shored —
But it’s just a bit rough on the Boss-of-the-board.
I am all for the right,
But perhaps (out of sight)
As a son or a husband or father he’s white.
When the Ladies Come to the Shearing
Shed.
“ The ladies are coming,” the super says
To the shearers sweltering there,
And “ the ladies ” mean in the shearing shed :
“ Don’t cut ’em too bad. Don’t swear.”
The ghost of a pause in the shed’s rough heart,
And lower is bowed each head ;
And nothing is heard, save a whispered word,
And the roar of the shearing-shed.
The tall, shy rouser has lost his wits,
And his limbs are all astray ;
He leaves a fleece on the shearing-board,
And his broom in th shearer’s way.
There's a curse in store for that jackaroo
As down by the wall he slants —
And the ringer bends with his legs askew
And wishes he’d patched them pants.
They are girls from the city. [Our hearts rebel
As we squint at their dainty feet.]
And they gush and say in a girly way
That “ the dear little lambs ” are “ sweet.”
And Bill, the ringer, who’d scorn the use
Of a childish word like “ damn,”
Would give a pound that his tongue were loose
As he tackles a lively lamb.
Swift thoughts of homes in the coastal towns —
Or rivers and waving grass—
And a weight on our hearts (hat we cannot define
That comes as the ladies pass.
But the rouser ventures a nervous dig
In the ribs of the next to him ;
And “ Barcoo ” says to his pen-mate : “ Twig
The style of the last ’un, Jim.”
J ,m Moonlight gives her a careless glance—
Then he catches his breath with pain—
His strong hand shakes and the sunlights dance
As he bends to his work again.
But he’s well disguised in a bristling beard.
Bronzed skin, and his shearer’s dress ;
And whatever Jim Moonlight hoped or feared
Were hard for his mates to guess.
Jim Moonlight, wip ng his broad, white brow,
Explains, with a doleful smile :
“A stitch in the side,” and “ he’s all right now
But he leans on the beam awhile,
And gazes out in the blazing noon
On the clearing brown and bare—
She has come and gone, like a breath of June,
In December’s heat and glare.
The bushmen are big rough boys at the best,
With hearts of a larger growth :
But they hide those hearts with a brutal jest,
And the pain with a reckless oath.
Though the Bills and the Jims of the bush-bard
sing
Of their life loves, lost or dead,
The love of a girl is a sacred thing
Not voiced in a shcaring-Mied.
Sydney, 28/1/97.
HENTY LAWSON


W ILLANJIE.
FOR THE BULLETIN.
By GLENROHAN
We were travelling down the Bogan, where the
scrubs are deep and dense,
With a thousand head of Tyson’s from the Queens-
land border fence —
Great curly-horned Brewarras bred among the
back belars
To a scorn of six-wire fences and a dread of twelve-
foot bars ;
In their eyes the light of battle where the hide and
stockwhip meet,
And the spell of open ranges in their hot and rest-
less feet.
We were camped in ridgy country with a home-
stead fence aback
And twenty chains of T.S.R. to shield us from the
track ;
For a thousand head of Tyson’s, well—they’re
safer held aloof
From every chance-belated wheel or early passing
hoof.
The day had been a furnace breath, and, charged
with coming change,
The purple clouds came rocking in from westward
of the range,
While fitful gleams of moonlight showed the black-
boy on his horse
Set dim against the timber-line that marked the
watercourse.
The cattle close together lay at rest, perhaps to
dream
Of luscious knee-deep river flats beside a northern
stream,
Of noonday camps in wilga shade and starlit feed-
ing trips
In long-lost nights before they learned the lesson
of the whips ;
And we all saddle-weary lay dozing round the
fires
Till some night-wandering kangaroo rang music in
the wires,
Then every beast was on his feet and half were
circling round,
And you could hear the swift hoofs beat like
thunder on the ground.
A moment’s work to catch the nags, the hobble-
straps undo,
And fling the saddles in their place and run the
girth-straps through,
To lightly touch the stirrup-bar and saddlewards
to swing—
Heaven knows there’s little time to waste when
'wild Brewarras ring !
I caught the grey Willanjie, a pearl where gems
were rife —
The gallant grey Willanjie that is more to me
than life ;
Long days upon the western side the old grey
horse and I
Have heard the mulgas crash and watched the
blue-grass miles slip by ;
And heart to heart, as comrades true, in Fortune’s
smile and frown
Have fought grim battle in the west to live a lost
love down.
I caught the grey Willanjie, and the girths were
scarcely drawn
Before the wild mob passed us with a sweep of
hoof and horn ;
The ridges shook beneath us and the skies reeled
overhead,
And where the whirling dust-clouds showed a
glint of roan and red
We plunged into the darkening scrub with only
stars to guide,
For when the wild Brewarras break it’s “ shake
the reins an'd ride / ”
We saw them climb the stony rise and cross the
ridge’s crown,
We heard them lift the post and wire and fling the.
cap-rails down ;
We passed the black boy struggling through—his
brown horse nearly spent
ri ~ , , ,
Could never see for dust and dark the way Wil-
lanjie went;
The old grey slipped between the trees and dodged
the swinging boughs,
And held the wino- nf TW-mV u
And held the wmg of Tysons mob as cheap as
milking oows.
A ring-barked flat before us—and across the dust-
clouds dense
We saw the maddened leaders wheel upon a two-
rail fence ;
v ., . _ ,
But hot u P on their heaving flanks the sweating
rear ff uard P 1 ( ssed >
And w bat’s the worth of fences with a thousand
steers abreast ?
A cras h of splintered railing in a whirl of lifting
dust,
And Tyson’s border beauties took Hodson’s farm
on trust !
.
Wlth clashin £ horns and thundering feet they
beld fc he homestead track,
And £ re y Willanjie snatched the bit and tossed
tbe white foam back j
Across the grassy open flat to where the stock-
yard stood
We shot beside the leaders with his grey flanks
dripping blood.
Through all the roar of maddened throats, above
the tramp of feet,
Rang out one cry that held my heart a moment
from its beat:
A white form crouched before us, and across Wil-
lanjie’s mane
I stooped and took the hand I feared to never
hold again,
And through the dust and jar of hoofs leapt back
the hidden years,
The happiness and parting, and the bitterness and
tears.
I drew her to the saddle, and the grey horse
bounded on,
And softly through the purple clouds the silver
moonbeams shone,
I kissed her warm red lips and drank
the nectar of her breath,
And scarcely saw for drunken joy
the wraith of trampling Death.
I took the wild Brewarras down before
I claimed my bride,
And offers for the Queensland horse
came in from every side—
But to buy the gray Willanjie,
though they come from near and
far,
They will never hold the money in
the ring at Kirk’s Bazaar !
“ Never wear clothes. If you
do your friends want to borrow
money. If you don’t, they shog off,
thinking you do.”
Blunx was haunted by Dunx, whom he
hated to be seen abroad with. Blunx hit upon
the plan, when they met, of always asking--
“ Which way are you going, old man ? ” On re-
ceivin ff a /eply—“ This way,” Blunx would
e ’J way,” and pelter
off m the opposite direction. Tunx chaffed Dunx
about this, and Dunx swore, by the Ringbarked
Gumtree! that he’d Blunx next time,
an^ -A vagered with Tunx to that effect. Blunx
and P,V nx " Which way are you going, old
™ an • . °h, nowhere in particular.” “Well,
Im going somewhere very particular—so long.”
And Blunx started a pedestrian record.
Red Rafferty ’s Son.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It seemed as if the earth had drunk her fill of
rain, and yet the grey roofs of wind-steered
clouds came up and up from the relentless East.
The river grew white and clamorous under the
caving banks, lumps of clay plashed incidentally
where this sudden flush had bitten underneath. I
sat down to consider the river, and the bit of half-
fenced land that rose 16 inches above it. There
were three acres of half-ripe cane, a couple of
plough-horses, 13 sheep, and the wife and children.
I could save everything but the cane—that would
go down to sweeten the blue Pacific. A querulous
voice shook me from a sullen reverie. Down in
the far reaches a man was standing with arms
stiffened above his head ; his legs were naked and
mud-splashed ; a few ribbons of shirt covered his
lean torso.
“You coward! you crawling snake!” He
skipped frantically and shook his fist at the
river. Then he saw me, and drew up suddenly
with a hurt expression.
“Good morning, Styles!” I shouted, wishing
to relieve him of his embarrassment,
“River’s girding up her hind legs and going on
the land, eh, Styles. Guess we’ll have to go on
the river for a change.”
He looked at me under his hand, muttered
something, and stalked back to the stable that he
lived in. A man of education was Styles, but his
proceedings were strictly improper ; no man with-
out trousers can command enough dignity to swear
at a full-grown river. A deep-freighted coaster
was snoring in mid-channel; her short-legged
skipper on the bridge gazed scornfully at the near
sand bar that might some day gather him in.
A dirty stoker with a pipe heaved ashes over-
board reflectively. What was there in life for
him ? Echo answered coals.
I strolled moodily up the rain-scarred incline,
and looked enviously at the better land beyond—
Dana Madu’s land. Dana Madu was squatting
under a white mahogany, his long fingers buried
in his flaming turban. Upon more than one
occasion I had broken bread with the excellent
Dana, therefore I ventured near to comfort him.
He took my hand and bent over it; something
like tears moistened my finger-tips.
“Art thou troubled with the fear of flood,
Dana, or is it some new insect in the cane? ”
He looked up and his grizzled beard waved over
his wrappers of Delhi silk.
“ I have been robbed, planter sahib, by the red
devils yonder, and for certain reasons I fear to
call in the troopers of the law.” He pointed to
the rib of scrub below the white snarling bend.
“The RafFertys,” said I, and pondered awhile.
They were tenants of Dana’s, non-paying ones,
bot ... I looked at the Hindoo’s forefinger
aglow with clustered diamonds.
“You are infamously rich, Dana ; you hold the
best land on the rivers. Be merciful to us, poor
whites—be merciful.” His benign face lit up
with surprise.
“ 1 have been a father and a mother to the Red
One. I have built him a house, fed him in the
drought, and he robs me.”
Tell me, Dana, perchance I may help thee to
deal with the marauder.” Dana’s breath came in
sharp expulsions.
“ I have watched my cattle dwindle, and I have
been silent. At night I have lain close to the
earth while the Red One and his brood have cut
and rafted my ripe cane do wn the river. After-
wards I have reproved him sharply, and he has
wept and pulled his thick hair. ‘Hear me,
Madu,’ he will say ‘ for the love av God, hear
me. ’Tis not me that ever lifted a heifer, or a
stick of cane belonging to ye. lam accursed with
a brother that comes from afar off and does this
grievous thing : we are alike as two peas. ’Tis
not me that would touch a blade of grass belong-
ing ye. Planter sahib, the Red One may speak
truly! there are such happenings l have a
wicked brother in Benares, and . . . there are
such happenings. ”
The theory of the wicked brother seemed
feasible : I, myself, have a brother in Monaro, and
but Dana Madu rose and shaded his eyes.
There was a shingle-hut on the wooded rise, over-
looking a hundred acres of scrub. Thirteen stone
of red-haired ferociousness prowled near the door,
watching us with lively suspicion. Dana Madu
sighed and turned to me.
I have a sow, sleek of body and with the man-
ners of a lady ; believe me, sahib, her pedigree is
better than half your queens. Her fine tail, her
pale and sleepy cheeks have been admired by the
great memsahibs of this land. Large councillors
and even bishops have watched her in the sty. I
have heard them whisper strange words concern-
ing her, such as : ‘ Green peas and a trifle of the
crackling, your Eminence, with a nip, maybe, of
carrot, your Eminence ’; and his Eminence would
feel his chin, and his brow would wrinkle with
great thoughts, but he would only say : ‘ Beans for
me, brother Michael, and a thimbleful of sauce. ’
All this talk was very strange to me, sahib. . . .
She has taken medals in the sho « s There was
a little sucker belonging to her —only one—and I
prized it more than caste or gold. Last night I
heard it squealing in the scrub; planter sahib,
I was ready, Mahomet Ali, Nana Lai, Ranjit
Sinhji and the others were ready We ran in
circles like naked beaters, and rung the sounds,
even as we have rung the leaping tigers in Ben-
gal. We surrounded the Red One’s house ; there
was no escape—not even for the little pig—we sur-
rounded the house. I tapped the door. ‘Be not
afraid, Red One,’ said I very softly—he is a fierce
man, sahib, but I have inherited much diplomacy
Be not afraid. Red One; it is I, Dana Madu.’
There was a smothered scuffle within and oh !
I heard my little pig protesting. ”
At this point I in errupted the excellent Dana
with a cough. The wicked-brother theory was
getting mixed with eftsoons and disreputable
waterspouts ; however, I merely said, “Your little
pig protested 1 ”
“The Red One fumbled at the door, sahib.
Howld, Madu,’ say he, ‘ Oi’m pu'ting on me
throusers. ’ Then he spoke strange words to a
woman he called ‘Bid.’ We entered and saw the
woman lying on a bed of sacks. I recognised the
sacks—l had lost them when they were full ol
corn. The woman’s hair was knotted about her
forehead like ram’s-horns. She laughed at me
and crooked her linger.
“Patsy asthore, has the good man come for
me, eyah ? Ranjit Sinhji supported me, sahib,
or I should have fallen. By kismet ! Ranjit
Sinhji has the bowels of a gentleman. There
was no place in that room wherein to hide a glove ;
and the Red One stood beside mo with his terrible
fists bunched. I was deceived then —I was de-
ceived, it must have been his brother. There was
a small box in the shadow of the woman—a cradle
that white mothers use. Ranjit Sinhji was star-
ing at it and trembling. It was covered with a
filthy cloth that began to twist like a snake’s body ;
two long ears flicked this way and < hat, until a
white snout pushed itself up ; the snout was tied
underneath with ribbons, and a child’s green cap
was acock between the ears. The woman saw
too, and stretched forth her hand to rock the
cradle. Furris ! furris ! and he cried, ‘Go to
sleep, you bad child ! ’ Sahib, by all gods oi
Indra, that little sucker said ‘ugh, ugh,’and lay
quiet. ‘D’ye hear that, Madu?’ said the Red
One, squeezing me across the shoulders. ‘ ’Tis
our little Barney that has the lungs av a man,
and only one wake owld come Sunday, plaze God. ’
Sahib, he pushed me to the door, and the woman
crouched over looking at me under her fist.
‘You’ll come to the christening, Madu ; promise
me neow that you’ll come to little Barney’s
christening. ”
At this point I cut in diplomatically.
“ Then you consider that little pig Barney is in
chancery ? ”
Dana Madu crossed his hands, and turned his
benign face to the East.
“It may have pleased the gods to send them
this strange pig-child; it may have pleased the
gods to allow my little pig to be born again. ”
I strolled back to consider the river.
D.
A Couple of “Three’s.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
He had cadged it at last—a whole sixpence ! Two
hours’ hard work, but it had come, and just in
time, for the hour was late, and the rain was
coming, too. Swish ! —how did it hum round the
corner as he turned into Goulburn-street, and pre-
sently his clothes were like a sieve ; but a bed—a
warm bed !—that was something to look forward
to. He would stay awake and listen to the rain.
And wasn’t it rain!—set in for the night; but he
hadn’t much farther to go.
He was hungry too; he would be famishing in
the morning. After leaving the warm bed he
would have to cadge for a breakfast, and it is hard
work cadging in the morning. In the night there
is always the friendly gloom—but the morning—
ugh !.
Ah ! If he only could strike it, he could have
the bed, and the breakfast as well. The bed was
not worth much by itself. He was wet through
already; a few hours more or less wouldn’t matter
much. No ;he wouldn’t! He would go on and
pay for the bed. But, still, if he could strike a
“ six ! ” A “ six ” meant innumerable beds and
breakfasts ; and he might even get on to the
cursed Chinamen for a “seven.” Who knows ?
Ten o’clock. The last pak-a-pu bank had just
been drawn.
“ What luck, Slant-eye ? ”
“You catchee three; welly close six. Better
luck nex’ time ! ”
Lun Ying cleared the shop, and, closing the
door, shut out the sound of the hissing rain, fall-
ing now with redoubled vigor.
But the “three-striker” made a “six” of it,
after all. Constable O’Grady got him the other
three next morning for vagrancy.
R. L. Woodward.


Two Women Wasted!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Kwynne,” said a caustic brother-practi-
tioner, “was born plain ‘Quinn,’ and had a
devilish narrow squeak for his degree. But he
dropped into the fat-dowager line of practice, and
now he has a curl in his voice, and looks at you
out loud. His head’s getting bigger every day,
and his boots tighter. But he’ll have a smash,
yet!—those 16-storey frauds always come down
with a run ! ”
Now, though professional “ frill ” —to judge
from these remarks was not a weakness of
Sharpe-Shuter, M. 8., he stood high as a cardiac
specialist, and very grave he looked as he pro-
ceeded with the examination the great Kwynne
came to him, one morning, to request.
“What do you think, yourself?” he asked, as
he at last laid down the stethoscope.
Kwynne gave his opinion.
“ I fear so! ” Shuter said. “In fact, it’s beyond
doubt. But, with care, you may rub along for
years yet. Meantime, we’ll do what we can to
palliate matters, and, of course, there’s no need to
give you the usual cautions about exertion or ex-
citement. But perhaps you’d like another
opinion?”
“No ! ” Kwynne said, frigidly as usual. “ Your
death-warrant is good enough ! I wish you good
morning.”
“Poor chap!” thought Shuter, “his stuck-
uppishness should serve him now. He’ll spin out
all the longer for being too august a creature to
get into a tantrum like the one that finished John
Hunter in similar circumstances.”
Here Sharpe-Shuter was wrong. Kwynne,
though too careful of his dignity to coruscate ex-
ternally, was given to those cold, white, undemon-
strative rages which, having been partly the cause
of his complaint, were now, also, to some extent,
its effect.
* * * *
“Money, again?” Dr. Kwynne got
slowly up from his study-table, and handed a
chair to his wife. “Be seated, please, and oblige
me with the explanation I have hitherto refrained
from asking for.”
Mrs. Kwynne remained standing, and, in truth,
trembling—for she was one of those large, fair,
timid-eyed women who seem to be the born
corollaries of such inconsiderable autocrats as this
saturnine, thin-lipped man, upon whom not even
excessive erectness and a long frock-coat could
confer middle stature.
‘ ‘ I —l can’t explain at present, Bryan ! I know
it must seem very strange ; but, believe me, it is
for a good purpose.”
Her voice fluttered nervously, and the softened
lamplight showed beads in her eyes, as her hus-
band watched her steadily through his pince-nez.
“You cannot explain!” he repeated, with a
kind of savage sedateness. “For the third time
within two months you come to me for an extra
twenty pounds, and all you choose to tell me is
that it is for a good purpose. ”
“ Oh, pray, Bryan! ’’—she was beginning,
eagerly, when he stopped her with a wave of his
hand—opened his desk, and took from it three
five-pound-notes.
“Here!” he said, adding five sovereigns from
his waistcoat-pocket. “Twenty pounds, again—
for this good purpose that requires such careful
nent! And now, pardon me —I am
busy! ” Without looking at her, he sat down
again.
At the door the surprised wife turned to ex-
press the thanks she had forgotten. “And you
will not ask ”
“No!” he interrupted, with a significance
which was lost on her —“I will not ask —any
more ! ”
The hoarsely squeezed-out words told of pain as
well as anger; his cheek had taken the tint of
water-loaded inilk. His wife dropped a couple of
coins as she came hastily back. “Oh ! —you are
ill! Your face ”
He turned upon her the features of the dead—
save for the eyes of living agony. “ Go! ” he
said, and the frightened woman hastily picked up
her sovereigns and made for the door again.
“ There’s something serious the matter with
him, surely,” she thought. “What an awful
color! Oh, now, more than ever, he must not
know. I believe it would kill him ! ”
• * * *
“Very good, doctor,” Rooke said, as he
scribbled a few hasty memoranda. “It shouldn't
be at all a difficult matter to unravel. But, of
course, it would be all the easier if you could give
me any hints —as to possible applications of the
money, you know.”
Dr. Kwynne got up to go. “You forget your-
self, my good man. It is your business to find
your hints—and charge for doing it. I wish you
a good afternoon.”
Rooke was a private-detective, who had been a
public one. He smiled as the door closed.
“Met your sort before, old cock. Too great a
man to put a brick in the building you’ve laid the
foundation of! However, this thing’s simple
enough. It’s either modiste, needy relative, or
blackmailer —with odds on the last.”
• * » •
Thirty hours later, the detective called
upon the doctor with his report.
“There is a side-door to this house, doctor—
opening into the passage to Little Collins-street.”
Dr. Kwynne —who allowed his visitor to remain
standing—stared coldly, for answer.
“Through which door, last night, about 8
o’clock, Mrs. Kwynne admitted a person, who
remained about a quarter of an hour, and came
out the same way.”
Kwynne looked at his watch. “My good
fellow, you waste my time ! If this is all ”
“ And this person,” went on Rooke, imperturb-
ably, “ was—let’s say, a lady of easy virtue ! ”
Dr. Kwynne came nearer to jumping up than
he had done for 20 years waited a moment, and
rose with his normal stateliness.
“Of course,” he said, as if talking to himself,
“ this is a mistake —an abominable blunder of this
man’s jackal ? ”
“No blunder whatever!” Rooke answered,
curtly. “ I happened to be my own jackal, as
you are kind enough to call it, in this instance,
and I followed the woman right round into
Bourke-street, to get a good look at her by the
electric-light. An old acquaintance, sir ! Shop-
lifting—false pretences disorderly-housekeeping !
A sentence in Brisbane, half-a-dozen in Sydney,
and two here. Extensive assortment of names to
choose from, but best known as ‘Slippery Sal.’
About three months out of gaol, this time.”
Dr. Kwynne motioned Rooke at last to sit, but
took himself a dozen turns from wall to wall
before he said calmly, “Assuming that you are
correct—that the person you speak of was the
person you saw enter this house—how do you
know it was Mrs. Kwynne who admitted her ? ”
“ Because Mrs. Kwynne has kept the key of
that door in her own possession for months past,
Oh, there’s nothing miraculous in that bit of
knowledge,’’Rooke added, observing that Kwynne
had at last condescended to be astonished,
“Things like that are only the A B 0 of the
profession ! ”
A MISLEADING MEDICAL TESTIMONIAL.
(With apologies to Pears’ Soap.)
“ Your remedies are extensively used in this district, with most
satisfactory results. ”
Kwynne shuddered at the blasphemous use of
“ profession ” ; then he looked at his watch again
and sat down.
“ Come !” he said—“ let us end this ! What do
you infer ? ”
“ That this woman has been in your house
before, and that, in a word, she’s blackmailing
Mrs. Kwynne ! ”
“Impos—and yet, no !—I suppose it is barely
possible. But,' what could it be for ?
“There, sir, you have the advantage of me,”
the detective said candidly. “ I know nothing of
Mrs. Kwynne’s past history ! ”
And Dr. Kwynne—drumming reflectively on
the table—was astonished to remember how little
he knew himself of his wife’s origin and connec-
tions. He had married her —a friendless girl
before the advent of his dowager-dosing dignity.
Was he, at this time of day, to make some shame-
ful discovery ? He half-rose from his seat, and
then sank back again with a groan.
“ You ar° ill, sir ! ” Rooke got hastily up, but
Kwynne had already a tiny phial at
his livid lips. He waved the other
off, and presently the awful bluish
pallor faded from his face.
“There is only one thing to be
done,” he said. “You will have a
watch kept, and, if this person should
return, you will notify me immediately.
I am always to be found here from 7
o’clock till 11.”
Rooke stood for a minute, after he
had left the house—mentally compar-
ing two sets of features. Then he
nodded towards the lighted study-
window. “Yes,” he said, “there’s
no doubt about the resemblance ; and
I’m vastly mistaken if the boot isn’t
on the other foot ! Soon know, at
all events. Twenty pounds won’t go
far with Sal when she thinks she’s
only got to cut-and-come again ! ”
* * * *
“You must not come in here,
Bryan. Pray, pray do not insist ! ”
Mrs. Kwynne—white as the summer
robe that wrapped her large, uncertain
figure —stood between her husband
and the closed door of a small inner
drawing-room.
“I am under the impression,” he
said, with cold contempt, “that this
is my house. I must ask you again
to stand aside.”
“ Oh, let him come in,” said a high,
hard voice from the other side of the
door. “ Let the good doctor in—it’s
his own house, you know.” A brassy
cackle followed, and, in a fever of
apprehension, Mrs. Kwynne—with her
superior avoirdupois—had fairly rushed
her husband to the door of the outer
room before she realised the enormity
of her audacity.
But he took no notice. “ Who is
that woman?” he asked, as the sacri-
legious hands were withdrawn. “ What
she is I know already, and I must
now be told why she is in my house—
what relations she has with you.”
Immovable determination was in the
passionless monotony of his tone, and
his wife moved hopelessly aside to
let him pass. But then, with a des-
perate inspiration, she drew him out
upon the landing and whispered
rapidly—“ Forgive me, Bryan I—but she is—oh,
my God !—she is my sister ! ”
He laid his hand upon her, in turn, and wheeled
her round with her face to the staircase-lamp. His
scrutiny was professional now.
“No!” he said. “I must needs believe you
sane. Will you say again, and deliberately, that
this creature is your sister ?”
Her face drooped suddenly away from his gaze,
but the unwilling lips
forced themselves to a
faintly-uttered “Yes ! ”
“Enough!” he said.
“In that case we must,
of course, part! But firs
• ” He walked swiftly
back into the outer room,
and, beforehis wife’s frantic
rush could overtake him,
had opened the door of the
inner.
A gaunt, middle-aged'
woman confronted him—
quietly dressed enough,
but for the dare-devilish
hat from under which a
fringe of reckless black
hair hung down to eyes
that had the glaze of semi-
drunkenness.
“ How are you, Bryan ? ”
she said, with the jagged
burlesque of a laugh.
“ Long time since we
parted, isn’t it? ‘But,
doth not a meeting like
this make amends?’” she
warbled, in a shrill and
staggering stave that made
horrible contrast with the
other woman’s piteous
moan —from the doorway—
“Oh, my poor Bryan!—
God knows, I did my best
to save you from this ! ”
Dr. Kwynne, with the
slow precision of purely
mechanical action, placed a
chair for himself and sat
down. For balf-a-minute
there was silence, before he
turned from the face of
malignant triumph to the face of devouring
anxiety.
“Didn’t you say Elizabeth,” he dragged
slowly out, while the ominous leaden hue came
stealing again into his face, “ didn’t you tell me
this woman was your sister? You were not alto-
gether wrong ; because ” —with a ghastly little
laugh—“ she—turns out to be—your sister-m-
Jaw ! ’’
The other woman took a sharp step forward.
“What? Did you call yourself my sister? The
sister of a—of me ? ”
“ I wanted to spare him,” Mrs. Kwynne faintly
said. “Heis so lofty-spirited—so proud ”
“Proud?” interrupted the other, with a vocal
twist of indescribable contempt. “Ay, I know!
Curse his pride !It was that —his miserable,
crawling self-conceit! —that made me the thing I
am ! His only sister ! For the sake of a single,
too-confiding slip ! When one poor morsel of pity
or forgiveness would have turned the scale! ”
The woman’s voice, rising thus far in a fierce
crescendo, dropped suddenly almost to gentleness
as she walked over to Mrs. Kwynne and thrust
out a hand. “ Will you take it? ” she said ; and
the other—with a noble pity on her foolish, tear-
stained face—took it.
The outcast made as if she would have kissed
the kindly fingers, refrained, and wheeled upon
her brother.
“Man ! —man !” she said, “what are you, to
deserve a woman like this ? I had sworn to dis-
grace you when I should find you—to drag your
trumpery little respectability through the dirt !
And I did find you ; and this woman bought me
off and fought my secret for your sake. And
called herself my sister for your sake. And, for
her sake, I forgive you ; you will see no more of
me! ”
The door slammed sharply behind her, and
swift steps went down the stairs. Mrs. Kwynne
followed with the key and found her waiting.
“ Can nothing be done for ? ”
“ Nothing ! ” broke m the other, with a sudden
return of fierceness. “ Except to let me out and
forget me. ”
The swift, unsteady step had died away in the
night before the doctor’s wife went back to her
husband.
“ Bryan ! ”
He had been using his restorative ; the phial
was in his hand. But he looked at her stupidly,
and his voice sounded as from far-away.
“ It is—your turn now.”
She thought he wandered. “My turn for what,
Bryan ?”
“To say that we must part! ”
“ Part, Bryan ? No, we will nojt part! ” But,
with the words, the phial dropped from his hand
—his head fell forward on her shoulder.
They had parted !
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
An up-country hospital doctor’s life is not
all beer and skittles. The medico of one back-
blocks institution relates how he is helped in
operations by a warmer “ competent to give chloro-
form.” But the assistant is an excitable Irish-
man whose tongue goes faster than the operator’s
knife in a warning chorus of “ Oh, doctor, dear !
you’re cutting too deep ! ” “ Holy Mary ! she’ll
bleed to death,” &c. Half-way through Saw-
bones generally dismisses him in disgust and calls
upon his more taciturn wife to take Patrick’s
place. Afterwards the culprit airily brushes aside
reproof with the remark, “ Sure, doctor, I was
just a bit nervous ! ” If a case causes the surgeon
any anxiety, “Paddy ’’ offers him consolation and
calls down curses on his own unsuspecting head
by saying, “ I was frightened at the time, doctor,
for the way you slashed the poor divil ” —or
something like that.
SE LF DENIAL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
dfcic*4iSt~ w&stt)mkmd tfti<7£s looked very blue,
, Vheo?Sl»»% w^elf.
Veil wK»t*cat\ X gef, little m»»>y ,for cjou ? < .
©«nc.e-> of c»,)1or oif. Sl>orr , dot
drue’givT frero tbe “ l " , ‘
tf)2rt~s ou * a H ? 1 ifrefcltruS
||pr l>e gom 1 to *t3\ke it'’ myself.” /jjjjjjf
STEELE GREY.


THE SADDLER
THE FMU
ALEGEND OF THE WILD NORTH.
1
JN<5f^}KTS\
fUe
2,
'3
+
5
guf HsAp’v^^iyf
6 •fNf
7%e Rjewwp '!
C W6ll don€ ,T}\oO


AS AN ESS is
FULL OF MEBT,
MARK FOY’S
Seasonably ByoefitS.
Replete With
OGDEN’S. GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES.
The predilection of Bon-Ton smokers —A pure,
mild Virginia Cigarette. That’s all we claim for it.
JIASCOTTE
TOBACCO.
$e £ r+» AT
yod Get
—T IT
m
H
OWARD’S'for Musical Instruments of every
descr’rptjon, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARO’S Anglo Concertinas by Laehenal,
Jones,'&C., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h'ra.
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
L for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
OWARD'S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kind's and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. fid. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from (id.
tol guinea,great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from Gd. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OW ARIFS American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
HOWARD'S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W h ra.
fcl
H
H
H
U WARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine-head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutps _ and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from Gd. to 25g5.; cash or terms. __
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, arid German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver.; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
B OWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
The Perpetual Executors
and Trustees Association
OF—
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
CAPITAL : Subscribed, £150,000 ; Paid-Up, £30,000.
Directors :
HON. SIR WM. A: ZRAL, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
SIR FREDERICK M‘COV, K.C.M.G., F.R.b.
JOHN LLOYD ROBERTS, Esq.
WM. MOODY HI’NDMAN, ESQ.
ALL EXECUTORS, TRUSTEES, AND AGENCY
BUSINESS UNDERTAKEN.
Trust Moneys to Lend at Lowest Rates.
H. G. MARRIOTT, Manager.
Offices —46 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
ZR,O^AID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
' i WALTER M. NOAKES, M. COLONIAL MANAGER.
Also Representative for tlie “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
~ " -
Pains’s Hotel and Marble gar
and
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
0
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
0
Hotel and Cafe have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining*
. room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
| other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728.
WAI. J. ADAMS, Manager.
POKER MACHINES
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
iiiijliimmiiiiniiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiijiiimiiimimitiniiiiiiii
llllimHI)IIHilllll!llllllili|il)l;lilt.UllUlllllllMHHHIIll!lil!lllllimil I
m
w.
33 UJ
SW3IO
AL °’ SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
ANI>
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brusliware, Soaps,.Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
• o Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tippecl Cigarettes,,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
ing Chair.
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGKR,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HTGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANS A,
ALPINA MANILA, &c.„ &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
t3~ Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK
SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. I
. . SUBSTANTIAL . .
Christmas presents.
Quong Tart,
137 King Street, Sydney.
famous Tea
In 51b., 101 b., 201 b., and 401 b. Boxes.
Christmas (Jakes a Specialty.
ORDER EARLY.
The Spacious Dining and Tea Saloons
. . are . .
COMPLETELY FURNISHED for LADIES
AND GENTLEMEN.
mi
bS^oS
v> »■:*.*
m
SPECIAL : ! !
toHßsay
N 8 1.
m
BRIDT’S REFRIGERATOR.
. . FOR . .
Keeping Butter, Meat,
Milk, etc., COLD.
The Hotter the Weather, the Cooler
it is, as the evaporation of water is
greater. No ice or chemicals re-
quired. 6in.x6in., 35.; lOin.xSin.,
65.; 12in. x 10in.,85.; and upwards.
By post, Is. extra.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
and 422 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Kingston’s Umbrellas.
r<<
o>
Best: of A.l)
FOB
"Wear,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
95 Swanston-st., Melbourne.
Re-covering from 3s. 6d.
Excellent Wear.


“Not For a Day,
But For All Time.”
When Queen Victoria entered upon her 39th
year, and had been reigning a little over 21
years, the Society whose history is briefly
outlined in this sketch was not in existence.
Early in the year 1859 it occurred to a young
man, then in the office of a life-insurance in-
stitution, that there was room in the world
for another society of a similar character, and,
thanks to his remark.
able ability and inde-
fatigable energy, this
young man succeeded in
forming the Society,
which is now a house-
hold word among the
well -to- do and thrifty
classes of society through-
out the civilised world.
That young man, who
was 25 years of age at
this period, has ever since
guided the destinies of the
Equitable with a firm and
dexterous hand, and to-
day, as its chief executive
officer, he still directs its
course with the same keen
foresight and ever watch-
ful care that has charac-
terised his administration
throughout his eventful
career. Many of those
who were chiefly instru-
mental in developing the
Society in its early days
are still acting as Direc-
tors, or are members of
the executive staff. Of
the chief officers, four or
five have been connected
with the Society for up-
wards of 30 years, and the shortest term
of service of any member of this group
of men who have so ably administered its
affairs for this long period is about 20 years.
The Equitable is now 38 years old, and the
President and Chief Actuary have been
associated with its management from the day
of its inauguration. Of the presiding officers
the majority have worked their way up from
the ranks, having figured as the proverbial
office-boy, or held some small clerical posi-
tion, long and faithful service having ulti-
mately qualified them for the responsible
posts they now occupy. Among the agency
staff there are many who have been repre-
senting the Society for more than a quarter
MELBOURNE BUILDING OF THE EQUITABLE.
of a century, and the present position of the
Equitable is in no small measure to be attri-
buted <f the / act , that ‘ he gr6 f b ° dy °'
agents have for long series of years proved
themselves loyal and worthy supporters, and
that there have, for many years past, been so
few retirements from the ranks by resignation
nr death
The rapid growth of the Society during its
comparatively short existence of 38 years
has been chiefly due to the ceaseless activity
. J . -.j
of one man, its creator and organiser, to-day
its chief officer, who has, however,, been ably
seconded by a capable and experienced corps
of assistants. From small beginnings this
bas g rown t° be the colosssal institu-
tion it now is, its ramifications extending
throu g hout tbe civilised globe; its motto,
“ Not for a bufc for all time ’” bem S fitl y
exem P bfied b T the policy of its management,
whlch 1S ’ to a Pronounced degree, one of
Precaution, and ample provision
a § ainst the unce rtainties of the future,
There are many unforeseen contingencies
in all commercial undertakings, some of
SYDNEY BUILDING OF THE EQUITABLE.
which are so remote, but, at the same time,
so dangerous to financial security, that wise
provision in the shape of ample surplus funds
is essential to the safety and well-being of
every institution of the character of the one
under review. How keenly this was
realised by the presiding genius of this
Society early in his career is eloquently testi-
fied by the existence at the present day of
the great surplus fund which makes the
Equitable the synonym of strength in all
parts of the universe to which its operations
have been extended.
The members of this Society must experi-
ence a sense of pride and comforting security
when they realise the full effect of the
existence of these immense surplus funds
which have, dur-
ing the past thirty
years, been suc-
cessfully accumu-
lated against all
possible and un-
foreseen contin-
gencies of the
future as a result
of the wise fore-
thought of its able
administrators. In
these days o f
financial crises and
commercial unrest,
occasioned by ex-
cessive fluctuations
in values, an insti-
tution, holding, as
the Equitable
does, a wide# mar-
gin of safety as
represented by its
many millions of
surplus funds, oc-
cupies an essen-
tially secure posi-
tion, far above
the flood-tide of all
such perilous influ-
ences, and, as a
consequence, argu-
ments, criticisms,
and comparisons
are silenced when
confronted with
this mighty and
overwhelming fac-
tor, guaranteeing,
as it does, im-
munity from the
effects of finan-
cial disturbances
andabsolute
security in the distant and uncertain ages of
the future.
The local character of the Society i., aptly
reflected in the fact that the
managers
G f the respective colonies of New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Aus-
t-ralia, Western Australia, and Tasmania are
colonials, the General Manager being an
Englishman, and by the fact that the Equitable
besides being the largest holder of freehold
property of any life assurance society in the
colome f ’ vests 111 , its colonial directorates the
power to issue policies, pay claims, and tran-
sact business on the spot; its Australasian
branches constituting therefore, to all intents
and purposes, a local iiislituUuii.
The Ghost that Walked.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS very ill with an inflamed lung, and through
most of tHk slow night I lay awake and wondered
if there was ever going to be daylight again as
long as the world endured. In between times I
dozed for a minute or two and dreamed that I
was dead.
It was always the same dream. I had it on an
average 40 times each night, until I took to
opiates, and even then T slept with a vague con-
sciousness that the dream was somewhere about
and might break through the opiate at any
moment. I think I had that vision about 200
times all told, and it never varied in one par-
ticular.
I had just died and was standing at the edge of
a round pit which seemed to go down to the
bottom of infinity. A pleasant, soft light rose
from somewhere in the endless Below. It was
the only light thereabouts ; everything else was a
plain of some inky black substance, adorned only
by a very faint, greenish twilight, that came from
nowhere in particular. A smooth spiral pathway
led down into the excavation, and I started down-
wards. There was no compulsion of any kind, no
argument, no person with a tail or a pitchfork-
nothing. I started down simply because it never
seemed to occur to me not to start down. In some
shapeless fashion or other I was aware that if it
did occur to me not to go down I could stay where
I was or go somewhere else, yet, at the same time,
I seemed to know that it wasn’t going to occur to
me. So I went.
Then the centuries rolled on and I was still
going down. I never grew tired. I never met
anyone. There wasn’t a sound or a whisper, or
the faintest suggestion of an echo in all that
descent. The light still kept ahead, and all the
time I knew I was at perfect liberty to go back to
the top if I wanted to. Also, I knew that I
didn’t want to, and never would want to, and that
I never would take the slightest interest in the
matter.
The spiral track ended at last, after an aeon or
two, in a passage. That also sloped gently down-
wards ; it was about ten feet high and the same
broad, and about 1000 miles long, lined every-
where with brown, polished wood, and with the
same light at the further end of it. When I
arrived at the end another passage struck off at
right-angles; it also sloped gently downwards and
had a light at the end of it, and it was the exact
duplicate of the first one. And millions more
exactly similar passages followed.
I walked steadily on at the same pace. In all
the millions of years I had been walking I had
never met anybody, and I knew somehow that
in all the boundless futurity I never would meet
anybody. I never heard anything, either, and I
was perfectly well aware that I never would hear
anything. I knew that I was going nowhere
except to more passages, each one just the same
as the last, and just the same as the next. I was
aware, somehow or other, that the ghost who had
died before me was walking along at exactly the
same steady pace as myself in some other passage
millions of miles ahead, and that the ghost who
had died just after me was doing his ceaseless
tramp millions of miles behind, and that the
ghost which had died after him was on the spiral
staircase, and would get to the first passage by-
and-bye. I knew, also, that the ghost behind
would never catch up to me so that we might be
two ghosts together and keep each other company,
and I knew equally well that I would never catch
up to the ghost in front, but neither fact troubled
me to any extent. Also, T knew that we would
all walk like this for all Eternity, and that fact
also failed to interest me. So I went on walking,
and the silence continued in full blast, and the
light at the end of the passage was always ahead,
and whether there was a similar light behind me I
didn’t know, for I never looked back. I could
have looked back if it had occurred to me to do so,
but it never did.
» * • •
Since then I have been hunting up other people
who habitually dream about the place above men-
tioned, and have made the acquaintance of two.
One is accountant in a bank, and every half-year,
when they are cooking the balance-sheet, he
dreams about that place every night.
His idea is that he is out on a stupendous plain.
The earth underfoot is black and perfectly smooth.
The sky above is greenish-black, but a red light
appears on the horizon far ahead. He walks
steadily towards it—he and millions of other
ghosts—but they never get any nearer, though
months and years and centuries go by. None of
them speak to each other. Their fleshless feet
make not the slightest sound. There is no wind,
no change in the black ground or the greenish-
black sky, no noise, no variation of any kind—
nothing but long ranks of ghosts that extend
out of sight on either hand, and ranks in
front as far as the eye can reach, and ranks
behind of which there is no end, all keeping
pace in the same absolutely invariable goose-step
towards the red light that never comes any nearer.
He also knows that he is never going to get there,
yet never going to stop going there, but he doesn’t
mind.
* * * »
The other dreamer I have met is a girl of 22.
She took to dreaming of Gehenna when she was
studying logarithms at a ladies’ college, and she
had to give up logarithms to get rid of the vision.
Then it took to coming on her again when she was
trying to raise x to its ninth power, or something,
and she had to give up that also. Now she only
has the vision occasionally.
The Gehenna she gets to in the night, when her
glossy brown head is troubled on her pillow, is a
straight road running gently downhill. It is
black underfoot as if it was made of coal-dust
rolled hard. There is a high bank, also appar-
ently of coal-dust, on each side ; she never goes
up this bank to see what lies beyond, for the idea
never occurs to her. There are no trees, no houses,
no curves in the road, no grass or herbs ;
nothing but a straight black streak going gently
downhill over the face of a black globe, with a
glimmer of twilight overhead, and along this road
she walks at a steady pace continuously. She
never overtakes anybody, and no one ever over-
takes her, but she has a faint perception that
there is some one an illimitable distance in front,
if she could only catch him up—which she never
does. She is dressed in black, to be in keeping
with the rest of the scenery, and every now and
then, at long intervals, she drifts past a milestone
which says it is forty million billion miles to some-
where. She can never stop long enough to see
where it is that distance to, but she is troubled
with an inward conviction that if she can get to
some place, the name of which she doesn’t know,
she will be saved and at rest, and she badly wants
to find out the name of the place on the mile-
stone, m the hope that it will look as if
it might be the sairie name as the place
she wants to get to. Only she never can
stop long enough to find it out. There is nobody
urging her oil, and no compulsion of any kind
and no.reason at all why she shouldn’t stop when
she wants to. But when she gets to the next
milestone she goes past it all the same. Also she
is troubled with an idea that there is only one
milestone all the time, and that she is walking
round and round a little black globe and passing
it continuously, and getting no further forward
Putting these three visions together, I have
come to the conclusion that the Lost have a lot 0 f
hard walking to do in the next world.
TITUS SALT.
Love and Fate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Singing of Love a man went forth,
East and westward, and south and north :
Singing of Love with a wondrous art,
Singing of Love with a wistful heart;
Of Love, the greatest of all things, worth
The stress of life to the sons of earth.
Thus he sang : “1 or the heart forlorn
Everywhere is a woman born ;
Everywhere in the tangled maze
Fate is guiding the heart that strays
Everywhere upon land and sea ;
And no one knows when the hour shall be —
The hour when his heart shall rise and say
The gods be praised for this gracious day.”
Thus he sang “ Wherever she be,
Somewhere a woman waits for me ;
“Somewhere a woman guards, I know,
The bud in her breast that Love shall blow;
“ And no man’s love in the world but mine
Shall kindle the light in her eyes divine.
“Yonder sun in the sky so fair
Glints to-day on her golden hair ;
‘‘ Brings the sheen of it here to me,
And no one knows when the hour shall be.”
Many a heart, as a waking bird,
Leaped to life at the singer’s word ;
Many a heart, as it paused to hear,
Deemed in its joy its time was near ;
Many a heart, as it heard his song,
Cried, “ Alas ! but the time is long ; ”
And many a heart that had gone astray
Cried to itself in its anguish, “ Nay ! ”
But Fate, as she heard them, cried, “ O ye !
There can none of you say when the hour shall be.
Singing of Love, of Love sublime,
A man went out in the face of Time ;
And many a maid with a wistful eye
Heard him singing and loitered nigh.
One had the mould of her ; one the grace ;
And one a tint of her faultless face ;
One the eyes of her had, and one
The golden hair where the sunlight shone ;
And this and that one a phase of her caught,
But never a one was the one he sought
As he sang: “ She waits for me, waits for me,
And no one knows when the hour shall be.”
Singing of Love, of Love unfound,
The man wen on and the years went round,
Till the ardent flush from his veins had fled
And Time had mantled his unbent head —
Time that changes the golden hue—
But ever his song to his theme was true ;
Never a falter and ever so brave,
On and on to the silent grave,
Singinv, “For her my heart is free,
And no one knows when the hour shall be ! ”
Love is ever a golden snare
Fate has set for us everywhere.
Love is a fever, a fume and a fret,
A joy for ever by care beset ;
Love is bitter with ruth and rue,
And the dream alone is the one thing true.
FRABCUS JEBBA
Every time a machine-canvasser in the
City of Sin, Sweat and Sorrow called for an in-
stalment upon a machine let-out on time-pay-
ment, the answer, by a 7-year-old daughter of the
house, was, “Mother’s out.” This went on until
one morning when the collector had called very
early. Getting the usual reply, he asked, “ When
will she be home?” “I don’t know, she’s gone
away in the train.” “What train did she go by ? ”
The youngster hesitated for a moment, and then
called out, “ Mother, what train did you go by I’’
“ The best-’earted man as ever I touched,’
said a fine old crusted specimen of a bushwhacker,
“ was Jedge Fellowes, of Melbourne. He ’ad a
’eart as felt for another, ’ad the Jedge. When
you was clean busted and wanted to clear outer
town, why you’d go and seethe Jedge. And you d
say, ’umble like, ‘Yer Honor,’and he’d look up.
And then in’d go his ’and inter his trouser-pocket,
and out’d come a coin. First that come—gold or
silver. Generally gold. And he’d chuck it at yer
and say, ‘ There y’are. Be off and get sober .
And you’d turn away sorrowful like. By the
time you’d open the door he’d call yer back. And
he’d chuck yer another arf-sovering, and he’d say,
‘ There y’are. Get sober ! Always that way.
You might a’most ha’ thought he’d been through
the mill hisself, he knew that much. Great loss
to the boys was Jedge Fellowes. Can’t touch
Madden, or ’Ood, or ’Odges. They’re all too
(blessed) moral.” And the old chap mopped up his
pint and sighed.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which n
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they wl “
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also o
buyer of all other Australian gems.*


Special Advertisements.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSI- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous*
Does Not Stain Linen.
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The
SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Liverpool a pel Lopdop
6lobe lpS6rapc€ Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
andoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummins Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Hbnry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
I ROYAL testimonial.
I ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
Cjii S
'KW‘
4iCuVi ;
OiAjLAA****
9 flvwcvJ‘U'{^ULfuo
‘fojL -ijuxoi
j|aw —
&XsJ£ jwC
&
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Protnoies Growth, and is the <
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfeclly(
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be*
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the.
Hair, i-, 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdresser-, Stores. &c. (
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO,, LTD,, (
16, Bevis Marks, London, England. (
SUN HATS & HELMETS
i’REE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOTJNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
MR. F. TRESCOTT, of ALIOE-ST., NEWTOWN
near Sydney, who SUFFERED from SEVERE
INDIGESTION, writes
“Two doses of Loasby’s Wahoo relieved me, and by the
time I had taken half a bottle I was entirely free
from pain, and have been well ever since.”
Loasby’s ‘ WAHOO,”
2s. 6d. Everywhere; Post Free from
Loasby’s ‘Wahoo’ Manufacturing 1 Co. Ld.
171 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
Two Souls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN
Two Souls before the Great Tribunal stood,
And both, in different ways, were passing good.
One Soul had in a parson’s body dwelt,
The other in a form that ne’er had knelt.
The Parson’s Soul began aloud to cry
“ On prayer, not works, O Lord, I did rely !
Por well I knew that works, however good,
Were snares to lure from Thy Beatitude.
This other, here—whereof I make complaint—
Put faith in works, and is a self-made saint.”
Then said the Lord—“ O, vapour of a clod !
I, thy Creator, am a self-made God ! ”
“ Ho, Satan ! ” Satan came: His smile was grim—
“ Canst thou find any use, or place, for him ? ”
The Fiend replied reproachfully, “Alas !
Lord, dost Thou think I can run Hell on gas ? ”
Melb. : “A policeman saw a ragged old
woman pick up something. ‘Hi ! Show me what
you’ve got. Hullo ! what’s this ? Only bits of
broken glass ! ’ ‘ Please, sir, I was afraid it might
cut the bare feet of some poor child.’ ”
An Old Miner : “ Oornishmen are credited
with being very pious and very fond of ‘ making
a bit extra when working* in a gold-mine. I was
once working in a W. A. mine and used to go into
the main level for crib or after firing. On going
into the level one day a few minutes before crib I
came on an old Cousin (Tack, who was vcvy reli*
gious, sitting on a heap of quartz which he had
just broken. He did not notice me and sat there
searching the heap—for extras, no doubt - while
singing a hymn which was the most appropriate
thing I ever heard. The hymn was ‘Do not pass
me by. Don t know if he got any extras that
time, but thereafter it wasn’t safe to sing that
hymn in his presence.
Constable o9B|x (lately married) was on
duty in the small hours of a cold winter’s morning,
and as his beat extended to within a couple of
hundred yards of the little house wherein his
young wife reposed, the vigilant officer mused :
Two minutes there; two minutes back. Be
jabers ! 111 do it! ” A pebble against the upper
window brought a response; the bride was evi-
dently a light sleeper. “Throw down me over-
coat, Kitty ; its cowld outside.” When relief
time came, and constable 398. U (lately married)
stepped into the well-lighted barrack-room, he
was hailed with vociferous congratulations by his
comrades. He was wearing his superior officer’
great coat.
Scene, smoking-carriage in the last subur-
ban train. Kilter a “Johnny” considerably
elevated, who takes one corner; the other
is presently filled by a workman still more
refreshed. No. 1, who is “ dignifiedly ” drunk,
stiikes match after match trying to light ail evi-
dently empty pipe, to the great amusement of the
other passengers excepting No. 2, whom it
annoys. At last No. 2, unable to contain himself
longer, pulls out his tobacco and flings it across to
the other, saying : “ ’Ere, poo ’sum ’bacca in it! ”
JNo. 1 drawing himself up with tremendous dignity
and handing back the tobacco; “ I don’t wan’cher
t’bacco, thank you, sir. This ish a—hie—shentle-
man.s pipe.” No. 2 (not a bit annoyed, but dis-
playing a keen friendly interest) : “ Ish it! Oo
giv it to yer ? ’’
A Brunswick (Vic.) man was charged, a
few days ago, with knocking his wife down, and
then getting a good hold |of her by the inside of
the mouth and gaily dragging her round till a
number of her teeth came out. He acknowledged
the assault, but pleaded in mitigation that “her
teeth are the kind that come out easily, yer wor-
ship.” Then the wife made the court sit up with
a shudder by producing the missing teeth out of a
handkerchief so that she might demonstrate that
they were not of the loose description, and
accused was hurriedly fined £o. If the lady
hadn’t insisted on producing her teeth, and there-
by judiciously upset the court’s stomach on a hot
day, when the court’s stomach was not in the best
of order, anyhow, he would probably have got off
with 20s. When the day is hot, and the atmos-
phere close, and the bench looks yellow and
pimpled, a sudden shock to its bilious system
makes the wheels of justice go round amazinsrlv
fast. J
“I live at Geelong; lam tired of life,”
was the written explanation left behind him by a
recent Victorian suicide. Then he went and
burst up the eternal fitness of things, for, instead
laudanum and dreaming himself to
ftsra;^ which ** i" itB
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
.pimples,'blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin, —Had some delicious
steak at my lodgings in Boulogne-sur-mer, the
other day. Afterwards I learned that it came
from the Boucherie Ghevaline, 51 or horse-
butcher s. As an Australian I felt all the disgust
of an unwilling cannibal. For an Australian who
would eat horse would eat his own brother. (It
was very nice steak, all the same). — Cornstalk.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
The mot of Captain Boulard, of the Poly-
nesien, would serve very well as the mot d'ordre
of the Messageries Ma ri times S.S. Co. Said
Capt. Boulard : “Ours is a service de luxe ; the
English companies’ is a serviceof commerce.” To
go to Europe by a Messageries steamer is to go
like a prince, while the charges might almost be
said to be moderate enough to suit the pocket of a
peasant. The luxurious breakfasts, in particular,
cooked and served as only the French can serve
them, live in one’s memory like a first
kiss, administered on the right spot, at
the right time, by the right person in the right
way. The steamers which run to Australia form
only a small part of the co.s’fleet of (34 vessels, but
they are among the best representatives of that
fleet, and are in the first rank for speed, safety,
and elegance of accommodation. As the co. carries
to and from Australia very many English-speak-
ing passengers, their wants and habits are particu-
larly studied ; and English is spoken on board
each vessel by all the officials with whom a pas-
senger comes in contact, from the stewards to the
captains. The arrangements for transit to Eng-
land via Marseilles are perfect, and passengers
avoid the rough weather often met in the Bay of
Biscay. The head office of the Messageries Mari-
times Co. in Australia is at Queen’s Corner, Pitt-
street, Sydney, where M. Blanc, principal agent,
superintends a courteous staff from whom it is a
pleasure to make enquiries.*
Kuppers Elberfeld Lag*
“lIIIH
Ml
t
m
m
a
m
\S
A
ifUlllllllll.lt
m
nnniil.llr!
Ml if
H'i
iiiir*
.•it
hi;,/
,07
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OP—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
‘ * - LIKE CHAMPAGNE,
W. BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
FRANZ JOSEF
FIXjSEKTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
r
ORIENT
CLOTNIN6
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s,
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
/ Opposite\
V 0.P.0. )
JOKES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CaledonianLiqueur Whisky
J. H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Pbotograpl}ic Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pocket Kodak, price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Ha PPy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that hamed Article—
A. Soyer’s Bakiog Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/(5.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low llates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoi? N.SoOI ficCo.,M’sP.s. f
158-, 160, and. 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Ch.urch.-street, Parramatta.
AND AT


TELEPHONE 101 L
ESTABLISHED 1854.
T. CRAINE,
• - Carriage Manufacturer - •
Prince’s Bridge, Bright Street and City Road, Melbourne.
i
/
/r
T
INE
INCES
mo
Don’t waste your time and money on CHEAP and NASTY VEHICLES. They are always
the dearest, as you never get STYLE, FINISH, or QUALITY. Write for Price List and Catalogue.
I DEFY COMPETITION FOR QUALITY!
iBHB
CHRIST* PRCSEDTS . .
, —FOR J
■ . BOYS or GIRLS.
Magic Lanterns, Steam Working Models,
ETC., ETC.
Magic Lantern, No. 1, 6 slides, showing 30 views, 1/6.
No. 2, 12 slides, 50 views, 2/6. . No. 3, 12 slides, 50 views, 3/6.
No. 6,12 slides, 50 views, 6/6 (each number increasing in size, and up
to 55/-). Also, great variety of others (all slides colored).
Working Steam Models, as shown .. 3/. to 27/6.
Working Model Steam Boats, from 4/6 to 16/.
Locomotives, 8/6, 12/6, 15/-, 18/-
Send for Circular. Postal Payments.
Victoria Lanterns, No. 1,6 d.; others, 9d. Other Colonies, Nos 1& 2
9d.; others, 1/3.
Steam Models, 1/- upwards.
VICTORIAN STAMPS ONLY or Postal Notes.
J. & A. BOYES,lronmongers,
241-3 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(opposite Wallach’s).
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Cotton.
A Marvellous Cure for all Affections of the Eyes.
John Ltnoh, Belvider«, BriJ§ane, writing on Nov. 8, ’97, says Will you kindlv
forward one bottle of your Eye Lotion. I have .suffered with bad eyes for the last three we” ks
h ive had two doctors but they have made them worse. A friend of mine who used your
Lotion with success asked me to try it.” "° lll
A bottle of Ross’s Celebrated Eye Lotion was immediately sent, and the follow
mg reply received on November 15: - y ’ ionon-
T , , “ Mr. Rose,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your wonderful Eye Lotion
Gtold™ Eye 6!Ken?” h “ *“ k ™ all pain away. Also, send , bp. of yout
Always ask for “Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.”
(NOT EOR ROSE EYE LOTION.) °
Beware of Worthless Imitations.
Sale Manufacturer: H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
(Honey is Always Useful!
If you have any money due to you which you are unabi
to recover, send full particulars and instructions withouz
delay to NoldsWortl) & Co., the leading Debt
.Recovery firm in the Colonies.
Offices : Corner Collins and Swanston Streets,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Hgedsuibkth 8 CO.
Command the confidence of Thousands of leading pro-
fessional men, business people, Government, Municipa-
lities and Public Institutions in Australasia and
abroad .
Offices : Corner Collins and Swanston
Oebt Recovery a Specialty.
MELBOURNE,
Streets,
VICTORIA.
The oldest established Debt Recovery firm in Australia
is the well-known firm of HoldSWortfc & Co who
employ a small army of trained assistants, and have agents
in all parts of the world. Send your instructions to the
Head Office : Corner Collins and Swanston Streets,
Cable address—“Rabenstein” (Reuter’s). MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Ogden s’
Guinea
a©-*
per
cket
tow
I
m
M
,r . >/
■
fa.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH—connected with Sydney Exchange .
Tlie Lick: House Hotel 99
' istant from Sydney, 30 minute. LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH, On the Banks of Botany Bay
fOFTY RFDRnn^ - • h T t HE F f VORITE HEALTH RESORT. ...
LOFTY BEDROOMS, and Luxunously READING ROOMS, BILLIARD
eta,^S®ity. nn Si” 7luh Wc ? din » Rreakfasts and Private Dinners,
*s^s^
Terms: From US/- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
HOUSE HOTEL,” or 16 York Street, Sydney.
WKITfc DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depot. 484 Ceorge-street, Sydney lor uhotos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg francs. You mayobtatethe verflatestol
& pi I ns Ca a?e n e e at e ra Shnnic '
long and plated. AH
baas wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, henco
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTO., SYDNEY
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
nammer -snanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octa vea.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hamburg Pianos can
be nad in walnut oi
ebony, with or without
rmsTO'Thf, 1 * 51 ' 11 and I ,atir ? c - Renaissance candelabra. The touches easyfehlstm, Tnd
, n the middle ™t° ne ssess^ s a sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
"stafnine andTv P > SS - : a , clear -’ bell e Sw “tness the treble. ’Singe™ find*the timbre
freight to »t „ e el! T S to th 6 volee - J We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
chafers will' ll V iP’. "? su r a '? ce ' and . du ty- Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
eobnies ch ,rch»c > ed ’ lnclud,n & ™" n ent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors ol
st^rs;sn^inras;r^v^,s ,!^ l r iuil,on * * co - ltd - 481 <*>«*•
j\u - ncj6j -
WE dfe t customers that by buying from us"
Itctter-linished Art rtSVJttf CSiS?,„ES
•?SklNG T STICK FT “‘’-S-h boards, £ll.
* *23® = KffiSS ■SSSMU&u.
SEAT SUi A £ T I s - ? ur S P ecial 3 SPRING STICK
1786 d. DOUBLB BCOfTES l J: baal v f,s a " d ,am P«- £8
£2l ABBOTT TR A V»nn?, , ,L"o lud . lnK break and lanl P 8 *
including ri IUGGiILS 1 UGGiILS - tnnimed in real leather,
±2 «- ladies- park
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices - _
„ A _ NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
N.s.w. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN Svdn
end for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney!
VI


A Valued Gift
for
Christmas. . .
Red
81.
Rum
Ryg,
OE
Ben
Bl
CYCLE.
¥
..,V"
■
,
X
r?
Tc
iw.. Team
}
mm
WMSVtC:
&.***-sfflfflWTCT ? *^w!! ,n,, ’
RAN T’p
m
A
Red
Bird,
Ruby
Rim,
OB
Black
Bird
CYCLES
Never grow
weary.
There is no
road too
rough . . .
No journey
too long . . .
- Y
Manufactured, Sold,
and Guaranteed by
Factories :
BRANTFORD, CANADA.
A. Few of tlie American Red. Bird Team,
They are all CHAMPIONS, who ride the wheel with the Crimson Finish.
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHS
6 4 K 1 1ST Gr ST RBE T, SYDKT E Y.
Sales Depots:
245 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Wellington, New Zealand.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
MEPHAN FERGUSON
EUNT GINEEK., &c.,
MELBOURNE, PERTH, and LONDON.
Boilers, Pumps,
Tanks,
Pluming,
Earth Scoops,
Carbonic Acid Gas
Rabbit
Exterminators,
Cream Separators,
Castings,
Forgings, and
Contractors’ Iron-
work of
all Descriptions.
W&L*
mxm
ss®cSsBl
sail
mmmm
mmm
■-■■ v, ■:
" W ■'' PIPE ■4 :
, Victor^
***, 5-S
rnmmm
• -
ptiiii
SaSh >mM
O
s£,*/** >;•;
B£s^f&. *
sm
SOLE AGENT in
Australia
for
J. & E. Hall’s
Patent
Carbonic Anhydride
Refrigerating
and
ICE-MAKING
MACHINERY.
Manufacturer of Spiral or Straight Riveted Wrought Iron & Steel Pipes
FOR WATER SUPPLY, MININS, &c.
Gordon Street, FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.


£
M
n
m
%
ALL CHEMISTS, and from MANUFACTURER,
Why are the preparations manufactured by E. HOLLAND c •v .
in greater demand than all other preparations for Speciallst ’ su P en °r to and
color to the hair? Because they are tfieresult of a pr ° mo^ n S the growth and restoring the
ence —of all the diseases of the hah and what is Pledge-twenty years’ experi-
preparations are „,ant,fneh,red by Quacks and are hrtQSdtfeJ?"*” *”
A gentleman, m writimr. sav-s : “ r T , . nostrums.
now
tried most thine
mentioned without any result.
A few months- *?P ul ileau . ana to my Knowledge
mu must forgive me. i to your
restorer a trial.
r nf VcONNOR^K Ke ™^ rise on
ot hair. P. J. CONNORS, Lsq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20th Se
y , _ uvgtvcyuui
j j , 1 ® see niy friend attain until a* few
iBQ7 irade not Wlth a bald head » but * full » head
Sept., 1897.
‘he Perfection of Color Restorers.
rt TZ o^iniisrj*»a«»-
tio " AnomerVf ™ 6d^^a^ofijhS?Sen &S °~ Y ° Ur Naturaline is tru D a wonderful prepara-
restorers arid ' °'' r Nal,lrlme acts hke magic on the hair, and contains none of the disagreeableness of other
Diseases 'trerte^sucSSly!' ' per bottl'e h"* £ orn . municate with me. All Parasitical
200,, 10, 6d. ; 240,, 12s. (id. ‘ **’ fc ‘
NATURALINE, ss. 6d. per large bottle, with 6d. extra for postage.
e.
S'
c/7
<p
/><
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 Collins Street (opposite Athenaeum), Melbourne, Victoria.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS
ARTISTIC DESIGNS IN LANDSCAPES, MARINE VIEWS, FLORAL, FIGURES,
&c.
University Packet:
50 Cards, Is. Post free, Is. 4d.
The Special Packet:
100 Cards, Is. Post free, Is. 4d.
The Australia Packet:
Aatipoaean : 86 °" d8 ' !»•
25 Cards, la. Post free, Is. 4d.
Atalanta :
12 Choice Cards, 3d. Post free, sd.
The Federal Packet:
24 Cards, 6d. Post free, 9d.
The Waratah Packet :
18 Special Cards, 2s. Post free, 2s. 3d.
The Holly Packet:
18 Special Choice Cards, Is. 6d.
Post free, Is. 9d.
The Sydneian Packet:
12 Choice Cards, la. Post free, Is. 3d.
The Wattle Packet:
The Actinotus Packet:
25 Selected Cards, 2s. 6d
.extra Uards, ss.
Post free, 2s. 9d.
Customers wtshln 9 Special Selections, please state number of Cards and value required.
SPECIAL REDUCTION FOR LARGE ORDERS.
Geo.
&
00.
AUSTRALIAN EMU SERIES.
L. FORT DENISON
2. SYDNEY HEADS
3. THE EMU HUNT
4. ON THE WALLABY
6. KATOOMBA FALLS
6. THE BUCK JUMPER
7. BUSHMAN’S FRIEND
8. ABORIGINALS’ CAMP
9. AN ARTESIAN SPRAY
10. THE KANGAROO HUNT
11. ROUNDING-UP A STRAY
12. THE BUSHMAN’S CAMP.
13. HOME OP THE KANGAROO.
14. THE LYRE-BIRD’S RETREAT.
15. AUSTRALIAN BUSH FAVORITES.
16. SYDNEY HEADS BY MOONLIGHT.
a
The Antipodean/’ Essik “ r ( “ Banj0 ” ) and GEORGE
Australia ; with Photos, by Glentaggart Bogle Austalianaborur.W? Iff 6 /’ A Gulf Id A *7 George vans OnlheDWidin^^- h ° ny « + Th «f by Edward Dyson ; with
and Mtu.rs , w,„, illustrations. The Cry o t the Curlew ,A Poen/by B. o 5&? “oSity aSSL** l£iS£
~ ‘ Kn uu e vain ope, by A. B. Paterson (“ Banjo.”)
CRTTSB: 20 TONS
i
per WEEK.)
Ropp Furnace
Huntington Mill
Frue Concentrator
Dodge Rockbreaker
Challenge Ore Feeder
Roger Rolls
Ingersoll Compressor
Ingersoll Rock Drill
Knowles Pump
Nagle Engine
Westinghouse Engine
Columbia Boiler
Pennsylvania Boiler
Oates Rockbreaker
Baker Blower
Roots Blower
CONSISTING OF
Oster Die Stock
Gardner Governor
Dodge Wood Split Pulley
Day & Hunter Water Heater
Buffalo Blower
Buffalo Exhaust Fan
Buffalo Forge
Huyett & Smith Blower
Sturtevant Blower
Erie Centrifugal Pump
Jack Head Pump
Electroplated Copper Plates
Wire Cloth and Screens
Pen her thy Injectors
Retorts and Bullion Moulds
All Supplies.
3- “PROSPECTOR” Battery (2851 b. stamps),
with Amalgamating Table and Plates " ''
4- TertW B«ine c Upright Mtitubdar Boiler, with all ftttag. and connectiom.
DOUBLE-ACTING PUMP, BELTING. PULLEYS TOOLS, & c
The Manager PARKE & LACY CO., LTD., Clarence Street, Wlxa ' t Watt says :
pm,—i heg to offer my unsolicited testimony to the merits of vmirUroo «.. B , T
battery. Two of ns, working 12 hours each keen the batterv 7 - U or fine-escapes on to the plates OneTnTn X, 1 d - 18 t ? nS of . fair h hard quartz per week,
working batteries, I must say that I have never seen anybattery- lari eft da T’ and dve of uak / e l> the mine and battery going, and make a c/ear profit ofatoutl 100 and J eed . and attend to the
k „o,„, for on ly «!, *. ~d o, „ob an appliance can «A S SfcSMffiS
1 h^^ le h ° nor to be ’ yours, etc., EDWIN 0. WATT, Crow Mountain, Barraba, N.S.W.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD., 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY


The Jolly Dead March.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
If I ever be worthy or famous—
Which I’m sadly beginning to doubt—
When the angel whose place ’tis to name us
Shall say to my spirit, “ Pass out! ”
I wish for no sniveling about tne
(My work was the work of the land),
But I hope that my country will shout me
The price of a decent brass band.
Thump ! thump ! of the drum and “ Ta-ra-rit,”
Thump ! thump ! and the music—it’s grand,
If only iu dreams, or in spirit,
To ride or march after the band !
Ahd myself and my mourners go straying,
And strolling and drifting along
With a band in the front of us playing
The tune of an old battle song !
I ask for no “ turn-out ” to bear me ;
I ask hot for railings or slabs,
Ahd spare me ! my country —oh, spare me !
The hearse ahd the long string of cabs !
I ask hot the baton or “ starts ” of
The bore with the musical ear,
But the music that’s blowh from the hearts of
The meh who work hard and drink beet.
Ahd let ’em strike up “ Ahnie Laurie,”
Ahd let them burst out with “ Lang Syne”—
Twih voices bf sadnCss and glory.
That have ever beeh likings of minC.
And give the French war-hymn deep-throated,
The Watch of the Germans between,
And let the last mile be devoted
To “ Britannia ” and “Wearing the Green.”
And if, in the end—more’s the pity—
There is fame more than money to spare—
There’s a vah-mah I know ih the city
Who’ll cohvey me, right side up with care.
True sohs of Australia, and noble,
Have gone from the lohg dusty way.
While the sole mourner fought down his trouble
With his pipe Oh the shaft of the dray.
But let them Strike up “ Annie Laurie,” &c.
Ahd my Spirit will join the procession—
Will pause, if it may, oh the brink—
Nor feel the least shade of depression
Wlioh the mourners drop out for a drink ;
tt hray be a hot day iii December,
Or a Cold day in Juhe it may be,
And the drink Will but help them remember
The good points the world missed ih me.
Ahd help ’em to love “ Annie Laurie,”
Ahd help ’ein to raise “ AuldLahg Syne,”&c.
“ tjhhook the West Pott ” for ah orphan,
Ah Old digger chorus revive—
If you don’t heat a whoop from the coffin,
t am not being buried alive.
But I’ll go with a spirit less bitter
Than mine own on the earth may have been,
And, perhaps, to save trouble, Saint Peter
Will pass me, two comrades between.
And let them strike up “ Annie Laurie,’*
And let ’em burst out with “ Lang Syne,
Twin voices of sadness and glory
That have ever been likings of mine.
Let them swell the French war - hymn deep-
throated,
(And I’ll not buck at “ God Save the Queen ”)
But let the last mile be devoted
To “ Britannia ” and “ Wearing the Green.”
Thump / Thump / of the drums we inherit —
War-drums of my dreams ! Oh it’s grand
If only in fancy or spirit
To ride or march after a band!
And we, the World-Battlers, go straying
And loving and laughing along—
With Hope ih the lead of Us playing
The tune of a life-battle soUg !
M.L., Sept., ’97.
HENRY LAWSON.
The latest M.L. suicide was fished out of
of Auckland harbour the other day with a 1001 b.
grindstone tied round his waist. As a substantial
precaution against failure and a guarantee that
the suicide won’t get a chance to change his mind,
there are points about a 1001 b. grindstone.
The mechanomaniaC is a type of aberrant
tv ho appears to have escaped the observation of
Lombroso and the rest. In Melb. is a man who
has for a great part of a lifetime been collecting
machines for which he has no earthly use. He
contracted the craze about 20 years ago, the first
money he was able to spare being expended on a
portable engine. He had no use for the thing,
but he had fallen in love with its seductive valves
and fascinating eccentrics, and had it established
in the drawing-room, the furniture of which had
to be shifted to the scullery to make room. The
hext acquisition Was att old'mining battery, which
took up all the back-yard, ahd necessitated the
Washing being hung out on the front verandah.
After that all sorts of obsolete and useless pieces
of machinery continued to arrive, and the man
began to neglect his business to attend auctions
Where such things were sold. Then wife and
children got gradually shabby and ragged and
miserable, till at last the baker’s bills had to be
paid out of the pawning of the household furni-
ture, for the machine-crank never dreamt of
spending his earnings on anything less im-
portant than a force-pump or a screw-cutter.
In the end, he Was arrested for embezzlement of a
lot of money, with which lie had treated himself
to a marine engine and ah old locomotive, and
was sent up for a term of years, during which his
family had to subsist mostly oh charity, for the
sale of the Collection returned but a few pounds
for old iron. But ho sooner was the man released
than he rushed off to a second-hand shop with the
few shillings given him by the Prisoners’ Aid
Society, and bought a couple of cog-wheels, which
Were found in his pockets the following day, when
he was caught stealing a hand-blower from the
doorway of a shop, for which —poor madman !—he
was sent to gaol for another six months.
The Strange Occurrence on
Huckey’s Creek.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The heat haze hung like a mist over the plain.
Everything seen through it appeared to palpitate
and quiver, although not a breath of air was
stirring. The three men, sitting under the iron-
roofed verandah of the little roadside inn, at which
they had halted and turned out their horses for a
mid-day spell, were drenched with perspiration
and tormented to the verge of insanity by flies.
The horses, finding it too hot to keep up even the
pretence of eating, had sought what shade they
could find, and stood there in pairs, head to tail.
“ Blessed if there isn’t a looney of some kind
coming across the plain,” said one of the men sud-
denly.
The others looked, and could make out that an
object was coming along the road that led across
the open, but the quivering of the atmosphere pre-
vented them distinguishing the figure properly
until within half-a-mile of the place.
“ Hanged if I don’t believe it’s a woman ! ” said
the man who had first spoken (Tom Devlin).
“ It is so,” said the other two, after a pause.
Devlin walked to where the water-bags had
been hung up to cool, and, taking one down, went
out into the glaring sunshine to meet the ap-
proaching figure.
It was a woman. Weary, worn-out, and hold-
ing in her hand a dry and empty water-bag.
Although only middle-aged, she had that tanned
and weather-beaten appearance that all women
get, sooner or later, in North Queensland.
With a sigh of gratitude she took the water-bag
from Tom’s hand and put the bottle-mouth to her
lips, bush fashion. There is no more satisfactory
drink in the world for a thirsty person than that
to be obtained straight from the nozzle of a water-
bag.
Tom regarded the woman pityingly. She was
dressed in common print and coarse straw hat, and
looked like the wife of a teamster.
“ Where have you come from, missus, and what
brought you here ? ”
“ We were camped on Huckey’s Creek, and my
husband died last night. I couldn’t find the horses
this morning, so I started back here.”
“ Eifteen miles from here,” said Devlin. “We
are going to camp there to-night, and will see after
it. You come in and rest.”
He took her back to the- little inn, where she
could get something to eat and a room to lie
down in. Then they caught their horses and
started, promising to look up the strayed animals
and attend to everything, according to the direc-
tions the woman gave- them.
The three men arrived at Huckey’s Creek about
an hour before sundown. They examined the
place thoroughly, but neither dray, horses, nor
anything else was visible. The marks of a camp
and the tracks bore out the woman’s story, but
that was all.
“ Deuced strange ! ” said Devlin. “Somebody
must have come along and shook the things, but
what did they do with the man’s body? They
wouldn’t hawk that about with them.”
“ Here’s the mailman coming,” said one of the
others, as a man coming towards them with a pack-
horse hove in sight.
They awaited his approach, standing dismounted
on the bank of the creek. The mailman’s thirsty
horses plunged their noses deep in the water and
drank greedily.
“ I say, you fellows,” he called out, “ you didn’t
see a woman on foot about anywhere, did you ? ”
“Yes,” replied Tom, “she is back at the
shanty.”
“ Wait till I come up,” said the mailman.
When his horses had finished he rode up the bank
to the others.
“Such a queer go,” he said. “About five or
six miles from here I met a tilted dray with
horses, driven by a man who looked down-right
awful. He pulled up, and so did I. Then he
said, staring straight before him, and not looking
at me, “You didn’t meet a woman on foot, mate,
did you ? ”
“ I told him no, and asked him where he was
going ? ”
“ Oh,” he said, just in the same queer way,
“ I’m going on until I overtake her.”
“ You’d best turn back,” I said. “ It’s 25 miles
to the next water ; and I tell you I’d have been
bound to see her.” He shook his head and drove
on; and you say the woman’s back at the shanty.”
“ Yes ; it’s about the rummest start I ever came
across. The woman turned up at Britten’s to-day,
about one o’clock, on foot, and said that her hus-
band died during the night; that she could not
find the horses, and had come in on foot for help.”
“ I suppose he wasn’t dead, after all, and when
the horses came in to water he harnessed up and
went ahead, looking for his wife, in a dazed, stupid
sort of way. ”
“ I suppose that is it,” said Devlin. “ Are you
going on to Britten’s to-night?” he asked the
mailman.
“ Yes.”
“ You might tell the woman that her husband
has come-to, and started on with the dray. After
we have had a spell, we’ll go after him. He can’t
be far. ”
“ No,” replied the mailman, as lie prepared to
ride off. “He looked like a death’s-head when I
saw him. So-long. ”
The men turned their horses out and had a meal
and a smoke; by this time it was dark, and they
were talking about starting when the noise of
an approaching dray attracted their attention.
“ He’s coming back himself,” said Tom.
The dray crossed the creek and made for the
old camp, where the driver pulled-up and got out.
The full moon had risen, and it was fairly light.
“ Don’t speak,” said Devlin ; “ let us see what
he is going to do.”
The figure unharnessed the horses with much
groaning, and hobbled them, then it took its
blankets out of the dray and spread them under-
neath and lay down.
“ Let’s see if we can do anything for him,” said
Devlin, and they approached.
“ Can we help you, mate ? ” he asked.
There was no answer.
He spoke again. Still silence.
“ Strike a match, Bill,” he said; “ it’s all shadow
under the dray.” Bill did as desired, and Devlin
peered in. He started back.
“ Hell ! ” he cried, “ the man did die when the
woman said. He’s been dead forty-eight hours ! ”
ERNEST FAVENC.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets P.D.
FRENCH P.D. CORSETS
626 s <i
S^Sv
\
m
%
w* %. ■■
# m M'
These Beautiful Corsets are absolutely
WITHOUT RIVAL
in the Trade throughout the World.
Ladies are respectfully requested to beware of imitations ; all
Genuine P.D. Corsets are branded inside on band with the Manu-
facturer’s Trade Mark.
ALL LEADING DRAPERS.
CM
Ki
FOR
A
>
€>
i\
&* 4
\
3%
LA
There are other GOOD BICYCLES, hut NONE so
Easy Riding and Serviceable as the
MASSEY - HARRIS.
Massey [arris (Jo. [td., Toronto, Canada.
ESTABLISHED 1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
BRANCH DEPOTS: 294 Bourke-st., Melbourne; 385 George-st., Sydney;
Queen-st., Brisbane; Crawford-st., Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free on Application.


“The Suffield Case,” a 64 pp. pamphlet
containing the evidence at the police-court and at
the trial in this notorious case, with a commentary
and plan, is now published. Post-free from
Bulletin Office, 7d. in stamps. Proceeds, after
expenses paid, go to help Suffield.
Every man in Australia should read the
record of the Suffield case just published by The
Bulletin in a 64 pp. pamphlet, post-free 7d. in
stamps. The proceeds, after payment of ex-
Eenses, go to the fund for assisting Suffield to have
is case heard at an open public enquiry.
Ask for VELTEN .
/
ME DITERR.A.WBEI
As Supplied to
The Alessagcries Maritime
Company.
LASER B€€
GOOD JILL'S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d. s & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AF HALF THE PRICE.
De.icious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Deli ious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
■ . Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. W.ll give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly tollowed. The proprietors entertain the great s confidence in the ai tide, and canrecom-
tnendit to housekeepers generally as a useftii agent m the preparat on ofa good Cus ird. Giveita trial.
_ , . Proprietors: GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United Typewriter
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Strkkt.
MRLUOURN E— 362 Collins Strbbt.
PERTH—7I Barrack Strkkt.
& Supplies Co.,
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Rkkvbs & Co.
LA UN C ESTO N— II bulky Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 In Use.
Send for particulars of tree Trial.
LONGIdORE’S
UNRIVALLED
CORNx
.= C URE
Well known throughout all Queensland, New
South Wales, West A ustralia, and Victoria .
oxjA.niiL]Nr > rBX3D.
183 Bourke Street East, Melbourne.
3U3HMAH3A3 ONVUS 3NIQVJ^Hi
11111 ill;; j IS
iiin, '""m V J&
.
ÜBS
k.flli.
111111
9
liiiiii.'i'iiiiiilus
.•! i! i j i f 111 m 1111 m 11 h M«1111»*»»»r < • • • •••••■
- ,R-
Fin...
3QVHJ-
§
K
r
'O3 y HJIHOd lH3gQfr


Compagnie Des Messageries Maritimes
■ Ml. French. Mall Steamers. M.M.
RAPID SERVICE TO LONDON, via Colombo, Marseilles, and Paris.
Australia to London in Thirty Days. An Opportunity Offered of Visiting Paris.
STEAMERS :
AUSTRALIEN 6507 tons; POLYNESIEN, 6506 tons; ARMANI) BEHIC, 6537 tons; VILLE DE LA CIOTAT, 6531 tons.
One of the above FAST AND SPLENDID STEAMSHIPS leaves Sydney every Four Weeks.
Rates of Passage Money, £25 to £7O, including Table Wines. Return Tickets, available for Twelve Months, at Reduced Rates.
Accommodation un-
surpassed. Large and
lofty cabins, with berths
of exceptional width.
Electric light throughout. Su-
perior cuisine. Service a spe-
cial feature, carried out on the
plan of the best Continental
Hotels. Table Wines, Sherries,
Marsala, English Ales or Stout
and Cognac are supplied free
at meals to First-class Passen-
gers ; Beer or Claret to Second-
class ; and Claret to Third-
class. Extra Wines, Liquors,
and Spirits can be purchased
on board the steamers at mode-
rate prices. English Stewards
and Stewardesses are carried.
For the convenience of First-
class Breakfast is
served on board, a la carte,
at any time between the hours
of 9 and 11 a.m.
Passengers’ Luggage is con-
veyed free from Marseilles to
London by sea. Passengers,
too, have an advantage that
should be noted : —Their heavy
baggage is available at sea at
any time, on any day. On ar-
rival at Marseilles, through
passengers for London are met
on board by English inter-
preters, who accompany them
to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN
TICKETS, FIRST - CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne,
and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway
Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or Sea.
1
Wtf %%&&*
me&g
THE Australian Public-
who are generally under
the impression that
their native tongue is
not understood on board these
magnificent steamers will
doubtless be gratified to learn
that English Stewards are
carried on all steamers, and
that all officers are acquainted
with the English language.
Many people look at the Over-
land Journey from Marseilles
to London with a sentiment of
dread. They fancy that the
trip by train is tedious, that
their native tongue on foreign
soil may not be spoken or
understood. All this is a great
mistake. The overland jour-
ney from Marseilles to London,
far from beinglong and tedious,
may be accomplished in 20
hours, as compared with the
B days’ sea trip by Gibraltar
and the Bay of Biscay. Again,
the passenger who has no
special reason for hurrying
through the Continent may
leisurely travel over France
during 14 days, for which time
his ticket is available. He is
thus afforded an opportunity
of visiting Paris, about which
city any praise would be almost
out of place. It may also be
advisable to add that, in all
Hotelsof any standing through-
out the Continent, and es-
pecially in Paris, English is
spoken as well as French by all
waiters.
ORDINARY RETURN
TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne,
and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway
Offices, are interchangeable
for Return by Rail or Sea.
Passengers Booked at Through Bates from Queensland, New Zealand, and Tasmania.
TWO BOATS LEAVE SYDNEY TOE, NOUMEA EVERY POUR WEEKS.
ANY FURTHER INFORMATION AS REGARDS THIS ROUTE will be
GIVEN ON APPLICATION TO THE OFFICES OF THE COMPANY—
QUEEN’S CORNER, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
— ici-m-; A
a. ivrr^
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
Registered in accordance with the Life Assurance Acts of Great Britain and of the various Colonies.
VICE-PRESIDENTS :
Sir SAMUEL DAVENPORT, LL.D., K.C.M.G. The Hon. Sir THOMAS McILWRAITH, LL.D., K.C.M.G., M.L.A.
The Hon. JOHN DOUGLAS, C.M.G.
DIR.H3CTOR.S and OFFICERS
NEW SOUTH WALES.
105 Pit*. Street, Sydney.
Directors.
The Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. A. BRUCE SMITH.
A. ROSS MILLER, Secretary.
NEW ZEALAND.
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington.
Directors.
j. B. HARCOURT, Wellington, Chairman.
The Hon. Sir R. STOUT, K.C.M.G., M.H.R., Wellington.
GEORGE BEETHAM, Wellington.
SEYMOUR THORNE GEORGE, Auckland.
The Hon. W. J. M. LARNACH, C.M.G., M.H.R., Dunedin.
The Hon. GEORGE M'LEAN, M.L.C., Dunedin.
The Hon. E. W. PARKER, Christchurch.
ARTHUR E. GIBBS, Secretary.
QUEENSLAND.
43 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Directors.
The Hon. ALBERT NORTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. BOYD D. MOREHEAD, M.L.A.
The Hon. WALTER HORATIO WILSON, M.L.O.
JOHN SCOTT.
The Hon. WILLIAM APLIN, M.L.C.
GEO. A. K. DARBYSHIRE, Secretary.
UNITED KINGDOM.
38 Poultry, London, E.C.
Directors.
Lt.-Gen. The Hon. Sir ANDREW CLARK, R.E., G.C.M.G.,
C. 8., C.1.E., Chairman.
The Hon- Sir R. G. W. HERBERT, G.C.B.
ERNEST BAGGALLAY, J.P.
Sir HENRY BARKLY, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
EDWARD W. BROWNE, F.S.S., Manager.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
St. George's Terrace, Perth.
The Hon. Sir GEORGe'sHEOTON, Kt., M.L.C., Chair-
man.
WILLIAM TIIORLEY LOTON, M.L.A.
The Hon. Sir JAMES G. LEE STEERE, Kt., M.L.A.
J. MORISON McCRAE, Secretary.
NATAL.
West Street, Durban.
Directors.
BENJ. WESLEY GREENACRE, M.L.A., Chairman.
The Hon. ROBERT JAMESON, M.L.C.
The Hon. A. M. CAMPBELL.
JOHN GENTLE, Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
94 King William Street, Adelaide.
Directors.
SirS. DAVENPORT, K.C.M.G., LD.D., Chairman.
The Hon. ALLAN CAMPBELL, M.R.C.P., M.L.C.
Lieut.-Colonel GEORGE FERGUSON.
JOHN HENDERSON, Secretary
TASMANIA.
Murray Street, Hobart.
St. John Street, Launceston.
Directors.
The Hon. ALFRED DOBSON, Solictor-General.
EDWARD H. BUTLER.
A E. FOOT, Local Secretary, Launceston
CAPE COLONY.
Adderley Street, Cape Town.
Directors.
L. WIENER, M.L.A., Chairman.
J. A. BAM.
C. C. DE VILLIERS.
H. WILMAN.
CHARLES WORROLL, F.S.S., Manager
GEORGE WITHERS.
FIJI. —LEVUKA.
Local Oommittke-JOHN K. M. ROSS, Stipendiary Magistrate ; JOSEPH HECTOR GARRICK, M.A., Barrister-at-Law. Hon. GEORGE SMITH, Local Secretary.
VICTORIA.
HENRY HENTY, Chairman.
H. BYRON MOORE. The Hon. J. F. LEVIEN, M.P. Professor E. E. MORRIS The Hon. AGAR WYNNE, . • •
General Manager-LESLIE J. PARK, A.I.A. Assistant General Manager-A. F. CROMBIE.
Actuary—JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A.
Consulting Actuary-ROBERT THOMSON, F.I.A.
Progress
of the Society, 1873-1896.
Policies Issued: 73,972, assuring £23,075,620. Amounts Paid to Policyholders: £1,732,553.
Cash Surplus as at 31st December, 1894, Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS EXCEED £2,000,000.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
POLICIES: Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible-cannot lapse while Surrender Value is to W Quart*:rfc
Premium. Voyaging, Travelling, Residence without Restriction, Notice or Extra Premium. CLAIMS Paid 1 mined y
Proof of Death and Title t.hwt.TE J. PARK. General Manager.


\
4
£ '
Jb>
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. I. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE constipation.
Ladies.- Can and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
I etc.
S. ROWLEY !t C 0„
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents in Australia for
STURTEVANT’S FANS*
FOR BLOWING, EXHAUSTING,
VENTILATING, &c.
MINING MACHINERY
and MINING SUPPLIES,
—INCLUDING
Dick's Celebrated Frue & other Vanner Belts.
Please A ote Our New Address :
74 Clarence Street, I 435 Bourke Street,
Sydney. I Melbourne.
0
Wilson’s Common 1 \o\loA
Sense Ear Drums l\V\U
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
i Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, nodan-
'gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
► Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
The world’s real God : Expediency.
He had been married but a few months,
and the wife of his bosom noticed one morning
when he came down to breakfast that his eyes
were badly inflamed. She looked at him suspi-
ciously. “ How watery your eyes are, Jim . sne
said. ' “ They are quite fiery. What have you
been doing with them?” “It’s all right, my
dear,” he replied, reassuringly, “but next time you
give me a Bible for a birthday present don t select
one with such small type ! ”
Hear B.—You started a “mean man
competition some time ago. Let me suggest
another —the pride that will not accept a favor.
An instance in point. Two ladies, a child and
myself in railway-carriage —a boy with a basket
on the platform. Lady No. 1 buys some bananas
offers one to Lady No. 2. After some demur,
she accepts. The boy again approaches ; she buys
two, at 6d. a dozen, and returns it. At next
station she gets out, and Lady No. 1 refers to the
episode. I comment on it. “ Oh, that is nothing
I —the other day she sent her child to her mother s
with a new potato. ‘ Please, granny, mother says
! will you give her an old potato for this one she
wants to make yeast ! ’ ”
Scene, Newcastle (N.S.W.) wharf ; Namoi
receiving loading from Sydney. A robust female
steps on to the wharf, and a dray loaded with fur-
niture backs up to it. She inquired for the
I wdiarfinger, who, in the person of the manly Bui
Tarrant, one of the rough-diamond sort and not an
absolute Adonis, presented himself. Well,
mum, what can Ido for you ? ” said Bill. I
wanted to leave my furniture in your charge,
said she, “but I am straight, and I tell you at
once that you are too rough-looking a man to
trust it with.” “Well, mum,” said Bill, 1
blessed! ”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Largo
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
She tripped into a chemist’s shop and
asked, as brightly as if for bon-bons or frangipani,
“Please give me a bottle of laudanum. the
chemist looked up from the parcel that he was
tying with rather a look of surprise (she was a
sweet, happy-looking little thing of about 11).
| “ What do you want laudanum for ? ” “ To poison
! myself.” “Why do you want to poison your-
I self ? ” “ Oh, I’m tired of my life—my sweet-
heart’s jilted me, and he’s going to marry another
girl.” Suddenly it dawned on the chemist that
she was playing a joke on him. “ Why use
laudanum to commit suicide ? Better go to
the river yonder and drown yourself. Is
drowning a much easier death than poison.
“Yes, certainly; you know nothing a. second
after you are under water —you go off as in sleep.
“Thanks. Good-night.” The chemist smiled,
and went on making up his prescriptions. She
was missed from home next morning, and her
dead body was found some days afterwards floating
face-upwards down the river. She had taken his
advice. The chemist has since lost all sense of
humor.
WE have much pleasure in inform-
ing the general Public that we are
enabled to offer them this season
the Choicest Assortment of
Xmas & New Year Cards
it has been our happy lot to handle.
The value this year is extraordinary,
and the quality of the Cards highest
procurable. The following is an advance
Price List: —
PACKET CARDS.
The “Ivy Sprig” packet of 12 Xmas
and New Year Cards, post free, 3d.
The “Rose Garland” packet of 25
Xmas and New Year Cards, post free, 9d.
The “ Empress ” packet of 50 Xmas
and New Year Cards, post free, Is. 3d.
BOXED CARDS
A Choice Assortment of AUTO-
GRAPH CARDS, 10 Cards, with en-
velopes, at Bd. and Is. 3d., post free.
The “STANDARD” Box of 20
Choice Cards, post free, Is. 6d.
The “PINE ART” Box of 12 Cards,
post free, Is. 6d.
LOOSE CARDS,
6d., Is., 25., 35., 45., 55., 65., 95., and 12s.
per dozen, post free.
PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEWS of the
City, Suburbs, Gardens, Harbor and
Mountains, 6d. and Is. each.
We are most careful in selecting Cards
for our Country Customers. We take
care to send them well assorted.
Calendars for 1898.
As usual, we are in advance, both as
regards variety and price.
Turnover, Drop and Block Calendars
in Scripture, Poetical, etc. Prices from
3d. to 7s. 6d. each, post free.
Collins’ Diaries
for 1898, from 6d. to 4s. each.
Books containing 1 36 VieWS,
6d. .-. 6d
HORDERN BROTHERS
(DIRECT IMPORTERS),
203, 205,207, 209,211 PITT-ST. (ONLY),
SYDNEY. -
Black Swan” Tobacco.
TRY IT.
This Famous American Brand, manufactured by
WATSON & McGILL, Petersburg, Virginia,
is now on this market, and can be obtained
in BLOCKS and POCKET Pieces, from all
TOBACCONISTS and STOREKEEPERS.
XMAS PRESENTS AND
THOUSANDS OP VERY
NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
LATEST NOVELTIES.
V*
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Bubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
18c. La Parisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond, with
i Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
Send size of finger by a piece of wire or a hole in card-
board. We have 1000 other designs of Rings in Stock .
18c. Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100'-.
Ruby or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, "00/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
9-carat 13 6 Pair.
15 „ 27/6 „
20 Other Patterns
from 10/6 pair.
CURB CHAIN AND PADLOCK BRACELETS
9-carat 13 6 Pair.
15 ~ 27 6 „
20 Other Patterns
from 10/6 pair.
9-carat Gold,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-.
CHILDREN'S—
-16/6, 20/-.
15-carat Gold,
£2 10s., £3, £4, £5.
CHILDREN’S—
-37/6, 42,6.
English Hall-Marked, Highest Finish, secured with Safety Chains.
WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCHES.
Silver-Mounted ... 4/6 each.
Gold-Mounted ... 13/6 „
LINKS.
Silver-Mounted ... 4 6 pair.
Gold-Mounted ... 13/6 „
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE VALUE, £1 Each.
3
Quality, Finish, and
Durability Guaranteed.
Post Free.
NEW
Pendant Brooch
with Amethyst Heart,
9-Carat, 10,6
16-Carat, 13/6
9-carat, 23/6 Pair.
15 „ 42/6 „
Silver 5/- „
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s., £5,
£7 10s.
Hall-Marked Pearl Gold Set,
2 BIRD BROOCH, 17/6 Each.
Remarkable Value.
9-carat, 22/- Pair.
15 „ 37/6 „
Silver 4/6 ~
£
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Combines Strength, Purity and Solubility. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY
OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., x/-, and a/- each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TII.I.OCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SVDNEV.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.’
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
I INFANTS
I
' Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


I I
■ B
Over 100 PRIZE MEDALS
it
Tlje Cocoa of tb« Day.
The Lancet says : “ A cup of Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the
active properties of malt than a pint of ale or stout-
A combination of FRY’S Pure Cocoa Extract
. . WITH . .
Allen & Hanbury’s Concentrated Extract of Malt.
The Lancet, 18th December, 1880,
p. 983.—“ This is an excellent prepara-
tion of Cocoa and Malt Extract. It is
dried at a gentle heat to avoid injury to
the diastase; its dietetic and digestive
value is beyond all dispute, and it is very
agreeable in flavor.”
British Medical Journal, November
13th, 1880, p. 782.—“ Improvements in
Cocoa keep pace with advancing science,
and it is a matter of satisfaction that
attention has been turned to an article of
diet which has more to recommend it for
general use than any other known
beverage. The combination which has
been made in the preparation before us
of Allen & Hanbury’s Extract of Malt
'wri'tih J. S. Ery & Sons Cocoa Extract
meets the requisite indications of diges-
tibility, nutritive quality, and palatable
character.”
Samuel Maughan, Esq., M.R.C.S.—
«I like this article very much and have
ordered it largely in my practice for deli-
cate children and for convalescents from
acute diseases.”
PRY’S
*fIADE
mabk-
-4 Comb jnatlo n of Fpyfe pure Cocoa
superfluous 010
Allen & Hanburys* Extract of”*
manufactdbed by
■> J.s. FRY & SON? cee,
■"' uf *ctur« rs also o»Hi«e»lebrated Car«cU6
and Paste ,
BRISTOL /AND AoNPgjU
Medical Times and Gazette, January
Ist.. 1881, p. 27.— ‘‘ We noticed a while
ago an excellent combination of Fry’s
Chocolate with Allen & Hanbury’s Ex-
tract of Malt, and recommended it to the
profession. It has, as we expected, been
very favorably received, and Messrs.
Fry & Sons have now brought out a
Malted Cocoa, which is an admirable and
pleasant combination of their Pure Cocoa
Extract with Allen and Hanbury’s excel-
lent Malt Extract. The preparation is
convenient and handy for use not re-
quiring any boiling—is highly nutritive,
refreshing, and very agreeable to the
palate.”
Dr. Nicholas C. Whyte, Coroner for
the City of Dublin, in his lecture given
on behalf of the Rathmines Sanitary
Association on April Ist, 1886, said :
“ Of special and concentrated foods, the
first and most useful preparation with
which I am acquainted is Fry’s Malted
Cocoa, a combination of Pure Extract of
Cocoa with Concentrated Extract of
Malt, invaluable as a food in exhaustive
diseases, or where the tone of the stomach
is impaired.”
The value of Extract of Malt as a nutritive and restorative agent for Delicate and Exhausted Constitutions is now fully acknowledged
bv the Profession the Extract being rich in muscle and fat-forming elements. It promotes, moreover, m a special and peculiar manner , the
solution and digestion of all farinaceous foods, and is therefore a valuable remedy m those diseases which arise from an imperfect assimilation of
thesZbstances The presence of the active and valuable constituents of the Malt, unimpaired and m a concentrated form, is secured m
AlleO A NaijbCiry’s Extract by a special process of their own and evaporation “ in vacuo.
An ordinary dose contains more of the active properties of malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.
The combination therefore of Allen & NanbGry’S Extract of Malt with J. S. Fry A sot)S>’ pCirc Cocoa Extract
supplies to INVALIDS and all koie "oils* of weak digestive powers a delicious, refreshing, and invigorating beverage for Breakfast,
Luncheon , or Supper.
Both of its constituents being highly concentrated, the MALTED COCOA « economical in use, and possesses highly nutritive
properties, and on this account can be recommended with great confidence to the public.
INVALUABLE FOR LADIES WHEN NURSING,
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney,


WORTHINGTON PUMPING ENGINE GO.
SIMPSON BROTHERS.
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
32 Clarence St.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE
MARK,
Agencies :
Sydney, N.S.W.
WELCH, PERRIN and CO., Moray Street, South Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace, Adelaide.
McLENNAN and CO., Alice Street, Brisbane.
T. BATEMAN and SON, St. Johns Street, Launceston.
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCAREE and CO., Eremantle.
E. PORTER and CO., Queen Street, Auckland.
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Eoundry, Christchurch.
Hydraulic Pressure Pump
Over 90,000 Duplex Pumps
SOIiD.
OYER
1,500 PUMPS
IN STOCK.
Cyanide Pump.
Worthington Pumps for every Servic
Mining,
Cyanide,
Tank-filling,
Hydraulic,
Condensers,
Compound Non-Condensing Pump,
Irrigation, Breweries,
Water Works,
Wool Scouring,
Wool Dumping,
Creameries,
Tanneries, Boiler Feeding, etc., etc.
ON PUMPING ENGINES
are the recognised standard of Pumping Machinery.
Regular Pattern Pump
CATALOGUES
andL
PRICES
on
APPLICATION.
ft
Mine Pump,


HERE RASSMUSSERT,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tb< ALFALINC HCRBAL R€ty€Pl€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizaheth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your ''lfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. 1 may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Hen-Rassmussbn. —Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKIIAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7 th, 1895.
To Herr R-ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaliue
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, -1 hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sidney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband;, 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood *
and the Nerves.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
t
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AMD PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr
I am pleased to inform you that your Aifaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Pievious to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doclor for six
weeks, nut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Aifaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
oil my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I -have recommended vour Aifaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERYIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
Jt®” ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office,
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1890.
To Herr Rassaiussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the resul; tiu.l f r
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion ai.u
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recon.mend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sidney, August 12, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills 1 have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom 1
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to be, yours trulv,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9,3 97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. 1 found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medioines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your K< uiedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors —all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that i was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. lam willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED,
iTWO GOLD
Pj^ SS
EDALS
m
r«
ALFA LINJErSLLS;
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
'SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powei ful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfallne Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Goughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Rair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesli-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flalulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price *2ls., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a dnubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and YViakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
H'KR RASSMUSSGN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist i > Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establislnne t.*, as
advertised on this page. All IIERn RA'SMUSSEN’S
REM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on- application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Checjues
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Branches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE :
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
iif Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Queensland | Charters Towers— Royal Arcade
New Zealand :
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
South Australia :
Adelaide —154 Rundle Street.
Victoria :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street,, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Fremantle—Henry-sti’eet, next corner of High-st.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
isisft!
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS GREAT VALUE IN KEEPINC THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“A S an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ henow ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.—I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— {From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
Lk two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT ’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— Examine etch Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT.'
Without it , you have been imposed on by a WOR THLESS imitation . Prepai ed only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
U
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
TTTTITT PP
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending November 30,1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£590
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers £1 Is. „
Cloth Bound Books „ £lOO
SENDTHIS TOP PORTION
V^SmtGHT’SOAPI
Wf' MY DOES
ZT A WOMAN
‘looxolc'
sdbWrifHAH
Arf A
3
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to
LEVER BROS., ITiyes put st., Sydney.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
4j
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
{old, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores % products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,'
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc-.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemoke, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
■ filial II n 111 rI I (late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
JOHN HUWtLLj Manac/iny Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
CTOTT ai)d HOAR€
(ESTABLISHED
REMOVED TO LARGER PREMISES,
12 YEARS),
Martin Chambers,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE • IMPORTERS OF
""REMINGTON
TYPEWRITER
OUTNUMBERS as 3 to 1 the
COMBINED FORCES of COMPETITION.
It Keeps Pace
with every discovery in Typewriting Machines, and combines every known
improvement up to date.
\t) all Speed CopteSts
the REMINGTON has come out “top.” Why? Because it is so easy
to manipulate, the mechanism being more simple than on any other Type-
writer.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
IDICjtOBERTSQII’S CSEIIC GUffl
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
S 3 That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
D
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
- Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Works :
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from <£2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
D (Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
o-euuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from =£3 3s. each.
° F matt-tu muunmrAK t.atttst fiTVTya
MOUTH'HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELSOXJRME
THE
■ Plum ’
PLU
THE
‘ Plum*
ENTLEMER who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
X Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Beinr practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee ea-h Razor for lwo \ ears.
„ . I Sing e Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, m beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Pnce \Siimle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory liandle- in beautiful case, 30s
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
go.e CRAIG & AXTKEN, 680 George Street, SY_L)NJj]Y.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Are CLOSING-OUT at SUBSTAN-
TIAL REDUCTIONS in all departments
a Large Assortment of NEW, FRESH,
FASHIONABLE GOODS. Residents
of town and country should call or send
for and secure some of the BARGAHsS
now Offering. They can’t afford to let
them pass.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
BRISBANE.
■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
IIfIELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of - all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
HAIKUIIESSEUS A\ l» WIGMAKfrKS
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIRi comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Minors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THEJLADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality ; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
080 >t 682 George Street, Sydney.
v OOR Life or that Si&aJET tobacco f
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
PALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price
Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
Australia wears on its coat-of-arms the
kangaroo, and it seeks to annihilate that animal.
Bull has on his arms a lion, and Bull braggarts go
into the worst coverts of the earth to shoot lions.
Several nations have eagles, and everyone is will
ing to kill that carrion-bird on sight, if he can.
Russia has its bear, and wbo wouldn t slaughter
bear merely for the sake of its grease? It seems
that noxious animals are the proper emblems toi
the flags of modern civilised nations ! Yankee-
doodle, certainly, has stars and stripes, but that
isn’t a patch on the old Hindoo cow the patient,
meek-eyed, never-kick-the-bucket, Brahman cow.
This par. is all apropos to nothing; it has no
genuine beginning, middle, nor end, no sequence,
no sense, no moral, “ no nothing. ”
“ The truth that is stranger than fiction."
Years ago a Tasmanian settler named Poole sent
to Scotland for a competent farm-hand with a
family. At the same time another man named
Poole also sent to Scotland for a farm-hand with a
family. In due time the first Poole received a
letter from a John Blair notifying his arrival in
Tasmania, and stating that lie had brought out a
man named John Cumniing, and asking if Poole
could give him work also. About the same time
the other Poole got a letter from a John Blair,
who said he had with him a mate named John
Camming, who wanted a job. Ultimately the
two Pooles each engaged a Blair and a Gumming,
who were actually the heads of two different
families. Subsequently the two John Cummings
each married a Miss Brown, and both had
daughters named Maggie These latter got en-
gaged to a man named Smith ; but Smith disap-
peared. It is thought that too much Maggie
Camming unsettled his brain. The two old
Blairs died, leaving two sons named John, who
each had daughters named Elizabeth —but the
writer is getting rather tired of this extraordinary
affair ; however, this is the way it was told to him
bv a grandson of one of the Blairs, but he doesn’t
know which one.-
X.Y.Z. : “ Several years ago, when I was
in Edinburgh, a fussy little man carrying three
brown-paper parcels and a bag presented himself
at the Turkish Baths in Princes-street and asked
for a bath—hot, but not Turkish. His bag and
parcels he carried in with him, and as he wouldn t
have an attendant, curiosity was excited, and,
after giving the bather fair time to disrobe, one of
the employes mounted on a bench and peeped
over behind a wooden partition that bounded the
bath-room. The little man, stark naked, was
opening his parcels (talking to himself the while).
Presently—scattering the contents of one parcel
upon the water—he called out ‘ Salt ! ’ Then he
opened another, poured its contents also into the
water, and muttered ‘Popper!’ Next from his
bag he pulled out a bunch of carrots and one of
turnips ; sliced off the tops, took his seaton the
edge of the bath, peeled the turnips, scraped the
carrots, and sliced them into the water. ‘Vege-
tables ! ’ he cried, then got his walking-stick and
stirred vigorously. ‘Smells well!’ he said;
‘ there’s only one thing wanting, and clambering
up on to the ledge of the bath, with a loud cry of
‘Meat! Mutton! Soup for the poor of Edin-
burgh!’ he plunged into the all-but scalding
water, and, with eldritch yells, floundered about
amid the vegetables of his own contribution, till
the attendant dashed in and hauled him out. Just
here another man puts in his head at the door . . .
and a gentleman two days missing from Morning-
side Asylum is happily rescued.”
A Boon to Sufferers. -A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. 1 was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A. #
An old gag with a new twist. Witness :
“It was a man with one eye named Wilkins.”
Smart Lawyer : “ And, pray ! what was the name
of his other eye ? Witness : “You’re very clever
—how would you put it?” S.L. : “Why, a man
named Wilkins with one eye, of course.” W. :
“ Wilkins with one ‘i’l Let’s hear you spell it,
then.” Curtain.
A BOON to SYDNEY.
si
*#
We
Ou\
Lp ST li^ES
rs
Wl
US'
BY THE
Centennial Insect Ponder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MEG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
OF VITAL INTEREST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “WORDS OF
WISDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Truly a boon to men.
Thousands of sufferers have been Permanently
CURED after trying all other means.
If you have been humbugged and disappointed, write
to-dav for the Book, and 50.11) Testimonials received from
Colonial patients, POSTED FREE, SEALED, and with-
out marks.
A HOME TREATMENT. NO FAILURES.
Address : DR. IRVING CO.,
Corner HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
IS
X
TfTrjy
—DESTROY Sr-
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth.
Rids Dogs, Cats, and Fowls of
Parasites-
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE
CAUTION. —Beware of Imitations
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
St^lrSiiw/
jo 3"gi V/mg
J>? fold) SwDaq)
saKooA\ faiy^yr
JWIWfIS
psr^g
lo^Vdt.
&
w lw
n
e
MELBOURNE.
ffiH?
POST FREEvt^
MwtcKes- Clocks-Jem/ellery-BiRTriDAV*
Weddii\lg z CHristeisliivlg Presents
H NEV/MAI\l-1755177 ELIZARFTri ST*
OPPOSITE G:P.Q:
MELBOURNE.
Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
g—feodalla. Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
o d alia. Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.—It having: come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling:
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SXONEY.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting- in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors Supplies.
Wind IVEills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
[)€AFNESS
U and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle,'and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Ilalpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try' Hearne s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its disiinet healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by t he pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. fid. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPVNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWHC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokooi nf„ I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
(E
9.
Q
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond lhe possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
w earcr to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasin'; we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free"), 'fivingr
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOK
HABIT
Kucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire tor liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, m most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients.are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, S YDJVEY.
NcrVoCiS Weakness ■ - -
AND
Cerebro-Spiijal Disease,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when viriling.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTIN 8
COCOA
rar- a blessing in ever family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of tnese grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
-
Ballet £irl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic lifp
Post Free X/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
W. MAM MATT & SONS
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
A CHOICE SELECTION
— ol'
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOTJR.KTB.
g 3 York Street. , SYDIXTEY.
WortbiOgtoi) P(in)pii}g Ei)gii)e Conjpaijy.
(Australasian Branch.) SilH]PSOn BITOtIIGITS. (Australasian Branch.)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarenee-st.,
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, N.S.W
REGULAR PATTERN.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
ixx Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
■J
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade-for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
.Agents Everywhere. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
SOMCTNIN6 OUIT€ NCW !!
in
r
FOR THREADING PIPE.
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINART
STOCK.
THE 3
OSTEX PHTEIIT XDJUSTXBtE DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cut off from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Baking p OWE | er
v INSOLVENT ESTATE
—OF—
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best .steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price £ B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns,'snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
±lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price ±l4, reduced ±5
each, complete.
o Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments uneuual for quality, with cartridge ntachinesandcleaners complete. Usual price t2l, reduced £7los ea. complete.
sQino-le barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £0 reduced £2 7s 6d each, complete.
Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
niponers comnlete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced t 4 15s each, complete.
maC 4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price £l5,
reduced £5 5s each RjflefJ) very best quality, highly finished Usual price £7 10s, reduced 13 15s.
can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free oa riage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
BGQQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
"WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
” INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoQQiQgtoo’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver. BoJK.


EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
Fermi s
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
j From 10s. per Day, and
\ £2 16s. per Week,
A. L. Peaoook, Manager.
k£9e
TKB GRAND CENTRAL
WQ*IT« *.AO.
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITK G.F.0.,
H E ST m a Y k!U. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
. . Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms. .
O. FOX, Proprietor.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
RRACMAR HOU£€,
WOODEND, VICTORIA.
Tli6 Mountain Health Resort of Australia.
every modern convenience.
Golf, Tennis, Fishing <£> Shooting•
Letters and Telegrams to Miss BUCKLEY,
Lessee, will reoeive Prompt Attention.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence *1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
BOUT
Readers of this paper should
know that to effectually cure
Gout tha great thing to do is to
eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause
of the malady, and nothing
does this so effectually as
Bishop's Citrate of Lithia. All
doctors prescribe it. Of all
Chemists in two sizes. A Book-
let on Gout sent post free on
application.
Inventors and Sols Maker*—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, E.
CURED.
Whitehead’s *.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st., fj aw <5 T 7
near Druitt-street. wUHiJJCIiij ■
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Dail.y.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
—
PRICE IS. ... ... - Po 9t > Is. 3d.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Br “PRICE WARUNG.”
per Post, Is. 3d.
PRICE Is.
• • «
5
JSOOK OF .NATURE
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THTS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, Is;
Moll Flanders, t)j’ De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
P °Abbr B Mourit’s Sin ; The Soil; Drbam of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plaiw Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wbddbd, by Paul de Rock, post free, Is 3d.
Kohanck OF A Fair Girl's Bathroom, price, Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mystbribs Court of Lonpon, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. ,
Heptambron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Brad laugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d; post, 49.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle pk Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, 1/6 post.
Amativenbss, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bu.
Maria Monk, Is 6<i; p-’st, is 9.1.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbassou s Harem, post free Is G i.
Modern Etiquette : P,n ties, Love, Dress, etc., 1 6 pi.
PAPA, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
(he French, unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor6. 2s 61.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One's Self, posted Is 6d.
Tiib Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 91, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and publio amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d. ,
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer a
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
books on all subjects, the trade supplied, send stamp for our
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
■ I
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
OlxePjp Book Uejpot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Tyrm AUSTRAL OTIS.
ENGINEERING COMPANY, LIMITED,
Manufacturers of the Following Specialities:
Steam Engines of all . sizes and for all purposes.
and Winding Engines, for mining,
pumping, sluicing, and general purposes.
Boilers of all sizes kinds, and pressures.
Condensers, surface and jet, for engines.
Condensers specially adapted for treating water
on the West Australian Goldfields.
Tramways, aßrial, wire rope, mining, &e.
Stamper Batteries, Ore Crushers, Rock Breakers,
Vanners, Amalgamators and Concentrators.
Cyanide and Chlorination Plants.
Air Compressors and Receivers.
Cornish Lift and Plunger Pumps.
Duplex Pumps of all sizes, high pressure and
compound.
Centrifugal Dredging Pumps.
Hydraulic Sluicing Nozzles, and Gravel Ele-
vators.
Turbines, Pelton and other Water Wheels
Mining Machinery and requisites of every
description.
Victoria: WORKS, corner Hanna and Kavanagh
Streets, SOUTH
Mew SoCitb WaUS :
R. L. BCRUTTON & 00.
Qfi'CO&laod :
A. OVEREND & CO.


IF YOU WANT . . .
To be thoroughly well and properly served witl
CREAM (Pasteurised),
MILK (Pasteurised),
ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
POULTRY,
PASTRY, CAKES, etc.,
Order from THE
LIMITED,
Who hove AGENTS EVERYWHERE, and the
Ice it ll
ST,
Telephones 244, 1002 and 2334.
. . CITY DEPOTS . .
AT
92 King Street 135 King Street
23 Royal Arcade 108 Pitt Street
AND
. . SUBURBAN DEPOTS . .
Summer Hill. North Sydney.
All Agents and Depots connected with Telephone Exchange.
H. PATE SON, Manaerer.
