

Louis Koetiei ers Champagne.
McEW AN’S ALiLi.
Gaelic whisky.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Boot.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
lancet.
3Es®
Mining
GB-, WATKINS &L> CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
Smoke- TWO SEAS JOBACCQ
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
y>
&
o
o
o
<RAdtAjocK>
+*-55
O
o
c
o
S'
■r
&
o
-1
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney. I
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S Cipbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n?brocatioi).
ROBERTS’ WiQ€ & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per'lmperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACK AY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flar.ms, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A Splendid. Luncli for Is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence per day.
Rtf ore viviHng fhe Cfy wife f° the Manager for
Card of Tariff. Correspondence promptly amended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRISBANE!.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agbnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.*
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
/
«RED bird
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
THIS
Best
icycle
uilt
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots-
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
Use “Pioneer” Sole Leather*
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE ,
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ABE
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
THE BE«T IN THE WORLD*
J.UUMMUtd,
TANNEIIS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery : Lane Cove River.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
mm
SWAN
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TBS EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch. —l6 Carrington-atrect,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE
PITT and HUNTER
STREETS,
EMPIRE
SYDNEY. HOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. Write for Terms.
HOBART.
——
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Adlake Bicycles
—ARE—
- Good and Strong -
AND THE
Repairman Don’t Know Them*
LET US SEND YOU A
CATALOGUE.
THE
Pake Cycle Agency
422 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY *
(Next Royal Hotel).
A. L. BAIRD,
Sole Agents for Manager.
“ Adlakr ” end “Spartan” Bicycles
end the famouS'X-Rays Vapor Lamps.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CISARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Yoi 18.—No. 898,j
[Saturday, May 1, Lbu7.
registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Publishers’ Notices.
“BULLETIN” STORIES.
J U PUBLISHED.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S YARNS,
Price, 1/6 : post free, 1/9. - ,
OEO. ROBERTSON & CO., SYDNEY.
Wl)€i) Turkey as>d Greece
Have decided matters ; when the Federal Convention is over and p •
nave departed for Europe; when Agricultural Shows w , remiers
Droughts are things of the past— Wl?at tl>ei> ? e ddmgs, and
W hv, then we come home with
thanktul hearts and smoke
CAMEO CIGARETTES
THE RED PAGE.
Somebody writes wondering: ‘what it would be
like to spend an hour in The Bulletin den, when
the lions are gnashing their teeth over the rejected
MSS.’ Well . . .
Whew! here’s a pile—artioles, essays, tales,
sketches, paragraphs, verses . , .
Sir, I have written a novel about bush life whioh I
would like to publish in The Bulletin. There are 193
chapters, and you could print a chapter in each issue. It
is very exciting, full of fights with bushrangers, etc., etc.,
and lam sure it would be very popular. Please let m
know how you pay for novels, and kindly reply by retur
post, as lam anxious to have the matter settled. Yours
respectfully, Henry .
No stamps, no addressed envelope—no fear
And a reply by return mail. Say 200 contribu
tions reach The Bulletin every day—and some
times there are more—and all, or half, or a quarter
of the writers were answered by return mail, or
any mail at all—with the personal explanations
and detailed reasons whioh the average writer
desires so badly when, pray, would the
paper be edited ? So Henry’s letter is
briefly answered in the correspondence column,
and that sorb of Henry never thinks of looking ir
the correspondence column. So he pines, and
denounces The Bulletin to his neighbours as a
paper whioh does its best to smother the aspira-
tions of native genius.
* * * *
If Henry had eyes, and wits, and used his
eyes and wits, he would see and know that The
Bulletin never dreams of printing novels in 193
chapters—that it never priuts serial stories at all.
Bub that sort of Henry never has eyes or wits—
for things external to himself and his story, any-
way. There is pathos, of course, in Henry’s idea
that for the time being he and his novel in 193
chapters are sitting at the centre of the uuiverse,
and the solar system *nd the earth and the
editors are revolving round him ; but the edge of
the pathos is dulled by habit. There are so many
Henrvs, whose literary necks have to be wrung in
so many seconds if the paper is to come out on
Thursday, and the literary cook rarely has time
for a qualm . . .
Oh ! and here you are again—
Dear Sir, —Three days ago I posted to The Bulletin a
MS. drama in five acts, entitled ‘ Abdur-rahmao, or the
Moor of Cadiz.’ As I have had no reply, and there is no
mention of it in the correspondence column,
(She posted it on Wednesday, and devoured
next day’s correspondence column—once, with
delicious thrills of anticipation : a second time,
with gradual misgivings : and a third time, with
blank despair.)
I write to ask whether you have received it.—Yours
truly', Jane
No man living or dead has ever known The
Bulletin to publish a five-act drama, or to give the
least sign of wanting to publish a five-act drama ;
but Jane knows that her drama is literature, and
she knows that The Bulletin prints literature,
and she adds two and three together to make
four with all the dexterity of her sex. Likely
enough there will be trouble with Jane. If her
MS. has gone astray in the post—as MS. some-
times will, generally' because the contributor sends
it on a long journey so flimsily-wrapped and
slightly-tied that the least shock sends the packet
sprawling open—or if in the multitude of contri-
buttons (many of them requiring very careful con-
sideration) there is delay, Jane is quite capable of
oalling in person ; and that, under the circum-
stances, is a thing to be avoided at all costs. So
We will hunt Jane up . , , yes, here she is . . .
»nd pack her off the premises as speedily as
possible.
' • * .
And there are many persons who, if not in
quite such novel and dramatic extremes as Henry
and Jane, yet think and act in similar fashion.
It is only when an amateur writer has sent in ten
or a dozen rejected MS. that he begins to realise—
to really realise—that there are writers in the
world besides himself. Before that he only thinks
he realises. But to nearly every beginner the little
tale that he has taken so much pains over (or has
dashed off ’ the Australian beginner has quite
a talent for ‘ dashing off ’) seems the most moment-
tous thing in existence. He never thinks of look-
ing at it as it lies on the editor’s desk—swallowed
m the surging heap of vastly (the chances are)
more interesting and important contributions. If
he did, probably, he would write so that he
oould be read with the least pains possible.
Fancy a tired editor-man, whose brain should
De always at its best, whose nerves should
be always strung, and who never has time for
half the things he wants to do—fancy him wading
through forty pages of crabbed script like the
tracks of a spider walking in its sleep. Yet
that is what the cheerful contributor asks
him to do every hour of his life. With the
best, will in the world, the editor-man can't
do it. He has not time and energy to puzzle
a meaning out of every separate word when
he should be catching the message of a sen-
tence or a page. As a matter of duty, he tries
to form some opinion on everything submitted to
him; but sometimes it is impossible. And a
writer never loses anything by making his script
legible, his copy attractive. To see the way some
people crowd their words and narrow their lines
you would think there were only two or three
sheets of writing-paper in creation. Sometimes,
of oourse, in the far bush that is practically all
there are; and then allowances must be made.
But there is doubtfully an allowance for the
anaemie-inked person with only nine black
corpuscles to a sheet, or for the lead-pencil person
with the smudge. These are they who put out
editors’ eyes—conscienceless, remorseless. .
Now, here is a man who writes plainly, in solid
black ink, on good white paper . . . Ha !
1897.
To the editor. Queensland.
Dear Sir
I write you a few lines to let you know that I would
like to be a writer to your paper.
The few verses that I enclose might seem ridiculous In
the eyes of a person like yourself but every-one has their
faults and this being my firstattempt at any-thing in this
line you must look on it with leinent eye and if it suits
you pray let me hear from you in your Correspondence
list With as much encouragement as you can spare.
And Will Oblige
Yours Truly
E. Bbancournb (alias)
P.N. The name that I signed to this letter is an alias
My Proper Name I will forward if my verse’s accepted,
Sig. KB.
Thb Loybrs' Fatb.
Just near the River Banks, I stood
While waiting, for my Love
When off toward a heavy Wood
I heard a cry of pain
2nd Verse.
This chanced to be her road, to come,
To me at early Night,
What did I do, but straight there Run
But no, it was too late
3rd Verse.
I came up, where I "heard the scream
And marks of a struggle saw
My thoughts formed quite unpleasant dreams
Of happiness no more
4th Verse.
The idea, came to my mind at once
• That she had been assaulted
When a pain shot me, like a lance
For not having gone to meet Her.
Turn over For Rest.
sth Verse.
I waded through the water,
in the vain attempt to see?
Or hear, a sound come from Her
But hope, soon died awav.
6th Verse.
The Night by this had lowered
I could scarcely see a yard
But still I hurried forward
M hile my thoughts, within me, said
7th Verse.
Hurry on with all your speed
As fast as you cau go
All your Courage you will need
For whatyou”]! soon see now
7th Verse.
My Thoughts had wandered in this •train
When suddenly I stopped
And Found Myself within a Laut
Quite puzzled where I”d got
Turn over
Bth Verse.
I took some steps ahead, and found
To my horror and dismay,
My future Bride dead, on the ground
No more her love for me.
The End.
By E. Brancoprkb, Alias
Queensland.
Very likely you will notice the want of principal
these few' lines. However you can judge whether Iha
any chance in this line or not.
Sig. E.B.
• * • •
Well, legible writing isn’t everything, it seems
but note, at all events, that ‘E. Brancourne
(alias) first contribution got printed—which
more than can be said for most first contribution
And he is a man of sense, too, as well as metti
(whatever his lack of ‘ principal ’—at which Lor
forbid that a scribe should east a stone), for h
writes his letter on the same sheet as his copi
Most writers send separate letters, and, in defiance
of rules, will persist in leaving their names o
their copy. Take 150 letters a day for three days
400 packets (probably delivered by differen
mails) without anything but writing and paper t
identify the senders; mix thoroughly; and . .
listen to the editor-man swearing! Listen i
little longer, and hear the contributors swearin
because the unidentified copy isn’t answered, o
isn t printed, or isn’t returned. But no contri
butor ever swears at simself.
• • • •
When, as an unknown contributor, you are
sending in copy to any editor whatsoever, don’
write a letter, but write your name and addres
legibly on the copy, and preferably on every shee
of the copy. If you have a signature which is an
anagram and a conundrum and an acrostic rollec
into one, don t use it: write legibly. Letters aren’
wanted : the copy is the only thing of impor
tauce : in 9999 out of 10,000 cases the copy tells the
edito* all he wants to know. If you desire a pen
n / line or initials to be used in replying, write it or
them at the foot of your copy, and your name wil
not be printed. But don’t write to say it’s youi
first contribution, or your last, or youi
middle one. Don’t write to say the inci-
dent happened to your aunt, or your mother
in-law, or your mate Bill. Don’t write to
r re *' urn unavailable, but tether a stampec
and addressed envelope firmly to your copy, anc
let it be your silent and effectual witness, ’in a
word, don t write letters, or if you feel you must
write that nothing :n the world will stop you
from writing, then write your name and address
on the copy as well, and the editor-man will cheer-
fully lose the letter and say no more about it.
But don’t write letters.
Now we feel easier. . . . What’s this ?
DOT AND CARRY.
They were at Jones’s ball—Dot, Carry, and their brother
Mil. Dot and Carry they were always called, but their
leal names were Diana Euphrosyne and Cleopatra
Mineria. Their grandfather Harris could not say those
names, though he says that he was able to before he lost
all his teeth. They had only one brother: his name was
Miltiades Caesar, which was shortened to ‘Mil.’ He,
with their mother and grandfather Harris, made up the
whole family.
It was near midnight, and Dot and Carry wanted Mil to
come away immediately after supper, because no one
had been to see if any of the cows were bogged in the
mud that evening. Mil had been over at Jones’s all
the afternoon, helping them to fix a tent to have the
supper in, and Dot and Carry had been in a state of
feverish excitement decking out their pink muslin blouses
with lace and ribbon. Also, their shoes wanted a lot of
attention, but bush girls are always ready to meet an
emergency, so Dot made the shoes secure with the aid of
an awl and some wire off an old broom-handle.
Carry had intended to look and see if anything was
bogged in the creek before she came away, but Joe
Brown was stripping wattle-bark on the other side of the
creek, and she would not let him see her in her dirty
clothes—especially as he would be at Jones’s that night,
and would be sure to tease her about it, He had helped
them once before to pull the old black bull out of a bog
She was very much ashamed of that, because she remem-
bered that when she saw him coming she made a rush to
get under the chock-and-log fence and was held fast by
the hips until he came up ; for the life of her she could
not get either way.
Ada, Nell, and Sam Merry came over early in the even-
ing to go with Dot and Carry to the ball, so they did not
bother any more about the cows, for they were proud
girls and aid not want to let the Merrys know how
poverty-stricken their cattle were. ‘lt would be such
fun for the old things to know that we had to go and
probe the mud-holes before we went to the ball,’ thev
said ; M e will come away early and have a look before we
go to bed. ’
Supper is over, and Dot and Carry are going, but they
cannot get a budge out of Mil, who is sitting in a remote
corner, with his arm around Dolly Manners’ waist Dollv
would not notice poor Mil, only now she wants to nark
tnat round-shouldered, limp-looking creature with the
burrs and bits of stringy-bark in his matted, red beard
He has a large bank balance, and Dolly is bent on having
shares m it.
Mil tells Dot and Carry to be going on : he • will follow
m a minute;’ but they know that he won’t come until
Dolly gets tired of his encircling arms. Poor fellow 1 ■
the first mash that he ever had the courage to do and h"
is almost in a trance. Dot and Carry wended their w,
homeward, talking ‘hesezand I sez,’ and ‘I sez and
sez,' until a ’possum ran across the road and made u **
clutch each other with fright. After that they tmdla
along in silence until they noticed a few streaky wind
clouds in the western sky, and w ondered if thev .
rain. **
‘ Did y° u Bee *he forecast for New South Wal™ i
to-day’s paper, Carry V • Yes : Pine, with clouds m 0 !
strong wind from South-West, rough seas in the extZ
nothing 481 The " both gave a heav > r sigh, but said
Now they have reached the creek, and sure enough
there is old Kit-only her back and head above the grid.
mud. They stand and listen, but no sign of Mil
we’ll have to try and haul her out somehow ourselves.
Let’s get the leg-ropes and the long-handled shovel ’
They took off their shoes and stockings, and skirts-
their blouses did not matter, they would wash, and were
already dirty from the men’s hands. They pulled and
tussled for about half-an-hour with very little success.
Kit would not help to free herself, but she would bang
at them every time she got the ohance, with her bd
crooked horns. ui *
‘Lemme give yer a ’and ! ’-and Joe Brown sorambied
down the bank of the creek. «Oh !it was cruel 1 ’ Carrv
said afterwards: • I felt a cool thing run all over me.’
And to make matters more ridiculous poor Carry sank un
to her waist in the mud, and Joe had to pull her out
and with their assistance he got Kit out also; but she
was cramped from being in the mud so long, and had to
be shot next day. The hide only fetched 3s.hides were
a drug in the market.
Dot and Carry made Joe take a great solemn oath that
he would never breathe a word of that night’s doings.
Joe promised, but did not keep his word. Dot and Carry
think he did, so 1 where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be
wise.’
The poor girls did not think it worth their while to go
to bed: they did not know what time it was, because
they forgot to wind the clock ; but the jackasses were
laughing and they knew it must be near day.
After they had washed the mud off themselves, Dot
went to let out the ducks, and she saw Mil coming home.
He would kick up his heels every now and then, and
laugh and shake his hands. She felt furious as she looked
at him, and muttered to herself: • Look at that silly old
ourang-outang acting like a lunatic I He can’t see that
Doll Manners is only making a joey of him. I suppose he
is satisfied, now that his unfortunate sisters are dis-
graced. I have a good mind to pelt a stone at his head
though I suppose I would miss it?’
Then old Nanny, the cat, came up and brushed against
her dress, and cried ‘ meow ’ very pitifully, and Dot felt
inclined to cry also. * Only what good would it do? ’
* * * *
Now, this is a pleasant little sketch which
makes one love the author. It is almost safe to
wager (such wagers are never quite safe, so erratic
is Dame Nature) that Maggie is a fresh, buxom
young Australian girl, brimful of health and
spirits, and without a taint of morbid ‘new-
woman (not that all ‘ new-women ’ are morbid
by any means). But six times in ten contribu-
tions similar to this would barely pass Bulletin
muster, for want of just a little shaping and
polishing to take off the crudity of inexperience.
Half-an-hour s editing may be all that is needed
but even half-an-hour is something that a busy
editor-man continually signs for. So one has fre-
quently to regret, and write “sorry unsuitable"
and pass on. But Maggie may certainly be
encouraged to persevere, and to study the style
of more practised writers, for there is real grit in
her, p
• • * •
Of course, the general level of rejected contribu-
tions is way below Maggie’s. And the pitiful thing
is that the writers cannot understand why they
are rejected, and it is impossible to give detailed
explanations The casual contributor has indeed
to tread a bridge of broken pillars such as Mirza
saw in his vision. This one pops through and is
lost at the arch of irrelevance; that one is
clutched by the harpy of bad taste; countless
numbers disappear simply because they have not
strength to carry them over. And very
often, and very naturally, the inability
to write well includes the inability to
discern what is written well, and wherein lies
the difference between bad and good. And some
contrioutions are lost with regret because they
are good, but not good enough—they would do if
there was nothing better, and there always is
something better. And possibly, sometimes, the
e icor-man makes a mistake; but that is very
rare ; for experience-the habit of handling copy
and the constant reference to the highest stan-
ar s , reed a knowledge, and knack, and judg-
ment wbiGh make it almost impossible to miss a
giHK thing. So the contributor may take courage
r °rp long list of good writers who have begun
in he Bulletin, and be sure that if the divine
v , rea l y ln hi* ll it will not smoulder long un-
noticed. Amen.
VEILE...
[From 'John-a-Drcame.']
J\ face, oo fdir.an<! veiled ?
Ah, I>eouly. IflaP is IhdSolK
l|«sd indolence, availed
A fdee do foiirand veiled?
Or
ixmp.
«»ild
Pd'^-c
(Tnd Oou£e renewed, Hayis Reason ?
.A idee o>'o foil’dnd veiled ?
0::. sedui f y, {fiar ts treason.


Medical,
z
»
;Sr
SCI
Weakness & Disease of Man
Quickly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel
a benefit everyday; soon know yourself a
king among men in body, mind and heart.
Every obstacle to a happy life removed.
Nerve force, will, energy, brain power, when
failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strength-
ened and developed.
Sufferers from overwork, ill-health, re-
gain your vigor! Don’t despair, even if in
the last stages. Don’t be disheartened if
quacks have robbed you. Let us show you
medical science and business honor still
exist.
The President of the Institute is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New
York Scientific Investigation Society with
their gold medals and orders of merit, and
holds letters of congratulation for the suc-
cessof his scientific discoveriesfrotn thelead-
ing practitioners of the Old and New World.
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring medical treatment
remit 20s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address or
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied in pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially prepared under the direct super-
vision of the President.
Just Published —Pocket Medical Guide,
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescrip-
tions, &c., sent free on receipt of address.
A dress the President, or
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON Sc CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
11a FUNDERS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily.
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters ot thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful patients, who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney,
EASILY
CURED
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee. 21/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
Medics!.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered bv the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CLTRE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
add consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq..;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To Those who Wish to Marry.
Mumford’s Vivifying Herbal
Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills
Will positively restore yon to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be
This truly wonderful medieine acts like a charm en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish i had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case : with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
P. W. MUMFOR.D. Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important dements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO TJRNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
“A BORN PHYSICIAN.”
The Greatest and Most Successful Practitioner in the World.
His mode of Treatment is unfolded in his last work (nearly 100 PAGES). PRICE —-Posted, Sealed—
.£l, including ONE MONTH’S MEDICINE, for any Disease.
>
* m
■tilt
rt/S/Si
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emi-
nence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed in an
acute or chronic case of long standing, where other physicians
have failed. He addresses himself in particular to cases that
have baffled the skill and science of other doctors. His name
is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect cure of every case he
undertakes. Consult him this day. It may save you much
mental and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life.
YOUNG MEN.
You will find this distinguished doctor your best friend
and benefactor. If you are troubled with want of sleep, a
tired gloomy feeling, and loss of energy, which impair both
your body and brain, and absolutely unfit you for study,
business, or the proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering
from these or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before
it is everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat it
with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN.
There are many of you afflicted with weak, aching back
and kidneys, loss of mental and physical power and vigor,
and not unfrequently accompanied by an impairment of the
general health. In justice to this celebrated specialist it can
be truthfully stated that in all such cases of middle-aged
men, as well of young men, his success has been almost
invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female complaints,
liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder, kidney and heart
disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE.
Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double com-
press, price £2. Constitutional or acquired weaknesses
treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding' your case elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering. New edition of my latest work, Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free to men. . . . ,
N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., 121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this Paper.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “cure alls”
specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
Homoeopathic,Treatment, which is a complete cure for Nervousness »ti<S F ailing
Vigor in young and old men. All letters sent sealed.
Address—Dr. IRVING CO., corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney;
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome 1 iis Friends
and Patients at
137 E]izabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
lrian y years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young 3len and Those tv ho
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, <V.c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none bub the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, Gr.P.O., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having 1 a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure of Nervousness.
Are yon nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for- years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-sfc., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Wotnen.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
L ADI E S !
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Sjpeer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
29 York Street, Sydney.
BOX 920.
RXJPTUKE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain ; security from Strangulated Her-
nia, and a permanent cure if possible. Please
investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic Elastic
Truss,” and you will be surprised at what you
will learn. This Truss positively does the work,
and is worth £lOOO to any ruptured man or
woman. If you want the BEST, call or send 2d.
in stamps for free Pamphlet No. 1. It contains
full information. MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U/S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL &
CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
“■of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
“MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MORMON ELDERS.
SPECIFIC for the recovery of HEALTH,
STRENGTH and VIGOR. Price and par-
ticulars sent free (sealed).
HARVARD agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
Dr. FREEMAN.
Yotiog tyci),
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Plail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living- away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work pout, free on aj>plicatiov.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.


TAT. TERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Vs
ADELAIDE C. May 5.
100,000 Subscribers a,t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address_
Tatter-sail’s Great IDlstr-lTotitiorr
—OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
.•«,•• - < - V
116,000 Snares at £1 Each Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize--Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
valued at £10,065
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
Empire Hotel, Temora ... ... ... valued at
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra ... ... ... valued at
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc. ... ... ... valued at
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse) ... ... valued at
Union Club Hotel, Junee ... ... ... valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
ti
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead or
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus?
Tattersall s Second Distribution
—OF —
City ai>d SobOrbao
Freehold - Prop€rti€s.
Shares of ss* Zach*
ist Prize. - Terrace Houses, Glenruore
Load, and large Dwelling-H* -use, Value
Woollahra £8,500
2nd Prize. Mouse and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... £5 000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
F° r full particulars apply for Prospectus.
June 21.
MAITLAND C.
10,000 Subscribers at
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
5.
shares in the above.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you cant
see the occasion for bothering about 1 LUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you're almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
youf back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps yon are of another class. A world-
ling if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The e yes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Cloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets_,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLCSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
Jnthony Hordern & sons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ORLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
i Has a record of nearly 60 years
\ in curing affections of the Throat
/ and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
X ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
flo flot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See,
or Write tor De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
PURIFIED -
- HEALTHY
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BED kTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS, __ wrl
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
Madame Rodney,
rpHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
1 may be consult ed either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at 18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
T
•JUH6*
The "Korting Universal”
•Boiler - Feed Injector,
MANUFACTURED BY
L. SHUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed in this market.
It is working in thousands of cases tVthe very best, ad-
vantage. It takes water at a temperature of 15 )deg.
Fahr.k It is worked entirely by one handle. Send f
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
‘l'll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarinc !
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (i«l.
Sole Agents :
9
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st,
rjl HE LAST o E
Sydney.
SIX
PRICE— Ia. ; Per POST, la. 3d
HALF-A-L€A<SU€,
as applied to the charge of the “Six Hundred
at Balaclava, ia an expression immortalised by
Tennyson.
NALF-A-<SUINEA,
as applied to the purchase-money of a certain
brand of foot-wear, is an expression immortalised
by JOHN HUNTER in his celebrated HALF-
GUINEA BOOTS. Made in any size, style, or
shap6 in black or tan, with broad or narrow toe
—suitable for town or country wear. The maxi-
mum quality at the minimum price, combined
with durability.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
MARKET & GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Positively the Best Dressing
ene' !e
it
f
Ml
n
M
*»
FOR
PRESERVINGS & BEAUTIFYINa
the hair.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Vue.
“H ARLENE”
YVORLD-RENOYVNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting tlie Growth of the
Biaid and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Si lengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For n moving Scurf, Dand-
ruff, elo., also for restoring Gray Hair t 1 us
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts proi ounce it to lie devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Aokworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleasid to allow her testi-
mony to he publicly us d.
!/_, a« and (triple 2 (i size) 4 (i per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the w'orld.
Edwards “HARLENE 00.>
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C^
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Fruits.
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER ;
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion ot the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
lorms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained vrhorovor
Tinned Fruit is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
BeSSofy’S Prototype
Brass Band Instruments.
These are Superior to any Other Maher in the World-
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others,
t the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and#
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSOKT’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
" or sullied for Cash, or on Easy Terms. ■»
APPLY FOE PRICE-LIST TO
A..
„. * . SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
. r,i s/Mith fiml. Western Australia .
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Every
Variety of
▼
AND
EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
c* SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. *«*
Hards of the Baekblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD MOGILL.
Have you seen the mirage on Mogill plain?—
How it fades, and passes, and comes again
When the ground is cracked for the want of rain,
And the stock are hopeless dying.
When the phantom water covers all
It takes me back to my father’s hall,
To the broad, deep lake and the waterfall,
And the deer in the bracken lying.
Have you seen the flood in the Mogill creek ?
First it trickles downward a muddy streak ;
A tiny streamlet, impotent, weak,
It goes by the homestead slowly.
But wait a while, and a torrent flows—
A savage stream knowing no repose ;
With wrecks of fences and trees it grows
Till the banks are covered wholly.
Have you seen the cattle on Mogill run
When “cutting out ” for the buyers is done?
Ah, then is the time to be in the fun
With a good stock-horse below you !
What a rush you make thro’ the living lane 1
You are round and after and out again.
And the quick response to the bridle-rein
Shows your nag has learned to know you.
Have you seen the dingo near Mogill rise,
Where the store sheep huddle with frightened
eyes ?
Have you tracked the dead by the cloud of flies
Where the woolly heap lies coldly ?
Have you run him out of the tangled bush,
And seen him come with a snarling rush
To where the reeds grow long and lush
In the swamp he’s tackled boldly ?
Have you driven him close by the ruined hut ?
Severed his tail with a clever cut,
When you’ve dashed out his brains with your
stirrup butt —
Revenge for the lamb he’s eaten.
Or, tired out at the close of day,
Your horse gone lame, he has got away
To the dark scrub grove with his cubs at play—
You must own up that you’re beaten ?
Have you seen a grave in the Mogill yard,
Where a comrade lies whom you spared but hard,
Who could drink a nobbier or play a card,
Or ride right straight to a finish?
We count them over—the rank-and-file ;
We, too, may last but a little while ;
And the slow tear almost has drowned the smile
When we see how the ranks diminish.
Have you said good-bye to the dear old place—
Left for the city and gone the pace,
And forgotten a woman’s waiting face
On the Mogill road at even ?
“ She is better without me, perhaps,” you say ;
Likely as not! She has had her day ;
You have tried and tasted and gone your way,.
And no doubt she has long forgiven.
Of the old-time friends few are lingering still,
For the two-wire fences are sprung at will,
And cookies have overflowed old Mogill
Of the pick of the place they’ve reft her.
Like rats at a cheese they nibble and gnaw—
Select in the garden, for by the law
There is only the house can escape their maw—
And the luck and the land have left her.
Q-
M. BURKINSHAW.
“WHERE THE CAMP-FIRES BURN."
Where the camp-fires burn by the lonely track at
the close of a lonely day,
And the shadows gather again out-back on the
traveller’s dreary way ;
Once more the traveller’s thoughts take wings and
back to the old times fly
And rake from the ashes of dead past things the
life of the years gone by 1
He thinks once more of what should have been—
successes that never came
Of Honor and Love in a brighter scene that sank
in a flood of shame. ,
The reckless follies and years mis-spent when the
star of his life rose high—
The careless pleasures that came and went, and
hopes that were born to die ; „
Of nights in town with the old-time ‘ boys
Women and Cards and Wine !
Ever it is that early joys are drowned in the
tears of brine 1 . _, ... . .
For thoughtless errors in Life s dull track the
wages of sin we earn,
And many a payment is made Out Back to-night
—where the camp-fires burn !
In the glow of the living coals maybe a girl’s fair
face will rise ! . . „
That love of the past in his memory shall linger
until he dies — ~
For a heart’s true love in the early years to the
after years shall cling, _
And bring with its memory bitter tears that no
other thought may bring !
For a prize we lose—with ourselves to blame—we
suffer a keen regret, . . ,
When the pride and passion that died in shame
are strong in the memory yet 1—
And ghosts of the sweetest dreams that died come
back in the waning light;
Through the flick’ring shadows they strangely
glide—where the camp-fires burn to-night.
The camp-fires burn till they slowly die—the em-
bers are charred and black !
And dreams that deep in the dead past lie will
never again come back.
And brightest hopes of the long-ago have long
lain cold and white,
And dead as the ashes that lie below where the
camp-fires blazed to-night !
There are sheep to shear and a cheque to earn ere
the sheds “ cut out ” this year ;
But many a camp-fire yet must burn ere the shear-
ing time is here ! . „
In a howling spree where the shearers sink
their cheques there’s a brief respite
From the haunting Past, for the men who think,
where the camp-fires burn to-night \
White Cliffs Opal Fields.
R. B. HOFFMAN.


Australia!} n «».
11.. Oldest Uutual Lit. w,„c, Society e.Ubli.hed Pr<Wid€l)t SOCietV.
Anstralasm, and the ONLY BEOL . A BONUS EVERY YEAR I % 7
Di restore . . f'/ 0 BB< £ BT ’ B gjM -0., M.L.A. -Chairman t JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman;
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General = A W. MEEKS, Esq.
4 uenelal Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE FI A FFA FSS
Annual TnnAtuo '’ *"■> '
Annual Income
Accumulated Funds
Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the OnTylar iso a"/„« , Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
vieldino- ii n™F making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
TTf,!, Jleiaing Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
° fflce: 8V PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL - -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office ; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
-Trains, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night—advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards, inclusive of ail
meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Managrr,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
WatcrbGry Watcb!
For Correct Time and Little Money.
Ulaterbury matches watch the (jjorld t
THE UNIVERSAL TIMEKEEPER.
IRO^-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulaje.
STE\M
Cultivating
Machinery.
*3
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
-Electric- Lighting
engines.
road rollers.
Portable Railway
Locom o t ives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd,
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
_ „ .. 'VALTEK M. NOAKES. M.1.M.E., Colonial Makaqkh.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE
The Condon m Melbourne Tailoring Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY. *
OUR STOCK
is selected front the
Leading London Houses.
CALL for PATTERN'S.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
We Buy for Cash
For Example:—
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits
Serge Sac Suits
Scotch or West of England Tweed
S. M. BAUMASCIIE, Manager
50s.
50s.
455.
and are 20 per cent. Cheaper
than other Houses.
unequalled
for
quality
AX'D
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
SIT-KIES, as showt, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high. with Silver Pash Rail, Two Lamps
complete,. £S 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £-20; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H- NILLIER, 135 & 13/ bussex-st., Svdnev,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles."
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, contained to mr
System, 1 have decided to CLEAR MV STOCK of BICYCLES AT I MD-DOWV fV)°T fv svnvrv*
these have English Dunlop and M. and \V. Tvres. The iaoon r &Yl ?.\ E } The "hole of
Buyers should apply early 4 these goods cannot be bought again for the same'money ' m ’ 80 " holeSiUe aiui detail
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA
TEETH
TEETH
teeth
teeth
teeth
teeth
teeth
teeth
teeth
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
nave one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
cnairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials,
-iney ea,n do. everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
9S King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
the only addkess.
{odailla. Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
. I Sodalla JfcJac on
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
t-godalla Hama
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
havin S- come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
tne public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agext,
229 SUSSEX STItEET, SIMXET.
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
m m
* ■
Mi
S 3
H
fcvery Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2-to 10 - ner' ni«ht Twn
DIXIXG ROOMS. Boarders. 30 -co £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
insurance company, ltd.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Offices: 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
"V ictorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 416 Collins Street
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Mr. : iager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
f INSURERS share in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN *
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
Ihe CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896—divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies
making £9*7, *763 d-ivided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., MLC
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873 -1395.
Policies Issied, 71,373, assuring £-22 310 658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders 1,5JJ,’406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894-
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents. Typhoid. Diphtheria, eic.
Australian Branch: W. JPWillan, M.P., A. VV. MeckT
J. IDirectors. Adelaide: E. H. Prachet. L. A Jrssop
Director Melbourne: D. CUvxg. Brisbane: T. Welsbv.’
... . . Manager for Australia,
" nte for Prospectus. 131 pi tt St., SYDNEY.
57
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W-. o. ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all toe colonies promvtlv
attended to.
Important Announcement by Dixson
1 obaeco Man a fact a revs.
i* Sons,
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSOX * SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising cap*
4 UF ° n this market at a FHce Hitherto Un-
known H6ie a Cigar of exceptional "quality!
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Vuelta Abajo). PP
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco wi*+h „
equally-choiee Seed W, and together they' form a
recognised brands of high-class Havanas. *
, ATuU-sizea Cigars for 6d. ! !-wiii at ,w M u.. ~.
1)6 but machinery, overcoming the W cost of „d •
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight I 1 ' i 1 reduction, just
and SONS intend the bLuuJ c D ™
c l ° UiUbtrate and Prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA
PJ
comes
nets tzzz t; .r ,h t* <— «•
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxurv ‘ «™»»rtances from
nddii! 1 ! ■ vi " w *>
t vs. wnue this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper .
Vol. 18.— No. 898.
SATURDAY, MAY 1, 1897.
Price, 6d,
Queen sfctrccC /Jltnj.
Privilege of Shooting Deer.
It was announced a few days ago that an
exalted personage had shot two deer at Cress-
brook. On inquiry in official quarters we
leani that “ permission ” has been
given to the gentleman in question to shoot
three deer. It will be interesting to
many who were enthusiastic in promot-
ing the introduction of deer and other
game, to learn who, save an absolute
and undisputed owner, has power to
grant “permission.”
If J/'M
f/r- s n
H
£-\
' The New South Wales delegates were anxious to
get to Sydney by Monday morning. Sir George
Turner ottered to place a special train to Alburj
at their disposal, but the New South Wales
Commissiolners refused to continue the train
from Albury to Sydney.
Pj If* r
TLord Hampden spoke with emphatic
tongue. Hol'd Hampden had no doubt whatever
as to the o£ the steps then taken, -Tegard-
ing it as an act which appealed to the whole
world, and was accepted as a pledge of Aus-
tralia's fidelity to British interests. These sen-
timents were wildly cheered.
~ xr-t—^rY
*—•?s&***
yz«r-
z/z, . ✓
- - M**- fy
to* &/S. M*o~ /ji^'UcZ s7
CARTOON LETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bihletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drajts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor 'will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rt icles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
ifc Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. —lF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this ride.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lsd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
Tj^S&xzHelzffi.
SATURDAY, MAY 1, 1897.
Federal River Control.
The argument which arose in the Conven-
tion as to Federal or provincial control of
Australian rivers, and the reasons adduced
for either course, and the unsatisfactory com-
promise finally arrived at, were eminently
characteristic. All the parties concerned in
the trouble alleged that they spoke and
voted according to their unselfish convic-
tions. Nevertheless it was noticeable that
the representatives of the provinces which
had no river-systems dropped almost entirely
out of the debate, and those personally in-
terested in the one river system which is
large enough to be worth calling a system
fought for their own hands exclusively, and
their convictions and their interests ran to-
gether. South Australia demanded that any
river running through more than one pro-
vince should be placed under Federal con-
trol along with its affluents, and that the
Commonwealth should superintend naviga-
tion and, if necessary, allot out its waters
for irrigation purposes among all the por-
vinces concerned. New South Wales, and,
in a less degree, Victoria, claimed that each
province should absolutely control that por-
tion of the rivers which lay in its own
territory ; that it should have absolute power
to draw off all the water for irriga-
tion purposes if it chose and leave no
river at all for the people of the province
below ; and that it should have power to
block any waters within its own territory,
and shut off river commerce with the ad-
jacent province if it felt so inclined, or could
advantage itself by so doing. New South
Wales, having the Lachlan, Murrumbidgee,
Edwards, Darling, Culgoa, Warrego, Namoi,
Glwydir, Macquarie, and at least a half-
interest in the Murray as its share of the
Murray system, was naturally in deadly
earnest as an advocate of the provincial view
of things, and claimed the right to use all
these rivers as it pleased, with no considera-
tion whatever for the South Australians down
below. Victoria was mostly on the same
side, but rather less in earnest, because it
has less water at stake. South Australia, as
the province whose water-supply these two
states claimed the right to cut off, and whose
river commerce they demanded authority to
block, naturally took the opposite view. It
was finally resolved, as a compromise, that
the Murray, so far as it formed the boundary
between New South Wales and Victoria,
should be under Federal control, but that all
its affluents should be state property. This
doesn’t definitely settle the vexed question
either way.
* * * *
The Bulletin, which firmly believes in
giving the Federal Government the benefit
of the doubt wherever there is a conflict be-
tween it and the provincial authorities,
reckons that the balance of logic is in favor
of the South Australian view of the case.
In other words, it holds that, where a river
flows in the territory of more than one state,
it and all its tributaries should be Federal
property. At the same time, it doesn’t sup-
pose for a moment that the South Australian
delegates took the particular view they did
for any other reason than that their interests
lay that way, or that they were one fraction
more patriotic than their neighbors. The
question of river control is not an urgent
concern just now, but in the future—possibly
in the near future—it is almost certain to
become a matter of the greatest importance.
So far as commerce is concerned, the rivers,
in this paper’s opinion, matter comparatively
little, and will by-and-bye matter nothing at
all. If the drought-cursed interior of Aus-
tralia is ever to carry a large and prosperous
population, instead of a thin sprinkling of
people living constantly on the verge of ruin
and famine, it can only be by irrigation on a
stupendous scale. And there is so much
land to irrigate and so little water to do it
with, that the time will almost certainly come
when, in ordinary seasons, all the contents
of the Murray and all its tributaries will fie
used for this purpose, and nothing will reach
the sea at all. The navigation question will
die a natural death for want of anything to
navigate, and the only matter worth con-
sidering as a permanent problem is the use
of the river system for irrigation purposes
and for the supply of the population which
will be by-and-bye.
• * * *
The Murray, Murrumbidgee, Lachlan,
Edwards, Darling, Culgoa, Warrego, Cam-
paspe, &c.,- are all one system, and have a
common outlet to the sea through South
Australian territory. This system forms the
only permanent water-supply of a small part
of Queensland and a large portion of New
South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia.
Considering the dire scarcity which often
prevails over this great tract of country, the
inhabitants are much in the situation of a
crowd of castaways on a raft in mid-ocean
with a limited water-supply to divide among
them—or at least they will be in that situa-
tion when irrigation works are established
on the large scale which the country requires,
and they almost certainly will be so estab-
lished sooner or later. Then the problem to
be decided is whether the supply shall be
divided as fairly as possible by the central
authority, or whether every one shall grab
what he can get and the one who is left shall
get none.
* * * *
If Australia is to be one nation, then the
only fair policy is Federal control and a fair
division of the precious asset. If it is still
to consist of five hostile states, and Federa-
tion is not to mean the making of a nation
after all, then the provincial policy of grab is
quite legitimate. In an ordinary dry season
it would be quite possible, under a complete
irrigation system such as this country re-
quires, for Queensland, New South Wales
and Victoria to use up the whole water-
supply of the great river system. Queens-
land would impound only a little of it about
the head waters of the Warrego, Culgoa and
Macintyre, and its share would not be worth
mentioning. New South Wales would get
the lion’s share, and Victoria would also get
a very fair proportion in the north and north-
western shires. S.A. would receive none,
and while the two neighboring provinces
grew prosperous and amazingly fertile, it
would be left in its present state of sterility.
Assuming that the idea of Federation is that
each province is still to go on grabbing all it
can at the expense of its neighbor, and ruin-
ing its neighbor all it knows how for its
own benefit, then the latter idea is perfectly
fair—up to a certain point. Even under the
narrowest idea of provincialism it is only
good up to a certain point.
* * * * *
Despite the almost continuous drought
curse even Australia has its flood seasons.
It is only a few years since Wodonga (Vic.)
was almost washed away, and the outlying
cornstalk town of Bourke was an islet rising
out of a howling waste of waters. On these
occasions all the irrigation systems that the
Murray watershed could hold would not
absorb the water-supply, and it must flow
away through South Australia. Therefore,
the purely provincial idea is this: The
waters of the Murray system, down to
the South Australian boundary, belong
exclusively to New South Wales, Vic-
toria, and Queensland. In dry seasons,
when South Australia wants water, they
have an absolute right to impound all the
streams east of the boundary line, and leave
the adjacent province without. In wet
seasons, when South Australia doesn’t want
water, they have an absolute right to let the
floods go through its territory and drown out
the low-lying lands along the Murray banks,
and swamp South Australian townships to
any extent that chance may dictate. South
Australia, with the best possible reason,
kicks violently against this arrangement. If
that province isn’t to have any claim to the
Murray waters when they are much needed,
it should not be bound to be a receptacle for
the Murray floods when they are not needed
and only cause disaster. If South Australia
has no right to use Victoria and New South
Wales as a catchment area, they have no
better right to use South Australia as a
storm-water channel. Supposing the pro-
vincial view had prevailed, and New South
Wales and Victoria had established an abso-
lute claim to use all the waters of the Murray
system as far as the point where the three
provinces meet, then it would obviously be
also their duty to dig a new channel in their
own territories to carry off flood waters to the
sea, instead of letting them loose on the ter-
ritories of a neighbor to whom, by their own
logic, these waters don’t belong. New South
Wales, having asserted its right to impound
for its own sole use all the Murray’s nor-
thern tributaries, and it being decided that
South Australia has no claim whatever on
these tributaries, is even now under a moral
obligation to do this so far as they are con-
cerned. Having laid down the law that
South Australia is not entitled to derive
benefit from these waters, it is equally logi-
cal that South Australia should not be incon-
venienced by them when they break loose, as
they do now and then.
* * * »
If Australians are to be one nation, with
common interests, then the whole Murray sys-
tem—the only interprovincial system in this
country—should be under Federal control.
It should be kept open for navigation, so far
as possible, by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. When a large irrigation system is
established, and the available water is limited,
the supply should be allotted out as fairly as
possible among all the provinces interested.
If there is enough to water all the land cap-
able of irrigation, or all of it that is under ir-
rigation at the moment, all along the main
river and its affluents, then there "will be no
need for interference. If the water avail-
able is only, say, 75 per cent, of what is
needed at any giyen time, then the amount
permitted to be withdrawn should be reduced
one-quarter all round, and the agriculturist
on the upper reaches of the river
should have no preference over the
one furthest down. The theory that
each province should be allowed to make
what use it pleases of its “ natural advan-
tages ” is not only anti-Federal, but con-
trary to all the usages of civilisation. On
the same basis the large man should have
full authority to use his natural advantages
and assault the small one ; and the province
which produces a military genius should be
duly authorised to use the natural advantage
thus created to loot the province which has
no military genius ; and everything should
go, in a chaotic sort of fashion, to the
luckiest and the strongest.
Wanted, a Policy.
The N.S.W. Protectionists have been holding
a conference in Sydney. All the old party
hacks were present, and all the old posturing
mediocrities and deadbeats, and smellful, dis-
credited blatherskites, who hang on to the
National policy gathered together to whop the
drum in exactly the same strain as they have
done any time for ten years past. The meeting
read papers to itself about Protection. It de
livered long speeches to itself on the same sub-
ject. It threw great masses of statistics and
facts and evidence about Protection at its own
head. It proved to itself that Protection was
coming, and it shook hands with itself over the
good times that would necessarily ensue. It
passed votes of thanks to itself for its loyal
adherence to Protection, and it advertised itself
with a weird, wild yelp as the great Protec-
tionist party, and nothing else. W. J. Lyne,
leader of the National cause in Parliament,
stated that if he were returned to power he
would introduce Protection—of which fact
everybody was already aware. For the rest,
he refused flatly to state what his policy was,
or if he had any policy at all. As no one else
authoritatively jumped his place and offered a
policy, the situation is that the N.S.W. Pro-
tectionist leaders ask the country to take them
on trust—to “go it blind” on them as far as
concerns everything except their one hackneyed
theme. And, though the country has every
reason to be very tired of Foreign-trade, it is
hardly so tired as to give Lyne and Co. an ab-
solutely free hand in everything except Pro-
tection. It is too large an order.
* * * .
The N.S.W. Protectionist leaders, by con-
stantly putting themselves forward as men
with only one idea—Protection—and by misre-
presenting their party as a party of one idea
are doing their very best to reduce the
Protectionist body to the hopeless position of
the Single-taxers or the Prohibitionists or any
other one-fad gathering. No sane community
will ever put into power a party with only one
visible idea. It won’t trust itself to a leader
who states distinctly what he will do as regards
one essential question of the day, and offers no
explanation at all as to what he is o'oinc' to do
as regards the other 999 equally essential ques-
tions. Before it puts Mr. Lyne into power it
wauts him to show' some definite and progressive
views about the liquor-question, state banking
state paper-money monopoly, state fire and life
insurance, old-age pensions, minimum wage,
regulation of the hours of labor, irrigation
foreign borrowing, local borrowing or no bor-
rowing at all, absentee-tax, graduated land-tax-
graduated income-tax, increase or decrease of
the exemptions under the present taxes
exclusion of aliens, state land bank, bettemient,
thinm, Bo ' and many scores of other
tnings. It isn t necessary that he should hold
-x reme views about these matters ; if his views
aie even moderately liberal and are clear,
definite, and business-like he will at least be a
man with a complete policy, and even a very
moderate kind of policy gets a chance sooner or
later in the whirligig of politics. But h e
insists on posing as a person who has no policy
at all beyond Protection, and who is too barren
in the head to formulate one. And, unluckily
he makes a large section of the public believe
that his party is like himself.
* * * *
The mental sterility of Lyne is fast driving
intellectual men away from any open associa-
tion with the cause which is cursed by his sup-
port. To be a Protectionist in New South
Wales means being a follower of Lyne or at
least being regarded as such. Being a follower
of Lyne means approval of his policy and a
desire to lift him into power. And no intelli-
gent individual will undertake to approve of
Lyne’s policy, seeing that he absolutely refuses
to state what it is, save in one particular—an
important particular, certainly, but still onlv
one. Also, no person of brains and character
will pledge himself to help to lift Lyne into
power, seeing that no one knows what Lyne is
going to do w'ith the power when he gets it—
except in so far as concerns the one weary par-
ticular aforementioned. The man of one idea
is naturally followed most closely by men of
one idea —hence the gathering of cheap cranks
and mediocrities and notoriety-hunters who
loomed forth so conspicuously at the recent
Conference.
* * * »
The N.S.W. Foreign-trade party can’t and
doesn’t attempt to stand on Foreign trade
alone. It recognises that a man can’t be fully
clothed with only a boot lace, no matter how
excellent in its own sphere that bootlace may
be. It has kept in office by establishing direct
taxation, by civil service reform, by a liberal
land policy, by promising local government and
half-promising a State Bank, and by faking the
public accounts and lying about its surplus. If
it had professed to have no policy beyond
Foreign-trade it would probably never Lave
got into office at all, or if it had got in it would
have gone out again with i emai kable sudden-
ness. Lyne’s policy of being a Protectionist
and nothing more not only makes him impos-
sible ; it is also fast making his party impos-
sible until it finds a new leader. •
* * * •
Ten years ago the Protectionist party in
N.S. W. was distinctly the party of pro-
gress. It was the main support of every
great idea and of everything which was not
old and stupid and fossilised. Then Premier
Reid systematically borrowed its ideas, and as
Lyne’s only mode of leading an Opposition was
to oppose everything that was done by the
Ministry, he allowed himself to be jockeyed
into opposing, or at best giving a grudging
assent to, every reform which came under con-
sideration. No one save an eminently stupid
man could have drifted into a situation of the
kind. Premier Reid’s Liberalism was of such
a milk-and-water character at the best that a
clever opponent could easily have posed
as the progressive man of the two, and
shown up Reid as a mere apology for a re-
former. When the Premier brought in his
Income-tax Bill the leader of the progressive
parly should have demanded a heavier impost
on large incomes than on small ones, and a
larger tax on incomes derived from property
than from those realised by personal exertion.
When the land-tax came on the scene he might
have held up Reid to derision for his feebleness
and cowardice, and his pandering to the rich,
and his oppression of the poor, by making the
man with £5OO worth of property pay at the
same rate as the man with ,£50,000 worth, by
his failure to especially tax the absentee, and
to levy an extra impost on the land speculator,
as distinguished from the man who puts the
soil to profitable use. He might have forced
Reid to keep moving with his State Bank idea
—now apparently defunct. He might have
made himself and his party the advocates of
state insurance, old age pensions, and other re-
forms which the N.S. W. Premier, so far, has not
dared to touch ; and he might have created a
new political movement by laying it down as a
cast-iron law that the return of W. J. Lyne to
office as Premier meant the absolute stoppage
of the borrowing policy, and the construction
of all public works out of revenue. But, instead
of going one better than his feeble opponent, he
missed his opportunity every time.
* * ♦ *
On every'separate point, the chances of the
game—if he had only known how to play it —
were with Lyne. His fiscal policy is essentially
the policy of the artisan, the laborer, the small
farmer and the poor in general. It is also the
policy of the rich manufacturer, but that indi-
vidual doesn’t exist as yet in N.S.W. Free-
trade, on the other hand, is the policy of the
wealthy importer, the city magnate, the specu-
lator, and generally of the classes which are
not dependent on their daily toil. If Lyne, as
the representative of the poor, had demanded
an extra graduated tax on large incomes and on
incomes not obtained by labor, and an extra
impost on large estates and estates that are not
profitably used, and a crushing impost on
absentees, he would have placed Premier Reid
between the alternatives of alienating his
friends, the rich importers, by his radicalism,
or his other supporters, the Labor-members, by
his conservatism. If he had supported State-
banking, State-insurance, a State monopoly of
note-issues and a National Land Bank, Premier
Reid must either have thrown over his friends,
the city capitalists, by assenting, or his other
friends, the Labor-members, by a refusal.
Reid, supported one-half by the very rich and
the-other half by the representatives of the
very poor, had to steer a middle-course and to
live on compromises. Lyne, with no rich sup-
porters to propitiate, might have been wholly
democratic, and in so doing he could have
shown, by contrast, what a poor apology for a
democrat his rival was. And, instead of this,
he allowed his party—the party of the masses—
to drift into a tacit alliance with the Fat Men
of the Council, by which it gained nothing and
lost everything, and to pose as the party of
wealth without having any wealth.
* * * »
What the N.S. W. Protectionist party might
be under Lyne, if Lyne were not Lyne, may be
ascertained by considering what the same party


is in Victoria under Turner, in South Aus-
tralia under Kingston, in Maoriland under
Seddon. In these provinces it is the party of
progress and radical reform, and its policy is
associated with everything that is opposed to
fossildom and stupidity and bigotry and re-
action and senility. And in New South Wales
it is only the party which meets together and
throws at its own head great slabs of statistics
about exports and imports—and reads papers
to itself about exports and imports—and holds
conferences at which it talks about nothing but
exports and imports—and drifts.
The Equal-State-Representation-in-the
Senate-Question.
Mil Thomas Ewing, M.L.A., comments on
Mr. James Ashton’s Bulletin article on equal
State-Representation in the Federal Senate :
The real difficulties in the path of Australian Union are
so trifling that the ingenuity of our leading men has been
seriously taxed to conjure up phantoms (the term
“ Lions ” does not meet the case) which may delay Union.
« * * *
Mr. Ashton is usually both fair and logical. Why does
he not state the case justly? Under the proposed bi-
cameral Federal system, Tasmania, he estimates, will have
four members and N.S. Wales 42 members in the House
of Representatives, therefore, in that Chamber—if
numerical strength means power—N.S. Wales will have
more than ten times the power of Tasmania.
In the Senate, with a recognition of State Rights, these
provinces will have equal power. How can he fairly con-
tend that one-tenth of the power in one Chamber and
equal power in the other is tantamount to equal power in
the Government of United Australia? Such contention
can only be supported by the inference that the House of
Representatives will have no power at all. A < lance at
the proposed Constitution Bill, or that of ’9l, relutes this
at once —even if we were not furnished with a direct
denial by the experience of other federations. Therefore,
the basis of Mr. Ashton’s contention—that equal repre-
sentation in the Senate carries with it equal power in the
Federal Government—is incorrect.
* * * *
Under Federation, the State Legislatures will continue
to control matters of local importance, while the Federal
Parliament will be supreme in subjects of national
moment. Therefore, presumably, it is with regard to
National affairs that there is any probability of conflict
between the two Chambers. The anticipated friction
cannot be of serious importance, if the type of men in the
Senate be not widely different from those in the House of
Representatives. YVill such be the case ?
The members of both Chambers will be elected
under a system of manhood suffrage. Is it reasonable to
conjecture that the men elected by the people to the
Senate will be mean-spirited provincialists, and those
elected to the House of Representatives generous-minded
statesmen? If Mr. Ashton s contention be correct, the
same people will choose for one Chamber men pre-
pared to sacrifice Australian interests to localism, and for
the other reputable and broad-spirited nationalists.
The probability is that the people will choose much the
same type of men for both Chambers ; if this be so, al-
though there may be differences of opinion, the danger
of any serious crisis will be remote.
* * * *
Turning to another aspect of Mr. Ashton’s letter : If
some of the provinces are infested by an inferior type of
men, and the mother province possesses all the patriotism
and liberalism of the group, N.S.W. had better treat such
people as vermin, and begin a war of extermination
against the smaller states forthwith.
Mr. Ashton instances the Black Labor question. What
possible justification can he have for the assumption that
Senators representing such a state as South Australia
would vote for black labor? Is it not absolutely certain
that they would not do so?
It will not be contended that small states cannot be
democratic, therefore the Senators from the small states
will not be found delaying legitimate reform ; thus the
whole question of friction sinks into such a question as
instanced by Mr. Ashton, whether South Australian
Senators would be prepared to sacrifice the defence of
Australia in order to obtain a bogus expenditure in Wes-
tralia in hopes that the Westralian Senators would re-
ciprocate.
Does Mr. Ashton contend I hat Mr. Kingston, if elected
as a Senator, would enter into a rascally plot in opposition
to the public opinion of Australia, and in antagonism to
the true interests of the Commonwealth, in order to obtain
a useless expenditure in Adelaide ?
Mr. Ashton’s whole argument rests on the presumed im-
becility, fraud and disloyalty, not of the smaller states,
but of elected members of the Federal Parliament of
Australia.
The small states may be united in claiming equal state
rights, but there the mutual interest ceases and therefore
the combination disappears. To imagine Senator King-
ston voting for Black Labor because he happened to be
the representative of a small state is absurd.
* * * *
Mr. Ashton asks in conclusion : “ Hovr can a federation
last if state rights be recognised?”
Can he instance a federation without such recognition ?
Has not every attempt, at federation among similarly-
situated peoples failed without some such arrangement as
that which he condemns ?
• * • »
The phantom of Federal railway control is conjured up
because provincialists desire to make trade flow to ports
which are not the legitimate outlet for certain areas.
Attempts to make water run up hill usually fail.
The phantom of the Federal Capital has received a
serious check from the fact that it might mean the loss of
state prestige.
The phantom of state rights must also vanish if so able
a man as Mr. Ashton can find no tenable position from
which to demonstrate the possibility of any serious
danger.
Tuos. Ewing.
Legislative Assembly, Sydney, 23/4/97.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
Editor Bulletin, —The N.S. W. National Art
Gallery has become a great public institution.
Nominally vested in trustees, the varied, and in
many instances, beautiful objects which adorn
its walls and floor space are in reality the pro-
perty of the people. No one can refuse its
directing power the credit of properly organis-
ing the daily work of the gallery. Its contents,
such as they are, have been judiciously housed,
tended, and displayed, and the interprovincial
picture exchanges, now a recognised feature,
must have considerably taxed the time, intelli-
gence, and energy both of the administrative and
executive sections. Nevertheless, the trustees
seem to have fallen into a frame of dangerous
contentment with a mediocre and perfunctory
discharge of the larger obligation of selection,
under stress of which they have almost ceased
to be conscious that the charge of wasted means
and neglected opportunities lies at their door.
For several years past their purchases have
mostly consisted of heroic canvasses of the
flashy order on the one hand, and mere triviali-
ties of the furniture-picture type on the other.
There would be no difficulty in selecting about
the area of a moderate sized back-garden of
painted canvasses from our N.S.W. pictorial
assets which would make the sorriest exchange
for Peter Graham’s single work “Glencoe
after the Massacre,” adorning the Melb. section
of the loan exhibits now on view in the Domain.
In the Daily Telegraph, the other day, Mr.
Sidney Long wrote that the artist is the only
rue critic of art, just as the lawyer is the only
rue critic in legal matters, or the doctor of
medicine. What is true of the art critic is
presumably equally true of the art buyer or
selector. Well, there have *been some few
occasions when the functions of eminent
professional artists and picture purchasers have
found themselves united under one set of hats.
The S.A. Gallery, when it first began buying in
London, spurned the idea of being represented
by common persons. Sir Frederic Leighton,
with, I think, two other academicians, was the
selector. But the selections unhappily proved
unsatisfactory, and the gifted selectors found
themselves rather promptly unshipped. In
later years Professor Herkomer was a buyer—
possibly he is one to this day—for Victoria.
The Professor’s reign was coincident—whether
post hoc or propter hoc is uncertain —with the
acquisition by the Vic. Gallery of a portrait of
Queen Victobia by “ Hubert Herkomer,
R.A.,” for w'hich, I believe, 1000 guineas were
paid. And to look on Queen Victoria as ren-
dered by the honored Professor makes a con-
siderable pull on my reserve of loyalty. Again,
artists, as well as laymen interested in art
matters, know something of the administration
of the “ Chantrey Bequest ” in England. It is
wholly controlled by the Royal Academy. The
annual purchases made from it are made ex-
clusively by Academicians. And I rather fancy
it would make an intelligent Londoner “smile
loudly ” were Mr. Sidney Long to assure him
that the selections were necessarily the best
that could be made, or that in some noted
instances they were nbt almost the worst.
From an abstract standpoint it would not seem
an extravagant proposition that an accomplished
professional artist should of all others be the
safest guide in picture-buying ; but it is one
which has not stood the strain of working ex-
perience. In the British market circumstances
which would never occur to people arguing
from surface probabilities in our own smaller
sphere are in constant, although perhaps tacit,
operation to thwart the natural play of effort
and motive. To put it plainly, the platitu-
dinarian references to the function of the art
critic are nothing better than an impertinence.
They have their origin in the same kind of brain
as that w r hich finds the literary critic inadequate
because he has not written a book; or that
which pronounces Macaulay’s Essays worthless
because when they appeared their author had
not written his History of England. So much,
then, for the view that w'orks once selected for
N.S.W. Art Gallery thereby become sacrosanct
—only to be commented upon by the outsider
with bated breath and in a spirit of whispering
humbleness. I may point out, in concluding,
that it is a most important question whether
Sydney is to be the recognised domicile of the
worthiest exhibits, or whether the Domain
collection is merely to be regarded as a con-
venient feeder for the supply of loan pictures
to the inland towns. This is the question sug-
gested by the N.S.W. statistician’s figures for
1894 and 1895—those for 1890 not being yet
available. In these years, while £3388 was
spent on works of art, the outlay upon wages,
salaries, frames, freight, insurance, repairs and
sundries totalled £4106; truly a portentous
proportion of sack to daily bread.—C.M.S.
4
Heaven and the Hat.
The latest prayer-romancist is Rev. Taylor,
of St. Stebhen’s, Newtown, Sydney—to com-
mence the building of which tabernacle the
Lord, he says, provided the £lOOO for which a
“ few of the workers joined their clergyman in
daily prayer.” At the end of ten weeks, at all
events, promises had been received representing
£957 165., after which it looks as if Heaven either
couldn’t lay its hands upon the odd £42 ss. or
considered it had done as much as could reason-
ably be expected from a Providence with so
many calls upon it. After another eight weeks,
however, when the flock held a meeting to
consider whether it was quite the square
deal to shut down upon them for such a
trifle, it turned out that “ God had really given
£57 16s. more than was needed.” Why this
discrepancy was not respectfully pointed out to
the Deity doesn’t appear ; perhaps the faithful
didn’t want to take any chances about having
to part-up again. But, in any case, The Bul-
letin wants to know why they didn’t pray for
what they needed, ready-made. To supplicate
for a church on Saturday, and to have a brand-
new edifice dumped dowui, all ready for service,
on Sunday morning, would go far to convince
even this ungodly paper, which has, however,
in the meantime, to remain blasphemously
observant of the fact that nothing ever happens
“in answer to prayer” that couldn’t just as
well have happened in the ordinary, non-
supplicatory course of events.
Another Financial Compromise.
After much infuriated conversation, the Con-
vention abandoned its original scheme for
dividing the Federal surplus among the states,
and built up a new one on a simpler basis. The
new plan, which originated from Premier Reid,
rightly assumes, as did the old one, that under a
uniform customs tariff the various states of the
Commonwealth will ultimately get to the same,
or practically the same, level, and the contri-
butions per head of population will be about
equal all round. It also follows the idea of the
financial committee in assuming that the level
will be arrived at in five years, and after that
the surplus can be distributed on a population
basis ; but instead of keeping accounts and dis-
tributing the surplus with mathematical
accuracy during the first five years, it is now
proposed to keep accounts for one year only
and average the rest. Supposing the first year’s
returns show that the average customs
and excise revenue for the year is £2
per head, but that N.S. Wales yields 50s.
Victoria 30s. and S.A. 355. per head, the surplus
will be distributed for the first year on that
basis. Next year no separate accounts will be
taken, but the N.S.W. revenue will be esti-
mated at 48s. per head ; Victorian revenue at
325., and S.A. at 365., and the surplus will be
divided accordingly. Third year it will be
divided on the assumption that N.S.W. con-
tributes 465. ; Victoria, 345. ; S.A., 375. Fourth
year the estimate will be N.S. VV., 445. ; Vic-
toria, 365. ; S.A., 38s. Fifth year the assump-
tion will be that N.S.W’. contributes 425. ;
Victoria, 38s. ; S.A., 395. ; and after that it
will be taken for granted that the tariff pro-
duces an equal amount per head in all the
states, and the surplus will be divided on a
population basis. N.S. Wales, at all events,
should come remarkably well out of this ar-
rangement. The first year of the uniform tariff
that province will almost certainly supply
more revenue per head than either Victoria,
S.A. or Tasmania, because it has fewer local
industries and is more dependent on imports.
The scheme assumes that it will take five years
for the discrepancy to vanish, and for five
years N.S. W. will get a larger share of the
surplus than it is entitled to on a mere popula-
tion basis. The experience of the Dibbs tariff,
however, shows that the inequality should
practically vanish andN.S.W.’s revenue contri-
bution get down to the level of its neighbors’
in less than four years, so that for the last year
or two of the arrangement N.S. W. should be
making a small profit out of its neighbors.
Still, the average is as near to the probable
reality as anyone is likely to get, and any dis-
crepancy will be more than covered by the
saving in book - keeping, profanity, ink,
stationery, salaries of clerks and borders customs
officers, &c. As the resolve not to federate the
railways and public debts makes a surplus in-
evitable, and as the surplus must be distributed,
Reid’s scheme is probably quite as good as any
other.
Tlie Defence of the Empire.
London Spectator has hit upon a scheme, to
which the Argus gives a timid approval, for
commemorating “ the present year of Jubilee.”
It appears that a petition that the Royal Cana-
dian Regiment should be resuscitated and domi-
ciled at Toronto has been signed by “ almost
every man of distinction in Canada,” and the
suggestion is that this should be accompanied—
By the permanent location of regiments of the Imperial
army in Australia, Maoriland, and Cape Colony. Local
enlistment would be the desideratum and would be fos-
tered as much as possible. The main intention is to
arouse in the colonies an active and practical interest in
the British army.
And the Argus thinks that—
From the colonial point of view it looks as if this would
prove a very economical method of partially discharging
obligations in connection with the military defence of the
Empire.
It is, of course, too much to assert that if this
plan were carried out the regiments would find
no one in Australia willing to recruit. We are un-
fortunately not without a certain class of persons
whose exotic and bastard patriotism delights in
seeing their country dragged at the tail of the
“ Hempire.” And doubtless many “men of
distinction ” in Australia covet the vicarious
glory of inducing other people to spill their
gore for “ Hingland.” But the average Aus-
tralian doesn’t feel that way. When he is
roused to take an interest in such matters at
all, his regret is not so much that he is unable
to further these benevolent schemes as that he
is afforded no reasonable facilities for kicking
the persons who invent them. And the sug-
gestion that the people of Australia are
oppressed with the sense of their obligations in
the way of Imperial defence which their unfor-
tunate impecuniosity prevents them from dis-
charging, and that they would be only too
happy to supply the blood and bones if John
Bull would find the money, is calculated to
make even the casual Australian scratch his
head and think. And when he starts thinking
he is apt to reflect that this much-enduring
country has for years been paying a huge naval
tribute for a squadron over which it has not
the shadow of control, and which, if we ever
should require it, will probably be at the
Bosphorus or Vladivostock or some other
equally irrelevant locality. For years past the
British army has failed to attract to its ranks
any but the most underfed, weedy, and shift-
less members of the population. And the sug-
gestion that a billet that is too mean and
miserable to attract an Englishman, an Irish-
man, or a Scotchman, should be offered to the
Australians is calculated to fill the people of
this country with gratitude and loyal fervor.
The “ unco’ guid ” Prof. Harper, of Mel-
bourne, on the act of the Federal Convention in
refusing to make a formal recognition of God
Almighty :
We are in truth working towards a state of things in
which another Wkrner., proclaiming himself the enemy of
God and of mercy, might arise, or perhaps more probably
a Napoleon of finance, who would use all the machinery
of free government to debase the will of the nation, to
bring the foul stain of monetary corruption into every
department of the state, and to exploit the souls and
bodies of the poor in the interest of his dividends.
In fact, if we do not pass an Act admitting that
God is, and insert an apology for previous
neglect in all the metropolitan papers, He will
send down, not a devouring pestilence, but
another Boom, and may the Devil have mercy
on our souls. Professor Harper should explain
how it happens that the land-boom crowd of
his own city were all GoD-fearing men who
made cheerful acknowledgment of the Al-
mighty in every prospectus, and never once
forgot Him when they had a good thing on.
Really, it is not so much an acknowledgment
of God that is desired as a recognition of the
parsons. A man need not recognise God so
long as he admits the clergy.
In Melbourne Practice Court, the other week,
Justice Hood smashed up the rotten old legal
fiction that Judges never read newspapers or
have any knowledge of current events outside
the court. The matter in hand was an appli-
cation by Colonel J. M. Templeton for leave to
transfer to a locum tenens sundry liquidating
jobs, whilst he (the plump warrior) went to
Hingland for the benefit of his health and to
“consult” with other liquidators. The affi-
davit in support of the application was a dis-
gustingly uncandid document. It stated in
effect that Templeton would probably die of
fatigue if he didn’t get a rest from the labor
of winding up those dead companies on whose
carcases he has been officially fastened for many
years, and Justice Hood’s gorge rose at the
thought of attempting to swallow such a
large quantity of balderdash. So his Honor
admitted, with an apologetic cough, that
he happened to be aware of a fact not
stated in the affidavit—viz., that Templeton
was going to England in command of a rifle
team. He had even read of a farewell banquet
being given to the said Templeton, in his
military capacity. Practically, Justice Hood
declared himself an up-to-date person who knew
quite well that Templeton seemed anxious to
retain some of his financial pickings whilst he
swaggered ’Ome with the rifle team, but not dis-
posed to tell the whole story in Court lest it
might appear rather scandalous. Justice Hood
went through a form of refusing Templeton’s
application until further facts were brought
under his learned notice. The missing
facts doubtless arrived in due course, and The
Bulletin doesn’t suppose that anything came
of his Honor’s little protest in this case, except
more costs. All the same, there is much com-
fort in the reflection that a Judge has—for the
first time on record, as far as The Bulletin
knows—allowed his actual knowledge of plain
facts to overrule his bogus judicial ignorance
concerning everything which doesn’t happen to
be put in evidence. By degrees the Bench may
work up to the frank and free system of law-
giving that flourishes just now in the remote
mining settlements of W. A. Way up there
the local magistrate always brings his personal
knowledge of any crime to bear upon the ad-
ministration of justice, and when a guilty
prisoner pleads “ Aot guilty ” to stealing a bit
of beef, the “ beak,” who has witnessed the
larceny, denounces him as a blanky liar.
And when this journal remembers how utterly
ignorant of facts Justice Hood used to be,
when dealing with a certain class of criminal
cases, this journal feels inclined to compliment
his Honor upon his newly-acquired acquaintance
with things generally known.
It is seriously proposed to reproduce in the
Commonwealth one of the worst features of the
Victorian Constitution by making the Senate a
continuous body, not liable to dissolution, and
with half the members retiring every three
years. The result of this system is that the
Senate will never be up to date ; at its best,
half the members will represent the sentiment
of to-day and the other half the sentiment of
three years ago; at its worst, one-half will
voice the popular feeling of two years and
eleven months back and the other half of five
years and eleven months back. Sudden up-
heavals of popular sentiment won’t reach it,
therefore it will grow steadily out of touch with
popular sentiment. If it grossly betrays its
trust, the people can’t rise up there and
then and call it to account; the best they can
do is to call half of it to account at a certain
fixed date, perhaps a long way ahead, when the
betrayal is ancient history, and the popular feel-
ing has grown cold. It will never have a whole
election—only a half one, and the average man
takes about as little interest in half an election
as he does in being half-married to a-quarter of
his wife. If the Senate has outraged popular
confidence and the public can reply by shifting
it bodily, the public will go in with a will and
take a live interest in politics ; if the public
can only half shift the obnoxious institution the
general feeling is that it is hardly worth while.
The only way to arouse a general interest in
the halves system is to split every senator
accurately across the middle with an axe, and
let his head and ribs remain in office while his
legs expire by effiuxion of time and go up for
re-election. That method of doing things
might arouse a good deal of excitement, as well
as make a great splash on the floor, but no
other mode of retiring the Senate by instal-
ments seems to hold out much promise.
♦
TheQ. Commissioner of Police, Parry-Okeden,
concerning over 100 blacks among whom he
distributed tobacco at Norman ton :
They were the most miserable, disease-stricken wretches
I ever saw, but I was assured these were “ kings and
queens” compared with those to the south-west, and
further along the coast west of and around Burketown.
I saw one leper who was segregated under police super-
vision near the town. His gin had followed her man
from their own country, 50 miles away, and was camped
quite close to him. She was in a fearful condition from
syphilis.
Mr. Parry-Okeden’s recommendations are the
very opposite to those made by Archibald
Meston. The latter would abolish the native
police ; the former proposes to strengthen the
detachments, but, instead of preventing the
native troopers from having any communication
with the myalls, the latter are to be approached
in a friendly manner, but with due caution.
The myall is to be gradually educated up to
the idea that the native trooper is his best
friend ; that, if he is hungry and game is
scarce, he can always get food at the
police camp ; and that, if a white man wrongs
or harasses a black man, the white man will be
punished as a black man would be. The police-
commissioner’s best recommendation is that a
Government doctor should be attached
police camp, to practise among the aborigines
only. He also advocates the forming of more
mission stations, and boldly tells his chief that,
instead of economising, lie wants nearly £2500
a year more. He extenuates the spearing of
cattle on the ground of a natural craving for
animal food, and because the blacks don’t rightly
understand that cattle are “property,” but
look upon them as “ food natural, and as their
lawful prey.” Parry-Okeden snuffs out the
idea of establishing a white police in this con-
nection. He would need teachers, expert bush-
men understanding the blacks and their cus-
toms and ideas, habits and superstitions, to
train up young men for the new force ; and—
To find even a few such men, it would be necessary to
recruit from the stations in the far North—that is, from a
place and from a class where and among whom, at the
present time, are to be found, masquerading under white
and yellow skins, some of the blackest scoundrels alive—
wretches who have wrought deeds of appalling wicked-
ness and cruelty, and who think it equal good fun to shoot
a nigger at sight, or to ravish a gin. So long as such
villains escape hanging and live in our country, the blacks
must be—and shall be, if I have a free hand and my
native police—protected.
Postmaster-General Duffy and Bard Fitz
Gibbon are reported to be candidates for the Vic.
F. Gibbon, however, is hope-
less ; his awful failure when he went to London
to float the Board of Works loan shows that he
isn’t a business man, and his poetry shows that he
isn’t a poet, and he has no qualifications for the
place at all. As for Duffy, his qualification is that
he is the worst possible frost as P.M.G., and to
make him A.-G. would be an affable way of drop-
ping him overboard. But Duffy would be almost
a worse Agent-General- than Gillies. The best
thing to do with Duffy is to make him a Governor.


When the shoe PINCHES
you regret that you did not buy
a Callaghan Shoe.
It would have lasted longer—looked better—and
NEVER
PINCHED.
What other shoe has more care
bestowed on its construction ?
Ladies’ Glace, Lace, or Button Shoes—lo/6, 11/6, 13/6, 16/6
Gent’s Patent Pumps—lo/6, 12/6, 17/6
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT:
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - . £48,202,084
Public attention is called to the following special forma
of Policy issued by this Company :
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost •
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income; ’
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective forms of investments, indemnitv
and fixed annual income to survivors •
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary-
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life-
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form nt
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining t ears
and to be free from business cares. 8 ' rs ’
For detailed infer,nation concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager at the
crST7rLT^- a " m '‘ pl " t - W~-<2‘.‘£
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
115 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland
73 Kino William Street, Adelaide S A
St. Georgb’s Terrace, Perth, W.A *
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
An
IDEAL
Portrait
Means all that Art and
Science can produce in
the latest methods of
Photography.
We leave the Framing
to you
Our efforts are solely
directed tothe product-
ion of Perfect Portraits
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,"}
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- { ff} /
ment in Permanent Bromide or i 4 /
Opal. Anjrstyle or pose. No extras,/
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
. (ground floor, no stair#.)
)) OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
cj
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Her Majesty’s “ThePrisonerofZenda.”
F ota l Stoltz’s Vaudeville Co.
Palace “Skipped by the Light
of the Moon.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess s Potter-Bellew Co.
Royal •• i n sijrht of St. Paul’s.”
" IJOU “ Nemesis.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
The luck of the house of Elphberg sticks
well by Her Majesty’s, and Anthony Hope’s dis-
sipated monarch is rescued from his dungeon every
night in the presence of a profitable audience.
The pageants all go smoothly, and the co. wears
its lovely clothes with calm assurance and does its
part remarkably well; and the grizzled old
Colonel, who still excites this paper’s especial
reverence, drives his conspiracy through every
night in a hard, remorseless fashion which makes
him the most thoroughly realistic feature in the
show. Anthony Hope’s book would have probably
been even a greater success—it would at least
have seemed a lot more real and a great deal less
like a martial dream—if he had placed the scene
in a real country, and borrowed a real monarch as
the central figure ; there are any number of real
monarchs who can be borrowed in these hard
times at less than 2£ per cent. Also, The Bulle-
tin grows more and more convinced that there
isn’t enough blood and battle in the drama, and
that Black Michael doesn’t howl so loudly and
persistently as he should do. Fully half the
show is sweet peace, and gentle love-making, and
the resting of the tired red head of a bogus king
on a good woman’s shoulder, and the love-making
is somehow the most unreal feature of the play.
Everybody feels in advance that it will come
to nothing. There are two love-stories and
they both end badly; the prologue goes back
two centuries or so to show another royal red head
(disguised in flour) resting on a shoulder where it
ought not to be, and the only thing each head
leaves behind it—save perhaps a hair-oil mark—is
woe and disappointment. Also, the ending of the
story is necessarily sickbed o’er with the pale cast
of melancholy ; it winds up with a shattered king
dragged out of his dungeon, and a broken-hearted
woman, and a good man who, by the force of cir-
cumstances, puts on his hat and walks out of the
story. Unfortunately, as this paper remarked
last week, most of the wild horse-and-battleaxe
part of the drama is unavoidably left put for want
of space. The dramatist has done all that cir-
cumstances admit of, and the result is a very good
drama, but the real “Prisoner of Zenda,” if its
best features are to appear, requires two square
miles of country to spread itself in.
** * *
Sydney Royal, which has been closed for
some time, re-opens to-night (Saturday) in the
variety business. This is quite a new departure
for the ancient house of melodrama, where for so
many years the heroine who went astray has been
thrown out weeping by the hard old father, and
the unjustly accused hero has declared his inno-
cence whilst his best girl threw her warm, white
arms round his neck, and had to be untied by the
police before the hero could be run in and sen-
tenced to 20 years’ “ hard.” A clean-shaved,
bright - eyed, eager - looking gentleman of the
American sex—one Melville Stoltz by name—is
running the new venture, and his company is
imported bodily from the land of the dollar and
the spread-eagle and the wooden ham. The
Flying Jordans, said to be something vast and
unapproachable in the serial line, are at the top of
the bill, and it is claimed that a certain triple
somersault act done by the most serial Jordan of
the crowd has never been equalled by any other
artist in “the Universe.” The Universe may,
therefore, consider itself knocked out, and may
take a back seat on the Dog Star and feel
small. The list further includes Virginia Aragon,
“ Queen of the Invisible Wire ” ; two Marios, the
“ athletes of the century ” ; the three Olifans ; the
two “ Kids ” ; the “ Little Fawn ” ; two “ King
Pins of Musical Comedy ”; sundry harpists,
singers, and dancers ; John J. Burke, “America’s
foremost comedian,” and various others. The
others include two “ delineators of negro charac-
ter”—which character, according to the Amurrikin
comic paper, has been much deteriorated by fowl-
stealing and unlawful water-melon and dishonest
huckleberry. If the two delineators are prepared
to delineate negro character with absolute accu-
racy, the present writer is prepared any night to
give them a leg-up over his garden-fence while
they purloin the discordant bass rooster next door
—a bird which interferes greatly with his sleep.
** * *
“ Charley’s Aunt ” goes as well at the
Criterion as it did on its first appearance, a year
or two ago, and is apparently fit for another
record run, if the management is willing to let the
he-lady in the black skirts and the wonderful cap
go for all she is worth. Under these cheering cir-
cumstances, no change is announced.
** * *
John Gourlay and his good old “ Skipped
by the Light of the Moon,” that have been
plodding round Australia together in all varieties
of luck for a good many years, commence a short
season at Sydney Palace this (Saturday) night.
“ Skipped ” was the first and about the best of the
alleged “ musical comedies,” but it began to rage
before the musical comedy was really invented,
and was thus very much in the position of the
primeval newspaper that had to suspend publica-
tion till Adam would be created. It wandered
around at first as a species of solitary what-is-it,
and had no distinct status, there being practically
nothing else of its kind, whereas now it is one of a
well-defined class, its principal misfortune, from
which it has never fully recovered, being that it
grew pretty old before its parents were born. The
Palace stage seems hardly large enough for the
occasion, and all the artistic loveliness of the
house looks rather incongruous as a setting for the
frenzied horse-play of Obadiah Dingle ; but if it is
a choice between letting the defrauded pie-man
chase Obadiah among these gorgeous surroundings
or shutting up the house altogether, it is doubt-
less the wiser course to let Obadiah go for all he
is worth.
** * *
After six nights William Cosgrove’s ill-
fated show pegged out at Sydney Lyceum. Up to
the last night of the season, which was Friday, it
was advertised that his theatre, which latterly had
hardly anything in it but the furniture and the
cold south wind, was “ filled from floor to ceiling ; ”
and that the melancholy exhibition was “ received
with vociferous cheers and tumultuous outbursts
of enthusiastic applause.”
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the short fare-
well season of Mrs. Potter and Bellew has
panned out splendidly thus far, and since those
indefatigable artists are committed to four more
changes of programme within the next eight
nights, they can reckon upon carrying away some
valuable souvenirs of Melbourne after all. “Fran-
cillon,” produced on Saturday, was a charming
apology for Mrs. Potter’s misdeeds in classic
drama. Her performance of the younger Dumas’
fin de siecle heroine is for the most part admirable
—as The Bulletin remarked when she did it in
Sydney—and the few points which are not admir-
able don’t obtrude themselves painfully. It is full
of pretty tricks and manners that appear natural
to the character. Also, the character itself, under
Mrs. Potter’s treatment, diffuses a fragrance of
feminine goodness, for the apparent nakedness of
the lady’s shoulders merely emphasises the fact
that she is clothed in chastity as well as the latest
Paris fashion. “ Francillon ” is a fricasseed
problem play served on silver with champagne
jelly. M. le Comte Bellew, bored by his young
wife’s devotion to the baby, goes astray just for
the sake of variety, and revels in the thought that
the comtesse is above suspicion whilst he sits
hugging a hired goddess in an oyster supper-room.
But there comes a cold, bleak morning when his
wife tells him that she tracked his movements
overnight and went astray on exactly the same
lines, with a beautiful young man whom she
picked up for purposes of connubial revenge.
Whereupon Bellew, being seized with violent
pains in his amour propre, staggers back against
the furniture and makes futile attempts to despise
the woman who followed his example. Presently
the lady reveals that she didn’t really stray half
as far as she had stated, but was merely
throwing out a hint for her lord’s future guidance.
Bellew, at the finish, feels infinitely grateful for
his wife’s moderation under the circs., and settles
down to a peaceful domestic life. The thought
that his venerable father and bosom friends will
from that time forward chaff him with mock in-
vitations to impossible sprees, doesn’t occur to the
converted sinner until after the curtain falls.
Many things are necessary to perfect happiness in
a married man, and perhaps the most necessary
thing of all is the power to say an occasional
“ Yes ”to temptation. But no matter.
• • • •
Bellew’s acting, as the Comte of easy vir-
tue, is so bright that it reflects great credit upon
Mrs. Potter by not putting her in the shade. The
stars shine together in “Francillon,” and the
people who are not stars stand afar off and shine
likewise. Cecil Ward, W. J. Montgomery,
Berkeley, Cathcart, and Miss Harrie Ireland
assist to make this a notable show. Unfor-
tunately it has run its short course, and will
appear no more in Melbourne unless present
arrangements can be altered. “ The Ironmaster ”
is now running ; “Merchant of Venice ” on Satur-
day ; “ Lady of Lyons ” to follow for one consecu-
tive night. And all the while “Francillon”
might have been booming away to the glory of
art, the advancement of healthy moral principles,
and the utter confusion of Mrs. Grundy.
** * *
Bland Holt’s conflagration drama, at Mel-
bourne Royal, is a revised edition of the “In
Sight of St. Paul’s ” that was originally produced
in .Sydney last year. The “ comic relief ” has been
written up, and a new scene showing the exterior
of the Aspasia Club, with a rather impossible
Tower Bridge in the background, is almost the
best item in the show. Orgies inside the club
aforesaid conclude with the sudden uprising of a
disorderly husband, who is about to break a bottle
across Cosgrove’s smooth round head when the
melee drops into darkness. Outside the club is
a panorama of hansom cabs, ’buses, free fights,
and donkey carts, extending over about five
minutes of wild excitement. The dialogue in the
new scene comes and goes in hasty swear words
by people who are all trying to tumble into the
wrong cab, and the curtain falls upon a general
impression of midnight madness. Take it al-
together, “St. Paul’s ” is a most deserving horror,
gorgeously mounted and effectively played in the
strongest parts, which are sinful to the last degree.
Miss Watson’s talent for luring lovers to their
ruin and dancing on their fallen characters shines
forth from several murderous episodes on this
occasion. Albert Norman, too, is impressive when
he drops his voice in the Panther’s boudoir, and
takes instructions re humping her husband’s body
to the cellar below, and Miss Vivienne, as a lost
sheep, would be rather impressive if she were only
able to drop her voice without losing it altogether.
Walter Baker is merely called upon to bear a
brother’s crime and snuffle in a manly tone, whilst
brother Cosgrove seems profoundly conscious of
being much too fleshy and short-winded for his
juvenile billet. Bland and Mrs. Holt, Miss
Frances Ross, and three or four minor performers,
give the show a push in the right direction. Two
or three other people are a regrettable nuisance, not
because they can’t act, but because they are
clumsily introduced into the middle aisle of St.
Paul’s Cathedral, and serve to make a weak con-
clusion longer than it need be.
** * *
“ The Beggar Student,” although it doesn’t
quite supply a long-felt want in Melb., is having
a pretty good time at the Bijou. The orchestra
and concerted singing numbers improve steadily,
and if the libretto were polished up with a bit of
literary sand-paper the entertainment might call
itself bright. Yet, even in that case (and a dull
libretto never does get polished) the ama-
teur legs of Sydney Ralfe, and the un-
humorous fooling of the chief gaoler, would
move the more fastidious section of the pub-
lic to tears. Miss Mabelle Darley, who ap-
peared as Laura during last week and retained her
place on Saturday, is an acquisition to the co., but
for some reason or other this clever little lady
doesn’t sing just now as sweetly as she sang under
her Lyric Club name of Davidson. The voice is
there all the same, and Miss Darley will certainly
achieve something considerable in due course.
“Nemesis ” is announced to follow “The Beggar
Student ” on Saturday.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. Income-tax Commissioners make
matters worse rather than better by declaring that their
extraordinary attempt to collect what they call “ ar-
rears ”is strictly in accordance with the Act. Said Act
reads as follows : Clause 27, section 1 : “ The amount of
taxable income from all sources for the year immediately
preceding the year of assessment shall be taken as the
basis of calculation.” This distinctly intimates that the
tax payable in 1896 shall be calculated on the income for
1895. And there is absolutely nothing about any right
to alter the arrangements afterwards and calculate the
1896 payment on the 1896 income— i.e., to use as the
basis of calculation the year of assessment instead of the
year preceding the year of assessment. Again, the Act
says (clause 31, section III.) : “ Provided further that
if ... it is at any time found that the assessed value
or amount of any land or income respectively is higher
than is declared in the return or returns relating thereto
such excess shall be liable to taxation.” The returns for
1896 are distinctly “relating to” the income for 1895.
Therefore, if a man paid tax in 1896 on a smaller income
than he really received in the year (1895) to which that
tax “ relates,” the Act provides that he can be made to
pay up the deficiency. But as the 1896 returns don’t “re-
late to ” the income for 1896 the fact that the said income
was larger than the one (for 1895) set forth in the tax-
paper gives the Commissioners no authority at all to col-
lect the discrepancy twice over and call it arrears. It
merely gives them the right to collect a larger tax in
1897.
Again, clause 53 provides : “If any taxpayer
proves to the satisfaction of the Commissioners that his
income during any year fell short of the sum in respect of
which the tax for that year was paid, the Commissioners
shall cause the assessment to be amended accordingly,
and the overcharge to be refunded.” This also seems as
explicit as anything can be. The 1895 income, as set forth
in clause 27, is the basis of the 1896 assessment, therefore
the tax for that year (1895) is the one payable in 1896.
If it is afterwards proved that the tax for that year ( 1895),
as charged and paid in 1896, was excessive, the taxpayer
may recover the difference. The obvious meaning of the
Act is that every taxpayer pays income-tax this year on
last year’s income—the year which forms the “basis”
above alluded to. If he pays the correct amount, that
transaction is absolutely ended. If his income for ’96 is
more or less than the income he paid tax on in ’96, the
result is that he pays more or less tax, as the case may be,
in ’97, but there is nothing at all to justify the idiotic
device of re-opening the completed transaction and wast-
ing ink and stationery upon it. And how such a clumsy
and obviously illegal device came to be invented passes
comprehension. So far, the Commissioners have given no
explanation ; they merely assert that their proceeding is
“ according to the Act.” How is it according to the Act ?
• • * •
Though the N.S.W. Tax Commissioners collect
“arrears” vigorously when this year’s income is larger
than last year’s, they don't, seemingly, refund with any-
thing like the same velocity when things are the other
way about and the balance is against them. At least one
infuriated taxpayer publishes in the S.M. Herald a copy
of a document received in such a case, said document
being apparently a fiat refusal to recognise a claim against
the department. Also, the Tax Commissioners, who seem
to have swelled head very badly indeed, announce that
“while the present Commissioners hold office and the
present Act is in force” the administration will not be
varied. Even if the Supreme Court directs that it shall
be varied the Commissioners are apparently quite ready
to treat that institution with cold derision.
• • • •
Coghlan reckons that N.S.W. consumes about
1)4 million bushels of wheat annually, and as last year’s
crop was nearly nine million bushels, it would seem that
there is enough for local requirements and something over.
Yet the imported article keeps pouring in under the
blessed influences of Freetrade. On April 26, 5550 sacks
flour arrived from China ; and 2500 tons flour and 600 tons
barley from California on the 25th. On April 22, the Mongol
dumped 2484 bags flour from Hongkong on Sydney
wharves; 1220 bags flour came from M.L. on the" 21st;
4200 bags flour (mostly Chinese) arrived on the 17th ; 250
sacks arrived from southern provinces on the 15th;
42,000 bags wheat and 4300 bags flour from America on
the 13th; 30 tons flour from Victoria on the 12th ; 320
bags flour from England on the Bth; 2934 bags flour
910 wheat from M.L. on the 7th; 1500 tons flour to?
(M.L.) on the 6th; 3500 bags Chinese flour on
about 40,000 bags flour from various foreign ports nn *s’
3rd ; and so on ad lib . And the cornstalk fanner keen 6
wondering why the product of his splendid harvest doesn’t
* * * *
The local sale of N.S.W. 3 per cent, stock
temporary suspended on the ground that the Govern
ment is getting more loan money than it can use If
Treasury can get more money locally that it wants at
for 3 per cent, it is so much the more reason whv N s w
Government should seize the opportunity and hurrval™,;
with that State Land Bank which was promised aiid the"
dropped last session. A long programme is annou !
for the coming session of Parliament, hut no State Una
Bank appear in it an here.
* * * «
Victorian State I .and Bank has now granted
loans for nearly 1100,000, and reckons in future to m-A
advances at a steady average of £12,500 per week Th
Tory lie that there was “ no demand for such an iiistitn
tion ” is never heard of nowadays.
* * * »
Twelve months ago—in its issue of 2nd M av
1896— The Bulletin wrote in this strain of the ColnmVi
Bank, Melbourne: “If a bank which has written off if,
losses-and got into a sound position should pay 5 p er cent
dividends—which doesn’t seem unreasonable when the
bulk of its deposits cost only 24 per cent.—and the Coin
nial proposes to get to this destination, it will have tn
write off, on the present basis of its affairs, £74i) 000-all
its paid-up ordinary capital and two-thirds of the prefer
ence capital.” This oblique prophecy of a rear a<m turn,
out very nearly true. The Colonial Bank announces that
it has written off £71,466 of forfeited share capital tn
cover losses and has in addition £558,750 of old losses
still to provide for—equal to about 20 per cent on its
advances and investments. To cover this it is proposed
to write off balance to credit of profit and loss (‘'B634V to
write off all the paid-up ordinary capital (£507,472) •’ to
call up £2 per share, and apparently to write off £42 644
of the proceeds, and start the bank afresh with the re-
mainder. As 20,540 shares out of 125,000 are forfeited
and a good many more will probably have to be forfeited
when the new call comes along, the chances are that the
Colonial will not have more than £200,000 of ordinary
capital to work on when it makes its fresh start. There is
also £406.000 of preference capital, but even with this it
will be a very small institution.
The half-year’s business looks as if the Colonial
Bank had at last got round the corner—not very far
round, certainly. The profits are £3043, against £2004
last half and £2564 at 31st March, ’96. At March, 1895
the accounts showed a loss of £4694 for the six months’
then the reduction of deposit interest from to 2| per
cent, made a half-yearly saving of £15,973, so if the
Colonial was in as good a position now as it claimed to be
in two years ago the profit should be over £11,(100.
Therefore, though things are improving, there is still a
great deal of lee-wav to make up. About half the present
increase in profits is through increased earnings ; the rest
arises through a further reduction in working expendi-
ture. The present rate of profit is only equal to a
dividend of 2 per cent, to preference shareholders, leaving
nothing at all for ordinary holders and no surplus with
which to begin a new reserve fund. Deposit and
note circulation show a respectable increase, and cash
and liquid assets (£573,861) are £120,000 more
than they were six months ago. Altogether the Colonial
Banks looks as if it was moving slowly in the right
direction—very slowly, and with a very' long
travel. Since 1892 the Colonial has w r ritten off—including
the sums now provided for—£9l7,ooo, which is a large
order for an institution of its size. In 1890 the private
wealth of Victoria was put down by Coghlan at
£344,000,000. The Colonial Bank alone accounts for the
vanishment of nearly one million, and when the Commer-
cial of Australia, Royal and Premier Permanent Building
Society are added, these four institutions alone knock off
*i .J 4 £4.000.000 among them. It is about time for the
issue of a revised estimate.
* ♦ * *
The National Bank (Melbourne) presents an
eminently gratifying report. The profits for the half-
year ended 31st March are £14,712 as compared with
£11,707 last half; £10,523 at 31st March, ’96, and £13,762
at September, 1895. It thus appears that the downward
movement in the profits definitely ended 12 months ago,
and the improvement which then set in is being well
maintained. This is assuming, of course, that the profit is
all made in the ordinary course of business, but it is a
notable feature that the holding of Government and
other debentures has decreased, during the six
months by no less than £493,000. If this means
that the securities in question were sold at the top
of a rise, and the profit realised on the sale is included
in this half-year’s returns, the profit of the actual bank-
ing business may be less than it appears. This is a
matter entirely beyond calculation in the absence of any
data to go upon.
The National pays a 5 p.c. div. (-£7645) to pre-
ference shareholders, and the balance is added to profit
and loss account, which now- stands at £23,566. The
general business seems to improve steadily, and the re-
constructed deposits, which two years ago stood at
£5,300,000, are now reduced to £3,000,000, while another
instalment is in course of repayment, and still another
is to be released in June. Despite these repayments, the
bank has £1,890,880 cash on hand, and £531,000 in
Government debentures and other easily realisable securi-
ties, equal to about 35 per cent, on all liabilities to the
public, reconstructed deposits included. With such pon-
derous resources the National could undoubtedly release
all the remaining reconstructed money in one operation if
it felt so inclined, for the great bulk of the deposits set free
are promptly re-deposited at reduced rates, and the
release is a mere book entry. The only point to which
any definite exception can be taken is the absence of any
steps towards establishing a new reserve fund. The old
reserves, £670,000 in all, were entirely written off in the
luckless period after 1893. If the National directors are
confident that all the bad debts and depreciation have
been provided for, there is no visible reason why they
shouldn’t carry £20,000 of their accumulated profit to a
new reserve, and thus make at least a small start in the
right direction. If they are not sure that all losses are
provided for, then the payment of a dividend to prefer-
ence shareholders is entirely objectionable.
The A.J.S. Bank’s re-arrangement was accepted
by the Australian creditors last Monday by a large
majority. Despite this satisfactory circumstance, how-


“ The fact of ’bus fares being less on some lines
than those exacted by the trams, bodes no good for the
Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98100 %,! Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, far cheaper than lirug
Houses.
Hy.Markwald,
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
The Dolly Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little tiiaiit”
Prospectors’ CRUSHER,
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
THIS MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Sole Agent—
Fredk. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SIR JOHN - -
Power’s Whiskey.
_ , . IP. MacMaiion
Sydney J- Lucas Bros.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Hogan, Mooney & Co., Melbourne; M‘Bean, Bowker
& Co., Perth ; Wm. Lennon & Co., Townsville.
CHEQUE BANK LTD., LONDON.
Travellers’ Drafts Cashed all over the World by up-
wards of 20,000 Banks, and by over 2200 Banks m Great
Britain.
Handbooks on
NEW OFFICES :
135 Put Street (near G.P.0.),
SYDNEY.
Application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
Agent.
To barmaids and other young ladies who
contemplate going to W.A. goldfields: “Maud
Howard succumbed to fever at midnight on Satur-
day. She was 20, a native of S.A., and was
buried yesterday, not a solitary individual follow-
ing her remains to the grave.”
The masterful Mr. E. M. Young, general
manager of the Australian Mortgage, Land and
Finance Co., Ltd., has been released by death
from all further harrying over the Mercadool
selection cases. He caught a chill in Sydney last
week and died of broncho-pneumonia.
That enterprising Sydney political boss
and illicit-distiller, M. T. M’Laughlin, Esq., has
again been caught and this time fined .£500 or a
year’s gaol. This gentleman is in gaol accordingly
—for, it would appear, most of the divs. in the
business go to the men who keep poison-shops
licensed by Govt, and ladle out M’Laughlin rot-
gut per medium of Miss Tottie Peroxide.
There are two Richmonds in the field now
—old Meston and young Meston, father Meston
and son Meston, bow Meston and boomerang
Meston. Father Meston has been named depart-
mental Providence of the Cj. aborigines, and is
going to restore ’em to the happy-hunting-ground
stage when Malachi wore a collar of brass that he
prigged from his next-door neighbor. Son Meston
is in charge of an embryo h.-h.-g. near Mary-
borough, and, according to the local paper, when
two boatmen landed the other day for water, the
happy hunters set upon ’em with nullahs and
knocked ’em silly. That’s their yarn, anyway ;
but if son Meston has inherited father Meston s
Lempri&re he should be able to knock beans out
of it in two pages and 387 mythological allusions
to Diana the mother of Proserpine, and Chaos the
step-sister of Eurydice.
Sydney D.T. reporter on Butler at Auck-
land : —
He wore a short beard and looked . . . fit for any-
thing. . . Once or twice he exploded in ferocious out-
breaks. . . The newspaper men were warned by the
detectives to keep as far as possible from the criminal.
And so on. Now, suppose the American system
of empanelling a jury were in force in Australia :
suppose the acceptance of every man summoned
as a juror depended on his giving satisfactory
answers to (1) Have you read newspaper accounts
of the alleged murders? (2) Have you formed
any opinion as to who is the guilty person ? (3)
Have you formed any opinion as to the guilt or
innocence of the prisoner at the bar ? —how long
would it take to compile a jury ? Happily, how-
ever, N.S.W. is far ahead of the U.S. in such
matters and doesn’t fiddle-faddle about the cases
of people already condemned in the opinion of
press and public.
The Corbett - Fitzsimmons battle will
shortly be reproduced with faithful details at
the Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-st., Sydney.
It was cabled that the great fight was recorded
all through by the Kinetoscope, and the colonial
branch of the Edison Laboratory before the fight
took place made its arrangements for securing the
record. The Edison Yitascope, Kinetoscope, and
Kinetophone, and the wonderful X-rays are still
on show in the parlor, and are attracting great
public interest.*
The Simpson jjuckboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Buckboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth—W. B. Gordon & Co.
Geraldton—W. Meadowcroft.
ever, its securities remain badly depressed. Deposits sold
on Monday at 11s. in the £, which seems very low, seeing
that the 21 per cent, securities of the Colonial Bank (Mel-
bourne) sell at over 14s. Also the shares (£7 10s. paid)
are offered at 14s. without any buyers. There is a pro-
bability that the A.J.S. may yet have to do some heavy
writing-down of capital before it gets quite straight,
which may account for the disproportionate slump in
shares.
According to the report of the London account-
ants appointed to overhaul the A.J.S. Bank's affairs, the
dividends declared since 1893 should not have been paid,
so presumably it is meant that they were not really
earned. The A.J.S. started booming again almost imme-
diately after its reconstruction ; in the first half-year
of its new existence it gaily paid away something very
near £23,000 to shareholders, and the total amount ex-
pended in dividends is about £115,000.
The Union Trustee Oo. (Melb.) presents a
balance-sheet that is by no means cheerful reading. The
year’s net profit is £2742, compared with £553 in 1896,
£3648 in 1895, and £2797 in 1894, which, so far as it goes,
is a distinct improvement. Then a 4 per cent, dividend
absorbs £2953, which is £211 more than the earnings.
Last year the Union Trustee paid £1476 in dividends, or
£923 more than its earnings ; and in 1894 it paid £2953
dividends—£156 more than it earned. The Union has no
reserve fund to show after 12 years’ business, and its only
visible accumulations are £1451 at credit of profit
and loss — nearly £600 less than it had three years
ago. There also appears for the first time an item,
“Investment Fluctuation Account, £2789,” but this
doesn’t come out of profits ; it is created by writing up to
their present market value Govt, securities hitherto put
in at cost. Apparently the trustee business proper is
again a heavy loss ; the company’s own funds are invested
in 3) and 4 per cent, securities, and in mortgages which
presumably yield at least 5 per cent., yet the net earnings
are less than 3J per cent., so it would seem that it takes a
good part of the interest earnings to pay the cost of run-
ning the trustee business, which latter is kept up mainly
for amusement and healthy exercise. The Union seems a
good enough concern for its clients, but for the share-
holders it is lamentable, and if the board doesn’t swear off
paying dividends which are not earned, it may become a
great deal more lamentable.
* * * *
That stupendous monopoly, the Australian Agri-
cultural Co., which grabbed some hundreds of thousands
of acres of good cornstalk lands and the best of the pro-
vince’s coal deposits (mostly out of pure philanthropy
and with a desire to promote settlement), and has been
making a good thing out of them for over 60 years, is
still alive. The profit for 1896 (distributed in London)
was £46,000, and the profits for the last three years were
about £150,000. As N.S.W. gets nothing in return for all
this, and it has been paying this tribute regularly to the
British philanthropists since the 30’s, the argument in
favor of an absentee tax, and a graduated land - tax
which will smite the very big landholder with a tremen-
dous smite, is very apparent indeed.
* * * *
Sydney Assets Realisation Co., which was
founded to realise other people’s assets and can’t realise
its own, reports that the shortage through bad debts and
depreciation has grown £15,000 worse during ’96, and is
now £65,000. The miserable shareholders have paid up
£14,000 calls during the year, so life is a constant race be-
tween them and the depreciation, and the depreciation
wins by a short head.
* * * *
In view of the continuous wail about the want
of outlets for the investment of capital, Tub Bulletin
suggests one fine large opening. Watson’s Bay township
occupies the finest site on Sydney Harbor. There are
greater possibilities about it than there are even about
Manly. The trouble is that there isn’t one wide straight
street in the township—the best of them is hardly wide
enough to be called an alley, and hardly straight enough
to be called a corkscrew. Also, nine-tenths of the build-
ings are disgraceful hovels, and there is only one
structure in the township proper that shouldn’t, for the
benefit of humanity, be shifted by dynamite. If an in-
telligent syndicate got an Act of Parliament authorising
it to compulsorily buy up the whole township at its pre-
sent value, Which, thanks to the degraded condi-
tion of the place, is not much ; and then levelled
every building in it bar one, and ripped up
every alley, and built a model township with wide,
straight thoroughfares on this lovely site, it would have
a magnificent speculation on hand. That is to say, the
spec.'would be magnificent if it was done with the syndi-
cate’s own money ; if it started by borrowing in England
at 5 per cent, the interest would kill it before the work
was half finished. If Sydney and the 40 or so adjacent
municipalities were combined under one municipal
government the County Council might tackle this con-
tract as a municipal undertaking, and, with common-
sense management, do well out of it. As things are, what
ouo-ht to be the prettiest township around Sydney is
about the saddest-looking place to be found on the sea-
ward side of Dubbo.
• * * *
Tooth and Co., the great Sydney beer co.,
limited, has a half-year’s profit of £42,556 against
£35,772 and £43,568 for two previous half-years. The
latter is the true basis of comparison, as representing the
thirst season of last year, so there is a slight falling off. A 7
per cent, dividend absorbs £31,500 ; £5000 goes to reserve,
making it £70,000 ; £2500 to provide for depreciation of
plant and machinery, and the remainder, with previous
balance, makes £8442 carried forward.
* * * •
Illawarra (N.S.W.) Steamship Co. shows a half-
year’s profit of £2622. A dividend of 3s. per share (£8
lls 5d. and four-sevenths of a farthing per cent, per
annum) absorbs £2489, so the co. has a balance of £133.
United Insurance Co. pays a half-yearly dividend at 12)4
per cent.
r * * * *
The number of houses to let in Sydney and its
immediate suburbs advertised in any Saturday issue of
S.M. Herald now runs to about 800. The corresponding
list in Melb. Age runs to about 200. Either things are so
much better in Melb. that there are much fewer empty
tenements, or they are so much worse that advertising for
tenants is only waste of the harmless, necessary shilling.
* * * *
At a certain far inland Australian town a local
genius has invented a new patent ship, and a syndicate
composed of four nightmen and a publican has been
formed to run the invention. One result is that all the
four night-carts stop at a certain corner in the small
hours of the morning while the drivers discuss what they
will do with their share of the profits, and the result is
far from salubrious.
* * * *
O N Bank held its director-electing meeting in
camera , and supplied reports to the sup-press. The re-
tiring directors got full reports ; the lshmaelitish Lieut.-
Col. Adams merely “ rose and spoke.”
* * * *
How is it that the Hebrew monopolises the
Melb furniture-trade ? In business places where only the
Grecian nose or the snub of the pork-eater is visible to the
casual customer, when you have to deal with principals
you are confronted by a gentleman with black eyes and a
nose like a warped bologna, who says: ‘ Veil, sir, Y°® dis
a gash dransaedion ? ” And how comes it that macintosh-
making (in low-grade articles, anyhow) seems to be almost
a Hebraic monopoly ?
» * *
travelling public when the Government have a monopoly
of traffic,” says Sydney Sunday Timbs, which only the
other day complained loudly of the miserable pay doled
out to ’bus-drivers. Private wages should make anything
pay.
• • • •
The records of N.S.W. Telegraph Dept, show
that of the total forms printed, just one-third are used
for the despatch of telegrams ! The rest are either spoilt
or taken away for scribbling purposes.
• * * *
There are sundry unsigned .£5 notes on a Sydney
bank in circulation. As soon as they are tendered to the
bank in question others are promptly given; but as to
how the notes got out of the the officials are silent.
* * * *
The Federal Coffee Palace Co. (Melb.) announces
an extension of its mortgage for ten years (which lifts a
load of anxiety from the co.’s chest), and a slight busi-
ness improvement for the half-year ending Jan. 31st.,
since when the slight improvement has become a trifle
more robust in appearance.
A. N.S.W. Bench refused a license to a would-
be publican last week because he confessed being the
agent of a bank with a mortgage over the property. But
if a bank can’t put its man in to run a publican’s business,
why should a brewer or distiller be allowed to do it ?
Hey 1
• * * •
That languishing institution, the Australasian
Institute of Mining Engineers, has held a session in
Sydney in which the public took not the slightest in-
terest. The society has served one purpose —it has
enabled men who are still at large to place M.A.I.M.E.
after their names in reporting on Westralian “ cats.” The
institute has been hopelessly disgraced on account of the
absence of discrimination re admission to membership.
* * * ♦
The metropolis of Melbourne, comprising nine
“cities,” six “towns,” three boroughs and four shires
owes t'9,597,086. Of this, the city of Melb. owes £1,190,000
and the Fitz-Gibbon Sewerage Board £6,752,736, of which,
however, a million has yet to be got from the Stock
Ex. people. The population of Melb. is 448,410 all in,
so every baby and adult has a debt of £2l round his
neck. Besides, the state makes a citizen of Melb. respon-
sible for another £4O.
* * * »
“Wild Cat” readers will not have been sur-
prised by the British B.H. dividend. Five months ago it
was said here that it would be possible for the co. to pay
a div. in March or April, but that the announcement
would probably be deferred till the meeting of share-
holders in London in May. What has actually occurred
is that at the beginning of April the Australian
directors announced that, subject to the approval of
London shareholders, a Is. div. will be declared
at the May meeting. One shilling means £15,000 in
this co. Of course, this cannot be paid monthly
—even a sixpenny could not legitimately be
maintained on 300,000 shares, although there is a big
amount in hand which might be worked on. The manager
—Retallick, a man whose name is seldom heard or seen —
has been in Adelaide conferring with the local directors
on these and other points.
Just as the British div. will not have surprised
Cat students, so the creep in the Junction will not have
startled them. Time after time reference has been made
to the extreme difficulty which the ore body presented
in this respect, and the big outlay for timber
which it necessitated. Manager Phillips might
have been able to do better had not so much of the
best quality stuff been called for during the past 12
months : it was impossible to carry on filling-up work
effectively while the workings were blocked with ore.
The manager reported on Easter Sunday (the collapse
took place three days before) that “our output will be
affected for a week or 10 days. After this, I hope to
resume shipments in the usual way. It is my
opinion that stoping will be carried on north and
south of the main stopes at a less cost than before
the collapse took place.” Rosy, this. Managers of course
always persuade themselves, and try to persuade others,
that creeps are good things, until one wonders why they
spend so many thousands in trying to keep the ground up
at all. Fact is, where it is hoped to work below a creep,
the creep is a curse every time. There is almost al-
wavs, too, a great loss of ore, which is buried in a
confused mass in the wreckage. It wouldn’t
matter much if the falls took place in depleted ground ;
but they rarely do. It hasn’t occurred so in this case ; it
didn’t occur so at the British or in Block 11 of the Pro-
prietary. Besides, one of the main shafts, MTntyre’s, is
twisted—a matter no more serious than the manager re-
ports provided the disturbed ground has finished moving,
of which, however, there is no proof. The Junction
North shaft and some of the stopes in that mine have also
suffered. As showing the uncertainty that must always
exist with regard to a mine which has started moving, it
may be noted that whereas the main fall iu the Junction
took place on Thursday, the principal collapse in the
Junction North did not occur till the following Sunday
night. Naturally this uncertainty piles up the timber
bill—and reduces" profits.
Perrow, mine manager of the Junction North,
has left office, but the creep has nothing to do with it.
* * * *
The purchase by N.S.W. Government of Rose-
hill private railway is a certainty of the near future.
Noses have been counted—five Ministers for and none
against. Thus one more private railway spec, will follow
the ancient Hunter River Railway Co., and Sydney-
Goulburn Railway Co.
« * * «
A miserable little sheet called the West Aus-
tralian Review, printed in London obviously in the
interests of “ cat ” promotion, accuses the mining writer
of The Bulletin of damning Westralia and “ cracking up
N.S. Wales low-grade mines, in which he has, for many
years, been dabbling unprofitably.” As a sample of
which he quotes this Bulletin par. Great Western,
Cobar : New batterv crushed 300 tons for 120 oz. Good
enough if the battery can keep up this average from a
good, big face, and not by gouging out streaks in the ore-
body.” If the West Australian scribe was as well
acquainted with Cobar as he is with the collapse of the
W A. boom, he would know that, like The Bulletin’s
criticisms of Westralian “ cats,” the extract quoted as a
sample of “ cracking up ” has since been more than jus-
tified by events. The Great Western yield alluded to did
not come from a big face, but was got by pig-rooting,
with the sequel that the mine’s next crushing went about
2dwt. Then the manager resigned, and his successor is
looking for good ore.
* * * *
The Occidental Mine Co., Cobar (N.S.W.), is
rewarded for its enterprise in tackling its great ore body
in a decent way. The ore, which for some years has not
milled more than 3£dwt. has gone up to sdvvt., and if that
average can be kept up it is enough fordivs., or to furnish
a much bigger plant.
♦ * * *
“Poor Value for the Money” is the heading
under which the Financier (London) jumps on the pros-
pectus of the N.S.W. Goldfields (Ltd.), formed to take oyer
some mines in the Swamp Oak district, N.S.W., of which
the Highland Mary is the chief. The prospectus covers,
it seems, 22 pp., and has been severely criticised by other
papers that only indulge in this sort of thing when they
are quite sure the boom is as dead as Caesar. The writer
notices one thing—that 2723 tons crushed returned 74980 z.
gold, an average of over 2oz. 15dwt. per ton, and the
tailings show an additional value of about an oz. per ton.
How many Westralian mines floated in London did as
much crushing before flotation? Whether these mines justify
the £200,000 capital or not the writer cannot say from per-
sonal knowledge, but such bulk crushing before flotation
is a good feature distinguished only by its entire absence
from 99 in 100 Westralian “ cat ” floats.
* * * •
Inverell (N.S.W.) : “An expert has arrived
from London to investigate the truth of Mr. P. J. Fitz-
gerald’s glowing account of the Crow Mountain mining
claims, and this speaks volumes for the enterprise of the
local syndicate. Mr. Fitzgerald, on behalf of his syndi-
cate, has secured the famous Dodger claim, the richness
of which is well known.” The local syndicate will pro-
bably find that London is buying mines with much judg-
ment now. The everlasting richness of the Dodger,
which, so far as the public knows, has not yet been mon-
keyed with by any battery, has made people rather tired.
It is about two years since it struck good gold, and there
is nothing more certain than that it will stay rich so long
as it keeps off crushing.
• * * *
A big Westralian mine lately got six months’
exemption, through some of the machinery being mis-
carried (a common occurrence there). The exemption was
apparently granted without question, for it afterwards
turned out that the only machinery missing was a few
planks of timber—which could be bought locally.
♦ * * *
Published in London, a list of Westralian mines,
owned and managed there, where the money paid in
directors’ fees and administration amounted last year to
more than that spent on the mines. Chaffer’s spent in
development, £4187; in London, £4741. Hannan’s
Main Reef, in London, £4415; on the mine, £3089.
Central Boulder, on the mine, £2094 ; in London, £2116.
There are some more. It should appear in the balance-
sheets as follows :To mine-developments—so much. To
Bull’s bingey-development—so much. The wild extrava-
gance of London mining management has not escaped
notice bj’ Australian mining men. Speaking to George
Lansell recently, a Sydney man asked if, in the event of a
mine, in which Mr. Lansell held about half the shares,
being sold he would be willing to take a considerable part
of the purchase money in paid-up shares in a London co.
The shriek and prolongation of the veteran’s “ W-H-A-T?”
with which this query was met was remembersome, but
the height of the jump into the air performed by a man
over 70 years of age was the most surprising that
Sydneyite ever saw. Bull might do worse than interview
Lansell.
* » « *
“ The Croesus mine, Hannan’s, is still bagging
rich ore. A start has been made to vigorously open out
the mine, which is attracting much attention. It is esti-
mated that the lode will, for the 24ft. it has been opened,
go lOoz. to the ton.” The writer sincerely hopes so, but
the public have had so many lies sent along about mines
bearing the name of Croesus that nothing but the pro-
duction of bullion will now attract their serious attention.
* * * *
The Water Trust, Mining and Public Crushing
Co. of W.A., is about to start its 80-head stamp mill at
Northam, and for many months past has been adver-
tising for ore. Ore seems to be the great want of the
country, not batteries. The marvellous mines of Kal-
goorlie are the one saving feature.
* * * *
Clarke and Co., in their excellent circular for
this month, give a list of the batteries on the W.A.
goldfields. They account for 1555 stamps erected, as
well as Huntingdon and other mills equal to 300 heads,
while there are 1200 stamps either being erected or con-
templated. “No doubt many coming under the first
head will never be used, for it is no secret that already
where several plants have been erected there is no ore
that can be treated under existing conditions.” At
Hannan’s there are only 115 stamps altogether at work,
and yet this camp is turning out more than half the
country’s gold with less than one-tenth its crushing capa-
city—a very fine thing for the camp, but a shocking con-
dition of things for the rest of the fields.
• * « *
Claude Maitland has furnished Clarke & Co.
with a report on the prospects and recent developments
at Kalgoorlie. He says that during the last three months
the field has made strides which even the most sanguine
could not have foretold. The rich auriferous formations
have been found to extend through many properties
which in Dec. last were regarded as second-rate concerns.
Several of the recent discoveries were a complete sur-
prise ; their value cannot be realised, more particularly
in Europe, and the consequence will be that mines on the
verge of abandonment will resume work. The out-
put for the quarter was 50,8070 z. ; that of the whole
of W.A. being 113,2060 Z., while last month the output
from Hannan’s exceeded half the total yield. “ The ex-
perience gained during* the last three years makes it ditn-
cult to secure the confidence of possible investors. The
fact of the matter is, the public has been cajoled so often
that now, when really good developments do take place,
they are looked upon askance. But surely such outputs
and developments as we have had of late must before
long have a beneficial effect.” The writer is afraid it will
be a long time. All booms are short-lived, but the bigger
the boom the longer the depression. That of W.A. has a
shocking aftermath. It will live in history as the greatest
mining bubble of the age. Nearly two years ago the
writer advised the W.A. Govt, to do as was done by
Queensland Govt, at the birth of the Mount Morgan boom
— to warn the English public of the “ wild cat ” nature of
most of the mines being sold in London. That and that
only would have stopped the boom, as was done in
Queensland. They did not stop the boom because they
were more or less in it. The day rapidly nears when they
may be sorry they didn’t do something of the^sort.
“ The money-order remittances forwarded dur-
ing March to London from W.A. amounted to £4005. The
total sent away was £71,038, the balance going to the
eastern provinces.” Very interesting, but it would be still
more so to know how much came from London to W.A.
in the same time.
* * » *
Menzies Mining and Exploration Corporation,
London : “ Chairman O’Driscoll said they had to carry an
enormous load —a great and wide area which ate up the
working capital with extraordinary rapidity. The car-
riage of machinery had run into an enormous amount of
money. In the present condition of the market, it seemed
hopeless to float subsidiary co.’s, and the policy of the
new board was to shear off anything that was not really
payable, and retain only five or six leases which would
give good returns. Gold-mining always went through
various vicissitudes. When the leases were purchased
they were very rich indeed on the surface, but, after sink-
ing 50ft. or 60ft., they began to look very rocky, and,
having a large sum in hand, they purchased others. It
was thought £25,000 would be ample to put them in a
good position, and it was proposed to get the money by
the issue of debentures.”
» ♦ * *
Empress of Coolgardie, W.A. Reported in
London that the Feb. yield from this mine was 200 tons
for 50oz. Said, also, that Z. Lane never smiles when re-
minded of the fact that he wrote a more glowing report
of the richness of this mine than of the Great Boulder.
* » » *
W.A. wire “ Rich gold has been struck in the
Golden Rainbow, three miles from the General Gordon
mine.” Expected every day now to hear that the G.G.
has got it. i ,
Queen Margaret, W.A. : “ Crushed 250 tons for
6500 z.” Same day : “ Queen Margaret shares had a heavy
decline.” The usual result. Again, Tub Bulletin would
remark—always sell before the crushing. Yet the result
is quite good enough, if it can be maintained. It is that
awful if, when applied to W.A. mines, that knocks the
market endways.
* * * *
The Democrat, a little paper published at
Kanowna, W.A., declares that the return it received by
wire from a leading authority of the White Feather
Reward mine crushing for March was false, and it invites
those interested to prosecute it for criminal libel —“ if
they dare.” The return wired was 3360 z., and the tonnage
724. The correct return, according to the paper, islooBoz.
from 724 tons—loz. 7dwt. to the ton, and not I7dwt.
14 * r8 ’ „
Lake View Consols (month)—l634 tons (and 43
tons concentrates treated at Dry Creek) for 46880 z. Mag-
nificent. .
* * * *
“ A young clerk in one of the Agent-Generals
offices was put forward as defendant in the English
courts recently in connection with an alleged blackmail-
ino- case against one of the numerous minor naming
papers,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“ There are a score of these papers here which judge the
solidity and prospects of every new company put on the
market by the evidence given them in hard cash of the
financial standing of its backers, and thus influenced by
sterling facts bestow unlimited praise or blame on the
spec.—often a veritable quid pro ‘ quids.’ This youth in
question is registered as the owner of the rag concerned,
though in reality but a moneyless dummy and occupying
the position of torpedo-fender to the big-pots in the dark
behind him.”
* * * *
Q. gold-returns for quarter ended March were
167,4880 z., against 147,6440 z. for same quarter in ’96, or
an increase of 20,0000 z. No use to sling useful dollars
after Westralian wild-cats or to throw useful men into
New Guinea gorges until Bananaland shows signs of
getting played out.
Gympie turned out for the March quarter 11,260
tons for 16,1880 z., or loz. Bdwt. 18gr. per ton—over the
average for same quarter of last year, which was about an
oz. per ton. Divs. for quarter were £20,700; calls,
£20,736. Decrease in stone crushed of 2130 tons ; increase
in vield of 26080 z.
* • * *
Towers yield for March quarter was 64,8800 z.,
beinglo,ooooz.in exoessof amountforcorrespondingperiod
of ’96. Papuan, Brilliant and Victoria crushed 630 tons for
12680 z. ; Day Dawn, 3260 tons for 32030 z. ; Brilliant Block,
617 tons for 2910 z. ; Brilliant, 3259 tons for 42060 z. A
cake of 23380 z. gold from this crushing, valued at £B5OO,
is to be sent to the Exhibition, Brisbane. Total Queens-
land yield for quarter, 167,4880 z. an increase of
19,8240 z. on first quarter of ’96.
* * * *
Anticipated that Q. Mining Commission will
recommend extension of areas of leaseholds, and a relaxa-
tion of labor conditions—essentially a wild-cat move.
Quite true, though, that the Q. mining laws sadly need
consolidation, and that the regulations require re-draft-
ing. Why doesn’t Govt, spend the few thousands it pre-
tentiously places on the Estimates every year for the
development of the mining industry' ?
* * * *
Thirty insolvencies on Croydon (Q.) field have
provoked the formation of a trade protection association,
whose principal business will be to probe the affairs of
future bankrupts.
* * * *
Clark’s Brilliantand Worcester, Charters Towers,
reports another splendid crushing of just under 500 tons
for about 4oz. per ton. Old man Clark, who finds himself
the lucky controller of one of the best Australian mines,
is entitled to congratulations on the tenacity with which
he for long years stuck to and paid calls on his 40,000
shares, despite the efforts, fair and foul, of the smarty
brigade of Charters Towers to make him quit. The clever
division, which is now kicking itself out of pure fury, long
managed to keep down the market, but it never once
succeeded in getting old man Clark’s shares out of his
safe or leading him off the track.
* * * •
Additional testimony to the deep interest which
is being felt in Gippsland (Vic.) mining is supplied by the
rapid flotation of the Loch Fyne Central G.M. Co. in Melb.
This was offered to the public in 20,000 10s. shares, and
the majority of them were snapped up within 48 hours of
the issue of the prospectus. Mr. G. W. Smith is manager,
and Messrs. J. B. Were and Son are brokers for the new
venture. Mining men in the Southern province begin to
realise that the gold at their doors is easier of access than
that in the distant West, and quite as marketable at the
local Mint. *
• * « *
Long Tunnel Extended, Vic. —1158 tons, 2110 oz.
Great, but said that the life of the mine is on the
balance. If the lode should resume its former dip or
underlay it will soon be in the Long Tunnel ground.
Sufficient for the day is the dip thereof.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing -
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRULTH
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING
OFFICE - BUSH
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony
1 urnishmgs excepted.
The Make and I mish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE it BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CJ GARs,
MADE OF TTTir
finest Havana tobacco—(
* name CORTO on tU w o/
-6d. Each.
Society
From S.M. Herald’s report of the Brand-
Ferguson wedding : “ . . . The bridegroom’s gal-
lant figure in the steel corslet and helmet of the
2nd Life Guards.” Further on: “The dazzling
uniform of an officer of the 2nd Life Guards. In
his case a helmet of dazzling brilliancy ” (Brookes’
Monkey soap, no doubt—it won’t wash clothes)
crowned with magnificent plumes.” And yet
once more : “ Wearing the full uniform of the 2nd
Life Guards, with its glittering breast-plate ”
(Monkey soap again !) “ at once became the central
figure of the great assemblage. ”
* * * *
A few presents at Sydney vice-regal tying-
up last week included “ a pedigree pug-puppy, two
live kangaroos,” and “ book of poems— 1 The Man
from Snowy River.’” “Banjo” thus takes the
place of the “ white ivory prayer-book,” generally
the orthodox presentation reading-matter of Hing-
lish marriages.
* * * *
At a recent meeting of Melb. Hospital
committee it was proposed that the buildin"
should be illuminated in honor of the Jubilee"
Certain mean-spirited members objected to “ the
spending of the hospital s badly-needed money in
such a direction when hundreds of patients were
being turned away every year for want of accom-
modation.” Their objection was crushed with
contumely, and it was decided that the hospital
should have a loyal flare-up at a moderate cost
Hooray! Fancy picture Patient, in last stage
of illness, is presented at hospital gates on Jubilee
night. Refused admission. Reasons given—no
beds to spare; no money to buy more beds.
Patient (feebly, but cheerfully) : “Never mind
I’ve seen the Hospital Illumination and can die
happy. Gorsave ! ” (Dies.)
* * * *
The real reason why the members of the
N.S.W. Ministry absented themselves from the
Dailey statue inauguration appears to be that the
chief talking on the occasion was to be done by
their political opponent, G R. Dibbs. They even
fully persuaded Gov. Hampden not to attend, and
it is no secret that the Governor would have
stayed away but for the interposition of Leg
Council President Lackey. The Ministers’ plea
was that they had not been invited in their official
capacity, but the fact remains that they all re-
ceived personal invitations—just as did the Judges,
the Cardinal, and others who put in an appear-
anoe. The excuse tendered for the Ministers’
absence convicts them of a most paltry-minded
act —eminently characteristic of several of their
number. Gov. Hampden’s apology for the Minis-
ters’ absence only made matters a thousand
times worse, in that it did not fit in with the
Ministers’ own excuse.
* * * *
The picturesque cableman again :
General Edhem Pasha remained gravely impassive,
received the reports from his generals as to the state
the battle on scraps of blood-stained paper.
* * ♦ *
Some interesting possibilities as to the
dissemination of phthisis are suggested by the
discovery of an apparent tubercularium in the
compiling branch of Sydney Lands Office. Out
of 35 men therein employed, some have died of
consumption, and others are suffering from that
fell disease. “The officers in the other portions
of the building, however,” remarks S.M. Herald
m a loftily confirmative way, do not attach
much importance to the matter, and look upon
the fears of the ‘compilers’ as groundless.” But
these insouciant persons haven’t to put in their
time in the consumption-mill, and, in any case,
the health authorities “attached sufficient im-
portance to the matter ” to cause the suspected
rooms to be stripped of everything “ which could
possibly convey contagion.” The blood-inherited
theory of phthisis has so long obtained that the
community doesidt even begin to realise the extent
to which that bacillus is lying around in wait for
its lungs.
* * * *
Q. Governor Lamington shot deer at Cress-
brook, the other day, and Brisbane Telegraph
blandly pointed out that he thereby broke the
law. The Bulletin ' has not heard that any
policeman has yet served a summons on His Ex.
The sinuous Tozer missed a chance in not per-
forming the “strict justice” dodge.
♦ ♦ * *
Nature is about three centuries too late
with the human sleuth-hound charged, the other
day, at Newcastle, N.S.W., with slaughterous in-
tentions towards a woman whose evidence had
procured him, years ago, a long imprisonment.
Deported to Brisbane upon release—tramped back
to N.S.W—traced out the woman, and was
arrested by forewarned police. Said it didn’t
matter !—time no object !—do for her in the long
run . Sent to Maitland as insane ; recently cl is-
charged ; arrested again on information for
threats; discharged once more upon declaration
that, if he felt the revenge-thirst again, he’d kill
himself sooner than the woman. Odds, of course
that the wretch is cranky; but longer odds still
that no justly-convicted man would have main-
tamed such a long and grim vendetta.
* * * *
Characteristic letter received by the pro-
prietors of the Kwong Yick Wah Bo (Sydney
Chinese paper) : J J
Dear Cousins,—Enclosed is 10s. Dr. cured
a broken leg. If 1 had broken two legs he would have
< ;. art ) r ?'" e als o. He is skilled and gentle. Tell this to all
the Chinese in Australia twice for the 10s. which I send
this°" hmnM 1166 t,meS for the «'ne sun. please do
remain yours,*— —————. Ce 0t ''° Ur KrCat wisdom > 1
• » * *
Melb. : “ Dr. Emily Ryder gives our
wives a Masonic hold on us. Her lectures are as
full oi mystery as lodge- meetings.”
Story told of a
certain retired N.S.
Wales Judge’s asso-
ciate. Two bosom
friends of his who
dropped into his
office, finding him
out and his door ajar,
at once visited a
neighboringfish-shop
and returned with a
41b. jew-fish, which
they thoughtfully
proceeded to tack
securely flat on the
bottom of their dear
pal’s escritoire.
When they called a
few days afterwards,
the victim right away
began to tell them of
how he could not ex-
plain the smell, don-
cherknow—had had
his desk shifted to
every comer of the
room at intervals,
every drawer ran-
sacked, room scrub
bed out, Cond y ’ s
fluid and carbolic
acid plentifully used
—and as a last re-
source the drain-
pipes examined, but
with no apparent
effect. The callers
left after condoling
with the troubled
host, only to return
each day with other
friends to whom they
had told the joke,
and who would in-
stantly declare that
they could not stay in the room. The fish hung
for ten days ; then it dropped off.
* * * *
A recent N.Q. indecent assault case casts
a useful illumination upon the pleasing little ways
of the case-greedy constable. The two girls con-
cerned —12 and 8 years—deposed that they had
been instructed by the police to put themselves in
the way of being tampered with by defendant,
and thereafter to inform the constables, who, with
the father of one of the girls, were to be waiting
close at hand. “The police-sergeant,” testified
the elder girl, “didn’t explain to me what was
expected to happen ; but I understood. I didn’t
go away when defendant was called out, because I
expected him to be more offensive when he came
back.” The disgusted magistrate refused to com-
mit ; but how many men have been gaoled and
flogged upon the evidence of just such sweet little
innocents as these !
♦ * * *
N.S.W. Public Service Board lately adver-
tised for 28 pupil-teachers. There were just 1026
applicants. The genteel means of earning a live-
lihood is still popular.
* * * *
There was a wedding in Melbourne the
other day between Mr. Keen and Miss Colman.
I riends of both parties mustard strongly !
* * * *
Resolved : That this Council ’’—the
National Council of Women (Christchurch,
f Tv’i option that the marriage laws
of Maoriland should be rendered remedial
and not merely palliative, of the disabilities at
present grievously affecting married women, and
t.iat the whole law relating to marriage, founded
on the whole doctrine of possession, should be re-
pealed.” Questions : Does the man possess the
woman, or the woman possess the man ? Who is
the more eager for marriage—the man or the
woman ? Who is most anxious for divorce—he or
she ? Whose mother-in-law is most dreaded—his
or hers ? (More to follow.)
That brilliantly
original genius, N.S.
Wales Postmaster-
General Cook, in-
tends celebrating
the Queen’s 60th
anniversary by a
new issue of postage-
stamps (Id., 2d. and
2|d.) with Victoria’s
head in profile. Al-
most all the innu-
merable stamps of
the empire have that
same head in pro-
file, and have had it
for 60 years, so the
glaring originality of
Postmaster Cook in
thinking of this idea
sticks up like Mount
Kosciusko. Nobody
will much regret the
present penny
stamp, with its
faded elep h a n t’s-
breath tintand weak
design, but the
bright blue emu on
the twopenny stamp
is too picturesque to
be sacrificed. Also,
it might be appro-
priate to suggest that the Queen’s feet would be a
refreshing change. That end of Her Majesty has
never yet appeared on a stamp.
. V. ‘ V? e T vy deserter «- I find I under-
stated the blood-money rates. Besides the stand-
mg Imperial reward of £‘S per deserter, each syco-
phant Australian province adds a further £5 ‘on
its own .So that each deserter is worth to
his arrester.
debtor^ 6 r6Ceived by S - A - man from a
a c- North Adelaide, 29th Any., 1 805
A ' ■‘hr,—l owe a good bit of monev and r
am pressed by others. The only thing I can do S, „ 1
you 10s. per month. If you will not accenr hJ? tter
do what you like. If I had anvth?m?T £ m 1 £ ou . can
as assif « 1
I am, sir, yours faithfully,
AN EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCE .
“All parsons should he nice-looking. Now, can you imagine yourself
listening with pleasure to a man like that? ”
I think I could — if he were reading the marriage service !”
ADELAIDE POLICE COURT,
BEAK: "You are found guilty of drunkenness; will you take a week or
ten shillings? ”
DRUNE: “ I'll take the ten shillings, and thank pour Worship!”
Governor Lamington blarneys local Mayor
raper: “ Cairns is the prettiest town I have
visited in Queensland.” Pah! Pah! Cairns is a
sandspit that sprouts Chinamen like mushrooms,
an lepers like toadstools. If a white man in
Cairns doesn t doff his hat to any Chow that he
meets, the latter turns back and says: “ What fo’
& l U i e ’ y V U white tlash ? ’ And then he
knocks off the white man’s hat with his hoe.
*
Curiously enough, a Brisbane (Q.) divorce
trap, r 6” t* l6 - f ac t that a “sanitary con-
■f snnai xoo ™ fc r. city ’ aew y ears ago, made from
CniTnV L 2 ; 000 a y par out of bis contract. The
tour if *f ! And the gentleman used to
a f r ° -Hingland— probably as a successful
Australian pioneer.
va.i;a^ e l P^ r^^ an Meal of a wife is an in-
• Mrs. Dr. Ryder's Gcspel.
Her Reverie
A question Golden Hair now I have broken
the spell that bade your thoughts reman unspoken
Were you remembering
As you lay Still your great eyes wide unseeing
some brave deed of a former being?
Or did you but recall
Your last ball?
ESA KAROS
LOVE’S LODGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first my love went forth to roam,
Thy heart was big and free,
And that my love might find a home
Thou gav’st that heart to me.
Alas ! my love was poor and small
For such a noble heart,
And, like a dwarf in palace vast,
Filled but a tiny part.
So thou let the rest as lodgings
To lovers young and gay,
Till ’midst so many I was lost
And sadly stole away.
The years rolled past, and in their course
My love grew mightily,
And, feeling it could fill thy heart,
It came again to thee.
Thou tookst it in, by kindness moved,
And that it should not grieve :
But to make room for it to stay
Those lodgers had to leave.
And now it would be happy quite,
And of all woe bereft,
If only there were hid from sight
The tracks those lodgers left.
Melb.
P.M.


a SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS. Brisbane Q’land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
free by post.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each,
necommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Kuppers LVberfeld Lager.
MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGES
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
TYPHOID:
Dr. Gresswell, Chairman
Melb. Health Board, says:
“Out and out Jeffery’s are the best filters.” The Pro-
fessor of Hygiene, Melb. University, sa"ys: “ Ordinary
filters are powerless against germs so small as typhoid
germs; use a JEFFERY FILTER.” The
Jeffery Filter principle is highly recommended by the
President N.S.W. Health Board. Sole Agent for New
South Wales and Queensland —J. S. PEARDON, 4 Bond-
street, SYDNEY.
BUCKLEY & UUO Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “ Victoria ” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ £l<> and £2l
LADIES’ £lB and £Bl
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
Townsville Star’s But-
ler competition didn’tevoke
a paralysing amount of
fiendish ingenuity after all.
The prize suggestion offered
was the very antiquated
one that the prisoner should
be seated on a box of dyna-
mite and exploded by the
operation of a 15-minute
fuse. And this was all the
original brutality that could
be inspired by a magnifi-
cent prize of one guinea !
* * m
Both Maoriland and
Westralia have passed
Adoption Acts. Isn’t it
about time Victoria and
N.S.W. were falling into
line? The incubus that
illegitimate children have
to carry through life in
our smug civilisation is so
terrible that even the ease
such an Act would give
would be merciful. It
would give homes to the
homeless, children to the
childless, and do harm to
nothing, except an absurd
old prejudice of English
law against introducing
Roman law customs. It is
in force in most European
countries, and is a social
amelioration wherever it
obtains. “ Pity the innocent children ”is its key-
note, and that should be sufficient to ensure its
enactment in Australia.
* » ♦ *
If Attorney-General Want personally prose-
cutes Butler, he will be expected to take the whole
of the gaol delivery. This would include a “ Greek
meets ” contact with John Norton in Kit-
chen’s libel-action, and as Norton alleges, and will
probably try to prove, that political persecution is
at the bottom of his legal trouble, Mr. Want will
probably avoid the rencontre. * *
A Melbourne weekly, in its foolish cham-
pionship of “ 'Willie ” Phillips, states that the
murdered man was addicted to cruel and cowardly
forms of sexual immorality.” Which is—as there
is no evidence of it but the murderer’s statement —
very likely a cruel and cowardly lie founded on the
morbid imaginings of the goody-goody crowd.
* * * *
Brisbane (Q.) is putting on frills with its
latest fashionable complaint. If a man gets a
cold, it’s “dengue fever,” if you please. If he
feels seedy in the morning—dengue fever ! If he
can’t turn up to his office on account of bunged
head, his medical certificate reads—dengue fever.
The old “ fever-’n’-ague ”is dead. The man who
doesn’t have dengue fever at least twice a week in
Brisbane is out of the fashion.
* * *
The N S.W. aboriginals who have been
travelling “ on the make ” visited Melbourne and
attempted a corroboree at Richmond Park, one
night during Easter week. In recognition of the
piety and propriety of the smellfu metropolis, the
nigs, danced their famous war-polka in pants, out-
lining the bones with pipeclay on the trouser-legs ;
the result was about as entertaining and elevating
as a pantomime ballet danced in peg-tops and
blankets. No native can corrob. with any effect
in trousers ; in fact, no native can corrob. any-
where without corroborative detail: the nigh ,
the dark bush background, the blazing 1 fires, the
drumming gins, and a costume consisting of a
little Chinese white and the tail of a Manx cat. A
corroboree in a town park in trousers r is a melan-
choly thing, but piteously emblematical of the
general condition of the great Australian native
as was.
* * * *
The official correspondence in connection
with recent enquiries in Parramatta Gaol is said
to be of a character to open the eyes of those who
think such institutions are the home of harmony,
and not the chrysalis of Kilkenny-catism. Ihe
medical fraternity are reported to have the best of
the argument, wherefore an attempt may be made
to suppress the correspondence.
The average Vic. encampment is a pressing
invitation to the “ foreign foe,” of the great dailies,
to come along, have a good time, and invade I oots-
cray. The other day a batch of Queenscliff
gunners were engaged trying to p°t a
target towed by a launch. The line towing the
target was 300yds. long, yet one shell so narrowly
missed the launch that the helmsman was nearly
drowned by the water it threw over the vessel, and
the crew made a mad raid upon the life-saving ap-
JUMPING TO A CONCLUSION
pliances, under the impression that their craft had
her bottom blown out and was going down.
“ Pursey ” Chirnside is not serving the best inter-
ests of his class in spending =62000 to convince the
Russian and the Chow that the healthiest place in
the world is right “forninst” a Queenscliff gun
in active operation.
* * * •
The breath of the back-blocks ! Between
Birdsville and Hergott Springs last January cattle
under John Clarke were travelling. They were
making the 120-mile dry-stage and were within 20
miles of water, going strong and fresh. About 8
a.m. in sand hill country the sirocco came down,
lasting eight hours. Almost total darkness ac-
companied the hot blast, and the cattle were drop-
ping thickly. At 5 p.m. it cleared up, and the
drovers found 100 bullocks dead out of 500. The.
men had waterbags and were compelled to protect
their heads by covering them in various ways.
WITH HEART AND HUMP.
CUSTOMER: “ Please , mister, ’ave you got the ‘ Bleeding Heart?
MUSIC-SELLERr (who hasn’t sold anything all day) : “ Yes; and Ive
got the blessed hump, too!”
But for these precautionary measures and the
possession of water there is little doubt they would
have perished also. Is the festive, rollicking
Clancy listening ?
* * * *
Melb. : “The pink of condescension.
Yesterday, on St. Kilda road, in a dust-storm, I
saw a coachee’s belltopper blown off. Lady
jumped out of carriage, ran back a hundred
yards, and got it. Enough to take a hundred
years off Purgatory.” But she was a wise woman
Never on any account let the driver get down
while you are in the trap. Never get into a cab
unless the driver is in his place. If you do, your
life is at the mercy of the horse’s whims. Also,
when engaging a cab, especially at night, always
speak to the driver to see whether he’s sober. But
don’t ask him if lie's sober.
The Kanaka is essentially imitative. The
other day a Maekay “ boy ” of some note died.
The funeral was gorgeous in the extreme and ex-
ceedingly impressive. Coffin in black and silver
rested in the regulation hearse. In the mourning-
coach sat the intimates of deceased, duly lugu-
brious in crape streamers ; while half-a-dozen cabs
were filled by his friends, one vehicle being speci-
ally reserved for ladies. Maekay was much edified.
The Gilbert islanders at Bundaberg carry on a
regular correspondence with their countrymen at
home. The other day a “boy” received a letter
from a relative on the Gilberts, which was unique
in its get-up. The islander had enclosed his
epistle in an Immigration Dept, envelope received
from Queensland. In addition to the address
written thereupon he had superadded a most
faithful imitation of a departmental stamp—the
little drawing was really creditable to the
Polynesian’s artistic ability.
* * • •
The least joyful result
of Protection in this country
is chewing-gum. Protection
is responsible for Macßobert-
son’s imposing lolly manu-
factory at Fitzroy, Melb.,
where 200 hands are em-
ployed, and Mac., alas ! is
responsible for the introduc-
tion of a glutinous pastime
into Australia. He supplied
chewing-gum to the trade
long before the trade had
any demand for it from the
public. In vain this far-see-
ing producer strove to create
a demand for the Yankee
notion up to the time of the
new bicycle boom. Then,
and not until then, chewing-
gum “ arrived. ” Bilmartin,
or some minor hero on
wheels, was observed to be
working his iron jaw in a
weird, peculiar manner as he
plugged around the track.
Thanks to the emissaries of
Macßobertson, who lay in
wait with infernal machines
labelled “ Chewing - gum
Polka,” the cycling world
took the bit between its
teeth, and to-day, at every
gathering of ‘ ‘ all the cham-
pions,” the steady falling and
rising of innumerable chins
proclaim that Macßobertson
has done the trick.
* • •
Perth (W.A.) has a fine
reservoir, but the local insani-
tary authorities quite forgot
the necessity of reserving the
ground around it and along
the streams which run into
it, so as to prevent pollution.
Cattle get bogged and perish
and become inflated with gas
in these streams, and houses
and dairies and market gar-
dens are situated on the slope
of the reservoir itself, so that
when heavy rains set in the
refuse of many cows and
back-yards washes into the
water-supply. The natural
result is that the dirty city
of the Six Families has the biggest death-rate and
the highest pressure of stench to the square-mch
among all the capitals.
The Mayor of Hobart announces that he
will celebrate the Record Reign by giving a
treat to the poor. This probably means that he
will give them a free feed, during the consumption
of which some fat aldermen will make loyal
speeches to them, telling them what a noble thing
it is to be citizens of the great, glorious British
Empire, and how glad and thankful they should
be to know that they are subjects of the good,
gracious, august, illustrious, &c., sovereign who
was then, &c. And during the deliverance of this
fervid gush some plain-clothes policemen will most
likely be detailed to the duty of seeing that none
of the loyal gorged subjects walk away with the
forks or spoons.
ADVICE TO HEBES.
Heed not the gushing trickster with attractive
curly hair,
And turn your thoughts away from little noses;
Of eyes set close together you must certainly
beware ;
Distrust the sentimental “ toff ” who poses.
But to faults in face and manner Love is usually
blind,
As girls at last discover to their sorrow ;
So carve this precious maxim on the tablets of
your mind —
Beware of any “ boy ” who wants to borroiv.
There is danger in the Gussie with a deeply-
dimpled chin.
Though the prettiest of compliments he passes ;
O, ever be prepared for possibilities of sin
In patriarchs who ogle you through glasses.
All men are vain deceivers, as regards weak
womankind,
They squeeze your hand to-day and skip to-
morrow ; . ,
So carve this special maxim on the tablets ot your
mind —
Beware of one and all who want to borrow.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned, unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
P.P.Q. (Tas) : Acceptable. Note posted
M.L. (Tas.) : Please let us into the secret. Who were the
pair? and when? D.H. (Sydney G.P.0.): Please call.
W.H.J. : Unavailable, as you indicate that it has
already been published St. Leger: The gentleman pro-
nounces his name “Singer”—on the same principle, no
doubt, that Bugg is now pronounced “ Norfolk Howard ”
in aristocratic circles A.L. : The Bulletin doesn't pro-
fess to be “ absolutely original.” It only tries to be as
original as it can .... No. 1 : Probably a joke. The world
would not accept it seriously P. M‘K. : Sorry to say you
are legally entitled to nothing unless you stipulated for it
in the sale-contract ... H. Taplin (W.) : It appears to be
bona fide R.G. : Good ; not good enough ... Wastrel :
Can’t use J.P.J. : He set out to shoot his brother, and
his brother shot him. Wish both of them had shot you.
W. Bhang : Cease firing .... A.J. : Wants re-writing..
Gregory : Notice Australee girls marry Chows and .laps in
Bulletin contributions much more frequently than of
yore. Sign of the times? J. Warman : Won’t do
Platypus : Flat as —as Heaven Firenze : No Bulletin
interest N. E. Wunne : “ Lunch ” too bald as told
X.X. : Sorry unsuitable Puriri : No, thanks Am-
brose: Considering. .E.A.G. : Not enough pen-knack.
C. : No, he didn’t say anything of the sort, and the trip
was arranged previous to the Convention elections. Sar-
good is the leading spirit in his drapery business
Arthur B. Kellie : Please call or write Gestor : One or
two may possibly serve as suggestions L.B. : But, you
see, it is not the penitent adultress that the public rushes
to see on the stage ; it is the impenitent article Adam-
inaby : You should write your name on the first and last
page of every MS G.S. (Eng.) : Thanks; but marma-
lade is best eaten privately B. : The lady is a Protes-
tant, and her daughters, we are told, have always been
ditto C.A. : The credit of obtaining justice for Aus-
tralia in the Costa Rica Packet case is really altogether
due to Dr. Creed, M.L.C., whose command of appropriate
insulting language forced the hand of the British authori-
ties Nil : “Sold up” will do Michael : That verse
just scraped in, and your parody missed by about nine
furlongs Longus : Can’t say till we see Uloola :
Verse poor R.C.J. : Worthless G. 0.8. : Duly
amused C.W.C. : Noted Awakite : Choice specimen
of drivel Athos : Sympathise ; but when a little mind
gets in the way of big ideas it is generally very bad—“ for
the coo.” A.G.A. : All a bit thin Fairniejem :
Declined with language and sniffs Kingfisher (Mt.
Murchison) : About as meaty as your local black ladies’
legs D.H. : Thanks ; but can’t accept Nomads :
Abject incapacity Saddlestrap : None up...... Kelvin
M. J. : To pray that rain may come at a time when
Nature does not ordain rainfall is as foolish as to pray for
a shower of whisky and cold soda D. Ameson :If no
appeal is allowed to the Privy Council against sentence of
death, why allow civil appeals ? Why allow appeal over a
£5OO bill, when a man convicted of murder has no appeal
in the matter of his life? D.M.D. : You say that
Hawkesbury Agricultural College is a mere cram-shop,
since its 92 students cannot possibly be converted into
farmers inside the two years’ course. But is it the object
of the College to make them “farmers”? or rather to
give any earnest youth such opportunities for acquiring
and understanding scientific methods that when he really
tackles farming he will understand exactly what his goal
is and how best to reach it. In a word, is the College
meant to be “ preparatory ”or “finishing?” If the latter,
you are possibly right ;if the former, you are probably
all wrong P.M. : “Diddled” doesn’t go Bower
Bird : But not the right-bower bird T. M‘L. : “ Hur ”
won’t do for the impersonal pronoun—though “ her will
tig till her finds him” would sound right enough
in Welsh lingo, according to “ Valentine Vox.”
Hard-held: Can’t print it without proof ; the people
named are of good repute outside as employers P.T.F.:
No value Athos: Proxy Hairpins: You move a
resolution that, at the precise moment when Queen Vio.
has completed 60 years of hard sitting-down in the same
soft place, all English-speaking persons should unite in
one simultaneous yell of “ Victoria !”—whioh might be
calculated to split the welkin so effectually that a distinct
crack would remain for ever and ever as a memorial of the
great occasion. To which this paper moves an amend-
ment that there should be two simultaneous yells, the name
of the second yell being “ Beer ! ’’—which should there-
upon incontinently flow through the crack made by the
first yell and flood the earth to all eternity. Just think
what a glorious thing it would be if the drunk of 18,970
could be run-in in honor of Queen Victoria’s record
reign T. Brady: Yes, he is the same man *
M.K.A.: Worthless Durand : The parallelisms any
single individual finds in literature are so many and so
curious that it is probable if the knowledge of all indi-
viduals could be concentrated in a single head the owner
would find that there is not one idea, hardly one phrase,
which has not been unconsciously repeated over and
over again by writers who deem themselves original.
Nema : Kept for illustration Mooti: Some
humor ; wants better handling Veldt: Too preachy.
Sermons in prose are bad enough, but sermons in verse
are the abomination of desolation J.L.W. : Many
thanks. Heavy contributions like that are very handy to
stop the others blowing out of the basket Mathetes :
Points, but unsuitable; and “the laugh of God” rings
harshly somehow —perhaps because Peacock has made
laughter a noxious thing F.W. : Par. too long for
merits. But we also have wondered whether Q. is going
to pay uninvited Tommy Byrnes’s exes, to Queen Vic.’s
little bust F. : Couldn’t dream of letting you in this
paper “ consider, in the first place, the natural and rela-
tive positions of male and female as applied to man and
woman.” Signa : 51b. of dead MS. just wheeled into
the office cemetery J. Reklaw : Aren’t taking any
acrostic J.M. : Dull par C.C. : Perhaps one of
verses L.R.M. : “Muse” tooslight F x : Worth-
less S.K. : Not up J.F.D. : Wants humor to carry
it...... Clay pan : For two pins we would call it nonsense.
Uniuckily you only send one pin Corr : Jerome’s
jealousy of Kipling is precisely similar to Corelli’s jealousy
of Schreiner. The paste v. gems feud is one feud all the
world over J.J. : Verse stiff Toto : Scoot-oh !
S.H. : Send book along. ..Wanderer : Dull and didactic
Warramoo : Style about 190 years behind times J.B. :
Neat; not grit enough W.S. : Inane trivialities
J.C.D. : Handling not up A.C.H. : Flabby H.A.C. :
Ballade stiff W.G.B. : Old saw re-set—and a pretty
poor edge on it W.P.B. : Possibly—in two senses
H.F. : Mere assumption. There is nothing at present to
show that Federation will make the Australian type more
monotonous, the Australian individual less original
G.H.H. : You say that “ everything has a purpose, which
statement proves itself.” Well, we say that your state-
ment that that statement proves itself doesn’t prove any
such purpose. Therefore, how do you propose to prove
that our statement that your statement that that state-
ment proves itself does not prove that the other state-
ment that that statement—exactly? Hey? T.R.P.
(Woodlark) : Thanks H.I.K. (Pennant) : Appreciated.
K.A. : Melodious word-spinning Jack R. (Ad.) :
Yes, you’d better “favor elsewhere.” Free Lance :
Your peroration—“ So, speaking feelingly after a pretty
wide experience of the North during nine years, I say of
the average Queenslander : let him stew in his own gravy;
let him fuse with the Chow, the Jap, and the various
' Polynesian at his own sweet will, and the resultant hybrid
which is even now becoming plentiful in these parts will
be not much inferior to the present alleged white man.”
E.W. : Material for a short, bright par. Yours is a
long, dull one W.P.: Wants novelty mainly.


Abo Cit
PrsSs Trin)njii)gs.
Call and inspect our Stock of Trimmings
for your Winter gowns. We have all kinds
at all prices, and can satisfy your requirements
We Lead the Fashion.
W. T. WATERS «&, CO.,
Ladies' Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
lations,
Oculists
Sydney.
CELEBRATED
lotion.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
„ Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
&c Recommended by the Leading Sydney
■ * A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 Georye-street
Ri Post., 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers
WANOO!
The following speaks for itself: —
vr t , , Werris Creek, 15th March. 1897.
Manager, Loasby s Wahoo Mfg. Co Ltd
171 Kent-street, Sydney. ’
Tndivfpltf™ ~ F °i IT" 6 £ ears 1 have suffered from
TlSFn^KFurn v th ? Ugh i 1 tried EV ERY ADVER-
‘‘ WAHnn F ?fT’ I t ?? t no relief until I used
«WAHOO” n ,t f er t ß ln « about half a b ut«e of
. A , jO my appetite returned, my headaches
vanished, and the PAINS BELOW MY SHOULDERS
a r d side, which I thought had become chronic,
also disappeared. WAHOO” is splendid. It has
made a new man of me. *
Yours truly,
JOHN M'GARRIGLE.
WAHOO!
Price 2/6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s
"Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 27,1897.
Mr Dear Myee—
Last week’s sensation, the vice-regal wedding,
was about the biggest pageant of the kind yet
seen in Australia. The most notable circumstance
about the affair was the thoroughly English tone
prevailing. The affair was a combination of the
top-lofty ceremony at St. George’s, Hanover
Square, and the rural simplicity of the squire’s
daughter’s wedding-day in the ancestral manor-
house with a rejoicing tenantry feast in the park ;
only in benighted Sydney there are no tenantry,
and their parts had to be filled by selected “poor”
invited for the occasion. And, as in this low-
down democratic community everybody is, more
or less, related to everybody else, most of the
“ poor ” were probably sisters and cousins and
aunts of the wedding-guests inside the mansion.
And that rather spoils the ancestral-retainer effect.
They didn’t know their lines either—the “ shouts
outside ” were very faint. Six carefully-trained
supers, could have made ten times the “vociferous
cheering ” remarked in the dailies —and nowhere
else.
The event raised all the women in Sydney to
fever-heat but left the men calm and unmoved,
and a crowd of women is not a demonstrative one.
The most thrillingly-absorbed spectators of the
day were the little tattered girls who pressed
themselves against the Cathedral railings and
criticised all the finery on the women on
their way inside the building with as much
bitterness as some of the guests showed
towards each other’s purple and fine linen.
The scene inside the decorated Cathedral was
quite reposeful; the organ hummed, and the
guests faintly rustled with excitement over each
new arrival. As it was a military function, some
local lancers gave verisimilitude to an uncon-
vincingly non-uniformed assemblage, by standing
in the aisle in brown kbakee ; but, oh, how much
more glorious they would have looked had they
been life-guardsmen in block-tin vests, plus any
quantity of gilt string and white horsehair ! The
bridegroom himself was the only steel-cuirassed
man there, and, as he stood at ease waiting for his
future pa-in-law to bring along the bride, the
lighted gas-jets sparkled on his waistcoat and
made him gleam like a newly-polished dish-cover.
To fill in the pause, the choir took three encores
for the bridal hymn; and here I should like to
record, with modest pride, that The Bulletin did
its little share in tying the aristocratic couple for
life, because the office-boy, in a showy freshly-
laundered surplice, was one of the choir voices
that breathed over last Wednesday’s Eden. lam
told that there is yet another church chorister in
the office of this paper; but it is distressing to
find that these examples of pious harmony are
confined to the commercial department.
The Hon. Margaret’s long white satin train was
held by the Brassey children, aunt and nephew,
and there was an innovation about the arrange-
ment of her bridal mosquito-net, which was frilled
all round the edge; it was held primly and
firmly in place by diamond ornaments. The
four bridesmaids were be-chiffoned in white
over yellow satin. Mr. Ferguson, gushed
over in the Herald as a “good best man,”
was a foil to his glittering brother in black velvet
coat, knee breeches trimmed with shiny buttons,
and black silk stockings. A man has moral
courage of a high order to get into a fancy cos-
tume in the day-time, and go outside into garish
sunlight looking like a liquorice-stick. But he
was supported by the two Govs., who were in
gorgeous military rig, and by every man—there
were but few—who had any sort of distinctive
toggery to call his own. The Herald man should
have copied the bold Sir Bedivere in the poem,
who closed his eyelids lest the gems should blind
his purpose. The scribe set out to describe the
show, but the glittering shine of the bridegroom’s
waistcoat evidently got into his eyes and dazzled
him, for his column absolutely scintillates with
steel cuirass.
The bridal coacn was drawn by the four cele-
brated Brassey chestnuts—l don’t mean the navy,
the Sunbeam, “ my late father,” and the Empiah,
but equine chestnuts—lent for the occasion, and
manned by postillions with gigantic floral horse-
shoes pinned to their livery. Inside Government
House a lightning change had been worked since
the previous evening’s ball, for carpets were down,
stale refreshments cleared away, and the wedding-
gifts displayed conveniently. All the jewellery
was in carefully-locked glass cases, which gleamed
with diamonds loudly ticketed with donors’
names. Most of the presents from England were
in their cases, and looked small and ugly, so I
suppose they were family heirlooms of great value.
There were some queer donations—an antiquated
silver shoe-buckle looked quaint-—and some cen-
tury-old paste buttons ; also a venerable walking-
stick used as an umbrella-handle. Relics, how-
ever, were rare—most gifts were modern, including
a pair of kangaroos and a pedigreed pug, the latter
being appropriately the gift of a blue-blooded local
connection of England’s premier duke ; the live-
stock wasn’t on view.
The most swagger gifts now—barring jewels—
seem to be silver photo.-frames or leather pocket-
books and cases monogramed in raised metal.
There were whole flights of fans, all tiny except
one vast ostrich-plume creation, and many offer-
ings which should have had advt. stuck on them.
Some donors posed proudly before the shrine on
which their own gifts were laid inviting comment.
Women pushed and elbowed each other to get
near the cases, and men stood around limply and
helplessly as men always stand at weddings. The
bridal cake and champagne were absorbed in
silence without formal speeches, and towards the
end of the proceedings many of the house-party
drifted and returned, minus their wedding-finery,
in everyday attire. The borrowed equipage was
still to the fore to drive the couple away on the
first stage of the honeymoon—they have gone to
Dangar Island on the Hawkesbury— and the
family hurled rice and slippers at them in the good
old-fashioned way, which fact has been already
reverently noted by many scribes and the throwers
of the “pearly grain ” respectfully named.
About the two Govt. House balls—one on Tues-
day, 20th, and the second on the 27th—there has
been much discussion as to whether it was really
more distinguished to have been asked to No. 1 or
to No. 2. Celebrities were invited to both, but
smaller fry were distributed equally between the
two evenings. At the first ball, which crowded
the two dining-rooms and verandah, there was a
distinct flavor of forthcoming wedding about the
proceedings. The bride of next day was
much in evidence, wearing a yellow trained
gown ; in the grounds the engaged couple’s
monogram was displayed in colored lights, an
arrangement which a sudden shower prevented
many folk from admiring, and the band played a
specially-com posed waltz. Any man possessing
a uniform wore it. Lord Brassey’s coat-tails were
stiff with gold embroidery, and the visiting Kil-
morey—“ Killmurray ”is the c’rect sound—had
blue ribbon tied round his manly chest. Windsor
uniforms and military and naval coats were quite
common, but the impression lingering a week
after is that the white-silk calves mostly wanted
fattening. Our own Gov. could never get a billet
as a Jeames, unassisted by cotton-wool.
The gowning at the ball was quite up to begin-
ning of the season mark, though some of those
elderly dowagers who are animated X-rays at
revealing other people’s family skeletons pointed
out two or three renovated last year’s confections.
A cloud of debutantes, looking as innocent as
Spring chickens just come to market, blanched
the scene with their white frocks ; to balance their
juvenility, several sucking Nelsons from the war-
ships were present, and the midshipmites were led
up to the dais and introduced to the occupants.
One of the prettiest girls was in heliotrope with a
fluffy bodice, and one of the prettiest dresses was
of white satin with turquoise embroidery on the
well-hung skirt. One dress had a bodice like a
full-blown pink rose ; and bright green, suggestive
of a John’s vegetable-cart, was much worn. For
hair-dressing, paste-combs—they look like dia-
monds and cost eighteenpence or so—are now in-
dispensable. Some heads had feathery aigrettes
sticking in them —in white they look as if the
wearers had been sleeping on a feather-bolster and
had forgotten to comb their hair.
A big crowd of the “Nicest’’was beautifully
had over the departure of Capt. Ferguson and
wife on their honeymoon trip. In the morning
papers it was officially announced that they would
leave by the express for Moss Yale, and some 300
persons gladly bought railway platform-tickets;
but the gallant wooer and his consort had arranged
their plans well, for they quietly slipped off to
the railway-station, catching the seven to five train
to the Hawkesbury. There were only a few rail-
way officials on the platform who were in the
know,” and a few people seeing friends off. The
crowd on the express platform formed all sorts of
conjectures as to the non-appearance of the newly-
wedded couple, and little dreamt that they had
left a quarter of an hour before.
The Nicest of this city slaved at pleasuring all
last. week. Amidst all the numerous outings the
anniversary of the Hampden Club was celebrated
at Centennial Park on Thursday afternoon when a
few bedraggled enthusiasts met in the teeming
ram to inaugurate the second session. Nothing
went on except talk and tea-drinking, and although
the blessings of two gubernatorial houses were
bestowed on the function, the general impression
is that it was not only the wet which threw a
damper on Thursday’s proceedings-interest in
the club seems to be fizzling out. Perhaps “ the
Nicest people ” see so much of each other that they
are tired of meeting, even in—immortal phrase !
the nicest possible way.”
Fashionable waltzing is fast and furious; the
dreamy glide is out of form, and reversing never
was in, though in every ball-room an occasional
couple may still be seen indulging in crab-like
gambols. At St. Vincent’s ball, in the Centennial
Hall last Wednesday evening, Mrs. Freeman
Thomas and her partner darted around the room
in double-quick time, as did all the other youthful
members of the vice-regal set—several of whom
by the way, were gloomily attired in black gowns!
In the first lancers, fancy sets were formed ;
flowery shepherdesses were partnered by men with
colored facings to their black coats, little Japs
tottered about with badly-fixed sashes, making
the wearers appear like brown-paper parcels that
wanted pinning ; a girl, got up k la Lalla Rookh
hung about with many pearls, was the belle of the
Indian set. The “basket figure” of the state
set was badly mixed, owing to a bashfulness about
putting arms round vice-regal waists ; the others
just romped through it in the usual free-and-easy
way. Friends of the dancers were in the bal-
comes, bringing strong glasses to bear on the
dresses, and audibly counting the girls’ chances of
partners. The body of onlookers stayed until
nearly midnight, swapping anecdotes about the
folks below, raking up old family histories, and
generally commenting on things like a Greek
chorus. People have odd ideas of enjoyment—it
isn’t a very brilliant role to be cast for a leading
part at a charity ball, but to wander wearily on to
the fence as a mere spectator must, I should think
be most depressingly dull.
This festive season has brought out some bright
new dance-music, and the popular remnants of last
season, especially the sentimental strains of “ Ma
belle adoree,” are still included in every high-class
programme. De Groen’s waltz, “Les Fiances”
was blared forth for the first time rather too loudly
at Govt. House, but in the larger area of the Cen-
tennial Hall next night sounded very catchy and
inspiring. They are playing everywhere now a
rattling good polka, “ Rum-tum-tum,” which
would make you want to get up and circulate if
you were 90 and crippled in both feet; the air
I rank Lawton used to whistle as he mixed the
drinks in Chinatown is also a rousing polka. Of
women’s music “ Amorayle ” is chosen for one trip
every programme, but Maud FitzStubbs’
Bridal is late in appearing. New lancers are
just a gay jumble of comic songs and tunes of the
moment.
The unobtrusive flower-show opened in the
rainy dark of Thursday last in the Centenary
Hall, York-street. Chrysanthemum-worship is
not such a craze here as in Melbourne. There
when they have the annual show, they hire the
Town Hall, get Lady Brassey to open it, and
invite all the big-wigs and any stray aristocratic
visitors available, turn on a brass band or the citv
organist to play “God Save,” and announce a
highly attractive musical programme ” each
evening as long as the flowers hold out. It is the
proper thing to gloat over bloated “Edward
Molyneaux ” and “Lady Lawrence,” and if you
don’t know the difference between the Jap and
Chinese types of blooms you are quite out of it
socially.
A well-frilled grand-stand at Randwick on
Saturday showed the Nicest satellites still going
strong after the week’s outing. Even Thursday’s
rain didn’t damp their ardor, but brought about
some new ideas in wet-weather cloaks. A visitor
wore an alpaca, one shaped like a man’s, and
defied the elements. Saturday’s sun brought out
all the plummy gowns again ; it is an aggressive
tint, but hugely popular, and wearers have
encored their triumphs in purple many times.
Next to purple, green holds the day, the red reign
is over except in scrappy ties and belts, though
one of the most fascinating gowns of the Autumn
meeting was of a white silky stuff topped by a
flaming felt hat with artistic curves and black
plumes.
At Lawrence Campbell’s recital in the Y.M.C. A.
Hall last Saturday evening the elocutionist’s
newest piece, “Rio Grande’s Last Race ” (by
“ Banjo ”) was the most applauded by the
audience. “The Faithful Soul’’ was well done
and accompanied by Miss Lilian Frost on the
organ, but the poem is a chestnut now, and
those “ 1000 years of torture ” are being taken
out by listeners to the uttermost moment.
A little girl in Kate Greenaway frock was quite
charming in a French dolly style, and Burns-
Walker baritoned twice and was encored twice,
and between songs went to the Palace and sang
four times there—which makes eight ballads in
one evening. The vocalist will have to hire a
special composer to write him fresh songs, for the
present output of sentimental ditties can’t keep
pace with the demand.
The annual ball in aid of the educational fund
of the Women’s Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, N.S.W. —this lengthy title is
colloquially boiled down into “the Dog Ball”
will be held as announced on the cards, which are
already out, in Paddington town hall, on Thurs-
day evening, May 20th. It is to be a costume
dance, so dress will depend on the taste and fancy
of the wearer. Mrs. Russell-Jones is the hon.
treasurer, Mrs. F. Chapman and Miss Martin hon.
secs.
Parliament was opened on Tuesday morning
with gun-firing, military turn-outs, and all the
usual convulsions. The feminine crowd in the
Council Chamber was large, and suggestive of the
country member’s wife in its dressing, which was
not very smart. The vice-regal party included
Lady Hampden, in grass-lawn with blue spots,
and. Lady Brassey, in white silk with pale-blue
bodice. His Ex. was in one of his many uniforms,
and was supported by the Vic. Gov., also in much
gold-lace. Vice-regal changes in clothing have
been so numerous of late that it is quite hard to
keep up with them, and even Government House
officials are sometimes in the dark as to the parti-
cular meaning of the uniform their chief is wear-
ing. The Gov. read his speech about the rabbit
plague, and the drought, and other cheerful
subjects, in a tone of aristocratic languor, and he
hasn’t a single final g.
On Tuesday morning last Mr. Coghlan, of
N.S. W. Public Service Board, was married at St.
Patrick’s, Church Hill, by Rev. Le Rennetel to
Miss Helen M. Donnelly, daughter of the late
M.L.A. for Cowra. The newly-wedded couple
intends to catch the outgoing mail-boat at Melb.
and go on a world’s tour.
The confidential raffle is highly popular just now
among women as a useful way of getting rid of
unconsidered trifles at a reasonable profit. Times
are so hard that the maid doesn’t get her mistress’s
misfit costumes as she used to. The smart woman
“ puts up ” the garment for a shilling sweep among
her friends, and acquaintances not in such a toney
set as the raffle-promoter are very often proud to
recount how they have joined in Mrs. Blank’s
raffle —it is a sort of guarantee of respectability
with which they can awe bosom friends on a still
lower rung of the ladder. Bikes have come for-
ward so freely of late in this form of barter that
raffle-quotations have been much lowered in conse-
quence.
A banquet was lately given by a recently-
elected Mayor to his aldermen in a southern
suburban town hall. When hungering guests
arrived half an hour before feeding-time, they
found others waiting; the invited crowd
turned up to a man. But when the “ ban-
quet was at length before their expectant eyes
and mouths, corned beef, mutton, and save-
loys, washed down with “ tanglefoot ” and whisky,
was what the disappointed diners fed on instead of
the expected turkey and fizz.
A rubicund ex-mayoress declares that it took
her three years from the expiry of her term of
office to “drop” the ineligible people she was
forced to know in her capacity of mayoress.
A distracted musical public is never able to dis-
cover, from the wrangling of singing-masters,
what really is the right way to sing. A would-be
pupil with a voice is deterred from one instructor
because his “ method ” is wrong, and, perhaps,
after talung a spell of another vocal teacher, finds
out that “serious defects” have to be remedied
when a third is tried, till the discouraged possessor
of a fine singing faculty is like the old man with
his ass. According to these experts, the one
thing you vnustn t do, if you have a good voice is
to open your mouth and sing; until you have
learnt several new and expensive methods of
swimming, you may not on any account go into
the water.
The Women’s Franchise League in England,
through its hon. sec., has invited “all women
who have been elected to public bodies or have
achieved eminence in any walk of life,’’ etc., etc.
to sign a petition to Queen Victoria, and Austra-
lian women are asked to join in the movement,
f 6 i e - I s no^li . n 8' m the wordy document, copies
of which are printed in divers “women’s columns ”
expressing a yearning desire for any definite
object except a general wish to grovel. H.M. is
fulsomely flattered on her “sympathetic heart”
which rejoices in the fact that women are now
enabled to earn their own living in many wavs
implying an immense deal of hard work
and she is also informed gushingly that one
Royal word of Sympathy with the progress
which women have achieved during your Ma-
jesty s illustrious reign, one expression of gracious
confidence and hope in the happy results which
may be expected to follow from still further en-
larging the area brought under the Influence of
Women, would greatly promote and consolidate
throughout your Majesty’s realms those principles
of Justice and Equity which will sustain in per-
manence the vast Empire over which your Majesty
reigns The whole petition is in the same vaguely
grandiloquent strain, but the “loyal sentiment”
gets there all the same. Why not write “advt. ”
at the end, after all the signatures ?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“Gadabouts, previously hardly aware of the
existence of the Mounted Rifles, flocked in thou-
sands to Port Melbourne last Saturday to gloat
over the much-paragraphed thews and sinews of
the departing braves. Going down in the tram,
ih o t;^ vec * °/ anything but the severity of
the Selection Committee, and how minutely it had
overhauled, weighed and measured every man-jack
oi the chosen. I act never comes up to Fancy. The
boys looked very neat, and almost too spruce in
brand-new hats, donated by a local manufacturer
but hardly gigantic enough for exacting feminine
requirements. Brown uniforms«are trim and
smart, but unimposing. Besides, few Australians
look, as big as they really are. At all events these
didn t, as they hung over the side, beguiling the
long wait by the time-honored device of weeping
fictitious tears and wringing out their handker-
chiefs. General Holled-Sinith, impressive in dark
blue picked out with scarlet, and flowing military
frock-coat, took up a commanding upper-deck
situation, and, supported on either side by a short
brother officer, stood haughtily surveying the
civilian crowd below until it was time to g 0
ashore. The pretty little kangaroo, travelling’Ome
as regimental pet, seemed half-dead already with
excitement and terror. As a rule, Joeys are not
good tourists. They need fresh grass and green
stun, and, unless you take along boxes sown with
small salad and such-like for their benefit, gener-
ally give up the ghost in the tropics.
“ The Ville de la Ciotat, which left just be-
hind the Orotava, took away many Melbourne
passengers; indeed, there were more fashionables
fare welling their friends, and more flowers sent
aboard the Trench boat, than elsewhere The
Nicest apparently resented the fizz and fuss on
the other side of the pier, and united in extolling
the calm cleanliness of the M.M. Co.’s vessel. 6
“ If the Easter Baby Show at the Exhibition
was confined to offspring of Druids it reflected
some credit upon the Ancient Order of mas-
queraders. Exhibits, as a rule, showed an improve-
ment upon the average baby in avoirdupois weight
and general conduct, and the class of infant nose
which requires constant attention was conspicuous
by its absence. All the same, the entertainment
lacked thrill. One looked in vain for anything
like a replica of the Brobdingagian infant who
starred at the great original show and drew a
cheque for =£6o from manager Dampier. But
that was during!! boom-time, when every kind of
Melbourne property went in for inflation. Liberal
genuine specimens of the cap and pinny nurse-
brigade flitted round and supplied the mothers
with milk, &c., at intervals, the juvenile competi-
tors getting the benefit of t|ie committee’s gene-
rosity second-hand. There were several sets of
twins and a highly-deservingbatchof triplets, who
appeared to rank second in human interest to a
dropsical-looking girl labelled ‘Special prize—7
years, Bst. 101b.’ This alarming object had been
compelled by bulging cheeks to cultivate a hard,
uncanny squint, which gave her an appearance of
being more than 7.
“The pathos of a baby-show is worthy of a
poe.t s best Sunday pen. It comes in at the tail-
end of the contest, when the numerous mothers
who had expected to capture a JllO prize, and
were prepared to see their respective exhibits
borne in triumph round the building at the head
± n ban . d ’ come slowl y to the conclusion
that the baby in the next pen is running rings
round their blighted hopes. They are a sad sub-
jeet for reflection, these newly-awakened mothers.
JLn some oases they don’t know what to make of
the situation. But in most cases they catch one
another s wistful eye, over the head of the trium-
phant infant who is holding a levee in between
their deserted compartments, and mutely agree
that the multitude has entered into a vile con-
spiracy to boycott the brightest gems in the show
and tickle the legs of vastly inferior productions.
“ The Collingwood Salvationists have a ‘Band
of Love meeting every Wednesday evening at
j ir i c f barracks. As the hall is very small
t 3 h ® lov , urs ver y numerous, the overflow solves
the difficulty by pouring (in pairs) into all the
dark corners and house-doorsteps that furnish
opportunity for uninterrupted devotions.
An unmarried medico who has a propensity for
theacrical skirts-or tights for that matter-is
struggling once more in the throes of love with a
fair actress at present in our midst. There are no
impediments this time in his way. He may brave
matrimony if the lady be willing to share the risk.
“A travelling Englishwoman whose jewellery
display at theatres and concerts has been the
cause of much shattering of the tenth command-
ment by Melb. women, recently lost one of her
most gaudy and glittering diamond-brooches, and
affected to be much concerned at the loss. Her
fi lends urged her to offer a reward for its recovery,
whereupon she confessed that it wasn’t worth 55.,
as it wa,s merely a paste replica of one of her
famous jewels, ‘ don’t-you-know.’ By way of
explanation she added that ‘one never brings
genuine jewels out heah, merely monuments of
them in paste, so to speak; the real stones one
leaves at one’s bankers’ at ’Ome.’
. Melb. sassiety modiste par excellence is
said to be laying plans to visit New York with a
view to giving Yankee women refined gowning in
exchange for many dollars. On the principle that
only a lady knows how to wear a dress,’ this
clever woman asserts that only a lady knows how
to design one, and with the influential letters she
will carry to the land of the dollar, and her really
excellent taste and invention, she should certainly
have success. After a period in New York it is
her intention to storm that stronghold of conser-
vative woman London, where she will set up in
the most aristocratic quarters.
Miss Lilian Hingston (Mrs. Alwyn Lewis) the
T 1 !^ 110^ 11 actress, is at present staying
at the George, St. Kilda, a guest of her uncle
James Hingston, “ J.H.” of Melb. Argus. Miss
Hingston who is a daughter of the celebrated E.
Jr. Hingston, Artemus Ward’s agent, has been
ouring South Africa with one of Geo. Edwardes’
Olga NeThersofe 68^^meiaca,n engagement with
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Photographic Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New POC-lC&t Koclccl price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURES, 1 6 Each.
Film? Developed and Printed Send for Price Lists.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
Ill***#
HI
inii
imuil.
m
ill 1 II
raiiiiiiiiiiiiV
►.■V.WVJ
Ml
W
mMMB
v
I'Mmiini' 1 !
V
k
m
LLUt
iiill
m
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—op—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHTN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Henry Lawson has gone to Maoriland
again.
In Castlemaine Benevolent Asylum is a
nonagenarian, John Dunn, who was born in Sydney
in 1802.
Graham Berry, first elected in 1860, has
sat more years in Vic. Assembly than any other
present member.
N.S.W. Governors Biigh, Bourke, Her-
cules Robinson, and Hampden have had daughters
married in Sydney.
M. L. Krotel, at one time organist in
Ward Beecher’s famous church at Brooklyn, is
now residing in Sydney.
Ben Tillett.: “ Broken Hill is dear to my
heart, and I will certainly pay it a visit. It was
from Broken Hill we received our first assistance
in our hour of need.”
Pathology-professor Allen, of Melb. Uni-
versity, is the H. B, Allen who perpetrated that
awful “ Australian Anthem ”in the Argus. He
should stick to cancers and let cantos alone.
Mrs. Ann Taylor, the oldest known native-
born Australian, died the other day at Parra-
matta, aged 98. She was born at Toongabbie and
never was 50 miles from home. She leaves over
150 descendants.
One result of mutual interests in the
representation of S. A. at the Convention has been
to heal the personal breach between Kingston
and Symon, Q.C’s. Baker, however, refuses to
forget his animosity.
The appointment by Chief Justice Griffith
of Mr. Edward Douglas as associate to himself is
a graceful reminder of the time when Premier
John Douglas (Edward’s father) appointed young
man Griffith to the Attorney-Generalship in his
Cabinet.
Dan. O’Connor has been wondering
whether the whole fun of his famous “ App’int
Maloney ” minute “ lies in the fact that the man’s
name happened to be Malone}'.” Only half of it;
the other half is in the fact that Dan.’s name
“ happened to be ” O'Connor.
The De Moleyns, brothers of Governoress
Hopetown, are reported to be doing well at coffee-
growing on their plantation near Cairns (Q.).
Coffee cultivation is driving the sugarcane off
much of the high lands in that quarter, as a com-
paratively small capital can work a plantation.
Englishmen say there is no aristocracy in
Australia. Nonsense ! Take Queensland, for
instance. There, there is an aristocracy of three.
One cooks for a surveyor, one travels for a soft-
goods house, and the other is a wood-and-water
joey at a Western hotel. No aristocracy, forsooth !
To be Irish was once, in popular opinion,
anyhow, synonymous with being disloyal and
revolutionary. Times have changed. It was the
wild, broguey wail of Hennessy and MTnerney
which at last decided Melb. Hospital Committee
to fool away part of its scanty funds on an illu-
mination in honor of the Record Reign. Most of
the members were indifferent or mildly hostile,
but the rich, fruity brogues of Hennessy and
MTnerney rose on the air turn about until the
committee caved in.
MUTUALLY DECEIVED.
HIDER (who has returned to stable with hired horse, indignantly) : “ You have deceived
me; you said the horse was quiet.”
DEALER (affably): “We have both been deceived, sir. You told me you could ride.”
H. H. Champion once said, “ I prefer the
g>or man’s politics and the rich man’s dinners.
arnett’s epigram on the Stoics and Epicureans
can be adapted to meet H.H.’s case, thus—
O Champion, say ' which dost thou most affect,
Labor’s austere, or Capital’s fat sect ?
Friend, ’tis my plan, throughout this earthly hobble,
With those to gabble and with these to gobble .
The talk in Convention was as to the
Federal High Court, and a N.S.W. delegate was
urging that the number of Judges should be re-
duced. After he sat down, Barton, across the I rea-
sury bench, called out somewhat sharply \? u
argued differently in Sydney,” whereupon the
other retorted —“ That s a lie.” The two men
glared for a while, but John Downer was address-
ing the chair from a place between them, and
they had to be content with the artillery ot the
eyes.
In the first criminal libel trial heard in
Sydney—that against Dr. Wardell, of the Aus-
TRAHAN —and in the most recent —that against
John Norton the other day—the juries failed to
agree. Dr. Warded, however, insisted on being
tried afresh at once or released from bail, and the
latter course was adopted.
The late James Fletcher, whose statue
was unveiled, the other day, at Newcastle,
N.S.W., was an aggravatingly popular man. If
you set out to walk a street-block with him, you
would not manage to get to the other corner in less
than three hours, so patient was he " ith the billet-
seekers and beggars who bailed him up.
N.S.W. Justice G. B. Simpson’s old chum.
Sir Baker Russell, Commandant of the Bengal
Army, has been appointed to chief command, with
Lieut.-General rank, over the Indian forces.
Simpson and Russell were such inseparables in the
dmgy-looking old King’s School, Parramatta, that
they were often guyed by the other boys.
The memory of the fight at Eureka Stock-
ade in December, 1854, is revived by the death of
Samuel M'Kee, one of the 40th Regiment engaged
in the storming. M'Kee was a corporal in the
regiment, and was 75 years of age at his death,
which took place last week in the Ballarat Bene-
volent Asylum. Martin Cusack, another 40th
man, occupies the bed next to that in which
M'Kee died.
The Adelaide shorthand writers raised a
paean of thanksgiving when, on the third day of
Convention Committee, Toby Barton, owing to
bronchial irritation, temporarily retired from the
leadership in favor of Downer and O’Connor.
Barton had a way of immediately answering every
questioner, instead of waiting a reasonable time,
and replying to them all in one speech : conse-
quence, endless repetitions.
Bendigo’s Mayor, it seems, has been con-
nected with the city’s Easter Fair from his
earliest years. First of all he was a boy engaged
in leading a blind man around to collect money
for the fair; then he figured prominently as a
member of an amateur nigger company, and now,
in his municipal greatness, he has achieved the
honor of declaring the fair open. Thus it will be
seen that nothing is impossible to perseverance.
Ballance has been gone five years, and his
,£OOO statue has just been unveiled in Wellington
(M.L.) with a £5O mortgage on it. Ballance never
cadged from anybody when he was alive, and now
that he is dead the mournful, soulless hat is being
sent round in his name, until the brim is flabby
with much handling and the nap is all worn away,
to lift the debt off his cenotaph. He had a deep
contempt for statues, nevertheless he has got one.;
and he had some regard for art, therefore his
image is naturally as inartistic and as wholly un-
like him as it well could be.
Said a politician to a Bulletin correspon-
dent shortly after the funeral of Ash, M.P. : “I
couldn’t help thinking, as I stood at the grave and
saw the widow and her children, now left without
money to fight the world, that poor Ash had
always opposed every measure likely to help the
working-classes or to ameliorate their lot. And
the thought would come also that this stalwart
Individualist, whose political principle was that
everyone must have full liberty to oppress his
neighbor, was hardly cold in death before a sub-
scription was started for the members of his
family.”
“Pope” M’Eachran, the G.O.M. of Vic.
Presbyterianism, entered his 72nd year on April 27.
In the old days, M‘Eachran used to preach in
English in the evening, and in his native Hielan’
brogue in the morning. His church in Carlton,
Melb. (St. Andrew’s) is known as the Gaelic
church to this day.
It is currently reported that Attorney-
General Want will personally prosecute the alleged
arch-assassin, Butler. If he does, it will be in
harmony with a professional usage, ignored by
modern holders of the office, which regards it as
incumbent on the highest officer of the legal pro-
fession to be personally associated with the prose-
cution of all the more celebrated offenders, so that
he may personally bear the credit or odium which
attaches to the success or failure of the Crown’s
action. Of late years this practice has fallen into
disuse.
Instead of honoring the record-reign, as
suggested, by liberating Davies and Sampson, the
two insurrectionary prisoners who refuse to petition
for release, President Kruger proposes to Celebrate
the occasion by clapping another year on to their
sentences, unless they cave, in and pay their fines.
And yet people say there’s no humor in Com Paul!
LOCAL COLORING .
“ Now, my little boy, what were the seven plagues of
Egypt? ”
“ Rabbits, Bathurst burrs, grass-hoppers, native
dogs, rabbits, Canadian thistles and more
rabbits! ”
Apropos the Dailey statue. “Plain Bill”
once had a bad half-hour with Archbishop Polding
because he went to a fancy ball, given by Mayor
Charles Moore, in the garb of a R.C. priest.
Dailey in appearance was half-priest, half-come-
dian, and he had the best instincts of the best
men of both professions.
A gallery-man made note of the bows of
members of the Federal Convention towards the
President’s chair. He found them strangely
assorted—and some of them characteristic. The
palm for courtliness is awarded to R. C. Baker and
Solomon, President Kingston’s greatest enemies
in the Convention. Generally, the South Aus-
tralians are more punctilious about the bow than
the others. Both Turner and Trenwith content
themselves with curious swings of the head ; and
G. H. Reid—well, he isn’t built for bowing, as he
bows too much the other way. Most of the Wes-
tralians, after the first entrance, took the bow as
read.
There has been a violent quarrel between
two quondam friends in the office of a certain
Australian weekly paper, and the following passage
in a leading article is supposed by some to be a
stroke in the game :
“ Man is the only animal who makes no friends amongst
his own species.” How many out of the thousands of the
genu? Homo who scan these lines can lay their hands on
their hearts and say, with conviction, that they have a
friend in whom they trust But most persons
know at least one dog that is more truly “ the friend of
man ” in selfless fidelity and mute unreasoning sympathy
than any human being he can number amongst his
acquaintances. When Sydney Smith was asked by Land-
seer, the celebrated animal-painter, to sit for his portrait,
he retorted with a quotation from the Scriptures : “ Is thy
servant a dog, that he should do this thing ? ” Who has
not, at some crisis in his life, when he was heartsick,
world-weary, and betrayed by the friends he had counted
on, looked at a dog with the unspoken question, “ Will
you too ‘ turn dog’ on me? ” and seemed to see in those
faithful eyes the answer, “Is thy servant a man that he
should do this thing?”
Col. Angelo, Governor of Rottnest Island
Native Prison (W.A.), an old Crimean and Indian
Mutiny man, claims to have been the first in the
province to officially wire to headquarters the
news of the earliest local discovery of gold. A
miner went to him when he was Govt. Resident
in Roebourne, and, showing a piece of stone with
s ime gold in it, said that he had picked it up to
throw at a crow. Whereupon, so goes the story,
the Colonel excitedly rushed away to wire the
golden tidings in these terms : “A miner picked
up a stone to throw at a crow, but, seeing it
glisten, found it was gold-bearing.” More par-
ticulars were to be forwarded later. The wire
reached Perth with only the words : “A miner
picked up a stone to throw at a crow ” in it.
There was some stray humor in the Govt, offices
then, and a message was sent back to Angelo
thus : “ Did he ? What became of the crow ? ”
The gallant Colonel doesn’t like any talk about
that wire.
Surgeon “ Mick ” O’Hara has bought J. G.
Beaney’s “ Cromwell House,” in Coll ins-street)
(Melb.), for .£7OOO, though it cost the man of suet
and diamonds =£17,000 to build the unlovely
structure, to say nothing of the land.
When murderer Deeming was being con-
veyed by rail from Perth to Albany, all the
wayside .stations were crowded with the
local populations eager to catch a
glimpse of the Windsor hero. At
every stoppage the assassin would
be welcomed with loud hoots and
execrations, and at one township
a bibulous spectator was so filled
with horror at the man’s iniquity
that he rushed to the open
window of the carriage and
lashed out a vicious blow at
the prisoner. But his aim
had been spoilt by alcoho-
lic revels, and instead of
landing on Deeming’s jaw the
fist struck the prominent pro-
boscis of the police inspector on
the opposite seat. “ Arrest that
man,” yelled the infuriated officer
to a local constable smirking on
the platform. The copper rushed
diligently to a gaping small boy,
and scruffed him violently up to
the window. “ Not that one—
not that one,” explained the in-
spector, letting the blood drain
from his nose to the permanent
way; “that man there in the
brown suit and the white hat,”
And he pointed directly to the
offender, who was standing alone.
The constable rushed round ex-
citedly and grabbed an inoffen-
sive old fellow in a black suit
and a belltopper. “ Net that
one, either,” yelled the exaspe-
rated officer. “ Are you mad or
blind or what ? ” The local copper
released the aged one, and, sidling up to
the window, pleaded pathetically : “Sh ! It’s oil
very well for you ; but I’ve got to live here. That
chap’s one of the councillors. ”
John Nairne, an old Cairns identity, now-
identified with New Guinea business, once saved
a Chow from drowning in the Condamine. The
pig-tailed one was in possession of £9O hard cash,
and he promptly and effusively proffered Nairne
a “saxpence.” Nairne has very decided opinions
on the Chinese question.
Fox’s painting of Softgoods Sargood is
said, by a gushing lady correspondent, to represent
that immortal warrior in his “favorite attitude
when addressing the ’Ouse on any important
measure.” He stands “straight, soldierly (!),
calm, resolute, with glasses in hand and a liatid-
somfPerimson flower in his coat ’’—the crimson
flower being probably an emblem of his educated
taste for berlud and battle. Artist Fox was a
long time waiting for a chance to catbh the Great
Man in one of his “great ” moments, but at last
he got him in the act of calmly cursing the Com-
panies Bill. Consequently Sargood wears—in th 9
words of the lady aforesaid —“ his most becoming
expression.”
Q. Premier Nelson, now on the sea, is a
very bland old bluffer. He will receive any-
body cordially, but rushes people through in this
style: “ D'you want employment ? H’m ! Have
a whisky goes to a cupboard and produces
bottle and soda-water —“ sit down and have a
smoke ! What are your qualifications ? What’s
your line?” The visitor thinks he has dropped
into fatness. Ten minutes later he’s outside, with
a free invitation to “ call often ’’—while Nelson’s
messenger has his instructions. Also, if you ask
Nelson for “ a letter ” recommending either your-
self, or a scheme, he scratches one out at once,
and reads it to you, in such a manner that you
feel sure of your achievement. When you get out-
side and study the sentences, they are all non-
committal and meaningless. The writer saw one
such letter, now famous among business advertis-
ing firms in Brisbane. But the holder was cute,
too. He showed the letter always when canvass-
ing, with the signature, and he read the letter
with impressive unction, but he never let it out of
his hands ! And he nearly always got an order.
Eugene, the prophet, is reported to have
turned up again in Maoriland. On his last ap-
pearance this wild-haired seer announced that
M.L. was shortly to be demolished by an earth-
quake —now nearly two years overdue ; and his
followers affrightedly packed up their aggregate
carpet-bag and fled with him to the interior of
Africa, somewhere by the Zambesi or the Limpopo.
There the prophet left them, a forlorn assemblage
of lost cranks deposited on the damp grass in a
strange land, and started for the Cape and thence
to America. What he profited by the game was
never accurately known. Some of his followers
set forth to walk back, and the rest are either
there yet, or else they wandered further into the
interior and were chewed by lions or run over by
the inconsiderate buffalo, or some other fate befel
them. Many respectable old maids in poke bonnets
and blue spectacles and mittens were left out in
the cold, to associate with the affable giraffe and
make a precarious existence by pursuing the
hartebeest on foot, as the result of Eugene’s un-
fulfilled prophecy. Now, the leader of the expe-
dition has apparently announced himself as the
Messiah, while a local man who has joined him is
in business as John the Baptist, and instead of
having his head shoved into a boiling spring,
which looks like a fair thing, this howling dervish
is gathering followers and doing well. There iB
no pious impostor so blatant and vulgar and
obviouslv bogus that he can’t do well in Maori-
land. Strangely enough, too, the law in that
paternally-governed country seems to have no
machinery which can deal with prophets, and
people who raise the dead, and similar hairy
shams.


A
\
Jf '
3 j)
R
A l
h ifJif'C,
% 1 X
\(j.
AN AUSTRALIAN ANDROCLES.


LYNE’S POLITICAL WARDROBE.
W.J. LINE : “I shall start with. this shirt. Whatever happens , I shall keep it next to my skin. Whether I shall put anything else over it will depend on circumstances."


Gratmma for Health.
Fodah saieth Wealth.
Ho in ah for <m rery best of Bread ;
Jiuj, if long life you’d sec,
JtLsi stick to Billy Tea.
And — there’s really nothing further to be said .
WATSON’S \YI ILSKY.
W 1 LLI AM FLEMING.
* —MERCHANT—
** CLAKKNv'E STKfLFT. SYDNEY.
It* Sfxi. «mW t» 4 rrirp—
HAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCCLAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE xx? SKMI-r*ORTABLE
ENGINES xxs BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TKAY NAVVY BARROWS
imperial lcrricating oils,
FLEMING S reliable bcggibs
STATION WAGON'S. HARNESS, Bl\, BC.
I xtxlv'tr.x- oc
w
I FLUID SHEEP DIP ]
POWDER SHEEP DIP
'FOOT-ROT “CURE" 1
For further ParticuUrs Prices, &c.. apP lv to-
MORRIS, LITTLE & so * LTD.
SNtL, i£Zl3CrS^'S,
STANLEY GRIFFITHS, Hen ter Street, Sydney: GOLDSBROUGH. MORI ± CO. Ltd., Melbourne and Svdu*\ .V i \iv< xl , Knv > v
Geelone; P- LEARMOii.H A CO- Han. ..ion: A. HARRAP A SOX. Laenceeton. T**ni*ui*; ROBKHTS A i\> li i
liagstan, S,A-i QCKKSSLAXD MERCANTILE CO. L:<L Briabue; BLACKBURS'E A CO.. Omst.hurvh. N ;
. MKX rH * muvimi Aasxts—
ia . HoKv.i, AUSTIX * Ott.
MWAX HOW .n.-;u a \\\ iV;'\\? V A * JOBS GRICE A CO,
POLITICAL
POINTS
S.A. Hansard report of the Convention
proceedings covers well over 1000 pages.
The Australian* Star’s first great go to
constitute itself the David Syrne of Protectionist
N.S. Wales has dismally slumped. Down went
M’Ginty Cowlishaw.
Speaker Abbott : “ What prejudices have
I ? I have never been out of the colonies ! ”
Abbott evidently imagines that you can’t get
prejudices inside “the colonies."
Premier Seddon told a Wellington (M.L.)
audience, the other evening, that the more he had
seen of Australia during his recent visit therein,
the more he thought of Maoriland and its people.
Quite so. Maoriland made “ Dick ” its Premier.
Noblesse oblige.
No split in the Labor-party in Bananaland f
Talk to some of the Labor-members for five
minutes and you’ll soon find whether there’s a
split or not. Glassey. Hoolan. King. Cross, Keogh
and M’Donnell may be said to form a pro-Q.N.B.
party —a party that will certainly lose more than
one constituency next election. Western men are
very bitter on the financial question.
It is the constant boast of the Mongrelian
Govt, that all resumed portions of runs are as
good as open for selection, and only require to be
had for the asking. For three or four years
would-be selectors have been vainly petitioning
the Nelson Ministry to thro v open the resumed
portions of the Hamilton run, near Mirani. Why
vainly? Well, does the run belong to a Cabinet
Minister?
Labor member Glassey’s speech at Bun-
daberg makes the men who b‘lieved in him feel
sick. And the logic of it! There are 500 persons
in his constituency directly and indirectly em-
ployed by the Q.N. Bank, w hose votes and billets,
according to him. would have been the price of
liquidation. As if the industries and the men to
work them wouldn't go on all the same despite the
mere change of hands. It is no: that, though. It
is—which of the trimmers will get the expected
portfolio?
W. H. Groom, M.L.A., told a Hughenden
interviewer that the supply of land in Queensland
is far short of the demand. Probably true, since
the “ eyes ” of the country have long since been
picked out. Groom is chairman of the Lands
Commission, and those who think they know say
that this apparently unpremeditated outburst of
candor on the part of “the Daddy of the House,’
ia the first move to gently lead up to the recom-
mendation that Govt, shall repurchase many free-
holds. Watch, therefore, those particular free-
holds bought, and note those that are in pawn to
the Q.N. Bank.
Premier Reid, speaking on the proposed
retention of the right of ap|>eal to the British
Privy Council, said ’’ He had full sympathy with
the desire for scientific law, which, unfortunately,
only great banking institutions could afford to ob-
tain.” On the other hand, Minister Carrnthers
fiercelv denounced the proposal to abolish Privy
Council appeals as “ one of the first steps towards
separation from the mother country.” They had,
he added, too few links binding them to the old
country. He urged them not to jeopardise
Federation by adopting a proposal which meant
one step nearer to separation from the mother
land. Mr. Carruthers should be “Sir Joseph”
at a very early date.
Turner. Isaacs. Berry. Wise, Kingston,
Coekburn. Trenwith, Deakin and Gordon voted
for Gordon's motion that members of the Federal
Parliament should be paid £5OO instead of £4OO
per annum. When Trenwith said that £5OO a year
would not be too much to pay a man who devoted
all his time to the work of the Commonwealth,
and that the choice of the people could only be
made wide enough by giving fair pay to those
who could not otherwise afford to become mem-
bers. Zeal, m the arrogance of his Pimperial be-
baublement. interjected : “Yes, and keep a lot of
idle fellows doing nothing.” But Trenwith much
riled Zeal by showing now, before payment erf
members, members paid themselves.
It was decided by a majority of only one
that under Federation no State shall have the
right to prohibit the use of opium or alcohol or
anv other article within it* borders —there must
be Australian prohibition or no prohibition at all.
This is almost the only ir.>tance in which the
Federal idea prevailed over the provincial one.
It was Deakin who raised the provincial Cold Tea
theorv. but the idea of Yictoria prohibiting drink,
and thus blasting its splendid and ever-growing
wine-industry and cutting off £S>.O,OOO a year erf
its contribution to the Federal revenue, and yet
getting its share erf the surplus all the same, made
the hair stand up on the head of every member
who felt that he was the only member fitted for
the billet of Federal Treasurer. And there were
15 of them.
Dr. Cockburu
(S.A.) advocates keep-
ing the postal system
under provincial con-
trol because “ In Amer-
ica the P.O, placed
great patronage in the
hands of parties, and
he thought it wise not
to place the same
temptation in the way
of the Federal Govern-
ment. ” What about
placing the “ same
temptation ” in the way
of the Provincial Go-
vernments ? Aren’t
they as likely to fall as
the central authority?
A Federal prob-
lem : If the clause is
carried prohibiting the
Commonwealth Govt,
sending troops into any
state except at the re-
quest of the State Ex-
ecutive, there may
easily be occasions
when it has no autho-
rity to send troops into
any state whatever.
Also, it isn’t yet de-
cided that the capital
shall be located on
Federal territory : ap-
parently it is quite as
probable that the Com-
monwealth Govt, may
simply locate itself ia
a state capital or other
town, and have no
separate territory of
its own. In that case,
what will the Federal
army stand on ? Ap-
parently it will be ab-
solutely illegal for it to
be in Australia at all.
Ex-Separationist Philp at Cairns : “ When
things are good in the south the north seldoms
reaps any benefit, but when they are good in the
north the south invariably reaps the benefit.
Northerners always go south to spend their money.”
Also, when there's a rat in the southern political
camp he never rats in favor of the north; and
when there's a rat in the north he always rats in
favor of the south —doesn’t he, Bob ?
John Forrest, who returned to Perth
from th<- Federal Convention on April 14, runs a
general election in Westralia, and leaves for Eng-
land in the middle of Mav -if he is still Premier.
He is so sure of being still Premier that he has his
bag packed for the journey to London. In no other
Australian province could the Premier run through
such a programme : but, then, John Forrest does
not fear any trouble at the polls. More than half
the population is disfranchised.
BUCOLIC.
Sydney lady on visit to small country town. The cart of the butcher—who
combines also the trades of baker and grocer —at door.)
SHE: “Hare yon brought the street-breads I ordered?”
THE COUNTRY BUTCHER: “No, mum. I spoke to the taker about if, but he
said as how plain bread teas good enough for most of his customers I''
Solomon (S. A.) told the Federal Conven-
tion that if it sat on Saturday his religious con-
victions would not allow him to attend. Yet on
Saturday, 19th Dec.. 1596, he was present in the
local Parliament to denounce Premier Kingston
for his action in bringing down replies by Drs.
Napier and Smith to the libels of the Leg. Council
Hospital Committee. But party was more than
posturing to him on that occasion, which ap-
parently had slipped his memory. Isaacs worked
unostentatiously all Saturday.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN EAST AND WEST.
LARKINS: “Why in Victoria tee used to play marbles with nuggets."
SPARKINS : “ Well, you see, here tee play nuggets with marbles !”
Observantly compare the Hansard reports
of the "91 and ’97 Conventions, and you will
realise at a glance that, whatever Federation was
then, it is a live, people’s question now. Whereas
often whole pages of the ’9l report read without
an interrogation, the ’ST report bristles with them.
Most of the Westralian delegates to the
Convention did their best to live up to the desig-
nation given them by Walker —“Government
nominees."’ Leake (Lee Steere) and Taylor each
made one short speech in committee, and these
were the only ones to come out from under John
Forrest's wing.
Dugald Thompson and Adrian Knox are
the only members of N.S.W. Assembly who don’t
pocket their Parliamentary salaries. Knox’s goes
back to the consolidated revenue account: Thomp-
son’s goes direct to a committee in his electorate,
which divides it among charities. In a word, Mr.
Thompson buys with it .£303 worth of popularity.
Mayor Tucker,
of Adelaide, has
decided not to
stand for N. Ade-
laide, the Queen
Margaret No. 1
South dispute
having disturbed
public confidence.
Glynn will there-
fore have a moder-
ately easy
triumph. Though
not a Ministeri-
alist he has much
admiration for
Kingston, and is
an essentially fair
man.
How is it that
a certain brand of
wlitieian so very
Greek andßom an?
Dan O’Connor,
when “off"
Daniel Hinry
Dinahee and Will-
y u m Charliss
Wint wort, always
gi*>— his audience
“ Whin the ain-
shent Grakes."
And it is inevit-
able that the daily
press should re-
port of the O'Sul-
livan : “ He then
narrated how
trade had been
established in
ancient Egypt.
C haldea. and
Babylonia, and
rvo unted the rise
and fall of the
Phoenicians and
Carthaginian s.
The trade of
ancient Greece
was also glanced
at, and Mr. O'-
Sullivan showed
how strikingly the history of Rome illustrated the
danger." Ac.
Rev. Congregational Roseby. nr the
“strenuous Bishop erf BallaratV' doctrine that
the future of the world will be in the hands of a
few great Imperial states and a few grew: and
powerful churches : " Our historical experience of
Imperial states and powerful churches is that thev
are deadly toes to liberty. I would sooner be a
eitiren of Switzerland than of Russia • of \rs-
tra'.ia than of militarised Germany." This from\
prarson ! “ Can these dry Kunes live ?"
The Maoriland National Council of Women
is now called the “ National Cow ” for short. If
the National Ass were distinctively male, a lot of
experience might be gained by marrying it to the
Cow and waiting results. But there is too much
old woman about the Ass.
By one of its many compromises the
Federal Convention has decided that the states
may have a separate Governor a piece if they
want, or they may abolish the office and the gaudy
frills attached to it, and save the salary, and sell
the local Government Houses to a boom-syndicate
if they prefer. Also it seems, in the absence of
all direction to the contrary, to be left to the dis-
cretion of each state, supposing it wants an Ex-
cellency of its own, to have him elected or to
import him. Apparently, with a Governor-
General at headquarters, there will be nothing for
the purely local Excellency to do save patronise
theatres, and open flower-shows and bridges, and
be a perennial cause of “ Gorsave.”
Premier Forrest, in his recent policy
speech : “ Can anyone truly say that our policy
has not attracted population to this great colony?”
But what sort? A few of the names (writes a
Bulletin' correspondent) up over business-places
in one or two of the main streets of Perth not five
chains from the railway-station : G. Lung and
Co., Chen Hop, On Lee, Hung Lee, Van Damme,
Sun Lee, Sbara Hayta and Co., Tong War, Ah
Long, Visobord. Schrutb, Steinberg, Mendoza,
War Lee, Ah Ling, Mahomed Bux, Seeigson,
Rubinstein (in two places), Ah Sam, Wing Lee,
Kaganski. Way Key, Sam Sing, Way” Lee,
Saleeba, Mayrhofer and Co., Krug. Korborswkv,
Wing Sang Woo, Kensler. Also Forrest, when
ever he journeys to his native Bunburv, is faith-
fully waited upon by two pug-faced Japs.
The Convention has resolved that the
Federal Government shall be put on a strict
allowance—as if it were an infant in the eye of the
law—as regards its expenditure. There is to be so
much and no more for defence, for official salaries,
judiciary, and so on, and nearly everybody rose to
say that this sort of thing was absolutely necessary
to keep the misguided Federal infant from plung-
ing into extravagance and blewing its substance
in drink and riot. The Bulletin now wants to
hear something about putting the Provincial
Governments on a similar cast-iron allowance. If
the system isn’t to apply all round there would be
a lot more sense in putting a fixed limit to pro-
vincial expenditure and letting the Federal Govern-
ment have a free band. It is much more essential
to keep an eye on six spendthrifts than on onlv
one.
Seriously, what can be hoped from the
N.S.W. National Protectionist Conference?—
The Bulletin' means how can such an affair be
expected to influence votes in favor of Protection ?
Such hopeless politicians as Colonna Close and
R. D. Meagher are in the forefront of discussion,
and the Free trade press takes fiendish delight
in emphasising th*-ir {imminence. From S.M.
Herald report of the day (three cols.): —
Mr. R. D. Meagher strongly supported the resolution u
it stood, because he had a desire not onlv to organise fata
to win seats for the cause. If the selection of candidate
was left until the last moment it would result in good.
dean*han<led men (like Meagher) standing aside and the
places they should have had being filled uv traitorous
and disreputable persons. (Hear, hear.)
How editor Curaow must have sniggered when
his eye ran over that “ hear, hear ” !
David A. Dow. an energetic son of Vic. ‘b
veteran politician and newspaper man, is going
for the late Andereon’s seat. Kara Kara. Anderson
was a man who lived a secluded life in Parliament.
His barrackers got him in last election bv the
skin of his teeth. He was onlv 20 votes ahead of
Dow, and a little “goak ~ won't lie dav. Dow had
had all the gum trees and walls in the electorate
emblazoned with the legend
Ejectors. V ote for
D. A. DOW.
A friend of Anderson's went around with a paint-
and next day the legend everywhere read—
Eleetoro Vote for
AXDERsoS. and
dam dow.
However. Dow. who is brainy and David
Syrne as backer, will win this time.
According to recently-published figures,
t' -v tender-prices for gaol-supplies vary remark-
ably in different parts erf N.S, \V. Some sample
quotations : Essence of beef ranges from id to Bs.
per lb. : arrowroot, from Id. to Sd.: coffee. 3d. to
is, >id. : limejuke. 6«L to or. jer gallon: cotton
from nothing per lb c«r contract rac t ixllv
gives them free up to 25.: condensed milk 2-. 6d.
*° R* s - P« dozen tins: p-r?*-r. to 12s. per
and so oil Of eosirse, t&e rxp. iCiiion lies
m ifie great art of the prt-.es so as to
quote a low figure tor the arsi which probabiv
"c” i. !V * gvexi j-rke for the one
which wnl be wanted in large quantities, thus
mak-.ag a low tender really yield more than a high
one. Therefore, me can who gives wicks gratis
prove*hiy gets level by charging a huge price for
; *y - extract, and Lie man im supplies extract at
lb. n.akrs tus profit on condensed milk, and
condensed nr_k rers'-r. gets square
on wrier. Rut the diserepeuavie? throw a new
itcr.r on Reids famous comrarative list of the
prices of ln lT t. stores is N.S *\ . and Victoria. If
a man like Reid, in maing up such a list. Las the
option ct putt ng down. say. ceet extract atjdor
P er *b-. which price aronld be naturally t-ut down
so as to make out his case ?


WOLFE'S ’
SCHNAPPS,
r rt
WE ARE THE LARGEST IMPORTERS OF
PIANOS,
ORGANS
and all kinds of
Musical
Instruments
IN AUSTRALIA.
We buy for cash at the Factories ! This is the reason
we can give our Customers such good value, at least
20 per cent, less than other Houses. We guarantee
all our Instruments and exchange free of cost if
Customer not satisfied. We have been established in
Sydney 50 years and our guarantee is valuable. We have
the largest and best selected stock of high-class goods.
If you send your order by post you can rely upon
our giving the same careful attention as though you
were personally present to select. Catalogues sent
post free on application. Easy Time-Payment Terms
can be arranged for any Instrument.
PALING & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
£) UNLOP
TYRES
FOR CYCLES, ARE
ER-EMINENT.
STRENGTH
RELIABILITY
EASE OE REPAIR
SPEED.
The Qunlop pneumatic Tyre Co., [td.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. CHRISTCHURCH.
At Poverty Point .
Referring—in an article published in Melb. Argus—to
one of North Pole Nansen’s London lectures, Oarlyle
Smythe (son of the Most-Travelled) remarks in an airy,
off-hand way :—“ The Duke of Newcastle declined to sit
in the place allotted him, and Scot-Keltie, the secretary
of the society, hearing I wished to be present, sent the
Duke’s ticket to me.” The strange part of the matter is
that a son of R. S. Smythe should so far demean himself
as to take the leavings of a common duke.
The septuagenarian C. E. Jones, of “ Paschal Lamb and
Mint Sauce ” celebrity, erstwhile Vic; Minister of Rail-
ways, goes to Westralia in his old age in quest of a living
as a lecturer. He is still hale and vigorous, as good a
raconteur as ever, and prides himself on having been a
life-long teetotaller and non-smoker. He will probably
receive a cordial greeting from many of the descendants
in W.A. of the “gentlemen of Ballarat and savages of
Bungaree.”
Business is surprisingly iarge at all Melb. shows this
Easter. Money turned away from “ Romeo and Juliet,”
even the fourth night. Unaccountable the ebb and flow.
Melb. Shakespeare spells bankruptcy.” Bosh. Here
is “ Romeo and Juliet ” jammed out for four nights, beat-
ing “Trilby” and “Chinatown,” and each night, per-
haps, beating any two houses at the “ Prisoner of Zenda,”
or any three at the “Two Little Vagabonds.” Williamson
ought to stage “ Titus Andronicus ” right off.
Writes someone : “ Cleo erred in last issue (April 24) in
writing down little Alma Grey as Ada Baker’s daughter
—which she is not. The responsible parties are hubby
Alf. Boothman and wife (Jessie Grey), the latter the
original drummer-boy in Melb.’s first real comic opera,
‘La Fille du Tambour Major.’”
W. Walshe from London to Tub Bulletin “ Lilian
Tree is singing soprano ballads at the Palace of Varieties.
Jennie Lee is at the Royal Music Hall giving sketches
from ‘ Jo.’ H. Stockwell and Frank Morton are in the
provinces with ‘ Shamus O’Brien.’ ‘La Poup6e ’is an
enormous success, the stalls are all booked for the next
three months.”
“Mummer” to The Bulletin apropos something or
other : —Mrs. , the alleged beauty, will never
be an actress. Her mouth is too small. No woman with
asmall mouth was ever any good as an actress, or very
much good as anything else. She is a sweet woman when
one is close to her—the closer the better, I may say ; but
across the footlights she is too “ fine,” and her face is out
of drawing —forehead too wide, chin too small. She is a
boudoir beauty without the voice, figure, physique, or
talent of a mummer, and she is wasting her time. The
chorus contains a dozen handsomer and cleverer women,
who can’t rise above the crowd, and an occasional —“The
carriage waits.”
N. : “ Apropos Duke of Fife entertaining London actors.
Recall his pedigree. Great-grandson of Dora Jordan,
actress, mistress of William IV., and mother of his ten
children. The King wanted to dock her allowance, but
she tore off the bottom of the Drury Lane play-bill and
sent it to him—‘No money returned after the rising of
the curtain.’ He sacked her when old, and married a royal
woman, Adelaide.”
“ Joe ” Blascheck, a young man with a game leg and a
strong faith in his powers as a humorous reciter, went
from Melbourne to London the other day, for the purpose
of bursting forth as a representative Australian humorist,
The Bulletin fears. London is a large place and Bias-
check may pick up a living there, but he will have to con-
fine his attack to that section of the public which would
rather die than set foot in a theatre. His humor is very
soft and mild, especially wjien it assumes a Cockney
character.
Does Manager Bland Holfr nave his men built to sample,
or does he select men of one size and weight so that each
man can wear the others’ clothes in case of emergency ?
Anyhow, there never was such uniformity in the matter
of size and weight in one co. before. Baker, Cosgrove,
Norman, Corlesse, Montgomery, and Kemp are all solid
men of about the same ounces and inches, and, barring
Corlesse, either of them could be the other fellow at a
pinch. Possibly Bland’s prosperity accounts for the
unusual fatness of the company he keeps.
“La now London's rage, was, like many
other pieces, condemned by the actors beforehand. All
were most despondent up to the rise of the curtain, when
it went from the jump. Miss Soldene relates the same of
“ Genevieve de Brabant,” from the first night of which
Farnie, the author, ran away in terror. Same actors’
mistake over Goldsmith’s “ She Stoops to Conquer.”
Smugglers in England, less than 100 years ago, were
hung on gibbets and their bodies were coated with tar.
These corpses stood the wear and tear of climate, &c., for
many years, and one of them is still doing duty as a
travelling showman’s chief draw. He exhibits it “to
men only.” How would , tarred, suit, say Jimmy
MacMahon, just now ?
E. : “ The archaeological ignorance of stage-managers,
even in first-class productions, is occasionally appalling.
Take, for instance, the prologue to ‘ The Prisoner of
Zenda ’as played in Me'bourne. Rassendvl’s wig was
a Ramillies one (temp. Queen Anne), while all the rest of
the characters wore the conventional tie-wig (temp.
George III.) which did not appear till fully 50 years later.
Among the stage-props we find a large statuette of the
Venus of Milo, which, according to all accounts, was not
fished up out of the vasty deep till early in the present
century ; yet the date marked on the programme is circa
1731. Which recalls that Kyrle Bellew nearly had a fit
recently during his Maoriland tour on discovering, just as
he was making his first entrance in ‘ She Stoops to Con-
quer,’ that the walls of the Hardcastle mansion were
liberally adorned with photographs —‘ Put there,’ as the
irrepressible property-man remarked, ‘ just to give the
blanky ’ouse a ’omely appearance.”
Bobbie Peel, grandson of the Sir Robert, has published
an “ autobiographical novel ” entitled “ A Bit of a Fool,”
in which he duly dilates upon his youthful infatuation for
Mrs. Langtry and other ladies.
Harry Paulton has had a half-share in the literary pro-
duction of several successful extravagancies, besides
being a pantomime and burlesque writer “ on his own.”
“ The Black Crook,” which scored at the Alhambra five-
and-tw'enty-years ago, was partly Paulton’s work, like-
wise the “ Erminie ” libretto, and, best of all, “ Niobe.”
Minnie Palmer gravely informs interviewers that she
was born in 1865, and made her first appearance, in a
play specially written for her, at the early age of 11. At
this rate the flossy little creature was 22, or less, when
she visited Australia. Thb Bulletin took her to be some-
what older than that. (Somewhat is a good word.)
From Maoriland : “Asa married man of much theatrical
experience I intend never to allow my wife (she has
theatrical aspirations) on the stage, even as an amateur.
I have never known —perhaps that’s my exceptionally bad
luck, but it seems to chime in with the experience of
others—more than two amateur ladies to remain long oh
the stage without coining to ‘ the usual theatrical
arrangement.’ The last lady amateur (it was about nine
years ago) who joined a well-established co. of which I
Was a member, fell in at once. Within a month she and
the leading man eternally sat in the green-room gaziiig
into each other’s eyes so intently that the rest of the co.
didn’t like to enter without knocking. After the show it
was : ‘ Are you ready, dear ? ’ ‘Yes, darling. Will you call
the cab, dear?’ ‘lt’s here, darling ; come along, theri,
let’s get home at once.’ Yet she was a much-married
woman more or less in society and with several children.”
A concert at Haw-hawthorn (Melb.) Town Hall, for the
benefit of the Indian Famine Fund, was advertised in the
Melb. dailies, the other week. It was a three or four-inch
advt. stating in lai-ge type that the Hawthorn Mayor had
promoted the concert, and that Mr. and Mrs. Sargoodand
other great people were likely to attend. Way down at
the bottom of the announcement the names of the ".rtists
who would supply the music were huddled togeth :r into
a quarter-inch of space. They were not the attraction.
The strength of the programme lay in the fact that a tin-
pot Mayor had “ promoted ” it under Sargood’s patronage.
An English exchange mentions “ a remarkable feat ”
accomplished by Madame Angelo about the year 1873, when
she walked 1000 miles in 1000 hours for a "wager of 12000
at Vauxhall Gardens, Birmingham. Old Melbourne men
will remember that about the year 1860 Mrs. Douglass,
wife of the prompter at the Princess’ Theatre, performed
the feat in order to raise money for her sick husband.
She was small, wiry, and elderly, and walked on a track
built in the old Olympic Theatre" (the Iron Pot), Lonsdale-
street. She successfully accomplished the task dressed in
bloomer costume.
At a send-off smoke-concert to Majah Reay, of Melb.
’Erald, a very good recitation of “Banjo” Paterson’s
“Man from Snowy River” was given by an A.N.A.
aspirant named Watt, who, however, thought it necessary
to introduce the well-known subject with a few remarks.
Previously Colonel Price had alluded to The Bulletin’s
unkind habit of calling him “ Lay ’em out,” from which
this journal is glad to assume that the Colonel repents his
bye-one ferocity and would like to be forgiven.
Haresfoot: “Met Jenny Nye in Melb. just now, the yet
fresh, blooming, youthful, taut, sprightly little colum-
bine, harlequina, and harlequin in Melb. and Sydney
pantos, over 30 years ago. The beauty of Jane is that she
admits ‘ Matsa ’ beats her time. The sickening sixty-
sevener is so apt to enthuse on frowsy Coppinian Artful
Dodgery.”
Melb. :Twenty women had their hats off in the Prin-
cess amphitheatre last night.”
Australia now boasts the best living soprano (Melba)
and contralto (Crossley).
Williamson is the only Melbourne theatrical manager
who does not ornament his programmes with his own
portrait. The other three give away sweet, boyish pictures
of themselves with the usual bill of fare.
The judicious grieved when they did not blaspheme
over a fragment of a “turn” supplied by Conway and
Clarke at Rickards’ Melb. show during last week. Clarke,
the male element of the team, warbles a jingo stanza in
assertion of the idea that Amurka “kin lick creation,”
and don’t you forget it. Whereupon, Conway, who is
the skirted “ pardner,” responds for the “ Beritish Hem-
pire,” with a whoop to the effect that J. Bull can climb
all over Jonathan without damping his hands. The duet
ends in the complete triumph of Bull. The agony lies in
the fact that, although Clarke is Yankee, Conway is fifty
times more so, and the glory and might of Hingland are as-
serted in a shrill Old-Kentucky dialect every time. Jingo
ditties of the British, for the British, by the British are
bad enough ; of the British, for the British, by the Yank,
or another “ furriner,” they provoke violent acidity of the
stomach and homicidal tendencies.
S.S. : “Has it ever struck you as remarkable that the
mummer acting a Shakespearean hero always wants an
unfortunate man about to hang on to and paw over?
Bellew’s Romeo is only exceptional in this respect inas-
much as he mauls Mercutio, and Benvolio, and Friar
Lawrence, and others more persistently and aggravat-
ing! y than former R. Montagues have done. He hitches
himself on to these unfortunate people at all sorts of dis-
comforting and uneasy angles, and moans at large ; or,
hooked to them, hangs limply, and discourses of his last
mash, or, leaning up against them, and pawing them with
the familiarity of a best girl, pours his confidences down
their briskets or into their back hair. Perhaps Shake-
speare intended this—he seems to have created a charac-
ter or two in most of his plays merely to serve as itching-
posts for his heroes —but I would rejoice to see a Romeo
who would stand on his own hind-legs, and not expect to
be shored up by the rest of the co. A tendency to flop is
a nauseous thing in a man, and not to be endured in a
hero who skewers his enemies as neatly as Romeo does.”
Haresfoot: “ Bland Holt’s fire-scene is so actual that it
depicts the burning of the play-house. People, especially
women, will be frightened off, and I don t expect this
piece to draw. Also the play is very repulsive with the
Panther and her crowd of fashionable prostitutes.”
Bellew is faking up a version of “ Joan of Arc” for Cora
P., with which they intend to astonish London on their
return in June, if they can get a suitable theatre.
Editor Bulletin,—With reference to a paragraph in
your issue of April 24,1 desire to point out that Alma Grey
is not my daughter. My daughter, Miss Trixie Baker, has
sung “I’ve Asked Johnny Jones,” but only with the ob-
jectionable verses omitted. The mistake has caused me
much annoyance, and I must ask you to correct it. —Ada
Baker.
One Reid, a social purist, has been landed for .475
damages and costs, for stating that a certain damsel
appeared upon a London music-hall stage in bare legs,
whereas she wore fleshings at the time. Probably the
loss of his money affected the good man less than the dis-
covery that he had been grossly deceived.
“ You will do very well in Australia if you eat beef,
drink whisky, and avoid Benalla.” —G. A. Sala.
Melb. : “ Dampier is remembered by his Baby-show and
Hamlet.”
Sir 'Gustus Harris’s brother Charley died lately. Both
brothers suffered from diabetes and fatty degeneration.


Banking. Publio Companies, &o.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every ,£1 to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,950,211 ss.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. 0. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JiisJiopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland Rational Rank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Harstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macgregor
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
iJROKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, eto. Box No. 237, G. P. O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Golonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Speoial Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 . £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., ML. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
phoenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... w £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed £20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
rpHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
-*■ LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Aot 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. _ .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up ... .. £1,660,032 3 0
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 89,967 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. _ 760,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman ; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A.Zeal, K. C.M.G., M.L.C.; Auditors: W.H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
1,946,940 0 0
1,190,250 0 0
1,946,940 0 0
Total 6,084,130 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
The Hon. Charles Kinnaird Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison. F. W. Utkbr.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
London Office—Old ltrond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. „ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. „ 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. „ 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
T. J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE.
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHA REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
w
AND
eoiv
BUTTER
S&OTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
HANDSOME
Commemoration Box- of Butter Scotch
With It will be presented a History of the Victorian
Era, written especially for Children by
kMiss Bessie Hatton.
Ready June 1 ati
■;z~-*rz4
St. John’s Works, W.C. LONDON
Missing Friends.
WTANTED, information of MARY MINOGUE HEF
’ FRON, formerly of New Kay, Clare County, Ire-
knd. She or any of her children can hear from their
relatives, by addressing Margaret Minogue Ford, Cottaee-
States’ Natlok ’ Mlddlesex 00., Massachusetts, United
Shipping.
THE
HOWARD SMITH
TO
LINE.
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Peregrine, Saturday, May 1, 12 noon.
Leura, Saturday, May 8, 12 noon.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Peregrine, Saturday, May 1, 12 noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Peregrine, Sat., May 1,12 noon. Takes
passengprs & cargo for Buninyong,
leaving Melbourne Tues., May 4.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, May 1, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, M a y 4, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Tyrian, Saturday, May 1, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, May 8, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney),
Saturday, May 1.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, May 8.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd-
ney) Saturday, May 1.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, May 8.
ESPERANCE BAY J-Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Emu, Tuesday, May 4.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oanadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
EIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, aud Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co of
N.Z Ltd 15 Bridge Street ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane. ’
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government oallino- „ f
MELBOURNE, ADEL AIDE A TEA nt v
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORTSAID^I^h’
dispatched MONTHLY, asfoUows ’ be
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay I
China, Batavia, and Japan
tab Win£ E M ° NEY ' *° «». inch
E. BLANC,
Principal Age
Shipping,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Ooimmnv
be despatched as follows : * J will
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•(Jailing at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates nf
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7n
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single £25 £97
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. O. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney
A. U. S. INI■ Coy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas. ’
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd.
Business Announcements.
EVERY VARIETY OF
gEO
P
QO
(jr
MFC
C°
MPS
lex
pu
N ALL SIZES.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO,
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
MINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
High-Class Tailoring.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
IMPORT DIRECT
All the Latest NOVELTIES in vogue in the
Fashionable World for
<a€Qtl€n?€Q’S SClitiQgS.
OUR SPECIALITY SERGES are Guaranteed
—Vickerman's Serges and Vicunas—
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
Samples Posted Free on Application.
Ladies’ Tailoring
AT REFORM
- - PRICES
Ladies 9 Walking - -
or Cycling Costumes
Made on the Shortest Notice.
This Department is presided over by a Cutter of
high-class London Experience in Ladies’Trades.
CYCLING SUITS Made to Measure.
All Regulation Tweeds in Stock.
Cycling SWEATERS, GLOVES, and every
other Necessary for Cycling.
Our Celebrated KNITTED WOOLLEN ROAD
RIDING PANTS, 10s. 6d. ; postage, Is.
(Give size of waist when ordering by Post).
DAVID BRAHAM & CO. are the Sole Agent*
for Cellular Clothing.
(CELLULAR PYJAMAS.
- J The most comfortable that oan be
worn.
CELLULAR SOCKS.
Cellular Underwear, Tennis and Day Shirts,
White Shirts, Linen Fitted, with Short Fronts
for every-day wear. Dress Shirts, &c.
CELLULAR CLOTHING
DEPOT,
D. Braham and Co., 384 GEORGE-ST.,
Sole Agents. Sydney.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
George and York Streets).


CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Tri-umph,.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
An?cricaQ Import Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the hearting Warehouses.
Pubications.
Gr-eo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Liable, ’’
“Crown Diamonds,’’ “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. I'AXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
“Friends no Longer*” s ™^! u f L -
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH ! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
«rt. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3rt. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MKIICOIKVF.
rpALES OF TIIE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
ITIHE SOILED DOVE, being the History of a Younj
■A* Lady who ran away from her parents and ultimately
“ went to the dogs.” Also “ Skittles,” the Girl with. Six
Husbands; Life and Love in Paris, etc., etc. Each post
free, Is. 6d. The three for 4s. Anolo-Aus. Publishing
Co., 331 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Hotels.
Poverty
Your Cue is —
Pointers!
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERS ALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st.., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
fTIOM ENRIGHT would remind ail Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position
being opposite the wharves —and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
m
c
'mm
III!
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
©\®
.O' ,4
T.O
9
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand finished, full-capped jewelled English Lever, £3 10s. Extra quality,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, strongest, cheapest, and best time-keeper ever
made—3, 4,5, 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Open-face Keyless, 30s.
Double case, 40s, £2 10s. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d ; extra, 12s 6d ; superior
quality, 20s, guaranteed 12 months. Special Gold Keyless Walthams, patent
filled cases, £2 15s, £4 4s, £6s ss, and £6 6s. Cases guaranteed 5, 15, and 20
years. We guarantee all our watches to give every satisfaction. Try' us,
you will not regret it.
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s 6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold Bar, 15s. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
aa_
VJ «■ •!
rcaiaisroap
Qfeir "T~
IBS
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Gold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst, 21s ;
15c. Gold, as above, 355.
6 different Patterns, Gold
Links, 12s 6d. Chain connec-
tion, 15s. Large, 21s.
16c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and 6s.
Gold Amethyst Heart Coronet, 20s.
15c. do. do. 30s.
5 pure Diamonds,double-
cut, 18c. Gold Hand-
made, £4 10s. Larger
Diamonds, £5, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
©
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d
Set with 2 Pearls & Bedstone, 12s 6d
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
Similar, 15c. Gold, 20s, 30s.
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 15c. Gold
Pearls and Rubies (latest), £2.
18c. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heavy, £2.
J-O.Q-Q
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 15c., 30s.
18c. Gold, 2 Diamonds
3 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s. 5 pure Dia-
monds, 14 10s.
Solid Gold Chain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
3 pure Sapphires,
4 Diamonds,
18c. £3, £3 10s, £4,
£5, £6.
Beautiful Opals and
Diamonds, same
price. Send for
size card.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, £2 ss, £3 ;
extra, £3 ss;
15c., £3, £4, £5, £6 ;
with key padlock,
10s extra. All se-
cured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
ir "iiwagiisw
Solid Gold, B-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d ; Stone Set, 255.
Any .Name.
c Solid Gold, 17s 6d. 150., 25s and 30s. 18c,
Solid Gold, 30s, 365, £2.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame-
thyst, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Pure Diamond, 18c. Gold Band, £3.
15c. Gold Twin Love Birds, 20s.
Set with Pure White Pearls, £2.
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Is. 6d., 2s 6d; steel -
lined, 3s 6d, 4s ; case,
Is extra.
All
Articles
Post
Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guarantee*!
sa
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
255., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £6.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. All
guaranteed.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. 9c.
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s-
-355, 40s. Send for size card.
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold „ ' 32s 6d.
01(3101
m?
Gold Fancy Bar Name Broocn, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Strong Gold Broo -h, 10s J‘*' pat t. ON A SAUNDERS and see the beautiful show of articles suitable for Presents and Gifts, the Most Elegant and Extensive Stock of
“ SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST, ILLUSTRATED, P^ tfree ' a reliable and perfect time-keeping GOLD and SILVER WATCHES, Solid GOLD and SILVER CHAINS, CLOCKS in every style and price. A Brilliant
Beautiful GOLD JEWELLERY, New and Most Unique in Style and Design. Our articles are guaranteed to give you every satisfaction, and Purchasers SAVE from 5s to 7s Cd in the pound.
Exhibition of the Jeweller s Art, a Panoi a • “ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDERS,
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street,
(NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION)
SYDNEY,
Relative values. From Sydney D.T.: —
A TUTOR for 4 Boys, on a Station, teach English,
music, etc., £3O and keep.
ACOACHPAINTER wanted, 25s week and keep, if
suit 30s and keep.
SIMMONDS, 188 Castlereagh-st.
Hunk of academic law from N.S.W. Judge
Coffey : “ People who agree among themselves
not to bid for goods and chattels put up for sale
under a distraint for rent may be prosecuted for
conspiracy if the landlord doesn’t obtain the full
amount of his claim.” It should be very hard to
convict a person of conspiracy to do nothing.
Bacteriologist Pound notices a singular
tendency in rabbits to travel northward. Where-
ever an east and west fence existed there was a
constant effort on the part of Bunny to get round
it, even when not chased. Pound also notes adapta-
bility of color. On red sand-hills the rabbit was
also red, and the scientist is of opinion this will
yet be the prevailing color among the little pests
in Western Queensland.
A delicious cooling drink. The juice of
the lime fruit, as prepared in Rose’s Lime Juice
Cordial, supplies a beverage particularly whole-
some and refreshing in water—effervescing in all
mineral waters and an excellent stimulant
blended with spirits. It possesses valuable medi-
cinal properties, cooling and purifying the blood,
stimulating and assisting digestion. It is entirely
free of spirits. Recommended by the Lancet.
Sold everywhere. Purchasers should be careful
to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others being
imitations.*
From Glen and Co. (Melb.)come “Good-
bye for Ever,” a neat ballad to the music of
Davan Wetton, that should find its way around ;
also, two acceptable dance pieces. The stronger
of these is the “ Fairy Bower ” waltz, by Herbert
Chandler, a harmonious composition with con-
siderable work and go in it. The “Zenda”
waltz, by clever Miss Einilie Kaeppel (of St.
Kilda, Melb.), is a light, catchy little thing,
which was very effectively treated by the Prin-
cess’s orchestra during the run of Anthony Hope’s
red-headed romance.
Public-meeting Geraldton (Q.) orator :
The Kanaka is secured against all ordinary risks and
losses by the almost too paternal guardianship of the
State, and can never be “ hard up ; ” as a last resource he
can always fall back on his island, live without work, and
die happy.
Apropos of which : Polynesian Inspector Caulfield
gave public evidence at Bundaberg, the other day,
that the Kanakas often complained to him about
getting short weight in their none too luxurious
dietary, and that on several occasions he had
found the complaint amply justified.
London Referee (Heaven forgive the sin
of it !) offered prize cups, value 7 guineas, for the
best slabs of rhyme dealing with the historical
events of V.R.’s gracious reign. A chip off the
block which captured the colonial cup :
Victoria’s reign of record length’s my theme—
Her reign for sixty years, her reign supreme !
To Kensington at dawn the Primate hies :
“The King is dead. Long live the Queen !” he cries.
Three years pass by, the Queen then weds in joy ;
Next year—that’s ’4l—is born her boy.
The Bulletin may as well amend the poem in
accordance with facts, considering that correct
dates were demanded of the competitors
Three years roll on, Her Nibs then whispers “ Yes ” ;
And in due course produces a princess.
At duty’s call her courage never fails —
In ’42 she gives the nation “ Wales.”
A Girl’s Life Saved at Neutral Lay.
In the picturesque suburb of Neutral Bay, Syd-
ney, resides Miss Mashford, a young lady of pre-
possessing appearance, who seems likely to furnish
her friends and neighbours with a topic of conver-
sation which will in all probability be discussed
for some time to come. In an interview with a
representative, Miss Mashford made the following
interesting and surprising statement: “lam now
nearly 21 years of age, and I have never been
strong in my life. About the beginning of March,
1896, I began to feel worse than I ever had felt
before. I had a terribly languid feeling—the
least exertion made me feel tired, in addition to
which I suffered excruciating pains from neuralgia
which quite unfitted me for any active pursuit.
My appetite was also very poor, and I had almost
a dread of food. I spent a great deal of money in
buying tonics, trusting that some of them would
relieve me; but none of them did me any good.
But one day, quite, by accident, I heard of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People through one
of my friends, and a few days after a pamphlet
was left at our house (Woodville), and on reading
it I thought one case in which a permanent cure
had been effected was very similar to my own,
namely, bloodlessness, or what is called anaemia.
I, therefore, determined to get some, and bought
my first box from Mr. Medd, of the Military-road,
Neutral Bay, the local chemist. I commenced
taking them according to the printed directions
on the wrapper.”
“ Did this box do you any good, Miss Mash-
ford ? ”
“ Indeed, it did : and I was badly in need of
something to benefit me, for I must tell you that
at this time I was sent up to Hornsby for a change
of air, the state of my health being such as to
cause my relatives and friends considerable alarm.
However, this one box did me so much good that
I determined to continue with them, and I sent
for five more boxes, which I took.”
“ And you now feel ever so much better ? ”
“ Most certainly I do ; apart from how much
better I feel, my aunt and others tell me my com-
plexion has improved amazingly, and my mirror,
which I occasionally look at,” she naively re-
marked, “tells me the same story. lam now
able to go about in my old style, and my health
improves daily.”
“And you attribute all these improvements in
your health and appearance to taking Dr Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills ? ”
“ Well, as I have taken no other medicine, it
must be the Pills that have wrought this benefit.
I shall always fully believe in them, and shall
recommend them to all my friends.”
(Signed) E. D. MASHFORD.
(In subsequent conversation with Mr. Medd,
the chemist of Neutral Bay, our reporter elicted
that Mr. Medd knew Miss Mashford well, and
was rejoiced to observe the striking improvement
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had effected in her. Mr.
Medd added that he had a good sale for the Pills
about Neutral Bay, and that doubtless as soon as
the recovery of Miss Mashford became generally
known the sale would materially improve.)
The facts above related are important to girls
just budding into womanhood, whose condition is,
to say the least, more critical than their parents
imagine. Their complexion is pale and waxy in
appearance, troubled with heart palpitation, head-
aches, shortness of breath on the slightest exercise,
faintness, and other distressing symptoms which
invariably lead to a premature grave unless prompt
steps are taken to bring about a natural condition
of health. In this emergency no remedy yet dis-
covered can supply the place of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, which build anew the blood, strengthen the
nerves, and restore the glowof health to pale and sal-
low cheeks. They are a certain cure for all troubles
peculiar to the female system, young and old.
i Pink Pills also cure such diseases as rheumatism,
neuralgia, partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St.
Vitus’ dance, nervous headache, nervous prostra-
tion, the after effects of la grippe, influenza, and
severe colds, diseases depending on humors in the
blood, such as scrofula, chronic erysipelas, etc.
In the case of men they effect a radical cure in all
cases arising from mental worry, overwork, or
excesses of any nature.
These pills are not a purgative. They are
genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by
chemists, and by Dr. Williams’ Medicine Com-
pany, Sydney, who will forward, post paid, on
receipt of stamps or post order, one box for 2s 9d,
or half-dozen for 14s 9d. They are unrivalled as
a tonic for both sexes.*


Warner s Safe Cure is a Specib’ic for Liver
and Kidney Disease.
SoftCa O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
><
Very Strong-, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Packets
Of
h
iEicars
E*TR* /$
P(/ALIV<
x m piJf < £
/: y
fpanufacrured by m
' jjjjk
IS.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN
CYCLE 8t MOTOR CO., Limited,
• • 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
Iri 1881, out of every 20,000 Maorilanders
five died of cancer. In 1896, 11 died out of every
20,009. , The cancerous cow and the unhealthy
pig, arid the system which makes no real effort to
keep! then) from going into Consumption, have a
lot of ghosts td answer for.
The record, butter-yield from one cow at a
public trial occurred at the National Agricultural
Show at Melb., when Daisy, a half-bred Ayrshire,
bred by Jdhn Grant, of Seafield, Vic., gavelo7flb.
of milk iff two days, which produced 71b. sJoz. Of
butter, Or 31b. lOjoz. pier day.
Postmaster-General Cook states scornfully
that if a halfpenny newspaper postage was itri-
posed iri N.S.W. it Would probably so far reduce
the number of papers posted that it would only
realise .£25,000 a year. The obvious implication
is that a source of revenue which only yields
.£25,000 a year isn’t worth consideration. Yet,
N.S.W. scrambles mighty hard after a good many
sources of revenue which don’t yield anythinglike
that humble sum, and £25,000 a year would pay
for the shifting of a vast amount of sand up at
Centennial Park.
Neat way of putting it, from S.M. Herald :
"IyrATRIMONY. —Gentleman, young, educated, good-
-LVJ - looking, holding good situation, wishes Corres-
pond lady with private income, good looks not essen-
tial, but must be strong and symmetrical. Photo.,
E.T.H., Herald.
Also —
A GENTLEMAN, 45, of quiet and sober habits, in
fair position, wishes to Make the Acquaintance
of a Protestant Lady, either Spinster or Widow, of a
similar age or older, with some means, with a view to
MATRIMONY. W.R., Park-street P.O. *
Wanted—the woman who’ll “own up” to that
“or older ”?
Mr. J. M. Bruce, the Melbourne softgoods
person, left for London the other day after a
send-off at Menzies’—the Mayor in the chair.
Said “ Potty ” Bruce, in responding to the toast
of his health : “If, during my stay in London,
opportunities should arise for doing anything on
behalf of the colony in relation to the Diamond
Jubilee celebrations, I will do my best to uphold
the honor of the colony.” One hardly sees what
Bruce can do in this way—unless he parades
Regent-street humping a gas-light illumination
with “ Advance Australia ” on one side and “Pat-
terson, Laing, and Bruce ” on the other.
The Sydney parsons may now unwittingly
be raising a record dust : city and suburbs are
overrun by an army of old women of both sexes,
with long lank hair, in round hats and black
bonnets, canvassing for signatures to a petition
praying the Executive to enforce the Sunday-clos-
ing law and save the unfortunate who runs the
corner shop from being worked to death ; and so
allow him to attend matins, Sunday-school, and
evensong with his family. But, sad to say, the
benighted wretch does not want to be Saved, and
swears that if the parsons shut him up he will set
the law in motion against the restaurants, ferry-
steamers, Sunday excursion-boats, Railway Com-
missioners, milk-carts, Sunday-paper men, and all
others who scoop in lucre on the Sabbath.
A Perth boarding-house-keeper recently
applied for permission to lay down, at his own
expense, a pipe to carry waste-water out into the
gutter—and was refused. The orthodox way, he
was informed, was to dig a large hole in his back
premises and let the waste fluid putrefy and fester
there until the hole was full, and then a Corpora-
tion cart would come round and bale out the horrid
green mass, and take it away. It was explained
that Perth had always followed this system, and
the putrid hole in the backyard was a deep-rooted
institution, like the Throne or the Church, and
not to be lightly done away with ; also, that the
Corporation regarded pipes with suspicion as a
new-fangled device, which might lead to unfore-
seen consequences. Anyhow, Perth was resolved
to die at its post, if necessary, with its stink in its
right hand, and defend its smell and constitution
to the last.
Yarn from -near Broad Arrow (W.A.) :
The miners at a certain local show are working
for shares, the syndicate being unable to pay
wages. A rich patch was struck one day, and the
miners assembled in one of the tents to celebrate
the find by a repast, in which many bottles figured.
During the orgie, the grocer arrived for orders,
and was asked in. While he was inside, his horse
got into Jim’s tent and devoured three loaves of
bread. Jim at last heard the noise, and arrived
on the scene as the last loaf was disappearing.
For revenge, he made the horse finish his feed with
two dynamite cartridges, and then told the grocer
his horse was not safe to have near the camp, as
he was loaded up to the back-teeth with dynamite.
The grocer, in mortal terror, said he wouldn’t get
on the horse for a pension ; he led him to a tree,
about 30yds. off, tied him up, and then withdrew
to a safe distance and pelted the poor beast with
stones, to “ sorter test whether he was likely to go
off.” Finding he didn’t explode, he mounted very
gingerly, and rode away at about half-a-mile an
hour, being fraid to touch him with a stick. The
miners are waiting to hear if he got home all
right.
Right to Complain.
Most of as have this right, or if not we assume it;
at the same time few enjoy hearing others com-
plain. One complains of the weather; another
the dulness of business; another of poverty;
another of afflictions, too personal to be of general
interest; but Mrs. I. Clarke, storekeeper, of
M'Culloch St., Donald, complained of pains in
the back due to kidney disease, an ailment so
common that her experience will interest many.
She says : “ This is to certify that when suffering
back ache and kidney disease Warner’s
‘ Safe ’ Cure entirely cured me.” Some are always
complaining, unconsciously acquiring the habit,
but they deserve no sympathy unless they are
guided by evidence such as above, and if they are
so guided they will require no sympathy.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Despite rain on the third day, the A.J.C.
Autumn meeting was a great success. The two chief
events were won by rank outsiders whose victories, with
the exception of the stakes, scarcely benefited their
connection at all. ’Tis passing strange that the staying
capabilities of the 5-year-old Tricolor were Only made
known to his owner by the Cup performance. In the
City Handicap, no less than eight of the eleven runners
were well backed, and yet the outsider, Gozorei i,
splashed home unbacked by owner and public, and Iky
had another skinner.
“ Now and then ” Newhaven performed ih
strangely contradictory manner during the A. J.G. meet-
ing. On the first day he easily won a very slowly-ruri
Leger from The Officer, Charge and Resolute; in the
All-Aged Stakes on third day he was badly beaten by
Hopscotch, True Blue and Metford, and to wind-up with,
he simply made hacks of Coil, Fucile, True Blue, Battalion
and Resolute in A.J.C. Plate of three miles, all of which
goes to prove that he is a casual kind of cuss that can
gallop when he has things all his own way. ’Tis to be
hoped he will in England run more consistently than here,
or Mr. Cooper will have unpleasant interviews with the
stewards of the jockey club.
Had Aurum been pulled out against Hopscotch,
Newhaven & Co. for the All-aged Stakes, he would prob-
ably have won; but his party did not wish to subject
him to a severe race over a mile, and, consequently, took
on the Easter Stakes, in which event the “ marvellous
nugget” easily carried his 141 b. penalty to victory.
Aurum now retires to winter quarters the most valuable
asset in horseflesh in Australia, not even excepting the
“ now and then ” champion Newhaven.
» * * *
The S.A.J.C. Autumn Meeting begins at
Adelaide to-day (Sat.). The Goodwood Handicap looks
like falling to Staffa or Thunderer, though Areola will run
well if condition goes for anything. The S.A. Stakes is a
good thing for Fleet Admiral, who may be followed home
by Security. The St. Leger Stakes may be fought out by
Thunder Queen and Eleusinian. On Wednesday the
valuable Adelaide Cup should be retained in S.A. per
aid of Thunder Queen, whose most dangerous opponent
may turn up in the once all-conquering Loyalty—reported
as having regained some of his brilliant form.
* * • *
Carbine asserted himself as a sire at A.J.C.
meeting with three winners, whilst Trenton, Grand
Flaneur, Newminster and Gozo come next on the list
with two apiece. The Vic. jock Morrison rode three
winners, and Farrell, Cleal, and Gardiner each got home
first twice. £12,635 was distributed in stakes, of which
Mr. Royds by aid of Tricolor got the biggest slice (£2245).
The strong Kelso stable did not turn out a single winner,
for although the unlucky Sabretache got first past in
Rous Handicap, he was afterwards disqualified for boring.
* * * *
At the Sydney yearling sales last week, the
handsome Cocos, a full brother to Coil (Abercorn— Copra)
was bought by Mr. W. Bailey for 1150 guineas. A half
brother to Aberoorn, by the imported Gossoon out of
Cinnamon, went to Mr. W. Leonard for 700 guineas, but
perhaps the pick of the lot was Starbine, a full brother to
the Second Nursery winner, Giril (Carbine—Twinkle),
bought by Fred. Fielder for 650 guineas. This colt is very
like his sire.
* * * «
The jumping events at Randwick meeting were
much more interesting than usual; Irish Stew, Jack
Hanwell and His Grace, of the hurdlers, performing ex-
tremely well and giving great promise. Jack Hanwell is
half-brother to the late champion Bellringer, who won 13
races during a lengthy career. Booties, theM.L. ’chaser,
was a bit lucky in winning the Second Steeplechase, as
had not Whitefoot 11. struck the sod wall he would
have won, for he was fencing beautifully and going
steadily when he came down. Mignon is a fine fencer
and fast.
* * » *
The English-bred Positano, within three months
of his crossing the sea, won at Randwick on Saturday.
Australians do not make quite such a fuss over the win as
if an Australian-bred had won, under similar circum-
stances, in England ; but it must be confessed there is not
much likelihood of an English handicapper putting an
Australian horse at bottom weight, as was Positano.
« * * »
A.J.C. Secretary Clibborn must have arrived in
Australia further back than the “ oldest inhabitant ” can
carry his memory if, as stated by him at the trainers’
presentation, he recollects the time when horse-owners
ran their steeds for the “love of sport” alone. Money
ever did, and ever will, make the mare to go, and it must
be confessed that the ready seems quite as potent at
Randwick as On the smallest proprietary course. There
is scarcely a meeting at Randwick at which “ reversal of
form ” is not shown that would entitle the pony-owner to
a “lifer,” but, unless the perpetrator be a friendless coun-
try owner, the powers that be make no sign. O, for the
Arcadian circle, with its shingle stand, remembered by
the secretary in his salad days !
* * * *
When Newhaven goes to England punters will
have more time for considering the vagaries of Coil.
* * * *
Hopscotch, for all the talk about his in-and-out
running, has been a consistent performer, as horses go in
Australia. Up to March last (and everybody can remem-
ber what he has done within the present month), the big
chestnut had started 30 times and put 11 wins to his
credit. He was placed in four other races, and unplaced
in the remaining 15. But the 15 bad failures included
several events in which Hopscotch was running beyond
his distance. In races of not more than nine furlongs he
has more wins than losses to his account.
* * » »
The legalising of cash wagers on English race-
courses is made inevitable by the recent successful action
of the Anti-Gambling League in prosecuting bookmaker
Dicky Dunn. A strict enforcement of the law as it stands
would soon clear the general public off the turf, and the
g.p. is necessary to horse-racing. So, now that the hum-
bug of the old system (under which the law winks at
Ikey Mo’s offence) has been properly exposed, a new Act
will have to happen. In N.S.W. and Vic., where we have
the farce of permitting racing-clubs to license law-
breakers, a new Betting Act will probably be avoided by
a Tote Bill.
* * * *
Miller, who publishes the Racing Chronicle in
Melb., had a message from Sydney to the effect that Tri-
color was the most likely horse to win the Cup. But he
didn’t follow the “ information," Men who oompile rac-
ing: facts don’t back horses.
* * ♦ * ♦
The fly-flats fancied Hopscotch for Sydney Cup.
They can’t be convinced that the big: horse is a non-stayer,
although he has proved his weakness in public again and
again. * * *
The Bulletin is informed that boys and men
attached to the palatial stables of a wealthy Victorian
racing “ sport” are housed in quarters which no self-res-
pecting horse could put up with.
* * * *
Aluminium horse-shoes, weighing only 4oz. the
Set, are being turned out in quantity by a progressive
Wairarapa, M.L., blacksmith, who makes a rattling good
thing out of them.
» 4 * *
A totalisator argument: <£21,835 was the
amount invested at Onkaparinga (S. A.) meeting on Easter
Monday—a record for S.A. Of this amount the club re-
tained £1637 as commission at 7£ per cent., thus enabling
it to offer £lOOO as the sweepstakes for the leading race,
the Steeple. From the point of view of the public, the
owners, or the clubs, which is the better system—the
totalisator and scientific odds, or Israel Moses with his
diamond scarfpin and even money the double ?
* * * *
S.A. bookmakers have now adopted an ingenious
system for overcoming the betting law. Moses now
employs a runner to reinvest in the machine a portion of
the moneys received from the public, so that bookie
always has a stock of tickets on hand in case of a police
raid—conclusive proof that he is a totalisator commission-
agent and not a bookmaker. The plan works all in favor
of Moses. He never pays out at higher odds than 10 to 1,
and frequently scoops a big machine div. The police
admit that Moses is now beyond the reach of everything
save fresh legislation.
* * * *
At the A.J.C. races. Madge: “That was a
close finish, was it not?” Angela (who held the field-
glasses) : “ No—Aurum won by a whole horse ”111 Fact.
» * * •
Surcingle : “ None of the leading English book-
makers are Jews, or ever have been.”
♦ * * *
Brisbane (Q.) racing authorities have re-chris-
tened Eagle Farm “ Ascot.” That Hinglish name, haw 1
won’t stick. Might as well try to re-christen Humpybong
“ Balmoral ” and Woolloongabba “ Holyrood.”
* * * *
The final of the Druids’ Wheel Race at Melb.
Exhibition gave a fine display of track tactics. All the
cracks had been weeded out by the preliminary heats,
and, though no scratch men were left in, the calibre of the
field may be gauged by the fact that young MTnnes, of
Melb., was limit man on 140yds. MTnnes made the race
slow from the pistol, and it was amusing to hear the
crowd, who never seem to learn, saying that the boy was
throwing away his chances by not making the pace.
MTnnes’s idea was to stop in front throughout, make the
pace slow, and then win with a lightning dash in last lap.
But the astute Body saw the ruse, and pushed the pace
to run MTnnes off his legs, entering the last lap himself
in front. Middleton came round him at the last turn, and
the pair left the rest of the field 20yds. behind as they
battled up the straight to pass the line level.
The run-off was most exciting. Middleton,
whose sprint is superior to Body’s, started 30yds. ahead,
but, instead of waiting for the Maorilander and relying
on the finish, he put down his head and fatuously tried to
lose a man who was twice as good a stayer. So Body
caught him after three laps, and shooting past the Dunol-
lyite, who was dead to the world, got 10yds. lead before
the other knew it. The race seemed all over, but nobody
has yet plumbed the depths of Middleton’s pluck, and he
lay down once more and set out on the heartrending job
of catching his opponent. At one time there were 30yds.
between them, but Middleton’s head continued to jerk
and the machine crept up inch by inch until, three laps
from home, they were together again. Both then sat up
and crawled at snail-pace until" the last lap, when the
refreshed Middleton went out and won by five lengths.
The first-class mile was a gift to O. S. Prowse
with 50yds. start, the brilliant Sydney boy completely
overwhelming his field in the final with a lap-long sprint
and a win by a length of his handicap. There is more
coming from O. S. Prowse, too.
What a marvellous leap in form is displayed by
the pacing wonder, Body ! Two years in Australia and
not a win to his credit, though he is reckoned only a
second-rater and handicapped accordingly. Yet, no
sooner does he pull off a big prize than he comes out and
wins scratch races, and with a start reduced to 20yds. runs
a dead-heat in another big race.
Walne, who has the unique record of having
won a race at every meeting he has started in during the
past season, kept up his average and endorsed previous
opinions that he is the best man in Australia to-day by
carrying off the ten-mile scratch. Walne wins all his
races in the same way. The public are intently watching
the field battling hard around the last turn, when sud-
denly a streak of yellow and black (old Bill Beach’s colors
by the way) flits around on the outside of the bank and
into the straight level with the lot. Then, if Joe Megson
and Bilmartin happen to be in good form, there’s a'race
home. If they aren’t—well, that prize is the Banana-
man’s.
In the five-mile scratch at St. Kilda, the mile
scratch at the Eight Hours’ meeting, and the mile scratch
at the Druids, embracing a period of 10 days, the finish
of each was Walne (1), Megson (2), Martin (3), a fairly
accurate indication as to the best cyclists in Australia at
the present time.
A toney ex-amateur came to the referee at a
recent Yic. cycle meeting : “Thatblanky Sprocket tried
to bore me on the home-turn,” he explained excitedly
“ He tried to bore you, did he ? Very well; in the mean-
time, the language you have used will cost you just 5s
You are fined 5s for bad language.” The fallen amateur
did not speak, but his bewchus countenance breathed
blasphemy his shapely legs reeked vituperation.
Lesna, riding a Gfladiator, with Dunlop tyros
lowered the Australian 100 mile record to 3hrs 54min’
54sec. ; and Body won the recent £2OO wheel race at Mel-
bourne on Dunlop tyres. Dunlops last year secured 56
decisions against infringers of their patent; 11 injunctions
were granted ; while 17 verdicts are pending and 70 other
actions are awaiting a hearing.
* * * »
. y ll6 so-called Westralian eight-oar crew con-
sistmg chiefly of Victorians, arrived in Melb. last’ week
With decent coaching and time to get fit, the Westralians
would stand a fair chance for their first interprovincSl
contest, but the sea-voyage has knocked all form out of
them, and the race comes off before they will recover
look at present, the race should easily be Vi£
The eternal cash-cyclist-oarsmen dispute dods
up again. This time the N.S.W. Rowing
satisfied with the Vic. body backino- down to ?t
order to ensure the continuance of the much-boomed in
terprovincial contests, stipulates that the agreement of
last year’s conference shall not only annlv f
of its drawing up, but shall be Spears 6
that Vic. has some sort of a backbone after all fori?
at this and determines to restrict this year’s race
men who have not raced since 31st December W »” ly to
fessional pedallers-thus allowing Donald now of wT'
and late of Ballarat, to start. At latest i
N.S.W. would not be represented fhis time. ° kS aS lf
Anyhow, what does it really matter if
interprovincial contests do fall through™ Excent to the
people who know nothing at all about rnwin<? C t P V° tl ? e
the eight of any province means much less
dubs would hesiM.t, put them ip JuSr dgSS'b’JS
been accorded seats in the representative boats on manv
occasions ; whilst during the years that the Yarra Yarra
Wendouree, and Warrnambool clubs out-classed all other
organisations in the province none of these clubs had a
single man in the Vic. crews. The writer remembers see
ing one Vic. eight giving a club maiden eight a spin on
the Saltwater River, and after a mile had gone the repre-
sentative crew was lurching two lengths in the rear with
the maidens still going strong. That crew, certainly was
badly beaten, but each member received his commemora-
tive oar, and was regarded in the eyes of his lav
acquaintances as a sort of amateur Bill Beach. *
* * * *
Despite the support of Brassey, Madden, and
H. G. Turner, the proposal to send’Ome an Aus. eight fizzled
miserably. Anybody who considered the thing seriously
for a moment could see that the scheme had death
written on its little brow from its birth, because the Hing.
lish definition of an amateur is such that scarcely eight
men in the whole of Australia could be found to qualify
“ Nobody who has at any time in his life taken part in
any athletic exercise for cash prizes or has competed
against any person who has done so, and nobody who has
engaged at any time in manual labor or in any menial
occupation, shall be eligible to row as an amateur oars-
man.” This latter clause bars out even the M.’sL.C,
* » » *
By the way, The Bulletin hears that there is a
prospect of the newly-formed N.S.W. manual-labor ama-
teur rowing association stepping into the breach, the
secretary having communicated with the Victorians offer-
ing an eight-oar race at an early date. Everything now
strongly points to an important revival of manual-laboi
amateurism in Australia.
* * * •
Curious that all through Sydney D.T.’s inter-
view with Butler, at Auckland, there is not a single refer-
ence to “Mr. Percy Hunter, late secretary of the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen,” and even Butler is permitted to
close the interview without asking the name of the
smooth-faced young man who questions him. Time was
—ha, ha!
* » » •
Pity Bilmartin didn’t take The Bulletin's
advice and get off his bike three or four months ago?
• * * *
Cyclist Green talks of stopping in Victoria to
get himself into form for next racing season. If it is
good enough for Green to sacrifice his chances of earning
prize-money during the English summer, for the sake of
what he hopes to do in Australia six months hence, what
was the good of Megson and Co. tripping ’Ome last year?
Melbourne is the headquarters of bike racing mania,
seemingly, and will remain so for at least another season.
The public never tire of beholding the champions take
one another down in turn.
* * * •
X.L. : “The Gladiator Co. (France) has ordered
24 electric triplets for pacing purposes. Pacing is
rapidly killing bicycling as a sport, and reduces racing
to a mere question of a man hanging on in torture till he
busts. Also, it produces hypertrophy of the heart from
over-exertion.”
* * * *
“If a batsman makes more actually sprinted
runs during the passage of a ball to the boundary, does
he score the sprinted runs or only the value of a boundary
hit?” This point came before the Marylebone C.C., the
other day, over a disputed case where a would-be smart
Leeds fieldsman kicked an almost spent ball to the
boundary with a view to reducing the value of the hit.
The M.C.C. ruled that the batsman, in such a case, is en-
titled to all the runs actually run plus the value of the
boundary hit. Thus, if four runs were run, and a
boundary hit was worth three, the score off the stroke
would be seven.
* * * *
Melb. : “Exasperating, this flummery and flam
over art-unions. Every nation must have its chimney-
shaft, its flue, to carry off the gambling fumes. Wise
nations run the swindle themselves, collar all the pro-
ceeds, and clap into quod any evaders like our smart
Eight-Hours’ men and Druids. Purves and others have
developed a scheme for clearing off all the building-society
liabilities by an appeal to Australasia, England, and the
globe at large.”
» * * *
Dear Bulletin,—That Maori’s lift, pole-vault
isn’t a record jump. A. Larcombe, of Rookwood, in a
match some years back with J. Cochrane, the Wagga dis-
trict champion, cleared lift. 9in. ; details were printed at
the time.—A. J.
* * * *
Farquhar, Walker, Grummett, and Reilly are
the only smokers in David Byrne’s rifle-team, latelv gone
’Ome. The others appear to believe in the anti-tobac-
conist axiom that smoking unsteadies the nerves. Yet
Farquhar is the best shot in the team and Grummett one
of the most reliable. Tobacco-smoking, in moderation,
never injured any healthy man’s nerves. It is only when
you take it in rum that tobacco is really unsettling.
Two Australian doctors —dovetailed—about
biking. “ The unrivalled exercise of cycling ” “ produces
moral and physical deterioration.” “It rejuvenates men
who are physiologically older than their years” by “in-
juriously affecting the whole nervous system.” “It often
cures insomnia when everything else has failed ” by pro-
ducing “ broken and unsatisfactory sleep, with unpleasant
dreams.” “ The cycle is a revolving panacea,” and “ the
coming race of cyclists will be saturnine and unintellec-
tual, with hollow chests, haggard faces, and an expression
of ‘ unhappy gravity.’ ” Possibly, however, the difference
between these authorities is merely the difference between
moderation and excess.
* * * »
Dear Bulletin,—Re the Druids’ Gala tickets,
and your statement that expenses swallow a lot more
than half the subscriptions, you are not quite fair in say-
ing “Expenses don’t help on any cause ; they only help
on the people who get the expenses.” The matter stands
thus : The Victorian Act compels art-union promoters to
give the profits of their lottery-ticket entertainment to
public charities. Well, the Druids “ sweat ” the profits—
as the other “ art-union ” promoters do—by allowing 33
per cent. com. upon sale of tickets to their various lodges.
Each lodge, as a branch of a bona-fide benefit society,
benefits by the tickets it disposes of, so “ Expenses” do
help on a cause in this case—the cause of the Druids as a
whole. “The contention that the gala exists in great
part to supply comfortable billets for various people looks
justifiable ” on paper only. The commission device is not,
I suppose, laid bare on the balance-sheet, although it is
already quite an open secret. —Melbourne.
The Eight Hours and Druids fete lotteries, with
their solid gold prizes, remind The Bulletin that the
first prize (Cleopatra’s needle), offered by the Jewish Car-
nival management, at Melb. Exhibition last Nov., was not
claimed. A drawing took place, and the pyramid of gold
fell to a ticket which had, presumably, been purchased
by some improvident Christian who lighted his pipe with
it. This was fortunate for the guarantors of the success-
ful show to whom the subsequent sale of the needle, for
,the benefit of “ expenses,” represented the difference
between a loss of several hundred pounds and a net profit
of 15s.
* * * *
Tom Williams, the at one - time hurricane
fighter, and looked upon as about the best ten-stoner at
the game, is now a has-been. In Eng. recently he was
easdy beaten by Whatley, a lOst. Britisher who has been
off the boards for years.
* ♦ * *
“One of the most dramatic incidents of the
contest was the presence of Mrs. Fitzsimmons, who was
blazing with excitement, shouting encouragement to her
husband, and advising him to aim his blows at Corbett’s
body.” Mrs. Fitzsimmons’s lovin’ ’usband aimed his
blows at Corbett’s body, and next day he said to a news-
paper interviewer—“ lam the proudest man alive.” This
was only natural; he had much to be proud of.
Peter Jackson, who says he must do something
*° r . a S^i 11 ?. is going to the ring once more, with which
object he has started a class of instruction in London to
raise funds to take him to America. Pity that Jackson
should have been bluffed out of a meeting during the best


W. W. G-REEKTER’S
Celebrated GUNS and RIFLES
(TJREENER’S EJECTOR GUN is the highest develop-
ment of the sporting shot-gun. The mechanism is
the simplest in the world. This class of gun for symmetry,
balance, pattern and penetration is without a competitor.
Prices from 25 to 75 guineas. Address, C. W. Buckland,
16 Curral Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vic. rep.), or
Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney.
7 lie Celebrated
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
II!
\m
nm
* *
im
Ilf I!
<][>
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” VELVETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine "LOUIS"
Velveteen bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of -wear.
EOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ Ring-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
tyiSS E. Tv/ccdic,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbs Up-to-dats FrockiSt
Tlie ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
FIS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade ” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “ High
Grade” as a sign of Excellence —have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The G-reville, c he* a pels? ma-
chine in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney. .
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wllliam-st Only, Sydney
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
—Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence =Bl per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
PHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-st-reet),
HldliOIKM:
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from ISs. per week upwards.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicyck.
For LADIES and GENTS.
Tj'MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC S ADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O
Tbe iQtcrcbaOgeablc
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry's Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
IT HAS ARRIVED 1
IT HAS ARRIVED! *
IT HAS ARRIVED !
The FOWLER.
The FOWLER.
Acknowledged by Experts in America and England
to be without rival for Elegance, Lightness,
Rigidity, and especially Easy Running.
When you see a High-Grade Bicycle with a
Truss Frame you will recognise
The FOWLER!
Australian Agency :
Hoffnung’s Buildings
171 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and see us, when the various improvements
will be exhibited to you.
66 DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
,3
(52J22EEEB
ui: : 1,1
SiQger Cycles.
Trianjpl) Cycles
(ENGLAND).
Rapid Cycled
(exclusive of N.S.W. & 8.A.)
Melbourne —229 Elizabeth-st.
Sydney —393 George-st.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
. . FOR THE FAMOUS . .
HUMBER CYCLES.
BEESTON, WOLVERHAMPTON &. COVENTRY.
THE
AUSTRAL
CYCLE AC
J
LIMITED.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST CYCLE DEALER.
A Post-Card to any of our Australasian Depots will be
promptly attended to, and Catalogues and Price-Lists
cheerfully furnished if requested.
Swift Cycles-
Ral'igb Cycles
(exclusive of Victoria).
Prenjier Cycles.
*8:
*ss“''
Head Office : 285 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches :
Adelaide-33 Rundle-st.
Brisbane Adelaide-st.
Perth Hay-st.
Charters Towers (Q.) Gill-st.
Christchurch (N.Z.) —Manchester-st.
Dunedin (N.Z.) George-st.
Goulburn, N.S.W.
Hobart, 'l'as.
Launceston, Tas.
years of his manhood, as in the ordinary course a return
to the ring now must mean defeat at the hands of men
who would have been playthings to him in the days of his
might. In his best day Jackson’s size and rapid foot-play
made it a necessity that he should strip in the best of
condition. The writer recollects seeing Peter, half-
trained, try to knock out Pablo Frank in four rounds.
Pablo lasted the time out, and of the two at the finish
Jackson was the more distressed.
♦ * * *
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. secured last
year 56 decisions against infringers of their patents, while
11 injunctions were granted and 17 verdicts are pending.
No less than 70 other actions are yet to come to trial.*
* * • *
Who are the bike champions, anyhow ? Walne,
Megson, Martin, and Porta are each of them likely to
beat the other three in a scratch race over any distance,
whilst none of them seems thoroughly capable of giving
20yds. to Body, 15yds. to Relph, or 50yds. to A. A.
Middleton in a 2-mile handicap. At the present moment
Body is the best goer of the crowd when there is a big
stake sticking out at the business end of the journey.
• * • *
Of 18 men who got into the semi-finals for the
Druids’ Wheel Race, 10 had been placed for their heats in
the E.H.A. handicap, a couple of days earlier, and five
had struggled into the final.
* * * *
A Wairarapa (M.L.) cyclist, the other day,
found himself pursued by a big buck red-deer. Having
600yds. start, he set out to make the pace, but, finding
he was losing ground, shinned up a tree, and dragged his
bike after him just as the deer struck it. After half-an-
hour’s contemplation, the buck trotted off, satisfied that
his honor was duly vindicated.
* * » *
First in 1888, foremost ever since is a good and
true motto. Dunlop tyres have been exceptionally vic-
torious this Easter, all the important races run in Mel-
bourne, and throughout New South Wales, being won
upon these tyres.
PILES. —Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “ Canna-
lin ” cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Depdt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Dick Seddon has finally left for ’Ome,
departing from Auckland by the ’Frisco boat.
When the Tutaenakei, with Dick on board,
arrived off the Manukau Heads, the bar was so
bad that they signalled from shore : “ Don’t try
to cross it.” Dick, however, couldn’t afford to
miss the ’Frisco boat, so the Tutaenakei came
over, followed by the Takapuna with the mails on
board. Both vessels ran a very good chance of
having their backs broken on the bar. But, as a
political opponent said: “ One had the mails
aboard, and the other had the king.”


Special Advertisements!
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager geer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
Pure, Rich
Blood
is the soil in which roots life, health,
strength, happiness. The soil of the
blood can be drained or impoverished
like any other soil, and can be fertil-
ized and nourished in a similar way.
You can get back the old spring and
snap. You can enjoy labor by day
and sleep by night. You can eat
your food with the
Hearty
Appetite
af health, if you only supply the
blood with its lacking nutriment;
vitalize it, or if you like, fertilize it.
A large number of so called tonic
remedies are disguised stimulants.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is not a stimu-
lant but a nourishment. It feeds
the blood and so enriches it, as well
as purifies it. That is why physi-
cians recommend
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
Beware of imitations. The name Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla —is prominent on the wrapper
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
AYER'S PILLS FOR INDIGESTION.
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous*
Does Not Stain Linen m
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C .
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,"
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BBTHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
A NOVELTY!
* M,J. KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
' Obtainable of Chemists,
"'K, Stores, Perfumers, V 3
Jp. or direct from qv
Whitehead’s h<Js£ThJ,Vt«i sta .
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Stork : Wasbington-st., n
near Druitt-street. UOliip 3,11 V.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
Melb. : “Sign of the times. At Pastor
Strong’s Australian Church, Easter Sunday, they
sang a National Anthem, tune “ God Save the
Queen,” without a word about the Queen in it,
the theme being God Save Our Native Land, suit-
able to either Republican or Loyalist.”
Gillen, sub-protector of aborigines in S. A.,
who lives at Alice Springs and is recognised as
about the best authority in Australia on the habits
and customs of the natives of Central Australia,
reports thus:—“These interesting people are, I
think, rapidly passing away, and I am of opinion
that the decadence set in many years before the
white man became resident in the interior.”
Naturalist Mask ell informed Wellington
(M.L.) Philosophical Society, the other night, that
ticks which in other countries afflict beasts only,
attack birds in Maoriland. In this connection it
may be put as a parallel that the flea infesting
Yankeelanders is not the human flea of Europe
(pulex irritans), but the dog-flea, which in Europe
is only found on humans in exceptionally un-
savory circumstances.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
More crow 1 “ The crow,” writes “ Marie
Blaas ” to The Bulletin, “ needs no champions.
He’s only seen at his best when he’s dead or when
something else is dead. The crow is as black as
he is painted—for cowardice, cruelty, and ounning
he is unmatched. He is the pariah of the feathered
world and is hunted by the little soldier-bird over
plain and bush for miles, cawing with fear and
flying f° r his life all the time. His vigilant and
shifty eye is ever on the watch, and if it spots only
a young rabbit, it is a race to the death between
striking a hole or hollow log and being struck by
the crow. The sleepy, easy-going iguana is
a potential meal for this aerial pirate. A couple
of crows get a lot of amusement and, sometimes,
meat, in sticking up one of these retiring and
inoffensive animals, especially if he doesn’t retire
smartly. The iguana, on scenting danger, gener-
ally a crow or a cocky, at once rushes for his
favorite tree. The object of the crows is to block
him from reaching the cavity between the two
limbs of the tree. It then becomes a fight for life,
one of the crows cutting off his retreat and the
other trying to pick his eyes out or rip him open.
Generally the iguana becomes exhausted, drops to
the ground and affords a meal to his conquerors.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free’ or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
“ England seems to have had for mission
to show the rest of the world how the superior
races of Europe are destined to conquer and
civilise the inferior races, and to occupy vacant
territory in other parts of the globe ; but, to be
just and accurate, it must be said that she has
shown rather how to exploit inferior races than
how to civilise them.” The italics are The Bul-
letin’s, but the extract is from Paul Lacombe’s
official “ History for Schools,” for the use of
French school children.
~ Love’s old, tough, toothless dream ! In
Auckland (M.L.) recently, a man of 73 and a
woman of 70 were married. They had been
sweethearts when he was 23 and she 20, but she
married another, and he sat down to wait patiently
for her widowhood. The chance came at last, and
in the spring-tide he lightly turned, on his
crutches, to thoughts of love, and his long-expected
reward came at last. Probably it isn’t much of
a reward now that it has come, but such as it is he
has got it.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures • 9
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition •
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland •
13 a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room; 16, a Tea Room :
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
tt a h ? 8 1 ort of thin S y°u see regularly in the
U.S. dady newspapers. From Cincinnati (U.S )
Enquirer '
TWO jolly Kiris want to correspond with 2 iollv fellows
between 20 and 30 ; object, fun and what "may follow
Address A AND B, Box 59 OeorKetown 111 y '
YOUNG MAN in city every week would like to correspond
with some nice young lady ; object, pastime and
,^ T ™^ sement - Address W 57, Enquirer office.
YOUNG man 22 years of age wishes to correspond with
young lady of suitable age ; object, amusement and
w aHTOnTi f ° ° W ' Address G B > Annapolis, Md.
WANTED, lady correspondent, good height, fine figure
» h y yo«ng- man of wealth, tall, handsome, true!
!? ’ wdl take trip to Europe this season ; send
* , description and photo ; strictly confidential
Address V 59, care Enquirer.
A ' ° E u TLKMA t N desh ' es acquaintance of re-
spectable, self-supporting, young or middle-aged ladv
matrimonially inclined; please give particulars in
confidence. Address 1 37, Enquirer office.
{HALT-PENNY
G-O TO Tg-TT’-r T
IGOL A N D ,or Fre, ty
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is 6<l
H ustrated Price List of Foreign and
— Stamps, post free, and
F red Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNFV
N.S.W. ’
Queen Victoria will hold the mediaeval
assemblage known as a Chapter of Knights on
26th or 28th June next. All knights will be in-
vited to attend the function, and, provided appear-
ance and behaviour are approved, all will after-
wards be commanded to dine with the sovereign.
The last Chapter was held in 1855. Then the
Duke of Buckingham did something which dis-
pleased H.M., and was omitted from the list of
diners.
louring the W.Q. towns just now may be
seen a remarkable vehicle. The cart in question
consists of a very large box, mounted on four
wooden wheels sawn off a round log. The eon
veyance is drawn by a bullock, through whose
nose a ring is placed, to which are attached two
wires by means of which the animal is guided
Owner carries all his necessaries in box, and also
camps therein at night-time. Evidently a 19th
century Diogenes with his tub on wheels.
Z 9
%
cf>
&
<?
l£
9£
BZO
frEZ
N*
LZ\
IN
£2l
9Zi
eo^
8071
2/E
LQZ I
fefc&feak
—THE-
Australian
N eecllewood
JPipe CoLtd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Ss Coole ß t Pips
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE.
MARK
(/Cnvw)
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A V STEAL [AN
A EEDLE WOOD
PIPE ,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
JNKW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street,
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg& Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL HALL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“DIAMOND REIGN” YEAR, 1897.
Exhibi^ onB “ ket * - held under the auspices of and with the
Prospectuses and full particulars can be had free on application.
T HE Papermakers’, Printers’, Stationers’, Photographers’, Foreign
1 and Fancy Goods Exhibition and Market
will be held from
JUNE 23rd to 30th, 1897.
fPHE Hardware, Machinery, Inventions, Electrical, China, Glass
1 and Pottery Manufacturers’ Exhibition and Market
rers
will be held from
AUGUST 2nd to 9th,
1897.
T HE Confectioners’, Bakers’ and Allied Traders’ sth Annual
x International Exhibition and Market
will be held from
SEPTEMBER 16th to 23rd, 1897.
rpilß Grocery Provision Oil and Italian Warehouse and Allied
X liaders 2nd Annual International Exhibition and Market
will be held from
SEPTEMBER 30th to OCTOBER 7th, 1897.
w M rgj
rPHE Brewers’, Maltsters’, Distillers’ Mineral Water Mann-
AIIJ Tf S YT “ d S P irit Merchants’ and
Allied Traders 19th Annual Exhibition and Market
. _ will be held from
OCTOBER 30th to NOVEMBER sth, 1897.
ARTBTIfi rii tv a r t-i Directors—
‘ ALE ’ and Capt. JOHN REYNOLDS.
goutinb.
RHP ttivrßemedy for CHRONIC GOUT
SCTA?S^ GOUT ’ RHEUMATISM, and
. . ; n y j ls wonderful discovery has now been
cripples) m Victoria have been cured of the^CpKf B 5 dm '! n o this time 180 persons (mostly
Ihe only known cure. Prescribed by the Medical l<VMiltv b rp C T” P aUI^ S i ■ Ifc glveH immed iate Relief.
e of the Vic. railway looowfvT fn' ( Ref ® rence is kindly permitted to Mr. Alex.
GOUTINE after five years °f su jf e ri n o- and after tl, f - /'P 3 ’ w as cured of Rheumatic Gout by
7s ' t * ’ and 12s - 6d .—posted, ed. extra f'itvT' 6 °! Melb. physicians to effect cure,
e holder of Australasian rights, OSCAR I*W«ivv en ii M. SKOGLAND & CO., Elizabeth-st., Melb.,
’ DAWSON, 11 High-st., Prahran, MELBOURNE.
and
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
food f ° r
Infants
9
Bender's Food Is sold by
„„ - Bro * - Ud - The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney, and by leading Chemlats, &c „ everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
The aced.


Herr Hassmeeen,
THE CELEICItATED
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOR THE—
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING PRESS OPINIONS.
- ■ ■ MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfaline Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice; the
very fact of their having been before the public
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, ana some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W. A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “ Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the uttermost parts of the earth.
HERE RASSMUSSEU’S
Testimonials.
•A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
. 160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your “lfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe oase of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them j therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fu Uy. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn. — Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R, A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
m March 7 th, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussbn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. HUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Peker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaoa-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
1 am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussbn. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medioines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussbn. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagbrman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Piles.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J. KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
HKRR RASSMUSSKN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press:—
Sydney Bulletin. —“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—" Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Bally Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“ Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.— “ Herr Rass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Chemist and Bruggist Journal, Melbourne.—
“Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depfit at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r< quire any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
The Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable.”
The Nord Anstralisclic Zell ling, Brisbane.—“ We
speak from personal knowledge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sj'dney.—“Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, o/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING,
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
AWARDED.
!®WO GOLD
iis§s
EDALS
m
ofH
m
ILL
ALFA LINE
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES.
A Certain Cure for the Nerves.
HERR RASSMTJSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affections
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE «NATURAL DOCTOR.” - A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “ Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - 150 Bourke-street


This Easter, the Hotel Australia, Sydney,
was full to overflowing with visitors. Reasonable
rates and excellent service are making the Aus-
tralia the most popular Hotel on the whole
continent.*
That fine horseman, Dean O’Donovan, years
out of number parish priest of Mudgee, N.S.W.,
goes to Britain for a couple of years’ holiday.
The dean’s parish included Rylstone and Gillgong,
and frequently he has held service in Gulgongand
Mudgee—22 miles apart —on the same morning,
his mode of conveyance horseback “ as the crow
flies.” Fences and creeks counted nought to the
dean.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —We wish to direct
your attention to the deplorable state of things at
the Weir Contract, Hillston, where fifty men have
been left by the contractor without wages for the
last five weeks. A great portion of us have wives
and families dependent on us. We are starving,
as we have no money to buy food. The boarding
houses are unable to keep open any longer, as we
cannot pay them. We are here in the middle of
a plain and, being destitute, cannot get away to
where there is a chance of employment. Govern-
ment has helped us here on to the contract; now
we cannot get paid. Our wives have to part with
our furniture bit by bit to procure the necessaries
of life. We are indebted to the kindness of others
for existence, and we hope that Government will
take steps to see us paid at once, or provide transit
for us to where we can get a living without de-
pending on charity.—Yours truly, John Ryall,
H. Hartridge, D. Shine, P. Stevenson, F. T.
Denver (on behalf of men). —The Weir, Hillston,
April 14th, 1897.
Judging by the remarks one overhears, it
is evident that men often forget they are mortal.
On Easter Monday an angular-faced individual
with a corporation and spats remarked to a friend
when a harbor collision seemed imminent: “What
a blank of a ducking we’d get if we got capsized
with all this crowd.” There were perhaps 1000
aboard the steamer.
The building of the first Lager Bier
brewery in N.S.W. is nearing completion at Dow-
ling-street, Moore Park, Sydney. The erecting
superintendent brewer is Mr. A. J. Metzler, one
of the three world’s builders of breweries. The
brewery covers acres, and is an object lesson in
construction and arrangement. Some months will
elapse before the Bier is fit for market. The
N.S.W. public has been well prepared for the
Bier’s advent by the judicious persistency of the
well-known firm J. Kidman. This firm has been
pushing the Victorian Lager Bier as a means of
introducing the coming N.S.W. article, which
will be the same Bier locally brewed. The firm,
too, has not only been distributing circulars with
every parcel of groceries, but has also, by general
advertising, made the advent of the N.S.W. Lager
Bier a household fact. When the first brew comes
Amusements.
HEAT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY EVENING, Ist MAY.
First Time in Australasia,
TN€ FLYING JORPANS.
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 35.; Stalls, 2s.
Gallery, Is. No Early Doors.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, 329 Georye-street.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards’s Neiv Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
IHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager
Acting Manager
Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO
Prices —2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
IHEATRE
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE*
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT’S
GREAT MELODRAMATIC STORY,
IN SIGHT OF St. PAUL’S.
Written by SUTTON VANE.
PRICES —3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Dav Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, 29th and 30th April,
“THE IRONMASTER.”
Saturday, Monday and Tuesday, Ist, 3rd, 4th May,
“THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.”
Wednesday, sth May—“THE LADY OF LYONS.”
Prices of Admission —Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss;
Stalls, 3s ; Amphitheatre (early door Is extra), Is.
B 1 JO U TH EAT RE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. HENRY BRAOY.
THIRD WEEK!
And Continued Unabated Success of the
New Comic Opera Company.
TO-NIGHT (Saturday), Ist MAY,
And Every Evening until further notice,
The Screamingly Funny Operatio Extravaganza,
« Nemesis; or, Not Wisely, But Too Well."
Popular Prioes —3s, '2s, Is. Box Plan at Qlen’s.
rpHE MUSIN CONCERTS,
FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR I
OVIDE MUSIN, the World-renowned Violinist.
ANNIE LOUISE M USIN, the Highest-ranged Soprano
in the World.
EDUARD SCHARF, the eminent Pianist.
CONSTANCE HATHERLY, the charming Harpist
(pupil of Oberthur, Medallist of London
Academy of Music).
ALFRED HILL, the Australian Composer (composer
of “ Hinemoa ”).
FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR! -®»
E. D. WOODWARD, Manager.
Address all Business Communications to John Laure,
C/o Paling & Co., Sydney.
237 gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
After the splendid success at Moore Park, the Cinema-
tographe resumes at the Salon.
TO-DAY at NOON and THENCEFORWARD.
J. MACMAHON, Director.
ffRITERION TH
w Leasee and Manager
THEATRE,
Frank Thornton.
SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) AND EVERY EVENING-
FRANK THORNTON,
AND HIS NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
In the Great Laughing Success,
“CHARLEY’S AUNT."
THE REIGNING ATTRACTION OF SYDNEY.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan, Nicholson’s. L. J. LOHR.
ER MAJESTY'S "THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING, at 8, and MATINEE,
SATURDAY NEXT, at 2 o’clock.
The Romantic Play, in a Prologue and four Acts, adapted
from Anthony Hope’s Famous Story, by Edward Rose,
The Prisoner of Zenda.
The most richly-costumed play ever presented in Sydney.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY. ;
Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SATURDAY NEXT, Ist MAY.
“SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OP THE MOON.”
Mr. JOHN GOURLAY,
Supported by a Powerful Comedy Organisation.
JOHN C. LEETE, General Manager.
6 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Full Size.
POST FREE.
ExpaQdiQg apd Sclf-CloSiog
BRACELETS.
£ s. d. £s. d. £s. d.
Solid Gold 212 6 217 6 310 0
EXPANDING* & SELF-CLOSING
Bracelet $ (Hatch
COMBINED.
£s. d. £s. d. £ s. d.
Solid Gold 610 0 710 0 810 0
3 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Full Size Watch.
Guaranteed for Three Years.
POST FREE.
NOTE:
OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS—
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tb€ ColoQial Baok of Australasia Lirpitcd.
THE EIGHTH REPORT of the DIRECTORS, to be presented to the Shareholders at the Eighth Ordinary General
Meeting, to be held at the Bank, 126 ELIZABETH-ST., at Noon on TUESDAY, 4th MAY, 1897.
REPORT.
The directors beg to submit to the shareholders their eighth report, with a balance-sheet and statement of profit
and loss for the half-year ended 31st March, which are made out in the form prescribed by the “ Companies Act” now
in force, and are duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, and tax on note
circulation, the net profit, including the balance brought forward from previous half-year, amounted to £8,634 15s 7d.,
which has been placed in reduction of bad debts, as shewn in the balance-sheet.
Since the last meeting of shareholders, the new “ Companies Act” has been passed, which will enable the bank to
write down lost capital.
A complete investigation of the bank’s accounts has; been made for the purpose of ascertaining the amount re-
quired to provide for all losses, and, as shown by the balance-sheet, there is an estimated deficiency of £550,115 7s sd.
Your directors will take the first opportunity to app'ly to the Court for authority to write off this amount; but,
before doing so, there are certain preliminary difficulties with regard to the adjustment of the amount paid up on the
ordinary shares, which will require to be completed before such application can be made.
It is only right to point out that the whole of these losses have been incurred by the old bank, and are largely due
to the general depreciation in all classes of property which has since occurred.
In order to provide additional working capital the d irectors recommend a call of £2 per share on the ordinary
shares of the bank, which will be made payable by instalments, spread over a considerable period of time, and a
special meeting has been convened to make the necessary alteration in the articles, as it is essential that the paid-up
capital on the preference shares should remain intact.
The directors are pleased to be able to report that the new business of the bank still continues to improve. This
is, no doubt, largely due to the provision in the bank’s s cheme, which makes all new business preferential.
During the past half-year the Hon. S. Williamson, Ki.L.C., tendered his resignation as a director of the bank.
The agency at Ascotvale has been closed, and the ajrency at Moe is now open once a week, instead of daily as
formerly.
The eighth ordinary general meeting of shareholders will be held at the head office of the company, 126 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the 4th day of May, 1897, at noon.
By order of the board.
Melbourne, 22nd April, 1897. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET of THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Dr. FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1897. Cr.
To Proprietors’ Capital, viz. : .By coined gold and
31,184 preference shares paid in cash to I silver and other coined
£9lss £304,044 0 0 metal £350,017 8 0
125,000 ordinary shares,
paid-up to £3 ss. per
share, representing
the paid-up capital of
the Old Colonial
Bank of Australasia 1406,250 0 0
Calls on 125,000 shares
at £2 per share,
£250,000. Instal-
ment not yet due,
£31,250 ; calls in ar-
rear, £54,783 10s. =
£86,033 10s. ; calls
paid in advance,
£8721105. = £77,312.
Amount of calls actu-
ally paid in cash ... 172,688 0 0
£578,938 0 0
Less 20,540 shares for-
feited as above ... 71,466, 10 0
507,471 10 0
To notes in circulation
To bills in circulation
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
To Other Deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest —
New deposits ... £92,885 0 4
Deferred deposits 1,486,567 8 10
To interest accrued thereon and rebate
on bills current ...
To balances due to other banks
To contingent liabilities, as per contra .
£811,515 10 0
102,948 0 0
137,032 14 3
39,146 0 6
255,761 16 3
457,040 12 3
1,579,452 9 2
17,679 19 8
353 5 6
31,053 5 11
£3,431,983 13 6
By coin in transitu
By gold and silver in
bullion or bars
By cash at bankers
By balances due from
other banks
By notes of other banks
By bills and remittances
in transitu
By stamps
40,000 0 0
13,195 2 8
74,477 9 5
19,092 17 11
455 0 0
75,997 2 2
626 2 3
By Government debentures at face value
By other debentures at face value
By real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank ...
Other real estate at value
Shares in other companies
By advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts
By bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above, ex-
clusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts
By chattel property at value
By advances, bills of ex-
change, and promis-
sory notes, treated as
bad, and intended to
be written off capital £558,750 3 0
By Less Profit and Loss
—Balance brought for-
ward from 30th Sep-
tember, 1896, £5,591
14s. 2d. ; profit for
half-year ending 31st
March, 1897, £3,043
Is. 5d 8,634 15 7
By liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra ...
£573,861 2 5
1,000 0 0
124,340 10 1
184,343 18 1
70,656 10 0
42,624 9 0
1,572,245 13 7
278,042 17 0
3,700 0 0
550,115 7 5
31,053 5 11
£3,431,983 13 6
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT.
By gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on de-
posits, and rebate on bills current £24 044 9 1
By amount brought forward from 30th
September, 1896 l4 2
£29,635 16 3
To the Shareholders of the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited. Melbourne, -_nd April, 189/.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—We beg to report that we have audited the accounts of the Colonial Bank of Australasia
Limited for the half-year ended 31st March, 1897, and that the accompaying balance-sheet is, in our opinion correct
We have also to report that during such audit we have not observed or become acquainted with anv breach of the
“Companies Acts ” committed by the company or any director, manager, employee, auditor, or shareholder thereof
and that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the balance-sheet and accounts have been drawn un in
accordance with the provisions of the “ Companies Acts,” and present a correct view of the state of the comnanv’s
affairs, and that all our requisitions in regard to the shareholders’ as well as the private balance-sheet have been diil v
complied with. u •’
We are, ladies and gentlemen, yours faithfully,
J. C. DUIGAN I
FRED. H. WILSON, F.I.A.V. f Auditors.
We, Sir William John Clarke and John Johnston Smart, of Melbourne, being directors of The Colonial Bank nf
Australasia Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the above balance-sheet is correct and is drawn nr. aV,,
exhibit a correct view of the state of the company’s affairs. ’ p as co
Dated at Melbourne, this 22nd day of April, 1897.
Witness— T. N. Collins.
By order of the board.
W. J, CLARKE
J. JOHNSTOK SMART
Direoton.
MARVELLOUS
RESULTS
—OF —
€L€CTRKITy
AS A
Curative Agent.
PULVERMACHER’S
WORLD - FAMED
galvanic gelts.
The Only Genuine Ones made are recommended
by the most eminent Medical Men throughout the
world, and have received testimonials from—
QIR CHAS. LOCOCK, Bart., Physician to HER
° MAJESTY.
QIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Bart., Physician to HER
° MAJESTY.
QIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., Physician to HER
° MAJESTY.
QIR E. H. SIEVEKING, M.D., Physician to H.R.H. the
° PRINCE OF WALES.
TAR. J. OPPOLZER, Physician to H.I.M. the EMPEROR
OF AUSTRIA.
TOR. ONIMUS, of the ACADEMY OF MEDICINE
- L ' of PARIS.
DR. VALENTINE MOTT, of the ACADEMY OF MEDI-
CINE OF NEW YORK ; and the following Members
of the
COLLEGE of PHYSICIANS of LONDON :
TAR. C. HANDFIELD JONES, Physician, St, Mary’s
Hospital.
2jR. GOLDING BIRD, Physician, Guy’s Hospital.
DR. JONATHAN PEREIRA, Physician, London Hos-
pital.
JjR. T. W. NUNN, Surgeon, Middlesex Hospital.
DR. R. M. LAWRENCE, Physician, Great Northern
Hospital.
TAR. J. RUSSELL REYNOLDS, Physician, University
Hospital.
JJR. R. Q.UAIN, Physician, Brompton Hospital.
H. A. ALLBUTT, Physician, Leeds Hospital.
TAR. JAMES WILSON, Physician, Worcester Infirmary,
-k' and from hundreds of other well-known Physi-
cians,' &c.
Pulvermacher’s
Galvanic Belts
Have rendered Electricity perfectly SELF-APPLICABLK
in a mild continuous form, and EXTREMELY
EFFICACIOUS without shock or un-
pleasant sensation.
They SPEEDILY SOOTHE agonising pains, reanimate
torpid limbs, revive the sluggish functions of life, and
impart renewed energy and vitality to constitutions en-
feebled by whatever causes. They are exceedingly effec-
tive without the aid of medicine, restriction of diet, or
the least derangement of the patient’s habits and daily
occupations, in the following maladies :
RHEUMATISM
GOUT
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
NEURALGIA
HEAD & TOOTHACHE
LIVER COMPLAINTS
TIC DOLOREUX
INDIGESTION
DEAFNESS
SPASMS
FEMALE COMPLAINTS
CONSTIPATION
CRAMP
URINARY DISORDERS
SLUGGISH CIRCULA
TION
PARALYSIS
EPILEPSY
DEBILITY
FUNCTIONAL DISOR-
DERS, &c., &c.
The effects of the application of PULVERMACHER S
CHAINS in any of the above disorders are immediately
perceptible—the relief of pain generally instantaneous.
HUNDREDS of Testimonials are received
yearly speaking of their marvellous efficacy,
and we print here a few only to show what people
think of them. We are glad to send full descrip-
tive pamphlet to anyone wishing it, or to advise
or give any information necessary.
Testimonials.
Neuralgia.
Shaw, near Oldham.
Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in stating that the
six Galvanic Chain-Bands which I have obtained from you
within the last few months were in every case highly
successful in curing most obstinate Neuralgia when all
other remedies tried had failed to give relief.
Yours faithfully,
W. A. PATCHETT, M.R.C.S. England, L.S.A, London
Epilepsy.
Upton Hall, Northampton.
Dear Sirs,—l have great pleasure in stating that I have
derived great benefit from the use of your Galvanic Belts.
Before using them I suffered from Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, and Indigestion. lam glad to state I have not had
a fit for more than twelve months, and the other com-
plaints are quite cured.
Faithfully yours,
GEORGE TURNER (Alderman of Northampton).
Pain and Weakness in the Back
Byers Green, Spenny Moor, Durham,
20th January, 1892.
Dear Sir,—The Galvanic Appliance that I received from
you has quite cured me of the dreadful pain in my back
from which I was suffering.
The first week after wearing your Belt I was better, and
in two months I was cured, and have had no return of
the pain and weakness since.
With many thanks, I am, vours faithfully,
EDMUND GLAND.
Testimonial from Dr. Tyrrell
(Member of the Royal College of Surgeons).
2 Albert Mansions,
Victoria Street, S.W.,
October 28th, 1891.
Dear Sir, —I have used your Electric Belts in many
cases and have found them serviceable in restoring lost
functional power.
Faithfully yours,
WALTER TYRRELL, M.R.C.S. Eng
GA T \T A NTT'S AT • Nature’s Chief Restorer of
-A-U V AIN 1 GAL . i m p a i r ed Vital Energy, &
interesting and instructive booklet sent post free to any
address. All sufferers should read it.
Pulvermaclier's Galvanic Agency.
OSBORN & JERPRN
(Late FROST & SHIPHAM),
Medical and Household Electrician*/
43S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
SoU AgtnU.
DALLEY STATUED.
One of those bright three or four Australia’s soil
may call its own,
One of those its suns had ripened into wealth of
mind and heart,
On receiving honor lately in the old-style bronze
and stone
Had the virtues which attained it graded for the
public mart.
First a “Scholar.” Well, he was that in a girly
sort of way ;
Little odds and ends from all books he would
fondly dally o’er.
Then a “ Patriot ” —but patriotic ’neath Imperial
sway,
And a “ Statesman ’’—who, not knowing why,
demanded niggers’ gore.
Ah, the Dailey whom his people love was but a
Man whose heart,
Lighted by a brilliant fancy, gave its service as
a gift,
Stumbling here and there, but ever proudly glad
to take the part
Of the men and women round him who required
a gentle lift.
G.G.


ATJTtJMIXr
Goods.
496 CASES and BALES.
NOW READY FOR INSPECTION.
Call and See the Grand Assortment.
Do not buy shoddy when you can get
the Genuine Article at FINNEY,
ISLES & CO’S at same price.
Hard-working people, their wives, and
families should go to FINNEY, ISLES
& CO’S to lay out their cash to the
best advantage.
Finney, isles * cn.
BRISBANE, Q. ;
Also at MARYBOROUGH, Q. ;
And 27 Milton Street, CRIPPLEGATE,
London, E.C.
Li
:r
r?
The Hit
..of the..
Season....
is made by
Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. At this
season, when
warm and de-
bilitating days
are with us,
there is noth-
ing like Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla to
put new life
into the slug-
gi s h system.
It sweeps away
the dullness,
lack of appe-
tite, languid-
ness, and pain,
as a broom
sweeps away
cobwebs. It
does not brace
up. It builds
up. Its benefit
is lasting. Do
you feel run
down ? Take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills, Mild but Effective*
X
Reginald A. F. Murray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
Send P. 0.0, for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoij’S Noted AccordeoQS,
Or call at one of our Branches — 182 King-st., Newtown ;
8 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COXON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
DO YOU want A
"catalogue?
POST FREE V'©'*
V/atcHes-Clocks-Jewellery- BirtHday l -
- z CHRisTEtlitic Presents
H NeWMANI- 1755177-ELIZABFTH Si*
OPPOSITE. CiP.Q-
MELBOURNE-
James Edward Naylor, who in 1877 lived
at 115 George-street, Sydney, and in 1880 (it is
believed) went to sea in the Edith Deep, is entitled
to a sum of money payable to him or his repre-
sentatives by Mr. Napoleon Argles, solicitor, 81
Gracechurch-street, London, E.C.
Hermes : “ Re the alleged seizure of the
regalia of the Footscray Knights of Labor.
Writer has been a K. of L. for about six years,
and learns for the first time that the grimy
brotherhood has such things. In the Maoriland
lodges the ‘ regalia ’ consists of a piece of chalk, a
chairman’s hammer, a book of rules, and about
of democratic literature. The passwords
are absolutely necessary. The Vic. lodges may
have regalia, but the whole thing sounds like a
bit of leg-pulling.”
We reply on scientific, mining or general
matters for Is. Every other subject by arrange-
ment. We will act as your agent in any way at
lowest fees. If you have money to invest in
mines or property, or want to buy a few shares
only, consult us ; it will pay you. Australasian
Answers Bureau, 35 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
The question as to whether tobacco-grow-
ing in Victoria can possibly end in anything
better than bad smoke should be set at rest very
soon. A first crop, planted by the American
tobacco-expert at his experimental farm, has been
gathered, and is now in process of curing. The
leaf in its green state “ comes up to Mr. Bondu-
rant’s expectations.” When it has been cured and
reduced to ashes by an independent jury of
smokers, they will be able to judge the altitude of
Bondurant’s expectations.
Melb. : “ There is a lot of hypocrisy over
this Methodist Union. You see how, in Parlia-
ment, a Harcourt and a Morley will ramp for
English interference with Turkey, when they
know it is impossible, but if the case was otherwise
they would be patriotically silent. Thus with
the ferocious clamorers for union in the Wesleyan
Conference. They are only too glad to see bolder
men trample on the agreement which the poor
Methodies plead for.”
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection —
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
P|X.Z. “An organization is afoot in
America to collect the songs and music of the dis-
appearing Red Man—Iroquois war-songs, Sioux
ghost-dance music, and the like. When are the
Australian corroboree chants, the spell-music for
increase of iguanas and kangaroos and wild duck,
and for the rain to come, and the dirges for the
dead, to be collected ? The Australian aboriginal
lore has been woefully neglected. Barring the
good, careful, observant work of Fison, Howitt,
and Taplin, the uninformed hotch-potch of Brough
Smyth and the unscientific compilation of Curr,
very little trustworthy exists. Of written-down
music there is none. ”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Louis Becke, from London to The Bul-
letin :—
I read with interest in the Christmas Bulletin Evison’s
“ Secret of the Sea,” especially that portion referring to
the mysterious ball of fire seen by the barque Marion in
1859 —“The light was seen straight ahead and coming
down with great speed,” etc., etc. Now (unless I have
previously told The Bulletin the following), an account
of what the crew of the Island trader Bannockburn and
myself saw will prove of interest. Evison’s uncanny
“ ball of fire ” was seen at night-time ; ours in the day.
In May, ’82 (I think), the Bannockburn, bound from the
Marshall Islands to Auckland, was passing to the wind-
ward of the Fiji Group. The weather was close, damp,
and muggy, and our native crew saw every indication of
a hurricane. At a little after 4 p.m., the wind being very
light at the time, and all hands on deck, we saw a small,
but very bright light about five miles astern. It quickly
increased in size, and we at once saw it was travelling
fast towards us, but bearing a little on the port hand.
In a very few minutes it was abeam of us—a huge
ball of clear white light (I had never seen
electric-light then, but that is what it exactly resembled)
emitting scintillations of steely blue. It swept onward
with a waving, undulating motion, keeping, however, a
uniform distance of apparently twenty feet or so above
the sea. In two or three minutes it had passed, appa-
rently not increasing in bulk and with diminishing speed
till it was about two miles ahead of us. Then, without
any report, it went out—vanished. Now this is perfectly
true. We had neither whisky nor any other liquor on
board, and, in fact, were deplorably in want of both grog
and provisions. The only man on board who seemed
deeply concerned at the awesome visitant was the ship’s
cook, who had two tickets on the Melbourne Cup, and
was in great agony of mind to get to Auckland in time to
cable money on a horse named Meteor.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Medical.
ACCOUCHEMENT.— LADIES received in the house
of a well-known MEDICAL MAN, close to his own
residence in a quiet seaside suburb. Every comfort and
attention. The Lady Superintendent is an experienced
and certified Obstetrician. For terms, etc., address “ OB-
STETRICIAN,”c/o Gordon &Gotch,Queen-st.,Melbourne.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodynk I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
PSES
KRUSES ’
—DESTROYS—
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden.
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &e., from $
MotlL I
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of !j>
Parasites. y>
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. - Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
FOB
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Eosisto’s 66 Parrot Brand.”
TfiE mUIM STORE, [td.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
AST Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
HAIItUKUSSEKS AM) WIGMAKKKS
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, IG, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned'-Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquisrnolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
R azors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair "Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,,
newest design, 10s. fed, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Seal pets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NKvV SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
080 A 083 George Street, Sydney.
&
Cm
The Smelting" Co.
of Australia, Ltd.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—Mutual Life Buildings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rpHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be tested
for the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Celebrated
POKER MACHINE
I! A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
CARS
DROP 3? IN THESLO
HOME RULE TOBACCO CO,, 639 George St.
SYONEYi Agents for Australia.
Price - £5,
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for niglßs in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Gough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S. W.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
T HB DRUM
IN POSITION
PeafQess
AND HEAD
NOISES
B yu S in* Roliptfp/I
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
10 YEARS!
With an increasing- demand
PROVES beynnfj the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that vou send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.


X.Z. : “Working all night in a Little
Collins-street, Melb., printing-office, I saw a
eomp. go sound asleep as he stood at case, yet still
go on mechanically filling his stick. This went on
for about five minutes. Then, seeing him begin
to rock, the foreman held him gently in his arms,
while I, as gently, annexed his stick. A proof
therefrom showed a senseless conglomeration of
letters, figures, and stops, showing that his body
had gone on working after his brain had ceased to
be conscious. Three akin cases after brain injury
are given in the 8.M.J., Dec. 12, ’96.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin, —Can anyone mould a Fac-
tory Act sufficiently comprehensive? One little
shirt-factory opposite my boarding-house is
limited to a family of three and the servant-girl.
The pjace is kept going all day and until about
9.30 at night practically the whole year round.
The slavey answers the milkman at 7 a.m., scrubs
and sweeps and cooks all day, and at night takes a
hand with the shirt-making—and ceaseless
machinery by gas-light with the temperature in
the nineties is probably no joke. Somebody ought
to marry that girl out of pity.—S.D.
A certain popular Queensland black labour
agent had an admirably off-hand style of going
to business. “ Want to come alonga Queensland
work alonga sugar plantation ? ” he would say
gently to a likely dusky recruit. Invariably the
novelty of the suggestion was the first thing to
strike the savage’s perception, and the reply would
be “ Yes, me come.” “All right, you blanker,
come on ! ” and the astonished nig. would be
seized by the neck and hurled into the bottom of
the boat without being allowed to speculate upon
possible domestic objections. So much for the
“ consent ” safeguard. Some time ago a couple of
comely Polynesian maidens wanted to join their
spouses in sunny Queensland, but the agent did
not see how he could manage the business in view
of the regulation prohibiting the transportation of
lone females. A solution suggested itself, how-
ever—the gay blackbirder hauled the pair up
with a brace of males selected hap-hazard from
the hold and “had ’em hitched.” When the ship
returned the rightful husbands turned up and a
row was raised with the result that Govt, has
since regretfully accepted the agent’s resignation.
“ A SOVEREIGN REMEDY ”
For SORE EYES (due to sandy blight or other causes) CHAFED SKIN,
PILE-, INSECT BITES, STINGS, SCALDS, CUTS, SUNBURN, EAR-ACHE,
NEURALGIC and RHEUMATIC PAINS, THROAT COLDS, and SKIN
AILMENTS generally, is
CALVERT’S CARBOLIC OINTMENT.
X^;tPots, 1/li each (English rate.)
W. C. Fitzgerald, Chemist, Wellington, New Zealand, writes :—“ It is, without exception, the best
healing ointment I ever used.”
F. C. CALVERT & CO., MANCHESTER.
The Seventh Year
of Success.
75,000 in Daily Use.
Easiest Running
Typewriter known.
Requires less
Movements to
Operate.
Manifolding
Unexcelled.
*S*
p£ *
Corrections Easily
Made.
Keys all Locked at
End of Line.
Triplex Ribbon
Movement.
Direct Interchange-
able Platen.
Fixed Rotary
Type-Brush.
Solid Ball-bearing
Carriage.
The SmiTH PRCIDIER TSPEIIIRITER SKIES
. . EXCEED ALL OTHERS . .
THE KEYBOARD is specially constructed for Australian users, and the characters are inter-
changeable. The platen is self-feeding, w Line-spacing automatic, adapted for column-writing.
Automatic right and left margins. Solid steel typebars. The only typewriter with solid ball-bearing
carriage. Direct-lateral reversible ribbon movement, with interchangeable spools. Regular rectan-
gular keyboard. Punctuation marks do not puncture the paper, and the only machine that writes
direct on lines without alteration of gear. Special attachment for card writing and envelope
addressing.
NOTE. —Second-hand Machines, of various makes, from <£3. Write for specimens of work.
Edison Mimeographs, Stencil Paper, Ink, Silks, Varnish and Paper, Carbon and Ribbons for all
machines.
. . See Our Special Typewriter Table . .
Fisbcr&Liogban),
Sole Importers for Australasia,
1, 2 & 3 Victoria Sydney*
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS:
M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
4
6
OF NATURE
-* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, li.v D • Foe, complete
and un bridged, illustrated, post fre@, 1 6.
Amours of Gustave, from, the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Piping Hot, Nana, and all Zola’s Novels,
posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kocs, post free, Is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabblais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court ok London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallerv, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron unexpursrated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post., Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, ls9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Fox's Sensational Series, French Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2s 6d each ; posted 3s.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
New Reaiistic Novels:—Wife in Name Only ;
Thais, or the Vengeance of Venus ; Decoyed ; Modern
Don Juan ; With Unchaste Purpose ; His Last Pas-
sion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Deoz, posted 2s.
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
Madame Bovary, from the French, posted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife, posted 2s.
The Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Maupassant’s Contes Choisis (in French), posted 2s.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Reipipgtop
THE REMINGTON,
owing to its special method of construction, is by far
the STRONGEST MACHINE for its weight made.
The Running is Perfection, and a High Gear can be
used on a REMINGTON with more ease and less
exertion than a low gear on most other Machines.
STOTT & HOARE
Sole Importers,
49 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY ;
428 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depftt, 4(54 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will' effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with ■ buying them from dealers.
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate, and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra.
long and plated. All
ba-ss wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.-
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass ; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will be submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
THE
Plum
Plu
THE
‘ F»lum’
('1 ENTLEMEN who find tlieir Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Jf Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each, Razor for Two Years.
p . 1 Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
■Trice |gj n „] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extr.i.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITK.EN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH , u«,
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage,)
Contains over 200 Apartm'erits r Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
ITreml
Wa£l>ii)gtoi) N. SoGl & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POW DER, (id. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars—that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON H- SOUL & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt street, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
263 Pit t street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
Forbes’s IMIOSFFKIMNF.
I 1 or General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry Overwork or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Pleasance,
HOMCEO PATHIC CHEMIST 3
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post F
ree
llu bber Man ufa cturers.
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING BOOTS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
COATS, OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE.
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’
SUCI lON HOSE, STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
)SE,
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.


LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past,eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Tl)€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORP STREET.
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING,
And. see tliat you get it.
mm
PROOF
&n fY's
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
LySHGHT BROS. $ CO.
limited.
.w
§1
IS
«
H
m
pvDE
*7
PROOF
Gfti
EX
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application,
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb CbanjbcrS, Bligb-St., Sydney
Works —
Qb'SWick, Parranjatta Riv/cr.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
An Easter Song .
[FOR TH BULLETIN.]
The gateways of Gethsemane
Have mouldered in decay ;
Rank poppy and anemone
Make red the sacred way;
The cry of Christ the crucified
Rings dimmer with the years ;
A fiercer sound has deadened it
The fall of the World’s Tears.
The cry of Christ the crucified
Came ringing from the Cross,
Mixed with the two thieves’ at His side,
And the world beheld His loss
In a grand and glorious martyrdom,
Made by His own commands ;
It’s heard the Garden Agony,
It saw the Bleeding Hands.
Its hardened heart has thrilled to these
For many a hundred years,
And many a life has robbed its ease
To win its Christ more tears—
More tears for such a martyrdom !
So exquisite a death !
That lends the saints their hope of Heaven,
And lightens Sin’s last breath.
But the gateways of Gethsemane
Have mouldered in decay ;
Rank poppy and anemone
Make red the sacred way ;
The cry of Cn. ist the Crucified,
Rings dimmer with the years ;
A fiercer sound has deadened it—
The fall of the World’s Tears.
The World goes weeping on, but nob
For Christ its tears are shed ;
The sadness of a living lot
Is keener than a dead.
The World is weeping tears of blood,
Wrung from a tortured heart;
The tears that flow for one’s own want
Sting with the sorest smart.
Even the children’s tears are poured
Into this sea of tears.
They know the story of the Lord
Who gave a life for theirs ;
But what is Christ to Hunger ?
Dead Thorns to living Thirst ?
The children’s wails are loudest, or
Their little hearts would burst.
Listen ! Along the centuries
A bird has sought to sing ;
And every wind has beaten it—
Even the winds of spring ;
And all along the centuries
One flower has tried to blossom,
And every Spring has withered it,
And every Winter frozen.
If from the dark Gethsemane
The cry of Christ rings down
O’er poppy or anemone,
And ruined gate and town,
It is to tend the flower
And give the bird his wing—
Poor bud that never opens,
Poor bird that may not sing.
The bird would sing supernally,
If anyone would hear ;
The flower would bloom eternally,
If any held it dear ;
The World would stem its sea of tears,
The Christ-eyes smile above,
If in the straitened places bloomed
The Bud and Bird of Love.
Sydney.
LOUISE MACK.
His Key-Note,
[FOR TH BULLETIN.]
Swiftly round the summer-graced harbor she
swept an eye blue as the water. She had a falcon-
like carriage of the head, and her tones were
resonantly imperious.
“ I am glad I came. The day leaves nothing to
be desired —which is more than I can say— — ” _
“ For the company ! ” he concluded, with his
eyes fixed on a Manly steamer, pounding power-
fully past the boat he was steering. “ No; I don’t
suppose I’ve sparkled much, so far. Hardly to
be expected, in the circumstances, is it ? ”
“That’s just it!” A fine scornfulness was
about her nostrils. “ You were always such a
... jellified kind of creature ! No edge to you !
—no flavor ! —no —in short, no key-note ! ”
His little mild eyes parried for once the thrust
of her sword-like glance. A small, sad smile
came into the small, sad face. “ My key-note,”
he said, “may not have been easy to find ; but it
has been found at last, and struck ! ”
The amplification of her trope surprised her ;
she hadn’t thought it was in him. But the habit
of contempt is hard to break ; she put it down to
a chance shot.
“ No doubt! ” she said, with a little shrug.
“ But I’m not partial to the minor; so, if you’ve
brought me out to-day merely to show me how
lugubriously you can wear the willow ”
“ You’ll know in good time why I’ve brought
you out. But I hardly thought you’d have been
allowed to come.”
There was a quiet indifference in his manner
that was new to her —some change in the whole
man that, because it impressed her in spite of her-
self, impelled her to still greater arrogance of
sp ?f Allowed ? I ! I am my own mistress, I
should imagine! Were you thinking-did you
presume to think of Captain Plungerford ? ”
He nodded—looking straight over the bows.
“ Yes,” he said, quietly, “I was thinking of—of
my successor ! ” .
“ Your successor ! ” She started up m the boat,
and angrily shook off the hand with which he
sought to steady her. “How dare you! You
never occupied ”
“Didn’t I?” he put in, as quietly as before.
“ Well, you did your best to make me think so, at
all events ! ”
“You are generous ! ” she sneered, as she sat
down again. “It is like you! Your successor,
as you call him, is at least a man 1 ’
“ There is nothing ungenerous in citing simple
matters of fact. And people’s notions differ as to
what constitutes a man. Your idea, it appears to
me, is but a school-missy one, after all ! ”
Astonishment at his unwonted temerity kept
her silent for a few moments. “ What! ” she
said, then, “You dare?”
“ There is no daring in talking a little straight
to you. You want it badly ! Your notion of a
man, I take it, is built on women-writers’ rubbish
about * curt, incisive accents,’ and ‘ one accus-
tomed to be obeyed,’ and so forth. That’s the
sort of swagger men like Plungerford bring from
the army ; and precious foolish they look when
they find that nobody outside it cares a brass
button for their ‘ ringing tones of command,’ and
all the rest of it! ”
With a harsh little laugh, he eased-off the sheet
to get the boat more before the wind, shifting now
to south-west, and urging them straight towards
the mighty ocean-portal of the Heads. Without a
word, the woman sat, and looked, and wondered if
this could indeed be the man she had refused to
credit with any opinion of his own —the man she
had once told that he was without a single angle,
either of mind or body. The angles were showing
out now with a vengeance ! Even physically he
looked darker and squarer and stronger ; his hand
was clenched firmly on the tiller ; his eye looked
steadfastly ahead into the great Pacific-perspec-
tive —purpling now to the red rays of the sun that
was sinking over the city far behind them.
A vague apprehension seized upon her, as she,
too, looked out into the illimitable. The breeze
had not freshened, but the long sweep that was
coming into the boat’s rise and fall told already of
the ocean’s giant pulse-beat. But she spoke with
calm insistance.
“ Put the boat about. It is getting late. I do
not wish to go any further.”
“ Do you hear ? ” she said, with the half-fierce-
ness of sudden alarm. “ It will soon be dark. It
will be very late when we get back.”
He turned upon her the face she had so often to
herself called “ wooden ” ; she shuddered as she
saw that it was now of stone.
“ Back ! ” he said. “ Back, where ? ”
“This is trifling, Mr. Plain john '.—let it end!
Back to Sydney, of course ! ”
“We are not going back to Sydney.” He
looked at her tranquilly, and the deadly calm of
his voice assured her that here was no trifling.
“We are not going back to anywhere. We are
going on ! ”
“ On ? ” she echoed, beginning horribly to realise
that the man was mad—practically, if not tech-
nically. “ On, where ? ”
“On into the infinite!” He waved a hand
towards the fast-darkening ocean. “Away from
Plungerford ! —away from everybody and every-
thing but ourselves ! On, and on, and on ! ”
The castle of her arrogance collapsed. The
woman who most bravely faces deadly peril—the
calmest woman in desperate emergency—is seldom
she of the firm front and haughty voice—assured
with an assurance which is but the artificial pro-
duct of the deference of men impressed and
women overborne. She flung herself abjectly
down before the man she had despised—this
haughty soul of half-an-hour before —clutching
wildly at his arm, and half-shrieking out her
words.
“Mr. Plainjohn ! —Harry! what dreadful
notion is this? You would not drown me?—me,
whom you said you loved. I—l have behaved ill
to you, Harry !—I acknowledge it—but let us
only go back, and ” .
He never looked at her—never moved a muscle
of his face. It might have been from the lips of a
statue that came the words: “ You have struck
my key-note at last 1 And the song is a Song of
Death l ” , „ ,
It was darkening fast now. The hollow thunder
of the seas under North Head made gloomy
menace to the ear ; upon the outer South Head s
lofty column appeared its mighty intermittent
star ; higher and higher heaved the boat upon the
long Pacific swell; and still the woman, lying at
the man’s feet, implored and threatened and im-
plored again. And the man sat like marble.
At last, with a sudden re-action, the woman
jumped up and made for the main-halliards. A
turn or two, and —just as the man caught mo-
mentary sight of something looming large and
black in the dimness close ahead —down came the
sail upon him, the gaff striking him heavily upon
the shoulder. Then —with a hollow thump-
thumping, a seething rush of water, a hoarse
shouting from above —came a shock, a splitting
crash, and Plainjohn’s boat was in splinters.
* * * «
“ The gentleman who was with me —did
you save him, too ? ” •
The master of the Blackamoor (steam-collier)
dismally shook his head.
“Unfort’nately, no, mum! I thought, of
course, you must a-had somebody with, you, but
we never saw nobody but yourself. I’m afraid
the screw must have struck him as he drifted aft;
you had a very narrow squeak of it yourself,
mum ! ” .
“I had,” she said —not referring to the screw,
and with a tremble in her voice which is in it to
this day. Also, when next she looked into a
mirror, she started incredulously back —her hair
was streaked with grey !
It is all grey now, for the story is old enough to
make many people wonder how this timidest and
gentlest of old maids could ever have been the
haughty beauty of tradition.
A.M.
Melb. : “Photographer Allan has been
about the most ferocious outside supporter of the
Salvation Army ever since it opened here, being
the chief special, that is, volunteer, officer. He has
just seceded, taking with him Adjutant Moyle, one
of the most valued officers. The pair have started
what they term the Christian Mission, at Tem-
perance Hall, Fitzroy, within an easy stone s throw
of the Salvation Army barracks.”


Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion,”
'4,
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons, ff.
England:
f< PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin,”
.''s'.--/
//s,
s/m
/'S,
A
w
m
m.
r
m
m.
m
w
f/W
7/S
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
4
Hobson’s Bay.
[FOR TH BULLETIN.]
L have seen your boasted Harbor, and it's worth a
nation’s boast —
So many miles of pictures in an inlet in your
coast;
Parramatta’s panorama, Darling Harbor, and the
Cove
Are mints of myriad beauty—each an artist’s
treasure-trove.
Tis a bit of Eden left on earth to lighten dismal
days,
It redeems you from the System and its old
Satanic ways ;
But now I’m off Nepean, and the rollicking old
Rip
Gives a parting fling finale as I’m ending up my
trip
In homely Hobson’s Bay,
Where I love the lavish way
She flings her wide horizons open-breasted to the
day 1
We have no flirting ferries trailing skirts of lacy
foam;
No hills of hanging gardens like a Babylonian
home ;
Though views between the ti-tree scrub are merely
vacant sea,
Enough ! the open sky-line is the sight o’ sights
for me !
A heeling, hull-down clipper, just showing top-
sails furled,
Has a touch of old-time rovers starting out around
the world ;
But a steamer slipping suddenly behind your
Middle Head
With true land-lubber instinct seems to hug the
shore in dread.
I am outward-bound and far,
Where the Happy Islands are,
When I see a bellied canvas sinking down upon a
spar.
I’ve known the Bay when shadowed by an arch of
angry cloud,
And seen the sails scud shelterwards a flying,
frightened crowd;
A derelict ship’s grating washing on and off the
beach,
And watched the brown hawk steadying and heard
the grey gulls screech,
The white surf redden angrily, dissolving crum-
bling cliffs,
Beneath whose lee the fishers beached their patched
and battered skiffs ;
When the wind’s a Polar roarer and the livid
rollers break
The Bay’s a child of Ocean, not an ornamental
lake,
And she sings the fo’c’s’le note
From a hoarse, deep-water throat
To the youngster reading Marryat behind an up-
turned boat!
I’ve watched the long black liner with her brass-
work all ablaze
Growing mellow in the distance through the
golden summer haze;
When bouncing hills of sea-green caught the sun-
light on their peaks
And in shimmering reflections flashed the summer
on my cheeks;
Till a calm came down from Heaven, and I let the
tiller go,
In the listless warmth of evening saw the crimson
sun sink low;
Then the peace of nearing night-time, smoothed the
water till it shone
With the stars of half the universe : it mirrored
all and one.
Then the broad quiescent Bay
Had its own mesmeric way
Of giving me communion with the lustrous Milky
Way !
There’s a spell in Middle Harbor with its mingled
shade and sheen
As though hallowed by the presence of some hid-
den vestal queen ;
Every headland curtsies backward with a grace
that seems to feel
The beauty of the vistas that its profile did con-
ceal ;
But Beauty has a mournful soul that saddens
while it cheers,
And the bays brimful of shadows bring a sudden
tide of tears—
A vague and utter wistfulness—a hopeless, bitter
love
For something out of all the world—beyond—
away—above—
The air of pause and peace
Wakens longing for release
From the tangled web of living, with its harsh
perplexities.
Now Hobson’s rarely beautiful, but rugged, strong,
and wild ;
Her south-wind is a sailor with land-fragrance un-
defiled !
Out upon her waters all alone with sky and sea
You’re friends with every comber curling under
you to lee!
No dim poetic vexings plant their poison in your
mind
W hen spray has soaked your guernsey and your
hair is in the wind ;
And if no dainty anchorage can tempt your eye
ashore,
You’ve solely sea to gaze upon and learn to love
it more !
It is spring-tide in your blood,
And life is at its flood
When a sweltering sou’-wester sends you right
about to scud!
THE STROLLER.
Australia’s recent visitor, Lord Maghera-
morne, originally M‘Garel Hogg, at one time con-
trolled the principal London water-supply. Prof.
Thorold Rogers exhibited a phial of the muddy
fluid in Parliament for purposes of debate, and
nick-named it “ Hogg’s-wash. ’ Under these cir-
cumstances a title and a change of name became
imperative.
A pressman recently went to a billet in
Maori land, determined to knock off whisky. He
took out a prohibition-order against himself with
that end in view, and has since spent most of his
time in convincing sceptical publicans that his
twin-brother is the prohibited person.
There is jealousy in all professions. Mel-
bourne’s foremost beetle-catcher and tick-worrier
is greatly aggrieved because the local monkey and
lion-expert trotted to Queensland and back on an
tour without letting him know.
The idea of this interloper having, perhaps, dis-
covered a new specimen on the strict Q.T. is
almost more than the great Insectarian can bear.
Maoriland Bush- Whacking.
[FOR TH BULLETIN.]
So you reckon that any fool can knock down a
tree ? So did I—about ten years ago. But I’ve
changed my mind since.
I shan’t forget my first turn at bush-whacking.
I and my mate took a contract to fall 40 acres—
everything except pines and ratas, and them up to
3ft. We’d never seen heavy bush before, but were
of the same opinion as you.
Our troubles started with the scrubbing. It was
all right as long as we could see daylight, but as
we began to get into the heart of it we found our-
selves completely at sea. We kept a line about
as straight as a dog’s hmd-leg, and had no idea
which way we were going. One night when we
knocked off we tried to take a short-cut, and
didn t strike camp until 10 a.m. next day. An-
other niglit we left our slashers sticking in a
twisty koinui, a mark that we couldn’t miss ;'next
morning, when we came to look for them, that
tree had shifted and there were over 20 twisty
koinuis in its place. It took us till dinner-time to
find the right one.
Then we went over our line and scrubbed about
five acres for another fellow by mistake. We
might have been scrubbing there now, for there
were over 10,000 acres of standing bush to work
on, but the fellow we were falling for called in and
put us right with much derisive language. Ev< ry
now and again we would miss half an acre or so
that we didn’t find out till we started to fall.
Well, we finished the scrubbing somehow in two
months more than twice as long as we ought to
have taken. “Now,” we thought, “all our
troubles are at an end—all is plain sailing.”
We had both been used to hard graft all our
lives, and if anyone had told me my hands would
blister with two days’ axe-work I should have
laughed at him. Blister! They did blister.
We dreaded the first half-hour every morning, as
every blow of the axe would set our hands going
make us feel as an eel feels when you skin him
alive and put him on the fire. It was all right
when once we got warmed to our work, and in a
week or so our hands ceased to trouble us.
We hadn’t the knack at first, and would take
enough wood out of a 2ft. tree to bring down a
10-footer. We would often scarf a big tawa front
and back, and if the beggar wouldn’t go, we’d
start on the sides till she looked like a giant pencil
sharpened at the point. Then most likely she
would go back on us into the standing bush, where
there would be a nice job cleaning up.
As for cutting on a jigger (a jigger is a piece of
plank or limb with a spike on one end which is put
into a nick cut in the tree, so that the axeman can
stand on it and cut up higher), the first time I tried
I caught my axe in a vine and took a somersault
backwards. My mate in his turn missed his stroke
and went a header on to the ground.
Driving was another thing that took us some
time to get into. We would scarf five or six trees
and try to drive a big one on top of them ; the
brute would most likely miss them altogether, or
else we wouldn’t have had the scarves deen enough,
and two or three would go and stick in the last
one. Then it was a case of a rat pulling away the
prop in a catch-’em-alive trap and getting away
with a whole skin.
We mastered the falling of the big trees in a
few weeks, but the whitewoods long puzzled us.
A whitewood is generally a bottle-bottomed tree,
hollow in the centre, with the limbs starting from
sft. to 10ft. off the ground. A bushman will climb
up and lop off all the limbs, just leaving the hollow
stump A nevv-ohum tries to cut them through at
the bottom, and finds that it takes him most of the
day We soon got sick of that, and tried the
climbing dodge. It s very awkward at first, as you
can t get a decent swing for your axe : bes ; d»«
when you cut one limb through, the tree won t so
until you have cut all the others, and, as you are
in the centre, perhaps 10ft. above the ground it
makes things pretty lively. ’ lc
Dangerous? Well, you have to be careful at
hist, but you soon get into the way of looking
after yourself. We had no accidents, except° that
my mate cut his shin a bit, and I was knocked
silly for a few minutes by a falling limb. Next
camp to us, though, a poor beggar had the butt of
n 'i a I trf i e J ulu b U P an( J «ateh him in the stomach
We helped to carry him out. There were 14 0 f
us altogether, and we took turn about at the
stretcher. That was hard work if you like • the
track was up to our knees in mud, and the ’noor
devil hollered most of the way in. It took
three days to get him into the township, and after
all, he died before he was there an hour.
rt’s not bad work though, if you are fit and the
packers can get the tucker to you ; it’s the verv
devil when you have to swag everything in for five
or six miles through mud and supplejacks
specially if you have done a hard day’s work
already. To see a drive of half-a-dozen big trees
go crashing down is a sight to be remembered and
if once you learn how to use an axe properly other
work seems very tame. Whatever you do don’t
go falling by yourself. You might get pinned
down by a small sapling, and it might be lona-
enough before your corpse was found! And the
death that comes to a man pinned down by a
fallen tree isn’t one to hanker after. J
WEKA.
Melb. : “Prisoners are conveyed by rail-
way from the suburbs. They ought to go alter-
nately in the first-class. Why the slur on second-
class passengers ? ”
About 40 Bulletin correspondents have
forwarded the following advt. clipping from Ksl-
goorlie Miner of April 3 :
NOTICE TO THE NIGHT OWLS.
n;™ have REMOVED from BROOK-
MAN-bIEEET. The Premises are now occupied bv a
I nvate Family and the police are instructed to see that
the liberty of the inmates is not interfered with.
Which recalls Teddy Royee’s story of how he
hired a house at Richmond (Vic.) without en-
quiring into the character of the previous tenants
Ihe first morning after Teddy had taken up the
new abode Mrs. Royoe was affectionately greeted
aS Lv/ “ r J >y a i aunt y butcher who had called for
orders. The matron was slowly recovering from
the shock of the meat man’s salutation when he
started to make enquiries concerning Bella’s
general health and Ethel's black-eye, and the pre-
sent whereabouts of dear little Tottie At the
word Tottie—which somehow smacks of impro-
priety—Mrs. Royce withdrew in haste and sent
her husband to explain.
A Record for a Sovereign. —Hordern’s
m Pitt-street sovereign blankets break a record
for sterling value, and the fact that they are for-
warded without extra cost to any town in New
bouth Wales should induce residents in the
country districts of New South Wales to send for
a pair.—Hordern Brothers, Government Con-
tractors, 203 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (only)
Sydney. Telegraphic address simply : “Hordern
Brothers.


A YOUNG LADY’S STORY.
Her Blood was Out of Order and She was all Run Down,
Read what Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Did for Her.
na
Y
*Lut
r'j
".■MM
&iS
AV
5 M
•j
uf/J
Sr
No one to look to-day at Miss Sophie Kiefer, a pretty and stylise young belle,
whose portrait is given above, and who lives at the northwest corner of Fourth and
Queen streets, Philadelphia, would imagine that she had ever been in anything but
the pink of health. Her skin is clear and creamy, her teeth are white and even, she
nas luxuriant dark hair, and her eyes are large and bright, of a lustrous brown. Yet.
notwithstanding Miss Kiefer’s splendid appearance, only a year ago she was in
extremely poor health, and her blood was in a very bad condition. Miss Kiefer’.:
story is best told in her own words :
“ "NY hen I began to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I was not only run down, but I was
thoroughly discouraged. Doctors and proprietary medicines both failed to help me.
My blood was disordered. But the first bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla helped me so
much that I decided to keep it up, and did so. Then, inside of a month, 1 began to
think that the Sarsaparilla was a wonder. It cleared my skin completely and restored
my appetite to its former condition. My general health was recovered and the third
bottle removed every appearance of disorder from my blood. Not only that, but it
left me better than ever. For several months I had been ill and complaining. My
health in general, aside from the condition of my blood, was very poor. I remember
one day, after attending a ball the night before, when I felt so miserable that I was
afraid I was going to die, almost. My appearance, of which I always took considera-
ble care, was the thing that worried me most of all, I will acknowledge. But as I
tell you. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla rejuvenated me. I would take it any time in preference
to toilet preparations and skin soaps and washes, for it worked wouders with me. I
can recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to anyone whose blood is poor or whose general
health is unsatisfactory.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Only True Blood-Purifier.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ? -
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
. Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
tainly shall never be withoutit“i® dlclne t 0 my household remedies, and cer-
(Rev.) F. 0. S. KlttEiNiG, Vicar ol St. Barnabas, Hull.
ibe voioef U n 1 a C ctebhematdcon i mvehiM Way f ifc inva,u ablerf<m»leaTmg-
" a '
JOHN BAILEY, Pastor, P.M. Ohuroh, Ramsgate.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRiDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. 2s. 9d 4s 6d
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent ’’
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNIH
%
%
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PHOT'S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to he “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
thej act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEE CHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENCLANB
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Did, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
Dttiok. Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYIARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT 1 IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), j&IGH
. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
SalOOnS furnished from £IQ to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
I2T Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
oheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.


PPS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Bbsi Quality).
BUY FROM US AM) SAVE 50 PElt CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margarefc-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THE-'
Ballet Girl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
AME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.”
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ABE-
W. MAM.MATS’ & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKSI
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDKTEY.
«• THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, IV3CS3
WortbiQgtoi) P£in?pii)g Ei)f ii)e Co.
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE’ MARK-
Sydney, X.S. W.
VICTORIA: Welch, Perrin & Co., Moray-street, South
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
Briebane.
Agencies:
ASMANIA:
NEW ZEALAND:
T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street,
Launceston.
E. Porter & Co., Queen-st., Auckland.
J. AndeBSON, Canterbury Foundry, Christchurch.
Worthingrton Pumps
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION,
SINKING,
MINING,
CREAMERIES,
GARDEN SUPPLIES,
WOOL-SCOURING,
WOOL-DUMPING,
WATER-SUPPLIES,
SEWERAGE,
MARINE,
TANK-FILLING,
BOILEII-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.. LTD.
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywhere. 11. PATES ON, MANAGER.
Ropp Furnace.
Huntington Mill.
Frue Yanner.
Challenge Feeder.
Dodge Rockbreaker.
Gates’ Rockbreaker.
Knowles’ Pump.
Ingersoll Compressor
Tngersoll Rock Drill.
Krom Rolls.
Dodge Pulveriser.
Roger Rolls.
Engines, Boilers.
All Fittings.
V
0 o
2_S
-9.
V &
■v-s?— tY
Prospecting Outfit£JgQ
Consisting of
3-liead‘Prospector’ Battery
(2851 b. STAMPS),
with AMALGAMATING TABLE and PLATES.
4 H.-P. VERTICAL ENGINE.
UPRIGHT MULTITUBULAR BOILER,
WITH ALL FITTINGS AND CONNECTIONS.
DOUBLE-ACTIKTG P» XT M P.
B«ltii)g, P6ll«yS, Tools, «t*.
O'
Park€ & Lacy Con)paoy Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Work. Agents Everywhere.
BatllO’S R n |#i nn
Baking Powder-
Scale or Advertising
-IN-
“ THE bulletin:’
Single Column ... «. ... ... ... 6s. per inch per insertion, nett
Quarterly Contracts ... ... ... 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly „ ... ... ... ... 20 ~ ~ ~
One Year „ ... ... ... ... 26 ~ ~ ~
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... 10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An kxtka discount of 6 per oentu allowed for cash in advance.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE Is. ... ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
BoQQiOgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
UN*UULNZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Ihroat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Kemoves all Huskmess, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
