

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa.
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. Cr. WATKINS & 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
A
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MART.
A
m
% 5 o c
<RAckaJocK>
c.'» o
L V o
« 'ti
V f
K. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydnby.
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. Co.,
85 Pltt-st., SYDNEY.
Pc/rtable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Rubton’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln,England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. . Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ line & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, quarts 10s, pints ss.
GLENLIYET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart ss. 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE EOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE and MARKET STS.,
SYDKTEY.
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d
Before viyih'nj the Of/ writer the Manager for
«f Tariff, (prrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETEBMANN,
Pbopriktor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
T 33! ZED
drosVeoorHotel,
Grosvenor Square,
SYD3XTBIT.
Por TERMS, please address the Manager.
THE
Built of Nickel Steel. They never require repairs.
Manufactdbkd
BY
THE
GOOLD
Bicycle Co.
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots^
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
PIONEER
LEATHER
"BELTING
every belt guaranteed to give
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World’s Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
J. C. LUDOW3CI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence =£l per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUT ;
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST :
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. '
n.s.w. aoekts : Messrs, ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
OConnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
£3T” Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBAHT.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in.
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Money - Orders
ISSUED BY THE
Cheque Bank Ltd.
ARE CHEAPER than
ORDINARY Money Orders,
—AND—
Are Cashed by 25,000 Banks
all over the World.
Apply for Handbooks.
JA s. malvolm,
Gen. Agent.
135 Pitt-st., Sydney (near G.P.0.)
-V
The Bulletin
Vol 18.—Wo. 909. j
j Saturday, July 17, 1697.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robertson & co.,
George Street, Sydnet.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OP THE OLO REGIME (new series, from Tnß
Bulletin), by Price Waning; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderio Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d.;
posted, 2s. ICd.
Write to vs for any Boole or Magazine you want.
A. ft STEPHENS , LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
OUT OF TH€ HURLY BURLY,
Away from the noise and bustle of the Jubilee festivities, far from the madding crowd and
the attendant hurry-scurry of the celebrations, retired, at the earliest possible moment, our
own P. 0., and contributed his quota to the illuminations by lighting up a
CAMEO CIGARETTE.
Cameos formed the oust popular item in the general flare-up.
THE BED PAGE OF AUSTRALASIAN NOTES AND QUERIES.
[It is desired to collect information from all manner of
readers and observers on all mnnner of ourious and in-
teresting subjects. A not-exolusive preference will be
given to notes and queries especially Australasian, or kin
with Australasian, in their origin and reference—parti-
cularly to those dealing with aboriginal life and language,
natural history, white-Australasian language, customs,
exploits and typical developments, characteristic old-
time anecdotes, and so on. Brevity of statement is
essential. Writers must observe the ordinary correspon-
dence conditions. The help of Bclletin readers every-
where is asked in recording some of many valuable facts,
impressions, or experiences which may otherwise be lost
to our country. Notes may be forwarded on any interest-
ing topic—not necessarily relating to something already
in print. Queries may be suggested; and any relevant
information will be welcome in reply, even if not precisely
answering. Contributions must be endorsed ‘Notes and
Queries,' and if dealing with matters previously referred-
to the number of note or query and date of issue must be
added. All references to books should state title, author,
publisher, date of publication, place where published,
and pages quoted from ; and all records of personal
experience should give date and place of occurrence
(province, district, miles from nearest post-town), and
other helpful details.]
3.— Whistling Spears.
Seeing this query, a party of us adjourned to a
convenient blacks’ oamp, and interviewed the
■pear-throwers. ‘Noise? Of course, the spears
make a noise,’said the old blacks, proceeding to
imitate it with their lips. A bleary-eyed old chap
took from the side of his humpy a medium-length
■pear, poised it in his hand, and threw it. ‘That
decides it; no sound,’ said one of us. ‘ Nothing
of the sort,’ said another. ‘I heard it. Let_us
■tand where it will pass us.’ This we did.
Another spear was thrown higher and further,
and all ears heard the whizzing vibration as the
spear passed. Again was the spear thrown a short
distance—sound almost imperceptible. Again
higher and further —sound definite, just as the
blacks imitated it. General conclusion was that
though a writer was .within the bounds of truth
when he sent his spears whizzing, it would be as
well not to emphasise the sound by too many
noisy adjectives. Then were some boomerangs
thrown : their noise was quite beyond doubt. One
of us declared the game drawn, saying : ‘Some-
times you hear spears, and sometimes you don’t.’
But the black fellows said : ‘Sposem you no hear
him, you wornba.’ Womba means deaf or stupid.
—K.S.
All sound is caused by atmospheric vibration.
In a vacuum there is no sound. Without friction
there is no vibration. If a bullet were mathema-
tically smooth the coefficient of friction=0 .\
sound also=0. Nothing is perfectly smooth.
Therefore everything passing through the air
causes sound. The rifle-bullet makes much sound
because the grooves cause a serrated section trans-
versely—just as boys nick a top to cause a hum,
or just as a circular-saw whizzes. A well-made
feathered arrow will not whiz so loudly as one
with oblique plumage.— Scotty the Wrinkler.
I can confirm A. Meston’s statement that the
‘fast-driven woomera spear’ flies in deadly
silence. No sound whatever attends its passage
through the air.— Mallee Cockle.
4. — Marsupial Reproduction.
I send three specimens of the embryo of the
kangaroo—one just born and placed on the teat;
one in the first stage of gestation in the uterus ;
and one in the uterus which would have been born
to atmospheric life in a day or two only tor what
happened. The kangaroo is born like all other
mammals, and is placed on the teat by the mother.
I have found them in pouch before they have got
on to teat. All this was proved by Professor
Owen 40 years ago; but it appears there are un-
believers still. The platypus controversy has also
long ago been settled. The female lays eggs, and
is also a mammal without teats, but with large
mammany elands. Both kangaroos and platypi
are monotremes (i.e., as in birds, the ducts of the
urinary, genital, and alimentary systems terminate
in a single opening).—H.G.R., Tenterfield.
8.— Ants.
In the Q. district lying between Isaacs and
Conors Rivers, on the Belyando River and a large
part of the desert, and on the upper Dawson and
the Brown, Comet and Nogoa rivers, ants throng
into the blacks’ camps. The fact has almost
originated a proverb. One frequently bears there
■uch remarks as ‘You’d think this was a blacks’
oamp, the way the ants swarm,’ and ‘thick as
ants in a blacks’ camp.’ Two kinds of ants infest
the camps—the common red meat-ant, and a
much smaller one that we call the crawling ant.
It has a tremendously heavy head and abdomen
for its size, smells very strongly of formic acid
when crushed, and is nearly stingless.—C.A.M.
I never knew that ants drew the (colour) line at
the aboriginal. The ‘ nigger ’ of my acquaintance
has tc take trouble to exclude ants from his camp
by heaping round it a ring of loose sand an inch or
two high, or digging a trench-enclosure an inch
deep. Ants hate climbing on loose sand.— R.
Williams, Gilgunnia.
In Westralia I have seen natives, after picking
their oamping-ground, look about for the small
black ants, and on top of these nests (not ant-
hills) they light their fires. One fire does three
blacks, and a camp of one hundred blacks would
require thirty-three fires—which would account
for some dispersion of ants, anyway. Have abo-
riginals in other provinces the same habit ?—H.H.
To prevent the common meat-ant from getting
at the jam, we tied four thicknesses of paper over
the top of the tin. Every morning there was a
fresh hole through the paper, which was put down
to mice, until the ants were observed going through
for all they were worth. They made a hole
about a quarter of an inch in diameter in a very
short time, tearing the paper with their jews.
Percy Wickham, Australia United Mine, W.A.
The Bulletin has been assured, on excellent authority,
that they breed a white ant at Normanton, N.Q., which
Is so fond of jam that it eats right through the tin.
9. — Sheoak.
Why is ‘colonial beer’ called sheoak? Was
the berry ever made into beer ? or the bark ? or
the wood ? or foliage ? It was Polly Lawson, of
Ballarat, shanty-keeper and lady, who first intro-
duced name and poison to — Scotty Shedrinkler.
‘ M.C.’ (13/6/97) tells how bush lads chew sheoak nuts
* because they are sour.’ This paper chewed some by way
of experiment—many palates would find them bitter.
Also, they moisten the mouth at first and dry it after-
wards. Analogical application to ‘colonial ale’ might
easily be made as the bush lads grow up.
10.— Aboriginal Legends.
The Waradgery blacks (country back of the
Lachlan, N.S.W.), used to ascribe the origin of
man and animals to a supreme creator. How far
this idea was their own I do not know. It may
have been borrowed from the whites. They gave
this curious legend as to the first entrance of
Death into the world : —When the blacks came to
Australia they found it peopled by a race of super-
natural beings called wanamg, who could pile up
mountains, turn the course of streams, and per-
form other similar miracles. On the appearance
of the blacks the wanamg left the world ; but
before going they drew the attention of their suc-
cessors (who had not yet begun to die) to a bat
which lived in a certain hollow tree. The blacks
were warned that if they disturbed this bat
terrible results would follow. For a long time
the bat was left alone; but one day a woman (of
course) incautiously struck a stick against the tree
and the bat left its hiding-place. Immediately
afterwards the ravages of Death commenced.
Mallee Cookie.
The Waradgery blacks, in the country between
the Lachlan and Darling Rivers, have a story of
of how the crow became black different from that
printed April 24. In substance it is as follows
Waggan, the crow, wa3 a knavish and tricky black-
fellow. Moolyan, now the eagle, was another blackfellow,
a bold hunter and warrior. Moolyan’s uncle (not named)
had offended Waggan, who crippled him by a stratagem,
and left him to parish in the bu3h. Moolyan’s dog found
the uncle’s corp3e, and led Moolyan to the spot. Feeling
sure that this was Waggan’s doing, Moolyan vowed
revenge ; and shortly afterwards, when Waggan had gone
into a thick patch of spinifex in search of game,
Moolyan set the spinifex on fire all round him.
Satisfied that he had avenged his uncle, Moolyan sat
down to roast and eat some game he had caught. "While
doing so he heard a loud ‘ Caw ’ from the branches of the
tree above him, and, looking up, saw Waggan, who had
changed himself into a bird. He was quite black from
the smoke and ashes of the spinifex, but he was unhurt.
Moolyan at once changed himself into a far bigger bird.
Before doing so he broke off the jagged ends of his spears
and fastened them to his fingers, and when he ohanged to
a bird the spears became talons. Thus armed, he started
in chase of Waggan, but never caught him. And so
began the unending war between the eagle and the crow.
It seems strange that the color of the crow should
require accounting for, seeing that, according to
both tales, he was originally a ‘nigger.’— Mallee
Cookie.
13. —Vegetable Caterpillars.
I send separately one or two specimens of these
found about here. The plant is known as the
bulrush caterpillar-native name, awheto. It is
found at the root of the rata, and the finest speci-
mens of the metamorphosed body are about 3 to
3| in. long. From this the stem rises to 6 or 10
inches. The body is under the surface of the
ground, and a great portion of the stalk as well.
The natives eat these dried caterpillars, and also
use them when burnt as color for tattooing. The
vegetable growth proceeds from the nape of the
neck, and it is inferred that when burrowing in
the vegetable soil the seeds get between the scales
of the caterpillar in its sickening state. —F.
F. Wate, Rotorua, M.L.
15. — Black Maria.
The following was printed in an issue of the
‘World,’ New York, some few years since:—
‘ During old colonial days, Maria Lee, a negress,
kept a sailors’ boarding-house in Boston. She was
a woman of gigantic size and prodigious strength,
and was of great assistance to the authorities in
keeping the peace, as the entire lawless element
of that locality lived in awe of her. Whenever an
unusually troublesome person was to be taken to
the station-house the services of Black Maria, as
she was called, were likely to be required. It is
said that she took at one time, and without assist-
ance, three riotous sailors to the lock-up. So fre-
quently was her help required, that the expres-
sion : ‘Send for Black Maria,’ came to mean—
‘Take the disorderly person to gaol.’ It is easy
to see how the name became fixed to the means of
transportation.’—T. O’Callaghan, Melbourne.
‘ V.' and others write to similar effect.
French slang for a police-van is ‘ panler k salade ’ —
apparently referring to the mixed contents.
16.— Waltzing Matilda.
The origin of this lies no doubt in some lonely
bushman’B association of his partner-swag with
the female partner that he Jongs for. A swag has
a suggestion of a dummy female figure ; and not
long ago ‘Bulletin’ correspondents pointed out
that a Dutch ‘ wife ’ was a bolster —a similar long,
rotund object. And I have known one old
tramper to carry the parallel so far that _ he
strapped his swag in at the middle for a waist,
and coaxed a little bit of clothing to stick out at
the end for a head, and found (doubtless) a, lot of
comfort in the companionship. Having got
‘Matilda’ —a typical name for the sex in comic-
song country—‘waltzing’ comes easily from the
idea of continued motion-often in a circle of
stations.—X.X.X.
There are several ways of carrying a swag,
Maoriland fashion, collar fashion, and Australian
—the usual way. A new-chum once asked an old
swagman which was the best way to carry it?
Well, said the old fellow, when I was in the army
I used to hump my drum in front of me, but since
I’ve been in the squatting line, I carry it behind
me ; whichever way you carry it you’ll get there
just the same. ‘Get where?’ asked the new-
ohum. ‘Between Hay and Booligal.’—H.H.
17. — Habits of Persons Lost in Bush.
As far as my knowledge extends only those
perishing of thirst throw off their clothes when
lost in the bush. Insanity overtakes them before
death, and they drink from, and bathein, imaginary
lakes and streams—tearing off their clothes to let
the water touch their parched skin. The ‘bushed ’
horseman travels in a circle either way, but I
believe the footman always turns to the left (not
the right)—I think because the left leg is the
shorter.—R,. Williams, Gilgunnia.
18.— The Maginnis.
The ‘Maginnis,’ or ‘crooked Maginnis’ is a
well-known wrestling hold. Standing behind an
opponent you grasp his left wrist with your left
hand, put your right arm over his left shoulder,
and crook the elbow firmly under his chin, so that
your right hand is almost on his right shoulder.
He is then at your mercy. It is a garrotting hold,
debarred in decent wrestling. The formula is
very old: the modern name comes from its
habitual use by a New York garrotter named
Maginnis early in this century. ‘Putting the
Maginnis on him’—applied in Australia to the
plan of tying a girth or whip-lash tightly under a
horse’s belly to make him buck—is an obvious
application of the wrestling phrase.—A.E.O.B.
20.— Aboriginal Bock Carvings.
In my note of 10/6/97, in the paragraph des-
cribing the situation of the rocks containing car-
vings, Fig. 4 should be Fig. 3, and vice versa. For
‘plate XXI’ of the Journ. Anthrop. Inst., read
‘ plate XVI.’ Figs. 2, 4, 5, and 8 are in the
county of Northumberland, and the remainder in
the county of Cumberland. — R. H. Mathews.
27. — A boriginals.
The W.A. natives that I have seen never stoop
to pick anything from the ground which can be
lifted by the foot. A stick they pick up with
their toes ; a billy-can they lift with the instep ; a.
stone they toss in the air with their big toe and
catch with their hands. A white woman may
stoop to conquer : the local black never stoops—
her foot conquers.— Hugh Harding, Cue, W.A.
Aboriginals have a peculiar sense of smell. In
the desert country of Westralia (I speak more
particularly of the district near Cue) they cannot
bear the smell of eucalyptus—because no eucalyp-
tus grows there ? I poured some eucalyptus out
of a bottle on a gin’s foot. She lifted her foot to
her nose k la acrobat, made a face, and said—
* ’Tinkin pfella! ’ These aboriginals also say
‘ white pfella ’mell nasty ; wearem too much
clothes.’ I have tried them with different scents,
but they invariably turn up their noses. Yet they
like the smell of the bad fat with whioh they
smear their bodies. —TlNDOG.
28.— Phenomenal Water-Springs in Drought.
Many newspapers of recent date have referred
to these. I quote account from ‘Sydney Stock
and Station Journal ’ of May 22, 1897 —
In parts of the Western country a surprising, though
not unprecedented, phenomenon has noently occurred.
In the districts about Bathurst and Orange streams that
dry up in any ordinary summer recently commenced to
flow, and are now running in full strength. Wateiholes
are full, and springs that usually cease to flow when-
ever the weather is at all dry are bubbling up with vigor.
In the districts to which this sudden supply has come it
was particularly needed. The citizens of Bathurst had
been placed on a limited allowance of water for consump-
tion, and now tire very works which had been undertaken
in connection with increasing the supply in future have
been stopped by the inflow of water. Professor David,
geologist at the University, who was appealed to for ex-
planation, staled that the. probable cause of the sudden
flow was that all the back country had been denuded of
grass, and that the water which the grass would absorb
has sought an outlet and come into old channels and
springs. In tire same way, he pointed out, after land had
been ringbamd the water in the nearest creek flow's
much more freely. Assuming this theory to be correct,
the flow would be distinctly attributable to the destruc-
tion of the vegetation checking the evaporation, and so
leading to tire water which otherwise would pass into the
air being discharged in the ordinary way through springs.
What amazing flapdoodle! Trees, of course,
not only draw surface water from the ground for
a considerable depth, but often hoard in their
roots large quantities—which are given out again
when the trees are killed by ringbarking. But
grass-roots extend, in average droughty country,
to a much less depth, and can contain compara-
tively little moisture—partly because they are
mere fibres, and partly because they only tap the
surface layer, where there is least water to draw
from. Besides, the theory is topsy-turvy. If
there were any water for dead grass to set free,
that same water would Veep the grass alive. Pre-
sumably the grass dies because it hasn’t got any
moisture round its roots —if it had any it wouldn’t
die—and the watercourses can’t rob a corpse
which has not a drop of property in the world.
—II. B.
[The following much more scientific explanation by
R. L. Jack, Q. Govt, geologist, in reply to a correspondent,
was published in ‘The Queenslander’ —‘Yours of 19th
May informs me that “some of the springs in the lime-
stone ridges on the eastern side of Ipswich, and also some
at Redbank Plains, about six miles distant., are now run-
ning strongly, and overflowing the successive holes in
their course, whereas, until recently, many of these in_
termediate holes were almost dry.” Mr. Clement L.
Wragge says, regarding similar phenomena observed in
New South Wales, “speaking with some caution, I can
only regard it as due to seismic waves caused by con-
vulsions or disturbances, most probably in connection
with the artesian supply being forced upward by the
twitching and contortions of the ground far below the
surface.” The 'Adelaide Advertiser’ of 14th May men-
tions as one of the direot effects of the recent earthquakes
that a well at Walkerville, South Australia, which had
been dry for twenty years, was suddenly filled with
water to the brim ; and many instanc es are given
of fissures opening in roads and throwing out
water and sand. These instances .and many others
recorded on similar occasions leave no room for doubt
that springs may rise or increase in volume from the
causes to which Mr. Wragge points. There is no
evidence, however, that the shocks extended to Ipswich,
or, at least, that they were perceptible. It may be
pointed out that the Western country furnishes many
weli-authenticared instances of springs breaking out or
increasing during periods of drought, in places and at
times when there seems no ground for suspecting sub-
terranean disturbance. This may be due to the length of
time required for heavy rain at the “intake” to affect
distant springs or artesian wells. Given a long pipe, and
supposing (as is always the case in water-bearing strata)
the pipe to be more or less obstructed, it may take
years for a heavy wet season or a prolonged drought
to affeot springs or wells which derive their
“heads of water” from distant sources. When
our information with regard to the Western wells
is complete, I should not be surprised to find that there
may, in some instances, be ten years of interval. It will
some day be possible to construct two diagrams, one
representing the rainfall at the “intake,” and the ocher
the pressure at the artesian outlets. The first diagram
will be like the edge of a saw, with teeth of varying
heights standing for good wet seasons, and teeth
knocked out for droughts. The second will be of the
same pattern, the teeth standing for periods of high and
the gaps for periods of low pressure. When observation*
have extended over a sufficient number of years for the
establishment of an undoubted parallel between the two
diagrams, a great deal of light will be thrown on the
phenomenon of intermittent springs.'] *
29. —Duplicated, Geographical Names.
A cause of misunderstanding which the Federal
Government should remove is the duplication of
geographical names. To begin with rivers, there
is a Mary river in Q. and W.A. ; Glenelg, Vic.
and W.A. ; Boyne, two in Q. ; Lachlan, N.S.W.
and Tas.; Styx, N.Q. and Tas. ; Gawler, S.A.
and Tas.; Macquarie, N.S.W. and Tas.; Nive,
Q. and Tas. ; Fish, N.S.W. and Tas. ; Swan,
W.A. and Tas. ; Lachlan, N.S.W. and Tas. ;
Murchison, W.A. and Tas. ; Fitzroy, Q. and
W.A.— Eknest Favenc.
30. — The Echidna.
I can quite agree with German Professor Semon,
who says the echidna doesn’t eat ants. About
18 months ago I found an echidna on a ledge
in an old shaft, with about two feet of water at
bottom. I.fished him out and carried him to an ad-
jacent red-ant bed, having first stirred up the ants.
The alleged ant-eater must have been hungry after
his spell below, yet he positively refused to feed,
though the ants swarmed all over him. After
making an attempt to burrow into the nest, he
watched a chance and scurried away at a very
fair pace, leaving my curiosity satisfied re ant-
eating.—E.D.E.


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN.
YoClOg ty€o
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man. *
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living- away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical -work post free on application.
dr. freeman,
Comer Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney
Correspondence P.O. Box, .1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Red fern Street,
REDFERN.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’B invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box gap. 29 York Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than £1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
■**of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
R'l CORD'S
tSSE wcE, °? f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for Ms. Freight
eoctra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
Agents for A us f r alasia — Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street. MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co.. Pitt-sfc.,Sydney.
“ABori> PbySiciai)-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands j our trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
phj’sical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young meii, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver,' lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidnev troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a eaieful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist, who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.It.C.SEng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street:,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeoWed. The week ot
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining* in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
\
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sii.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHN OUWJUITI
urn
> i
FULL DIRECTUME?
„ ENCLOSED.' '
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by-
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0.. Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so mqch Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Tbc (alory of tyaij !
STRENGTH AND VITALITY.
Dr. GEO. WALSH,
The MOST SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST in Australia,
may be consulted at his PRIVATE DISPENSARY on all
CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN &
BLOOD DISEASES.
YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED MEN, who by
their own acts of imprudence or folly suffer from lack of
energy, impaired vitality, loss of memory, pains in the
limbs and bowels, sunken eyes, tottering gait, who are
weak, debilitated and unable to perform life’s duties pro-
perly ; imbibe natural nerve force and power by my
Urethral Treatment and without exposing their miseries
to an unsympathising physician, who does not study and
consequently does not understand these cases.
OLD MEN who now find the penalties following their
transgressions, indiscretions or over brain-work, may con-
sult with assurance of speedy relief and a permanent cure.
Blood and Skin Diseases, Kidney, Bladder and Liver
complaints, Heart and Lung troubles treated successfully.
MARRIED MEN and those about to marry, who
dread their weakness or incapacity, or whose blood is
loaded with impurities transmittable to their offspring,
should consult DR. WALSH without delay.
Varicocele easily and quickly cured without operation.
Write for particulars.
“ The Bright Side,” a valuable Illustrated Medical
Work on Brain and Nerve Exhaustion and its Cure by the
only pleasant, safe, and certain method exclusively my
own, sent sealed eight stamps.
Before confiding your case, consult Dr. WALSH,
L.R C.P & S., et L.M., legally qualified Physician
and Surgeon, registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Australia, and New Zealand, and one who has
made diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs a life-long
study, hence to him the sufferer can look with full and
positive assurance of restoration to health and vigorous
manhood ; call or write for absolute proofs of success.
Consultation by letter or in pet son free and invited.
Send to-day for the “Bright Side,” it will interest you.
Sent sealed for eight stamps. When immediate treatment
is desired, send complete history of case and £l.
DR. GEO. WALSH,
83 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “cure alls”
iioiNNinq. aNO week. specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the f ull particulars of the
Homoeopathic Treatment, which is a complete cure lor Nervousness a»»cl r ailtn
"Vigor in young and old men. All letters sent sealed. „ .
Address -Dr. IRVING CO., corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed hia New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consult ing Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receift of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBOUS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
' prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STEEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, Gr.P.O., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing. ■,
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IMMHOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
** permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible. . ...
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases. of ft
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments,, we do so at the special wish of the toriters
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable ,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes“ 1 can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, bat shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. 1 shall always remain indebted te
you for my wonderful cure."
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-Btreet, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been " a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing* of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. . I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this; that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure,'
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said: ‘The only chance you
have is to fro to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OP DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to vour extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that 1
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years • purchased three different galvanic or electrio belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whab
ever use you like of this.
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes “ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five yetirs, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
hpalthv and happy, which I never thought could be done
until/was a short time under your care. I couldl con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
T have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
1 have sun » but algo t 0 those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
mv advice and place their case in your hands wll 'n°t only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
boston herbal institute,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily . ,
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
761UWAO*


MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
“ TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
REG ISTERED
ADDRESS.
CANTERBURY PARK C. July 31.
10,000 Subscribers a,t S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shaft's in the above.
Name
Address
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Subscrilbers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE 0. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
£ s
SPRING H. 14th August.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, . s’ in res in the above.
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Subscribers at E 5.
To TATT EIISALL.
Please allot me —_ shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE G November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me __ : !ia:vs in !.!jo'above.
Name ' ••'
Address
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE-
Mill bank Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
116,000 Snares at £1 Each List Closes-25th September. 116,000 S : ares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd
3rd
4 tii
stli
bill
Einpire Hotel, Temora
Albion Hotel,- Cootamundra ... ...
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc. ... • ... ■ s -
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee !.. ......
valued at £10,065
8,100
8,000
valued at
valued- at
valued at
valued at
valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
4,000
4,000
3,550
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution Jill, the Drawer of ithe First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead, or
Cash equivalent-, of £10,065. Foi,* full particulars, see Prospectus.
I attersaJl s Second Distribution
Ob’ —
City ai)d StibOrbao
Freehold - Properties.
100,000 Shares of ss. Each.
Ist Prize. I eiTHce llouses ) (den more
Pond, and laroe Pwelling- 11 ■ use, Val " e •
Wool Ultra ... £8,.1u1l
2nd IVi/a* i i ou~e and Land, Hunter’s
Jiill. and Bhop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... Co.pni
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O
For full particular* apply for Prospectus.
For fuM particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOitcd.
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you're almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of 1 ife,
with “ youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Cloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Cems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
Anthony Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
EAYMARZET (ONLY).
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
3 in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
S Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
( ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
tassetl d/UU/UUUOMrJU
The Slake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO..
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Acknowledged
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Spec'ality,
AST Send for Catalogues and Circulars.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
f s
rife
o
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN ft THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS ft BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/Is, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM ft SON, Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & 00., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
“ I'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, lOs. Id.
Soii« Agents :
X
The. Regvlt.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 Goorge-st., H ydney
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin &, Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with snecial beautifying- ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion* free from, blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles., or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake;
certifying to its harmlessn- ss, purity, and beautify'ng qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
PR ASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the -Finest in the World
D ° "-"(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
genuine' Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from =£3 3s. each.
g P MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
MIELBOXIRKTS.
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
Perfect in Every Particular
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Haying been appoiuteil Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d. ; by post, 6d.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics oan
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
STYLE No. 14.
£0 98. CASH. £lO 108. TIME PAYMENT
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
"New Hand Machine,
J. W. JOHNSTON &. CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY. *
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Every Variety of
TEA I
AND EACH OF UN RIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson
257 George Street, Sydney.
4sr SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. TB*
Various Verses,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“THE VOICE FROM OVER YONDER.”
“ Did she care as much as I did
When our paths of Fate divided?
Was the love, then, all onesided—
Did she understand or care ? ”
Slowly fall the moments leaden,
And the silence seems to deaden —
And a voice from over yonder answers sadly :
“ I’ve been there.”
“ Have you tramped the streets of cities
Poor? And do you know what it is—
While no mortal cares or pities -
To have drifted past ambition ;
To have sunk below despair ?
Doomed to slave and stint and- borrow ;
Ever haunted in your sorrow
By the spectre of To-morrow ? ”
And the voice from over yonder answers sadly :
“ I’ve been there.”
“ Surely in the wide Hereafter
There’s a land of love and laughter ?
Say : Is this life all we live for—
Say it ! think it, if you dare !
Have you ever thought or wondered
Why the Man and God were sundered?
Do you think the Maker blundered ? ”
And the voice, in mocking accents, answered only :
“ I’ve been there.”
HENRY LAWSON.
THE GRASS GROWS QUICKLY OVER
GRAVES.
Where are the loves of yesterday ?
Where are the leaves of yesteryear ?
Where are the zephyrs that did play
When summer was alive and dear?
Sweet sang old breezes to the ear,
But of them faithless memory saves
Not one small fainting chord to hear :
The grass grows quickly over graves !
Where are gone goblin, wraith, and fay ?
And where gone Merlin, hoar and sere ?
Where all we loved when we were gay,
And child-eyes could in strange worlds peer—-
Strange worlds of ghosts and kelpies queer,
Where brownies sang to fairy staves?
Far are those worlds that once were near :
The grass grows quickly over'graves !
Where is last autumn's yellow hay?
Where are the lilies of the mere ?
Where are the flowers of early May—
Purples that were as wedding gear?
To king or queen dead drop a tear,
While half-raised banner droops or waves,
And then the new king rise and cheer :
The grass grows quickly over graves !
Friend, ere the Fates have spun our cere,
And Charon ferries o’er Styx’ waves,
Long, lilt, live, love, while still we’re here !
The grass grows quickly over graves !
Vic.
STEELE GREY.
SIC TRANSIT.
Some great, grand song of Life to sing*
Now grant us, Muse divine,
On whose wide-roaming rainbow wing
Pale stars of Music shine !
Some flight beyond the common themes
Of common modern lays,
Some echo of those charmed dreams
Bards dreamt in buried days !
Ah, where’s the light that flashed along
Thy steel, Sir Cavalier ?
Ah, where’s the wild war-chorus strong,
Thou whiskered halberdier?
All flown ! They sell the name ye won
To buy a year of peace,
That ten fat men, from sun to sun,
May watch their hoards increase.
Your swords adorn the new-gilt walls
Of some gross plutocrat;
The shadow from your visor falls
Upon his sleek pot-hat.
His nervous son drones out his life -
A rank, unwholesome weed ;
He sells his girl to make a wife
For your betitled breed.
Bold bravoes in your cobwebbed frames,
Brave knights and courtiers gay,
Behold the “ Golden Peace” that tames
Our souls this later day !
Gay gallants of that ancient time, ■
I’d sing thee if I could ;
But gallant deeds ill fit to rhyme
In this dull age of wood.
And, —but the madrigal that long
Did make the singer’s fate,
The sonnet and the pastoral song
Are somewhat out of date, —
Fayre ladye in your ivied keep '
The moonlight streaming o’er,
Fain would I ’cross the greensward creep
To be thy troubadour.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
BRIDAL DREAMS.
By dim dream-ways, lit with pale mystic light—
Light shed we knew not whence or how - we sped
With flying feet o’er many a sweet flower-bed
Nestling within the opiate wings of night.
The flowers moved and murmured at our flight,
Then dozed again and closed their white or red ;
Their scented dreams caressed us as we fled,
As though Love bade them add to our delight.
Hand locked in hand, we gained a strange, vague
lea
Beside a mere that knew no earthly breeze,
Where lilies lived brief lives of languorous ease
(Giving therefor their dim white grace in fee); —
These had sweet things to say of her and me,
As down we sank and all our dreams did cease.
Vic.
LIONEL COLONNA.


g , - - g Established 1849.
AdStraliai) tydtdal p ro videot Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established wwwv YEAR 1
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAK i
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Era.A. W. MEEKS, Esq.. BENJAMIN SJdu 4
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary. RICHARD TEEOE, i?.1.A., r.r. ,
Annual Income ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling. „
Accumulate “Funds Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.,
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually reserves) amounted , ’
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000. __
_ . . o-7 PIT T STREET, SYDNEY.
XXea.cS. Office . 8 7 ±* vmrvn'r -r hameron. Secretary.
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &e. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night —advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, MANAGER,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
BRYANT & MAY’S WAX V€STAS
andL
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
ZO Prize Medals for Excellence and. Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
* USTRALIAN BRANDT
XX (Joshua Bros. “ Boomerang ” Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
m Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. “Bt
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUITG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
ZRO-A-I)
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street 9 SYDNEY,
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for tlie “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
LoodoQ ai)d WelboGroe Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
having
PURCHASED \
FOR CASH J
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount,
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS at
Suits—4ss. to 90s. Trousers— from 12s. 6d. to 255.
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M. BAUMARSHE, Manager.
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
RUT,KIES. as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
' hf(fh, With Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
glJLKrefenS- BUbK-BOARD BUGGIES,
DOUBLeSeSeD BUGGIES, £2O; DOUBLE
WA GGA ( STYLE R SAIBDLEs!’best quality, 705.; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. HILUER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
BEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
rjrsF
~ t i,„ lni-.rr increase -of' nmSaddlerv and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-payment
. OW Twfd,S to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY. The whole of
System, I n ~' I)lin t or) an d M. and \V. Tyres. The bicycle season is just- coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Kifvera should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FEOM £1 Is- A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,.
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
rpHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
JL with every convenience for the practice of MODLKJN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised m
America and elsewhere.
Teetß Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Bridffemork.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, ana
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 Kiaxe-st., svtmey,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
TCJodalla Cheese
1 ,l —* The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
fSodalla Bacon.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
■Rodalla Hams
1 * in Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
-THE-
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10/- per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30 -no £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN - -
AUSTRALIAN
COMPANY
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 05 Pitt St., Sydney
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
eSS - INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
Under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
THE-^
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C,; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiahilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Olynb ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DIXSON & SONS
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAF
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yaokee Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so short
a time. During the last two years the increase has reached over 100 per
cent, more than that of the preceding year.
CooqOeror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wales
Pix&OQ’S New CooqGeror.
To many smokers an improvement on the old by reason of its aroma
and flavor.
Cbaippioi) Rronjatic.
Long and Rough Cut, Navy Cut, Blended Stock. Nothing can exceed
in quality these gold leaf goods.
DARK TWISTS —Uncle Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, et<?
DAKK PLUG —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AROMATICS —Golden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CALALOGUE OF PRICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE.
Importers of Pipes and Tobacconists’ Wares in Great and Newest Varieties,
CIGARETTES.
AGENTS FOK
Mooopolc RotbScbildS, La RoSiQa, Flor d* ViSto Cigars.


The Bulletin
Reentered at the General Pont Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 909.
SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1897.
Price, <3d.
“WHAT? TAKE THE VERY RED FROM UNDER ME! NEVER!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length , or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
‘will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa.—A. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Jlaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
T^e'^txlleix/n.
SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1897.
A Comedy of Spasms.
The crusade against betting has suddenly
fizzled out in New South Wales, and in its
stead there is a violent outbreak of zeal in
the matter of Sunday trading, and the retail-
ing of bananas and ginger-pop on the Day of
Rust. There is no local law, so far as The
Bulletin knows, dealing with the subject,
but the Sunday banana is understood to be
illegal under an ancient English statute,
passed in the days of a monarch of bad char-
acter now deceased. It was decided very
long ago that the said musty statute applies
in New South Wales, but for years the
police have turned a blind eye on the Sunday
trader and passed by on the other side. In
so doing they admittedly overlooked a glar-
ing breach of the law, but in some matters
the local “cop” is allowed to unmake laws
at his pleasure, and no one in authority ever
called on the force to account for its whole-
sale neglect of duty. A week ago, however,
a sudden spasm of virtue overwhelmed the
unripe banana and descended on the ginger-
beer like an avalanche, and the I’eason of
this awakening is explained by Acting-
Premier Brunker as follows :
The action I took was upon a petition received from
about 2000 small shopkeepers, who complained that the
Italians were keeping their shops open on Sundays to
their detriment, and interfering with their business. I
called the attention of the Inspector-General of Police to
the petition. In fact, I sent him the petition, and there
is no doubt he is acting upon it.
* • * »
This leaves things in an eminently un-
satisfactory position. Apparently the inter-
ference of the Government comes in, not
because Sunday-trading is illegal and it is
the Government’s duty to see that the law is
enforced, or to promptly amend it if it is
the kind of law which isn’t fit for enforce-
ment. Nor is it because Sunday-trading is
sinful, and it is the duty of a GoD-fearing
Ministry to see that the Day of Rust is
kept holy. It is purely a matter of trade
jealousy. The good fruit-merchant and the
bad one both have bananas and mandarins
and pie-melon left on their hands on Satur-
day night. The bad man gets rid of a lot
of the surplus stock on Sunday, and thereby
avoids a serious loss; the good man has
the festering mass on his hands on Monday,
and makes a serious loss. The bad man gets
seven days’ profits per week; the good man
only six days’. The good man doesn’t sell so
much ginger-beer and pine-apple as he might
do on Saturday night, because people don’t
lay in a stock knowing that they can buy
from the bad man on Sunday ; also the good
man doesn’t find the rush on his liquors that
there should be on Monday morning because
the public, instead of being compelled to
save up its Sunday thirst, has been quench-
ing it on the bad man’s premises. There-
fore he asks that the law should insist on
the bad man’s bananas decaying on Sunday
so that the two may start fair with corres-
ponding piles of stale vegetables on Monday
morning. There is no question of public
convenience or public morality in the matter;
it is entirely based on the good man’s fiendish
desire to see the bad man’s banana get stale.
And Acting-Premier Brunker acknowledges
that he moved in the matter solely because
the aggregate good man asked him to help in
the pious work of making the bad man’s
Saturday night banana unsaleable.
* * * •
This isn’t the sort of attitude which was to
be expected of a GoD-fearing Ministry.
Sunday-trading is distinctly illegal. As the
Ministry made no effort whatever to abolish
the law it seemingly regarded it as the right
thing that it should be illegal. The conduct
of the police, who took it upon themselves
to suspend the law, was a disgraceful piece
of presumption and neglect of duty, and the
Government should have fallen heavily on
the force for its misconduct. Either the
holy Brunker disgracefully neglected his
duty up till now in not looking after the en-
forcement of a law which he held to be just,
or else he is now meanly enforcing a law
which he regards as unjust in order to secure
the votes and support of 2000 small shop-
keepers. If the law is unjust then the
Brunker Government should have the
courage to introduce a bill for its abolition.
If it is just it should be enforced every Sun-
day against every offender, not put in spas-
modic operation at casual intervals. It should
operate all the time ; not merely when
Brunker or any other person happens to
feel that way. Also, it should be enforced
because it is the law, and not because any
man desires, for his private interest or grati-
fication, to know that any other man’s apples
and mandarins are going bad.
* * * «
In such a matter the public convenience
should not be considered in the least. The
public makes the laws—in a clumsy, slow
and circuitous way, it is true, but still it does
make them. It also unmakes them. If the
community has been so foolish as to make, or
so tired that it couldn’t take the trouble to
unmake, a statute prohibiting it from getting
any refreshment on its one regular holiday,
the said statute should be enforced to the
uttermost until the community gives orders
to the contrary. The only way to get rid of
foolish or obsolete laws is to enforce them ;
the only reasonable use of good laws is to
enforce them. In the one case, they should
be enforced so as to keep the community
fully aware of their foolishness ; in the other,
so as to give the community the full benefit
of their wisdom. The worst thing that can
be done with a ridiculous statute is to leave
it on the statute-book, yet tacitly allow it to
fall into disuse. Then it serves as a means
by which casual bigots may harass their
neighbors, and venal police and informers
may blackmail them, and by which acci-
dental Brunkers may make themselves
instruments of spasmodic oppression.
* * * »
The Sunday-closing problem is, in some
respects, on the same level as the recent
cash-betting trouble. They are both regu-
lated by British usages which New
South Wales inherited in a purely
casual sort of way. For many years
cash-betting on racecourses was held to
be legal because, though it is unlawful to use
a public place for betting purposes, a British
Court had decided that a racecourse was not
a place in any legal sense. Therefore, cash-
betting on racecourses was permitted in
N.S.W., the Gop-fearing Government not
interfering. Then a British Court resolved
that a racecourse was a place after all, and
cash-betting became illegal in N.S.W., and
those who practised it were heavily fined,
the GoD-fearing Government again not inter-
fering. Next, still another, and a higher,
British Court upset this last decision, and
cash-betting on racecourses again became
legal in N.S.W., the Gon-fearing Ministry
taking this aspect of the case as uncon-
cernedly as the other two. Its first position
distinctly implied that it held betting to be
a thing to which no objection could be taken
—unless it was going back on its conscience
and its principles for some unworthy object ;
yet when betting suddenly became illegal
it didn’t attempt to pass a law 7 of its own to
legalise the bookmaker. Its second position
implied that it regarded the bookmaker as a
wicked person who required to be put down
for the moral health of the community, but
when he suddenly came on top again it
manifested no intention of putting him down
on its own account. It is impossible to get
even an expression of opinion on the subject
out of the spineless combination which calls
itself the GoD-fearing Ministry of N.S.W.,
and it seems to have absolutely no personal
conscience in the matter.
* ♦ * *
Its position on the Sunday-closing question
is For something like three
years it allowed the Sunday banana-man to
remain open with impunity, thereby dis-
tinctly implying that the Sunday-closing law
was a bad one and should be abolished. Yet
it made no attempt at its abolition. It now
takes measures to close him up, thereby im-
plying as distinctly that its previous conduct
was wicked or corrupt or grossly negligent,
or all three, yet it offers no explanation of
its past doings. And, by its own showing,
it doesn’t act as it is doing because the first
day of the week should be kept holy, but
simply because 2000 small shopkeepers either
ask it to do something that is wrong, or want
it to do something which it never before had
the courage to do even though it was right,
and which it seemingly does now, not because
it is right, but because it is better not to
aggravate 2000 small shopkeepers. What is
the Brunker Ministry’s own opinion on the
moral aspect of the matter ? Or does that
sneaking aggregation possess any opinion 1
The Suifield Case.
When Ann Chambers had been brutally as-
saulted by an educated man of high character
and intelligence who was not acquainted with
her, had never spoken to her, and had only
twice seen her; —who chose for the place
of his assault a spot under her employer’s
open bedroom windows, where her shrieks could
be plainly heard, and assistance was certain to
come to her at once—and who chose for the time
of his assault ten o’clock in the evening, just when
she was expected home, before her employer had
got into bed—although he could have waited for
her at many convenient spots on the mile-long
lonely bush road which she had just traversed ;
who was so full of sexual desire that he thus
risked his liberty or life —after permitting the
woman to clearly identify him —although (as the
Crown suggested) he kept a mi stress, and although
he could have gratified his passions in Larubton
or Newcastle without risk and with comparative
pleasure and reciprocity and who did all this,
and walked or ran three-quarters of a mile in his
bare feet to do it, although two women swore he
never left his room, and although neither himself
nor his suit of clothes was stained or injured,
despite the fact that he had a violent struggle on
wet grass with a sturdy 22-year-old woman whom
he left bruised and bleeding terribly, with her
clothes torn in a manner which only great force
could have accomplished ;
When all these remarkable things had taken place,
and Mr. Croudace and his son rushed downstairs
and found Ann Chambers “lying down crouched
up and partly on her side; with her hair dis-
hevelled, no hat on, and seeming terribly afraid ;
with her hands raised as if in fear, and terribly
shaky ”; then Croudace said, “ What is the
matter, Annie?” And the woman, just freed from
the grasp of a brutal assailant —who, at that
moment, was a few hundred yards away fleeing
for his life as fast as he could consistently with
keeping his bare feet unscratched and unbruised,
to show to the police next day—naturally replied,
“ Oh, that Suffield 1 ”
No, she did not.
Then she must have replied, “ Oh, that man ! ”
No, she did not. She replied, “OH, THAT
BULL! ”
Croudace, J.P., swears it; his son swears it.
They looked ; and there was the bull —“ about 30
yards from her, on the back road to the house,”
says Croudace, J.P.
* * * *
This bull was short-horned ; and the plot of
ground where Ann Chambers lay was “ its
favorite camping-ground,” says the gardener at
Croudace’s. “ Five nights out of the seven it
would camp there.” Croudace, J.P., says “it
was perfectly quiet unless ill-used. ” Let us see.
Croudace, J.P., says he “ heard that a boy
named Kennedy was injured by the bull”—after
some boys had ill-used it. The gardener says the
bull “ rushed him several times, and once nearly
caught him; sometimes he had to go round the
back way home ” —making a considerable detour —
“in order to avoid it.” The gardener denies that
he ill-used the bull. The gardener also says the
bull knocked a baby’s chair to pieces. Did the
baby’s chair ill-use the bull? And, singularly
enough, while Suffield was waiting for trial, the
bull attacked Mrs. Cole, an elderly, grey-haired
lady, as she was-coming home from church near
by ; inflicted injuries bearing some resemblance to
those inflicted on Ann Chambers, and would pro-
bably have killed her had not a young man beaten
it off with a paling—just as Croudace, J.P., and
his son might have had to beat it off Ann
Chambers with the sticks with which (anticipating
something of the kind ?) they provided themselves
before coming out. Next day the bull was shot
by Croudace’s orders —because Mrs. Cole ill-used
it? Why does its owner shoot a “perfectly
quiet ” bull when an elderly lady ill-uses it ?
* * * *
The bull, then, was very likely to attack Ann
Chambers ; she led the Croudaces to believe it had
attacked her; and as they stood there, stick in
hand, and saw her condition, and saw the bull,
they accepted her statement without question.
Consequently, Croudace, J.P., did not say, “ Non-
sense, Annie ; the bull is perfectly quiet; it would
not hurt you unless you ill-used it.” He said,
“ Has the bull hurt you, Annie?” She replied,
“I am hurt all over.” Says Croudace, J.P.,
“My son and I then examined her carefully about
the back and shoulders, expecting to find the
thrust of the bull’s horns ’’—all unconscious that
the bull was grossly libelled, and that the respon-
sible ruffian in the bare feet was getting further,
and further away every moment. Then Croudace
said, “ The bull has not horned you ; you are not
hurt, Annie; do you think you can get up and
walk ? ” They lifted her up to walk her in, and
she fainted on the way.
* * * »
And all this time, from a period before the ruffian
left her, Ann Chambers was unconscious. (So
she says.)
She was unconscious when the Croudaces
found her “seeming terribly afraid”—do uncon-
scious people seem terribly afraid ? She was un-
conscious when “her hands were raised as if
in fear, and terribly shaky ” —do unconscious
people raise their hands as if in fear, and shake
them terribly ?
She was unconscious when Croudace, J.P., asked
her a distinct question—“ What is the matter,
Annie?” and got a distinct, natural answer—
“Oh, that bull!” She was unconscious when
Croudace, J.P., asked her a second distinct
question—“ Has the bull hurt you?” and got a
second distinct, natural, consecutive answer, “ I
am hurt all over.” Do unconscious people then
talk, and answer questions, and answer them
sensibly and categorically ?
“We lifted her to her feet,” says Croudace,
JiP.-»-to her feet, not in our arms—“and sup-
ported ” —not carried —“ her through the fowl-
yard gate, from which she was lying a few yards
away; I can scarcely suppose her conscious of
what she was saying ” —no, not then —“ at the
time I said ‘lt is all right, Annie, the master is
with you;’ after going a few yards I felt her
growing heavier, and found she had fainted ”
then she had not fainted and was not unconscious
before .
* * * *
Now comes son Croudace to corroborate his
father. “ She seemed terribly frightened and
excited ” —how can an unconscious person seem
excited ? . . “My father then asked her to get
up and try to walk ; she said she could not. ”
(Here is a third clear, consecutive answer to a
distinct question.) “We then assisted her to her
feet ” —although unconscious—“and after going a
few feet she fainted ” —although unconscious.
For, said Ann Chambers at the trial, describing
the assault, “he (Suffield) was then kneeling down
in front of me, and I do not recollect anything
after that, and Ido not recollect anything more till
Monday morning when I found myself in bed at
Croudace’s house.” Dr. Stapleton, who saw her
about 11 o’clock on the night of alleged assault,
said “ she appeared upset ; she was not unconscious
or insensible; and, I believe, was capable of
answering questions put to her and of recognising
persons.” And any doctor who knows his business
will know that, if the Croudaces spoke truth, Ann
Chambers must have remembered their coming
before she lost consciousness, and probably
remembered something of the conversation which
took place while her brain was still clear enough to
answer rationally, and before she had faded into
the semi-consciousness which culminated in com-
plete unconsciousness when she was being taken
in to the house.
• • * *
The Bulletin believes that any unbiassed per-
son reading this commentary on the sworn evi-
dence will certainly find that the bull attacked
Ann Chambers, and that she remained conscious
after the attack until she was assisted to her feet
by the Croudaces. Then the blood left her head,
and she fainted —naturally enough. When she
was laid down again, the blood returned to her
head, and she recovered the consciousness sworn
to by Dr. Stapleton. But her brain was cer-
tainly registering impressions until she was raised
to her feet; and as certainly her brain gave out
those impressions as memory—clear or faint—
when she was almost in a normal condition next
day.
Yet Ann Chambers —primed to avoid incon-
venient questions ? —swore she recollected nothing
from the time when the man was kneeling in front
of her until the next morning—a good, sweeping
non mi recordo / /
* * * *
It comes to this, there was some lying on the
Crown side. And if it was Ann Chambers who
lied, please remember that it was upon her testi-
mony, upon her uncorroborated testimony, upon
her testimony alone, in defiance of many contra-
dictions, all the probabilities, and an alibi sworn
by two persons, that Thomas Suffield was sent to
rot in prison for ten years, whereof he has already
rotted six.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Justification of the Tote.
The English Court of Appeal, with its learned
tongue in its cheek, and a suspicion of learned
“ cheek ” in its tongue, has ruled that betting
within racecourse enclosures is legal. A race-
course enclosure is a public place in every sense
of the term save a betting sense, which is the
sense discovered, for the first time last week,
by certain Judges who had been asked to pro-
tect turf gambling from the law as it stood.
The law as it stood, or seemed to stand,
threatened vengeance upon all such as assemble
for betting purposes in any public place. Said
law was the result of a loud English outcry
against the growing evil of horse-race wagering
some 40 years ago. All classes agreed that the
evil in the ’fifties called for legislation, and an
Act, bringing turf-betting odds within the same
category of evil as roulette-betting odds, was
hung upon the statutes for bookmakers to peck
at. Street-betting on a wholesale scale was
immediately suppressed by the new Act. After
a while the private offices of “ turf commis-
sion-agents ” were raided by the police on the
legal ground that an office where anyone
may invest his ready cash upon a horse by letter,
is a public place for betting. Cheap clubs of
a purely betting character were likewise sup-
pressed. The iaw ruled that such clubs, not
being constructed on decent social lines, nor
having any restrictions as to membership, were
naught else than public enclosures for betting.
A man paid his entrance-fee as easily as he
could buy a ticket for a Tattersall’s Ring at the
races, and went into the “ club ” to gamble on
horse-races. Down with such clubs, said the
law. And yet all this while the law was never
enforced against the public practice of doing on
a racecourse the thing that had been forbidden
in streets, offices, and certain club buildings.
Betting was declared illegal ; magistrates re-
fuse! to recognise “ welshers ” as thieves—
but the “sport of kings,” which is rooted
in gambling, proceeded as recklessly as
ever for the amusement of lords and in-
fluential capitalists. Smaller people partici-
pated in the sport, and were in truth the main
support of it, but not on their account did the
police leave racecourse enclosures unmolested.
Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, and com-
pany w'ere the explanation of why public
betting continued to flourish. Last year a
League of snuffling pietists called attention to
this preposterous anomaly by prosecuting a
bookmaker for betting on a public racecourse,
and sundry J udges naturally ruled that a
“ ring,” or any other part of a public resort, is
a public place. This decision, needless to sav,
had to be nullified by some means, for the par-
ticular sake of Albert Edward and co. A
common sense interpretation of a wholesome
law was not to be endured by the British aris-
tocracy. So a new test-case was brought to
another court—the Court of Appeal—and in
this case five Judges ruled that betting in race-
course enclosures is legal. And the latest
English ruling, argues Ikey Mo in Sydney,
will govern Australian betting legislation.
Glorious news ! Racecourse betting is legal,
therefore any racing club may run its own
totalisator. Where is the need for a Totali-
sator Bill ?


The Sailors of a Leaky Ship.
Six or seven weeks ago the barque Glenmark
left Port Pirie, S.A., with a cargo of sulphide
ore for Europe. A week or two later, during
bad weather, in which some 50 or 60 tons of
cargo were jettisoned, she was compelled to
put into Hobart for repairs. The crew took
proceedings against the captain for negligence
at sea. Cruelty, incompetence, and gross care-
lessness were all alleged during the progress of
the case, but the charge of negligence (in re
sidelights) was proved up to the hilt, and the
captain was fined. As no previous Ho bail
record exists of a captain being fined at
the instance of (omiiioii sailors for a simi-
lar offence (a fact, proverbial among sea-
faring men, by the way), it is safe to as-
sume. apart from the evidence, that the
ease against the master was fairly strong.
Then the Marine Board surveyors inspected
and reported the vessel overloaded, badly
, trimmed, and leaky-decked. die captain was
ordered to lighten cargo and patch up his
decks. Some 200 tons of ore was bagged up and
stacked on shore. The M.B. surveyors then
reported a “sag” of about 2in. in the deck
amidships, faulty rivets, and signs of working
in various joints and plates, and informed the
captain that they couldn’t think of allowing
him to proceed round the Horn at this season
of the year unless the cargo was further reduced
and more repairs effected. Then they would
see about it. As a result of the fine for negli-
gence, the captain is alleged to have made
things particularly warm for his victorious
crew while engaged in carrying out the in-
structions of the Marine Board. So warm, in
fact, that at last all hands (15) revolted and
refused duty. They u'ere promptly arrested,
billed before the P.M., and sentenced to
seven days’ gaol. At both court proceed-
ings the crew stoutly maintained that no
matter what happened, they “ would never
go to sea in that ship again,” as, in
their united opinion, mutiny, bloodshed, and
total wreck would assuredly ensue. The cap-
tain’s proven negligence and the Marine Board’s
indefinite detention of the ship, together with
their own lively experiences between Port
Pirie and Hobart, look like pretty fair justifi-
cation for this decision ; yet, as they signed an
agreement when they believed the ship sound
and seaworthy and competently captained, the
penalty for refusing to allow the captain to
“make it warm ” for them is seven days’ gaol !
Under the circumstances an ordinary employer
would have sent his dissatisfied workmen about
their business, but sea-captains are evidently
not built that way. Perhaps the P.M. had no
alternative to making felons of these protesting
sailors, which seems doubtful. What is not
doubtful, however, is that the Van Dobson
Land magistracy has reasserted its right to the
reputation temporarily lost by the unfortunate
fine for negligence imposed upon an employer.
The Marine Board has a backing of insurance
companies ; no insurance company suffers
through the gaoling of sailors.
-
A Windeyer in the West.
Dear Bulletin, —
Some of thy experience as a juryman last week before
Warden Finnerty in his capacity as chairman of Quarter
Sessions at Coolgardie. I, in conjunction with several
Kalgoorlians, was dragged down to Coolgardie to serve on
the jury. One fellow-townsman who had been bidden,
but was unavoidably absent in Perth, had his name called
and was fined £5 ; later on his name was twite pulled out
of the box, and he was again fined £5 each time —that is,
three times for the one absence. Presently a man was
arraigned on a charge of stealing- a bike. His Worship
greeted him as an old acquaintance: “What! you here
again forstealing a bike ! You seem very persevering in that
direction.” (The man—aforeigner—answered “Nosav.ee”
or words to that effect.) Later on a jury couldn’t agree.
They were called in and sharply reprimanded. His Wor-
ship “couldn’t understand how so simple a case,” &c.,
&c.—same old yarn. The foreman asked for five minutes.
“ I’ll give you five seconds,” roared the Bench, and out
they were scurried. During the winding up of wordy
rubbish preparatory to adjournment for lunch, the jury
sent in word that they had agreed. The “ five seconds,”
however, had expired, the chairman refused to hear
them, and adjourned the court for two hours. But the
jury’s revenge was at hand ; for, on resuming, though his
Worship had summed up dead against the prisoner) they
returned an enthusiastic “ Not guilty ”!! His Worship
gave them a bit of his mind in vivid Windeyeresque.
But this time the jury were masters of the
position, and didn’t seem a bit hurt at the
chairman’s surprise “how twelve presumably intel-
ligent men,” and so on. During the whole sittings
the chairman’s attitude seemed so persistently aggressive
towards the various juries that they eventually brought
in verdicts mostly against his direction. When the jury
returned to. Court in the.last case, they added a rider
calling the Attorney-General’s attention to “ the uniform
discourtesy displayed by the chairman towards the various
juries,” and recommending that a real Judge should pre-
side in future. Flaherty— er, I mean Finnerty— said he
would send their message and also give Ms view of matters.
Foggarty— that is, Finnerty— is what I heard a leading
dry-blower call “ a very harbitrary gent.”— Lictor, Kal-
goorlie, W.A.
The N.S.W. Labor Party’s Decadence.
“ Primus” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin,— The N.S. W. Labor-party (not the Labor
members but the organisation which professes to have
put these in Parliament) is apparently in a bad way.
Wlivii, in 1891, the working classes, sick of the two old
semi-Tory parties and smarting under the unionistie
defeats of 89 and ’9O, set up the Labor Electoral League,
that body included all sorts—Freetraders, Protectionists,
Single-taxers, Socialists, Unionists and free laborers,
horny and soft-handed sons of toil, and not a few small
employers of radical views and democratic sympathies.
A heterogeneous party of 36 was returned to Parliament,
and ere long there was a secession of Protectionists
“ more fiscal than labor.” This was but a reflection of
what was taking place outside. The movement for re-
form, which'at first was broad enough to embrace all sorts
and conditions of workers, became the prey of various
sectaries who strove to capture it for their own narrow
purposes. The Socialists, by means of wire-pulling and
tli': packed Conference of 1893, succeeded in con-
demning the Protectionist members of the original
Labor-party to undying hostility, and ukased as
“bogus” the Freetrade and Single-tax members who
refused to utter the shibboleth of Solidarity. Notwith-
ing the energy expended on them, the working-class elec-
tors in ’94 voted mainly for the old politicians or the more
Democratic Freetraders and Protectionists then in the
field. Comparatively few “ Solid ” members were returned
to the House, and when Premier Reid precipitated a disso-
lution in ’95, several of these only saved their seats through
the Government not running a candidate in their elec-
torates. In this year’s Federal election, Labor, which
thought to sweep the polls with its batch of 10, did not
get one man in, and now the prospect for ’93 is very
gloomy. Instead of the Labor-party outside broadening
its policy so as to get more support, it at its last con-
ference adopted Socialism as its main plank, which means
that the organisation henceforth consists of Socialists
only who are prepared to lose every Labor seat rather
than “ sacrifice principles.” As the Socialists consist of
two camps, it is likely one will declare the other bogus, and
the so-called Labor movement will end in utter collapse.
The trouble arose in no small measure through the system
m which the Labor Electoral League is built. It consists
of representatives of the various Labor Leagues, and a
league may consist of 500 men, or it may be organised for
the occasion in some wilderness, and consist of the
delegate, who appoints himself, and his brother, who
helps to appoint him, and the names of a very few
entirely uninterested people who allow themselves to be
put down as members to oblige a friend. There is very
iittle real limit to the manufacture of dummy leagues,
and the dummy leagues vote down the real ones, and
take the management out of the hands of the majority,
and commit the party, in their own irresponsible way, to
all manner of impracticabilities. The delegate who is
responsible to a body of genuine constituents must advo-
cate what Labor really wants; the one who is really
responsible to no one save himself and a gum-tree can
shriek at large and commit the party to any fad he
pleases. And the Labor-party is going down-hill. Where
else could it go with such management?— Pkimus.
-
The Cyanide Patent;.
“ J.” to The Bulletin :--
It is averred that when the application of the cyanide
people to amend their patent comes before the N.S.W.
Examiner of Patents the Attorney-General and the
Minister for Mines will personally oppose the application.
But why should these officials so ostentatiously step out
of their way to act as advocates for one of the parties ?
Presumably the Examiner of Patents is quite qualified to
judge whether an amendment proposed in any patent is
one which may be granted in terms of the Act. Then
why in this particular case must Messrs. Want and Smith
thrust themselves forward ? The mining industry is a
very important one, but not more so than any other, and
I fail to see why two members of the Government should
consider it part of their duty to champion this especial
one. If the mining community feel that their just in-
terests are endangered, by all means give them every
facility to put their ease, but not at the expense of
the general taxpayer. If the proposed amendment is
one not contemplated by the Act, reject it, but let
the official who is supposed to have special qualifications
for investigating those cases be the man to say so,
unfrightened by the legal thunder of Mr. Want, and un-
illumined by the brilliant intellect of Mr. Sydney Smith.
A curious contention has been raised by those who oppose
the cyanide people. They say that because of a flaw in
the original specifications thousands of miners are
using the cyanide process, and that if the patent
is amended in the direction sought these miners
will have to pay a royalty. In direct language
they admit that they have “ taken advantage” of
this flaw, and they claim that they must continue
to be protected against the man whose brains discovered
the process ! Arid the highest legal official in the State,
so i t is said ms prepared to back them up because they
represent a large proportion of the working community.
If the inventor of the pneumatic tyre had made a similar
slip in his patent, and desired to rectify it afterwards,
would the Attorney-General and, say, the Colonial Secre-
tary, feel called upon to defend the great body of bicyclists
from the claim of the inventor? And if I leave my front
door open and a passing burglar helps himself to my
valuables, will he be acquitted on the plea that he merely
“ took advantage”of my carelessness?
A Supreme Court vacation is on in Victoria.
Although there is no provision in the rules of
court for this particular one, the Judges take it
regularly every year, and litigants have to wait
their pleasure. If ordinary public servants
took a fortnight’s holiday without leave, they
would “ get the run ” in no time, and if a
County Court Judge took it, he would receive
secretarial raps over the judicial knuckles and
be cautioned against doing it again ; but then
his salary is not a charge on the consolidated
revenue as his Supreme Court brother’s is. The
original idea of this vacation was to afford
facilities for conferences with the Judges of
other provinces, but it hasn’t come off yet.
Anyhow, it doesn’t matter much this year, as
there is practically no business for the Judges
to get through.
♦
The Parkes bursary fund, started by a number
of philanthropic gentlemen who cheerfully con-
tributed — their names—-and dunned school-
children for their pennies, has proved a noble
failure so far. Minister Jacob Garrard, who,
whenever he speaks in public, wrestles with his
h’s as his namesake wrestled with the hangel,
announces that the net receipts from 278 schools
are .£llO, and two 1.0.U.’s of £3 each are to be
given to good boys and girls every second year.
The Parkes bursary of =£3 a year ! Why don’t
the adulators and advertisers strangle the ridicu-
lous little fund, or put their hands in their own
pockets to make it decent ?
-+
Dear Bulletin, —Why do you advocate the
exclusion of colored races from N.Q. ? Is it
because you always stick up for the weaker
side? Read the following extract from
Mareeba Express :
A rumor having been current in Cairns that the
kanakas purposed making it warm for Europeans visiting
tiie races at Fretwell’s, Cairns, yesterday, the police went
out to the course, so it is alleged, armed with revolvers.
Probably owing to this forearming nothing eventuated of
a disagreeable nature.
The survival of the fittest—good Lord ! Are
the white trash not digging their own graves
by getting the force armed with revolvers to
protect their white persons from being ejected
from one of their own racecourses by
“kanakas?” Truth is stranger than fiction.
Mareeba Express is quite wrong in saying
“ Europeans.” Europeans in other black
countries usually take good care that they are
treated with respect and fear. Here the boot
is on the other foot. Therefore, Cairnsiles or
N. Queenslandites is the word, not Europeans.
The warlike islander evidently sees the defer-
ence with which the white Cairnsite treats the
Chinkie, and the islander, knowing hpw much
beneath him physically the Chinkie is, con-
cludes that the white is ditto, and evidently in-
tends to treat ’em accordingly. Why not
advocate “ Separation ” with a strictly-defined
boundary, and leave them with sufficient police
to protect them until by mere intermarriage
they are absorbed in the dominant race?—
Grilled Two.
—-
The failure of Chamberlain and Co. to extract
any concessions worth mentioning from the
seven Premiers suggests that the price will have
to be raised. A few years ago a very useful
Australian could be bought with a K.C.M.G.-
ship, but the bestowal of that “honor” on
MTntyre, John Lackey, Renwick, Jenkin
Coles, Zeal, and such cattle made it hopelessly
vulgar. The idea of trying to buy a man of
Isaacs’ calibre by offering to put him on the
same level as MTntyre and John Lackey was
an absurdity which showed grievous want of
tact and an utter ignorance of the relative sizes
of things. If it had been proposed to
raise Isaacs to the peerage as the Lord
d’Moses, or something like that, he might
have been bought, supposing he was for sale,
but the price offered was not high enough.
Similarly when the British Government chucked
seven Privy Councillorships indiscriminately at
the Premiers with a shovel it made a bad
failure. Honors that are distributed with a
shovel are little appreciated, and now that it is
understood that a P.C.-ship is the fair thing
for the commonplace Hugh Nelson and the
beautifully-oiled Braddon, and the heavy,
stodgy Forrest, the other men want some-
thing better. The idea of extracting valu-
able concessions from Kingston and Turner
by raising them to the level of Nelson would
only make them feel a desire to knock
out Chamberlain’s historic eye-glass and
jump on it. To the British Government, look-
ing at tilings from a distance of 16,000 miles,
Ren wick and MTntyre and Seddon and
Kingston and Isaacs and Reid all look the
same size, and that is just where the failure
comes in. The indiscriminate gaud which is
scattered around may buy Renwick and
MTntyre, who are of no use, but just because
Renwick and MTntyre have got it Turner
and Reid accept it with a grunt of dissatisfac-
tion, and either wallow reluctantly and un-
gratefully or else refuse to wallow at all. /
Editor Bulletin, —The holy men of the Coun-
cil of Churches do well to be running to the
Brunkers and Ghoulds and Cooks and Gar-
rards for aid against the introduction of the
Continental Sunday, since that wholesome re-
creative institution with its gaiety and bright-
ness threatens their monopoly with ruin. Only
why aren’t they game to say straight out that
St. Plate is blasphemed and the Sacrament of
the Most Blessed Collection outraged by the
People’s claim to enjoy themselves on Sun-
days? Instead, they hypocritically pretend
that Christianity is endangered by such
arrangements for the augmentation of popu-
lar happiness as the founder of Chris-
tianity prospectively approved, when He
declared that the Sabbath was made for man,
and scorched with His indignation the canting
Pharisaism that asserted the contrary. Christ
redeemed the primeval institution of a day of
recreation from the narrow restrictions set
about it by self-seeking sacerdotalism. Yet in
N.S. W., a so-called Christian land, greedy Sab-
batarianism, assuming the sanction of Christ’s
name while distinctly violating the tenor of His
precepts, is in league with Authority (scandal-
ously servile to its puritanic influences) to make
Labor’s Day of Refreshment one of sourness,
monotony, and gloom. Down with such clergy !
—J.S.
A few years ago, a paper was founded in
Sydney with the coin of the working Demo-
cracy, but gradually the small shareholders were
frozen out, and the paper is now owned by a
few big men, so it prints the following :
If so, ami if it be attempted, British Radicalism and
British spurious and ignorant philanthropy are but reap-
ing what they have sown. In deference to benighted
English faddists it has of late years been fashionable to
attempt to govern India by English methods and parish
machinery.
The present position of the N.S.W. Protec-
tionist party—in Opposition and also opposed
to the Labor-party, whereas the reverse is the
case in the other Australasian provinces—must
be, more or less, ascribed to its daily organ.
Ever since the Newcastle strike of 1888, in
which the Cowlishaw interest was affected,
the Star has been hostile to the workers ;
deriding their claims and gloating over their
defeats.
The much-discussed Robie case is a diffi-
cult one in any aspect. Woman’s - rights
claimants will, if logical, probably resent any
attempt to restrict a woman’s freedom to
suffer unmolested the effects of “Rough on
Rats.” Others, too, protest against any
attempt to enforce criminally as a legal duty
what is no more than a moral duty. The
old debating-society illustration of the drown-
ing man and his companion able to swim but
refusing to help when he could do so without
danger to himself, comes up in this connection,
as do the sad surroundings of Francis Adams’s
last moments. Coroner Candler wanted a
decided case on a man’s duty to prevent his
wife taking her life, but, it seems, “ there’s no
sich thing.” So “ Daniel Deronda ” has to be
pressed into service, and a case where a brute
of a mother was held not guilty of anything in
particular for allowing her unmarried daughter
to die in childbirth for the want of a midwife’s
assistance, which said mother could well have
afforded. Later cases, however, seem to show
a greater tendency in the courts to find a legal
duty if they possibly can, and if a duty exists,
criminal responsibility usually follows wanton
neglect of it.
Preparing for Premiers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene: Office of High Official in charge of Colonial
affairs in London. High Official discovered
glaring at table covered with lists of visiting
potentates, programmes of amusements, lists
of precedence, cablegrams, &c., &c. A waste-
paper-basket full of K.C.M.G. ribbons and
orders stands by the table. On the table a
handbag full of Privy Councillorships. High
Official rings bell angrily. To him enters
subordinate official, the Honorable Somebody,
a very tired-looking youth.
High Official : “ Look here, this is a nice state
of things. I’m only just back from Monte Carlo,
and I’ve got to set to work and clear up all this
business. Now, have you got a list of the people
we are responsible for ? ”
Tired Youth : “ Ya-a-as.”
High Official : “ Well, who is there ? There’s
the Indian Viceroy, of course, and the Premier of
Canada —we know all about them. And then
there’s the chappie from China, my brother-in-
law, he’s all right. But what about these Aus-
tralian brutes? How many are there? Two, I
suppose—Premier of South Australia and Premier
of North Australia—eb ? There must be a North
Australia if there’s a South Australia ! Where's
your list —how many are there ? ”
Tired Youth : “ There’s seven.”
High Official : “ SEVEN ! ! Good God, are
the whole population Premiers over there ? There’s
not seven places for them to be Premiers of !
You must have made a mistake. Get the map ! ”
(They get the map and pore over it discontentedly).
High Official (triumphantly): “ There you
are ! What did I tell you ! There’s only five
colonies, even if each place has a Premier, which I
don’t believe. There’s Queensland, New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia and West Aus
tralia. Now, how the devil do you make seven
out of that ? ”
Tired Youth: “/ don’t know. One of the
clerks made out the beastly list/’
High Official.: “ Which clerk ? ”
Tired Youth : “ I don’t know. How should 1
know one beastly clerk from another ? ”
High Official : “ Well, you must find out.
Seven ! There must be two frauds among ’em.
Nice we’ll look if we let two infernal pickpockets
loose among those Indian Rajahs all over dia-
monds. How are you going to identify ’em when
they come ? There’s one fellow I could swear to,
anyhow—a big, hairy, orang-outang of a man
about seven feet high. He was here before. I’ll
swear to him anywhere. What was his name
again—Gibbs or Gibson, or something like that.”
Tired Youth : “Dibbs, I think. Always re-
minded me of money, I know.”
High Official : “Well, perhaps it was, but I
‘think it was Gibbs. Anyhow, is he coming.”
Tired Youth : “I don’t know. How should I
know ? I suppose he is.”
High Official (at his wits’ end): “Well, for
goodness sake send someone here that does know.
You’ll get me into nice trouble, going on like this.
Send for a clerk that knows about it, and, mean-
while, we’ll have a go at this list of precedence.”
(Tired youth rings bell for clerk, and returns to
table to look over list of •precedence.)
High Official : “ See here, the truth’s this—
We’ve got orders from headquarters to soap these
confounded self-governing colonies all we can.
But, if we send their Premiers in to a function
before the Indian Princes —my goodness, the
Indians will stick ’em in the back with a tulwar,
or something. Then there’s the Indian, China,
Straits Settlement, African, and Crown colonies’
lot. Which is to come first, and which last?
Have you any idea ? ”
Tired Youth: “/don’t know. There’s a clerk
knows all these things.”
(Enter Clerk.)
High Official: “Look here; is there any
table of precedence in the office ? ”
Cleric : “Yes, my Lord ! ”
High Official : “ Thank God ! Who made it
out ? ” *
Clerk : “ Lord Titmarsh, when he was in office,
my Lord.”
High Official : “ Bless him and praise him !
See that it is followed with literal accuracy ; literal
accuracy, you understand—and I’ll take all the
credit if it goes right, and Titmarsh can take all
the blame if it goes wrong. So far, so good. Now
there’s another thing. How many Premiers are
coming from Australia ? ”
Cleric : “ Seven, my Lord ! ”
High Official (to Tired Youth): “ See ! He’s
made the same mistake you did. If I wasn’t here
to look after you fellows you’d run the empire to
the devil. Seven, indeed!” (To Clerk):“ Do-
you know, sir, there are only five colonies in Aus-
tralia ? Look at the map ! ”
Clerk : “ Yes, my Lord ; but there’s a Premier
of Tasmania and a Premier of New Zealand.”
High Official: “Oh, good gracious! They
say America is mostly colonels ; this place appears
to be mostly Premiers. Now, what do you know
about ’em ? How are you going to be sure that
some fraud doesn’t pass himself off as a Premier —
some anarchist, with a bomb in his trousers-pocket,
and blow us all kite-high ? ”
Clerk : “ We have photographs of them all, sir,
and a private and confidential cypher report from
the Governor of each colony as to their political
leanings.”
High Official : “Let’s have a look. Who’s
this fat, bald-headed man, that looks like a tallow-
merchant ? ” “
Clerk : “The Hon. G. H. Reid, my Lord, Pre-
mier of New South Wales.”
High Official (angrily): “ There you go again !
I tell you a man named Gibbs is Premier of New
South Wales —great, long, hairy man, quite dif-
ferent from this fellow. I met Gibbs often. This
is a fraud. I’ll take my oath. Don’t he look it—
look at his face, all jowl and jelly.”
Clerk : “ There has been a change of Ministry,
my Lord, and this is the present Premier.”
High Official : “ Well, he’s not much to look
at, anyhow. What does his Governor say about
him? Who is his Governor, anyhow? Hampden
—Oh, I was in the House with Hampden. Dry
sort of fellow, not such a fool as he looked. What
does he say about him ? Let’s have a look.
(Reads report mumblingly.) “ ‘ Truckles to
Labor-party . . . time-server . . . not
last long . . . change may be for the worse
. . ". no force of character . . . afraid of
the Labor-party . . . dare not take K.C.M.G.
. . . better be bought with a P.C.-ship.’
I like that —a P.C.-ship indeed for a ruffian
like this —an Anarchist without the courage of
his villainy. We bought Gibbs with a K.C.M.G.
Let this ruffian have a K.C.M.G. or nothing.”
Tired Youth (waking to in terestin proceedings):
.“ I read those reports. There’s one chappie there
rather a good sort. All the rest are awful rotters.
Read his report. Nelson I think was the name.”
High Official mumbles over Nelson’s report.
“ ‘ Fights Labor-party ... fearless . . .
can’t last long . . . has worked well for Im-
perialistic ideas . . . very courageous man
. . . will support Anglo-Japanese treaty.’
Ah ! that’s the sort of man. What’s he to get ? ”
Tired Youth : “Headquarters say they are
all to get P.C.-ships.”
High Official : “All ! Good heavens. Well,
if we can’t degrade that man Reid in any way see
that he gets the suite of rooms in the worst part
of the hotel, and give him a hard seat at all func-
tions. And, by-the-by, what about taking them
round? Who’s to do it? (To Tired Youth.)
You'll have to do it : I’ve got the Canadian and
Indian lot to look after.”
Tired Youth : “ Oh, I’ll send one of the clerks
and get them tickets for everything that is going
in the way of concerts and public receptions, and
so on. I suppose they can’t go to anything really
select.”
High Official (very slowly and deliberately):
“ I should think not. Take ’em to the British
Museum and the waxworks, and see that the name
of some unattached lord or other is always asso-
ciated with theirs. It will be put in their cables,
and help to damn Reid in the eyes of his friends—
and that’s about all, isn’t it ? ”
Tired Youth: “ And supposing they kick up a
row, don’t you know, if they’re not asked to any
of the really swaggah things? ”
High Official : “Mv dear boy, if they try
anything of that sort on, have them bayonetted by
the soldiers the moment they show their noses at
the gate. Fill up these P.C. forms, and see that
you don't fill ’em up wrong. And now I’m off to
the Club. Just be decently civil to these people,
but don’t go too far, because, you know, by this
time next year they will probably be back in their
shops selling sugar—l’m certain that man Reid
sells sugar, by the look of him. Au revoir 1 ”
Cable item : “ All preparations have been made
for the reception of the Australian Premiers in
London, and they will be the principal items of
the Jubilee.”
THE BANJO.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1896
Surplus
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ...
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896
£45,161,239
3,284,283
8,995,246
552,744
190,646,265
540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. :
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
OF THE
Liverpool & Condon & (lobe,
UNDER WHICH J
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates.
Head Office for Australasia : 62 Pitt Street, Sydney;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 . . ... ... £9,708,495
Total Claims Paid ... ... ... 32,796,549
'Cotal Claims Paid in Australasia ... ... 2,259,404
ncome for Year 1895 ... ... ... 2,339,622
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Head
Office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only .£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
What
We .
Do, .
We .
Do .
Well
We pay special at>
tention to sitters —
to the pose, to the
lighting. We make
a study of each pa=
tron, endeavouring
in every case to suit
and satisfy his or
her wishes. . . .
THIS RESULT may
be seen and exam-*
ined at our Studios,
where you will easily discern the
superiority of our work in the
Vestibule Specimens. They are
not specially worked=up, but
just fair samples of our work.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,")
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- (
ment in Permanent Bromide or f
Opal. Any style or pose. NoextrasJ
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor no stair*.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out.”
Lyceum The Flying Jordans.
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Opera House “Faust."
® ,OYAL “ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins.*
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Sign of the Cross.”
Royal..; “The Cotton King.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Boon “ Charley’s Aunt."
Athbn.*um Hall Carl Hertz.
“ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins,” which is running
at Sydney Royal this week, is somewhat better
than its title. The name vaguely suggests two
large, sticky infants squalling in the alley by a
New York tenement house; also it creates the
idea that the play is a child-drama, somewhat
after the fashion of Little Eva, only that there are
two Evas, both pathetic, and each with a ragged
hole in a sock that isn’t so clean as it might be.
The twins prove instead to be two comical male
characters aged about seven, whom Roberts cap-
tures with difficulty and washes publicly. They
have no direct concern with the drama, but they
burst into it whenever it begins to lag, generally
with a large dog running in front of them and a
large, draggled mother racing distractedly behind,
and make a cheerful diversion. At other times
they sit round and accumulate dirt audibly. The
drama through which the twins and their anguished
mother and the dog sprint so continuously is a
little Irish pastoral of the usual sort. There is
the bad young squire who is hopelessly mortgaged
and who wants to marry the rich daughter of the
good old squire, begorra. Also, there is the
young hero in the fatally-beautiful tail-coat to
whom the girl has given her heart under difficulties,
and amid much interruption from the twins ; and
the background is filled in, as usual, with the in-
former and the peasantry that can’t pay its rint.
The praste and the pig with the circuitous tail
and the eviction have been left out, partly to
make room for the musical element of the show,
and partly because the piece is intended for
comedy, and the pig and the praste only fit in
where tragic intensity is the thing aimed at.
* * • *
There is no plot in particular, barring the
fact that the girl and the hero become reconciled
at last with the old man, and the twins, despite
great efforts to keep them clean, are left as
smudgy and as anxious to fall into the lake while
running after the big dog as ever. Still the play
drifts along very pleasantly. Maggie Moore fills
the part of Mrs. Quinn admirably and with a
brogue that is above reproach, and Harry Roberts
is all that could be desired as the hero ; also, Miss
Gill makes a moderate heroine in a nice white
frock, and the twins—represented by Ethel Bash-
ford and Nellie Finlay—are miles above the aver-
age of the ordinary child actress. Miss Laura
Roberts also does her little character very well;
and the other people, who are mostly plain and
ordinary, have comparatively little to do, and
really don’t matter, and they are only moderately
shocking even at their worst. Some good scenery
enables the twins to fall down and bark them-
selves amid congenial surroundings.
** * *
One production rushes after another so
rapidly at Sydney Opera House that it is difficult
to keep pace with things, and last week “Mari-
tana ” got in, and stayed one night, and departed,
before this paper had time to mention the circum-
stance. This week “Faust” is the bill, and,
taken all round, it is a very respectable produc-
tion. The scenery doesn't profess to have been
specially painted for this occasion only, but
Farley’s Mephistopheles would compensate even if
the back cloth was made of bagging. Pretty Maud
Lita, who seems to be acquiring more confidence in
her voice, acts Marguerite very moderately and
sings it very effectively, the “Jewel Song” in
particular bringing down what house there was on
the first two nights ; and when she is on her straw
bed awaiting execution with over two gallons of
fair hair streaming down her back she makes a
really nice picture. Then the back of the dungeon
dissolves, and three angels bear her off to para-
dise, while Jules Simonsen is being damned in the
wings. Jules, in an acting sense, is a most
lamentably ineffective person, though in a musical
sense there is something to be said for him, and,
considering that he had a benefit the other day
prior to his immediate departure for some place,
his presence in the nice clothes and very neat
legs of Faust is a surprise. Miss Lambert
is a rather good Siebel, and, except for one
military chorister who seemed on Monday night
to have a fit standing, things go very smoothly.
Even Fred England, who has, so far, been rather
a weak point in the cast, gets through Valentine
well enough, and the anomaly of a dying man
singing a column of small print in his last agonies
makes Valentine rather a difficult character to
wrestle with.
** * *
Melville Stoltz’s co., whose season at
Sydney Lyceum ends next Thursday, is booming
even a little more violently than at its first visit.
The Jordans have introduced some new feats, and
outrage the laws of gravity in one or two fresh
directions ; and Virginia Aragon does sundry im-
Kossibilities on her wire which were omitted from
er earlier programme. A most peculiar cyclist,
bearing the name of Olaf Schrader, is a late addi-
tion to the co., and Olaf on his bike is sufficiently
remarkable to pass muster even in such company.
The pedestrian humorists in general are as painful
as they were before, but the demand for their
sudden death remains unsatisfied. Possibly they
are being reserved for a worse fate. Still the
pedestrian humorists are only a casual circum-
stance, and if the audience takes them under
chloroform the rest of the show will fully repay it
for its trouble.
“ A Night Out” is still doing large busi-
ness at Sydney Her Majesty’s, and seems good
for a considerable stay. It is finely mounted, and
a large amount of legal tender has been spent on
it anyhow, and legal tender, when spent lavishly,
covers a lot of things.
** * *
The Avolos have caught on so well at Syd-
ney Tivoli that there will apparently be no neces-
sity to turn on any new attraction at the meter for
some time. They are described in the bill as the
“ only artists in the world who throw a double
somersault from six perpendicular poles”; the
fact of three men throwing two somersaults from
six poles sounds very like an arithmetical conun-
drum. So many stout, elderly politicians have
been turning somersaults in England of late
before the blessed Throne and dropping a shower
of their principles in mid-air, that it takes a rather
remarkable somersault to rouse much popular
interest just now, and the fact that a jaded publio
swarms to look at the Avolos, just after seeing the
extraordinary spectacle of a stout Premier upside-
down by cablegram, says a lot for Rickards’s trio.
** * *
Bland Holt’s long season, at Melbourne
Royal, deserved a more glorious farewell pro-
duction than “ The Cotton King,” which took the
stage on Saturday, and is expected to maunder
along its beaten track for a fortnight. “ The
Cotton King ” turns out to be a dull repetition of
the old, old melodrama wherein a gentlemanly
villain perpetrates hollow frauds upon his friend,
the hero, and makes several inane attempts to kill
or capture the hero’s girl. The swallow-tailed
plotter gets some assistance from an unsober
accomplice, who wears his shirt open at the neck,
and _ suffers occasional pangs of remorse. A
“ ruined ” spinster contributes lamentation and
woe ; also, Bland Holt is an irrelevant mill-hand
beloved of Kitty, said Kitty being Mrs. Holt;
and Corlesse, as the doting father of the
ruined one, is laid to rest in “a quiet corner
of God’s acre ” between the second and third acts.
His small, illegitimate grandchild is understood to
have been planted in the same spot. Charles
Brown figures once more as the festive Kitty’s
E articular Juggins, and Miss Flora Anstead is the
ero’s mother-in-law elect. The fact that every-
body concerned in baking this chestnut has been
exactly the same person, similarly circumstanced
in many former dramas, wouldn’t affect the pro-
spects of “ The Cotton King ” if it were a fast and
furious entertainment leading up to a battle or
steeplechase. It isn’t a full-sized Bland Holtian
success in any respect.
* * * *
The one sensation scene was said to have
been short of rehearsal on Saturday night, but no
improvements in the working can make it a new
variety of sensation, anyway. The heroine wanders
into the printing room at a cotton-mill and gets
trapped under an elevator by her bitter foe, who
rings for the lift to descend and blot the lady out.
A more amusing thrill was furnished years ago by
Charles Holloway, in an iron foundry, where the
villain made an elaborate attempt to crunch his
victim with a steam hammer. Apart from the
elevator, v. hammer question, “ The Cotton
King ” is a bundle of ancient devices ineffec-
tively displayed, so ineffectively that the gods
laugh sometimes when they are expected to take
things seriously. The characters talk more than
is necessary, the situations cast their unmistakable
shadows before, and the comic relief is weaker
than usual. A lot of bright, rural scenery and
solid carpenter’s work, likewise some respectable
acting by Walter Baker, Miss Watson, Albert
Norman and John Cosgrove, are wasted upon
“The Cotton King,” and The Bulletin feels
bound to reprimand the estimable manager who
could send up such a drama for a fortnight only.
He ought to have given it ten years in solitary
confinement.
** * *
“The Sign of the Cross,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s appears to suit the souls or the curiosity of
most people, excepting ordinary, frivolous dress-
circle habitues. The attendance there at any
time is largely composed of Brethren who
have found salvation. The typical Brother,
shedding his oily beam upon this bea-utifu’l
play, is a droll study in self - gratulation.
He bangs his cold, damp paws together, and
beats the carpet with his redeemed feet, when the
patriarchal Christian (A.D. 64) says, “ The King-
dom of God is at hand,” for there is much
Y.M.C.A. comfort in the thought that the King-
dom must certainly have arrived and got to a high
state of perfection during the past 1833 years.
And, again, when the giddy Pagans (A.D.
64) complain that their modern waltz-
melody stands no chance against the iin-de-siecle
hymn tune of Early Christianity, the d.c. pietist
revels in the Pagan’s discomfiture. He refers to
the musical “fight between Pluto and Christus ”
as a noble dramatic conception, quite forgetting,
for the moment, that Messrs. Moody and Sankey,
likewise General Booth, bemoan the Devil’s luck
in capturing all the best tunes. And again, the
Brother aforesaid demonstrates with his four
limbs upon hearing, from the wicked stage, that
Pontius Pilate found no evil in the Nazarene. At
this point the enthusiast is apt to glance triumph-
antly around the theatre as though he would like
to know whether Infidelity can find anything to
say after that.
* * * *
“The Sign of the Cross” is a play to be
seen often, for the sake of the humor which lies
under its solemn surface. It grows upen the pre-
sent writer’s sense of the ridiculous, when con-
sidered in conjunction with press notices. As a
mere melodrama, apart from its blessed mission,
“The Sign” is not funnier than the works of
Sutton Vane, but as a show adored by the critics
it is a screamer. Consider the last scene, where
Marcus makes an offer of marriage to Miss Mercia.
The damsel, taken by surprise—glad surprise—
«Kclaims, gushfully: “Your wife! ’ Practically
she is asking “Do you really mean it?’’and the
situation suggests a proposal by Bland Holt to
Mrs. Holt, which is usually answered by
the lady falling upon her lover’s chest, and
inviting him to “say it again.” Mercia is await-
ing her turn to get eaten by lions, the bones of her
Early Christian comrades are being crunched in the
adjoining amphitheatre, she has comforted a small
boy five minutes before with the news that they
are all going to Heaven together, but, when Mar-
cus pops the question, she feels almost over-
whelmed by the honor, and fires off a gratuitous
confession that she has loved him from the first
time she saw his legs.
* • * *
Talking of Marcus and his scanty apparel,
Julius Knight was kept out of the bill by
a severe cold, two or three evenings last
week, and Gaston Mervale took his place.
The show lost weight in consequence. Miss
Ferrar likewise had to nurse her throat last
Saturday, and Mrs. Maesmore Morris walked
Srettily through the leading lady’s part. “ The
ign of the Cross ” is not likely to suffer any ill-
effects from these mishaps. Its success is founded
on the Rock of Ages, or something equally durable
for theatrical purposes, and Nero will figure as a
shocking example of Unbelief until further notice.
Meanwhile the beauteous Berenis is a powerful
antidote .to Nero’s influence. If Paganism—to
paraphrase Marcus—made many such women as
Berenis, it was almost a pity to crush it with a
religion that has produced Mrs. Chant.
** * *
The ill-fated Alexandra management seems
to be tottering. On Monday the house was closed
in consequence of “ unforseen circs.” ; on Tuesday
night it was to re-open with “Madame Angot,”
but without the assistance of Miss Fanny Liddiard.
A benefit for Howard Vernon is announced for
Friday (16th), and The Bulletin commends the
first Australian benefit of that valuable artist to
the patronage of the local world.
** * *
“ The Hermit’s Bell,” a trivial old operatic
story set to charming music, was performed at the
Bijou last week by a very amateur company.
There are only three or four important characters
to be struggled with, and the struggles of the
prima-donna (Miss Nellie Chapman) and a melliflu-
ous tenor (Alfred Pett) were quite satisfactory.
Also George Leopold, who ceased to be an amateur
when he was very young, helped to keep the show
going. The rest of the performance was over-
shadowed by the baritone’s nose, which bold
Hebraic feature will live for ever in the memory of
all who beheld it in profile standing out against
the painted sky. A false nose of equal propor-
tions, on the face of a low-comedy bill-discounter,
would be denounced as a wild exaggeration of
human probability.
** * *
On Saturday next (17th) Frank Thornton
is dne at the Bijou with a revival of “ Char-
ley’s Aunt. ” Melbourne was glad to see Thorn-
ton on every previous occasion, and this time the
city is expected to like him more than ever, for
strictly financial reasons. “ Charley’s Aunt ” will
be played at popular prices. Moreover, the early
doors are to be taken off their hinges, figuratively
speaking, in order that the man who comes early
to the rush may not complain of having to pay
extra for his enthusiasm.
*# * *
At the Athenaeum Hall, on Saturday, a
great multitude came along to see some more Carl
Hertz —or perhaps the crowd sprang from a sec-
tion of the community that hadn’t seen the
magician aforetime. Anyway, Hertz, and his
cinematograph, appear to be filling a long-felt
want. He gives the class of entertainment at
which the lion and the lamb can sit beside one
another and feel a united interest in the fate of
somebody else’s gold watch. And when the
Cine, begins, and the lights go out, and the
strange girl on the other side draws closer to your
shoulder—it is good to be there.
** * *
Prof. Norton B. Smith, “the Emperor of
all Horse Educators,” is just now taming fiery
steeds while you wait at the Rotunda, Bourke-
street, Melb. The Professor intends to take the
big cities of this horsey country in turn, and he
fives every promise of taking them all by storm.
'rof. Sample, long ago, made a deep impression
on the Australian buckjumper, yet he, as far as
one can remember, was several degrees below the
educational standard of the Emperor now in our
midst.
At Poverty Point.
The Firm derived a fine advt. yarn from the last night
of “Sign of the Cross” at Sydney. A middle-aged
woman, making her first visit to any theatre, on this
solemn occasion managed to get her unsophisticated arm
broken in the crush for gallery tickets, and was promptly
removed to the hospital by her daughter. The old girl’s
calamity didn’t check her determination to gaze upon the
Early Christians. Half-an-hour later she came back to
the theatre with her limb in a sling, and her daughter in
tow; the gallery was now chock-full, so the management
fixed up the interesting enthusiasts in its own private
box, and watched over them like a heavenly father, and
sent them home in a cab. Next day “ mother” returned
to the hospital as an in-patient, and her arm, at latest
dates, was mending slowly. It is an absolutely true story,
strange to say. The convalescent, who feels very like* a
Christian martyr herself, is full of a beautiful new faith
in the stage, and sings praises to J. C. Williamson’s name.
A travelling Australian writes from Munich under date
May 24 “We got here from Vienna yesterday, and
have seen several breweries, which are fine. There are
art-galleries here, but we are tired of art-galleries. I went
to Lenbach’s studio this afternoon, and saw this year’s
portrait of Bismarck. He paints one every year. It is
magnificent. His studio is a palace, and he has about a
dozen of the finest modem portraits painted—one of
Johann Strauss and another of Bjorn sen, the no\elist
being l transcendent. We have seen all the circuses, and
Dan Fitzgerald, who is here, is slowly making a selection
of acts which will probably open the eyes of the youth of
his native land—Hagenbeck, Busch, &c.’
There is talk of taking the “ Lelamine " show to Sydney
at the particular request of Gov. Hampden and sassiety
in general. In fact, Ferley, who acted as business fire-
brand at the recent Melb. revival of Lord Shaftesbury and
Co., has been asked to take up an advance agency for
“Lelamine” and set the harbor ablaze. Meantime,
though, nobody seems to have figured out the cost or
carrying an amateur opera mob 600 miles.
Now one understands why the plaster angel, blowing
his trumpet, was stuck in front of Melb. Princess s.
Matthew Davies and Pastor Fitchett had a similar one at
the Daily Telegraph. Cherubic Williamson ! Seraphic
Musgrove ! Cruel of J.O.W. to refuse the theatre to the
Salvation Army.
N.: “ Miss Elliot Page, at Melb. Princess’s, the other
night, stepped to the footlights and took one of the
machine-made bouquets at the end of a scene. She may
do it every night, for all I know. Another step in dis-
illusion. In America, they say, Charles Surface takes a
call after the screen scene. The next step will be for
actors and actresses to bow in acknowledgement of
applause, d la Italian opera.”
H. : “The dialogue of ‘The Sign of the Cross’is bald, re-
calling Sheridan, on the purple patches of Richard Cum-
berland : ‘ Lumps of marl on a barren moor, encumber-
ing what it is not in their power to fertilize.’ An actor's
play. The bites in Barrett’s sentences are plundered
from Holy Writ, except one from Carlyle: ‘ What is Life?
A gleam of Time between two eternities.’ Whereupon the
amphitheatre gives the conveyancer a round of plaudits.”
The boss villain of “ The Cotton King ” strikes a new
idea in dark designs. He promises £5O to the husband of
a woman, who is suffering from an infectious sickness, if
he (the husband) will induce the heroine to sit beside the
patient and catch her complaint. Considering the odds
against anybody getting fatally infected whilst engaged
on so ordinary a job, the villain’s offer seems wildly reck-
less. A hospital-nurse would run the risk for two guineas
per week, and beer-money.
Fanny Liddiard wastes a lot of sweetness on the desert
air at Melb. Alexandra, alas ! More buxom than of yore,
Miss L. is also more dashing, and quite as pretty as ever,
whilst her mellow voice is just now at its best, and she
sings charmingly. A show with such a winsome lead-
ing lady, backed up by some bright male talent and a-
capital chorus, couldn’t have failed to do decent business
at another house —the Bijou, say. But, then, the Bijou
costs £6O a week for rent.
Lauri joins the Rickards co. shortly.
Those supernumerary Christians in “ The Sign of the
Cross ” are absurdly uninteresting items, and their final
departure gives a sense of relief to the audience. One
would like to think that the alleged lions were really and
truly waiting for ’em round the corner.
Melb. ’Erald served out some choice flapdoodle criti-
cism to “ The Sign of the Cross.” For instance—“ Not
even the glamor of Nero’s court, the intense excitement
created by the scene in the dungeon of the ampitheatre,
or the pathetic scene of Christian worship on the bank of
the Tiber, causes the audience to forget the sad strain
which runs through the story of the play.” Ye gods Iye
Pagan gods ! What is the ’Erald giving us 1 Not even a
paralytic potentate gibbering for blood, or an old ser-
moniser preaching over a prayer meeting, or a crowd of
psalm-singers waiting to be*exterminated, can distract
attention from the fact that the tone of the entertain-
ment isn’t cheerful.
Frances Saville is said to have made a remarkable hit as
Juliet. An enthusiastic listener writes that he has at last
discovered the Juliet of his dreams. As Violetta in “ Tra-
viata” also she was particularly successful—likewise as
Marguerite in “ Faust.” At Nice, where she appeared in
these characters, the audiences rose en masse and cheered
her, while the gilded youth smothered her with valuable
souvenirs.
Mrs. Brough was very unwell during the Adelaide
season. The co. did just fair business in the sacred city,
which on y has an eye for leg shows. ?
Scot Inglis and his wife departed for New York last
Saturday, with no flourish of trumpets or farewell benefit
or any of the customary frill. Scot Inglis is the best
actor that Australia has produced up to date, and the
fact that he has found it advisable to look for his fortune
in another country should serve as a valuable discourage-
ment for Australia, junior. His career as a public
favorite lasted two years. The first occasion when he got
a chance to show a city audience really what he could do
was in July, 1895, when he played the cat-like clerk in
“A Bunch of Violets,” and completely overshadowed the
ill-fated Dacre as the boss of the Widow’s Mite Life In-
surance 00. (Limited).
ODE FOR AN AUSTRALIAN TANKARD.
“ Henri of Navarre Brownlow the other day married
at Perth Miss Rhoda Hay, the charming 1 Tasmanian
brunette, who formerly slew the Eastern world with her
smile.”
She slew the world. 0 subtle, extreme pain
Of so soft dying ! I, from heaps of slain,
Smiled grimly as I marked my fellow’s fall,
Knowing the wound was vital. Yet, withal,
Not one among us wished for life again.
And so, with glance of gently sweet disdain
Of the poor homage of each lovelorn swain,
With smile, and quip, and laughter musical,
She slew the world !
Now she lies low ! Eros, of pleasure fain,
Smote this, his doughtiest warrior—and those twain
Dusk liquid orbs which held our hearts in thrall
Beam with new light, unfeigned, potential . . .
Soon age. Then young lips curl, satirical:
She 1 —slew the world!
F. MORTON


CYANIDE
OP POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
Stocks always
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
SYDNEY—63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“[ittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLISHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIR JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Qujnlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M‘Bkan, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Moonky & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville
Australasian
Representatives
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
The Simpson jjuckboard.
Easier than a Buggy, Stronger than
a Dray, No Vibration as in an ordi-
nary Buekboard, High Driving Seat,
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easily. It’s a Buggy, it’s a
Waggon—it’s both.
Simpson’s Patent Jump-seat Sul-
kies, “Town and Country,” “ Over-
lander,” “ King o’ the Road ” (pole
and shafts).
SIDNE Y ~SfMEB ON,
Newtown, Sydney.
Perth— Robt. Wolfe. Gbraldton— A. Meadowcroft*
CYAJN I 1) U, “ss/iooT
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash,
Caustic, and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, Ss
ALL OTHER CHEMICALS.
Best Possible Prices, far Cheaper than Drug Homes.
Hy. Markwald, 11 P SYDNEyf ET ',
178 William-st., Melbourne; Peel-sfc., Adelaide. A
it.
Assay Office St Chemical Laboratory,
'Thl'kphonhl
24,44. J
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A..
£HE VICTORIA contains 68 Single and Double Bedrooms,
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Musio Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From, 4s, to Bs. per Day.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
On Wednesday last week Brother Brunker,
M.L.A., as temporary head of N.S.W. Government, in-
formed an inquiring member that “he would see, by
looking at the Treasurer’s cash statement for 1896-97,
that there was no deficiency.” Said statement was pub-
lished in the N.S.W. Government Gazette, No. 618, dated
Ist July, with Brunker’s signature attached as a guarantee
of spotless truthfulness. It said distinctly (page 4654)
that the year’s revenue was £9,309,269; and (on page
4673) that the “total payments chargeable to revenue
1896-97” were £9,476,145, and the “ payments chargeable
to previous years ” £4069 ; total, £9,480,214. And if that
doesn’t leave a deficit of £170,945, then this paper asks
Cow-merchant Brunker in a loud tone of shriek what it
does leave? The man who can sign and publish such
figures, and then assert that there is no deficiency, is a
nice person for any respectable married cow to be sold by.
Victoria is about the slowest province of the
seven to issue its complete revenue and expenditure
accounts. The revenue figures came along all right on
2nd July, but the expenditure is still a mystery, and
whether there is a surplus or a deficit no one knows.
Most probably there is a deficit. So far as the informa-
tion goes, the income is £6,629,612, which is £170,930
more than that for the previous year On the other
hand, it is £49,000 less than Turner expected. The
brightest feature is that the income-tax yielded £11,200
more than last year, so apparently the national income
is looking up considerably.
* * * *
Vic. Premier Turner’s luck doesn’t seem to be
worth a cent since he got his knighthood. His revenue
returns were £49,000 below the estimate, the whole short-
age being in the probate department. Something like
£lOO,OOO duty is to be paid on the two big estates of Mrs.
Silas Harding and Baronet Clarke, and if the money had
only arrived in time the surplus would have been some-
thing beautiful. But they didn’t come in time. An un-
reliable legend has it that when closing hour arrived on
the last day and no messenger with two huge cheques
could be seen sprinting up the street, Acting-Treasurer
Isaacs gave way to his feelings and broke nearly 30s.
worth of furniture and kicked his hat into the middle of
next session.
* * * *
The South Australian Government has, it would
appear, definitely accepted the offer of one Govett, an ex-
journalist, to act as hawker of the mortgage bonds of the
State Land Bank in England for five years, and has
thereby done a wildly-foolish act. Hitherto, these bonds
have been sold in S.A. ; they carry 3J per cent, interest,
and, as they fetched a good deal over their face value,
the bargain seems good enough. The yearning for a still
higher price led to the idea of selling in England, but,
instead of the business being done direct, Govett is to get
all the bonds issued for the next five years. When S.A.
3i per cent. Government securities are selling in London
at £l2O, he is to pay £lOB 7s. 6d. for the State Bank
bonds ; and the price goes down on a sliding-scale until,
with Government 31 per cent, securities at £lO4, Govett
is to get the 31 per cent, securities of the State
Land Bank at £lOO. This is how the bargain is re-
ported in the Adelaide papers and it lays over most
things in the way of Australian finance up to date.
First, Govett is an ordinary Australian journalist, not
a huge capitalist of the Hooley order. The names
of the people who are behind him in the scheme are
not given, therefore they can adhere to the agreement
so long as it enables them to buy the bonds at less
than their market value and sell them at a profit—
in other words, so long as it is a dead loss to South Aus-
tralia. When it no longer pays—in other words, when it
ceases to be a loss to S.A.—there seems really nothing to
prevent these unknown people dropping out if they feel
that way.
It doesn’t appear that the syndicate, whatever
It may be, puts up any substantial security that it won’t
drop the whole matter when it pleases, or go broke, or
disappear. The syndicate, whatever it may be, must get
the bonds at a lower price than the Government could
sell them at direct, for it must have a margin of profit for
itself somewhere. Selling in London means delay, loss of
exchange humping the money to Australia, more
exchange sending the interest to England, more exchange
later on sending the principal back to England when it is
repaid, stamp-duty to the Bull Government, loss of
income-tax on the interest, and loss to S.A. in general
through the local capitalist being deprived of a good
investment. Also, as likely as not, the agreement may
pan out so that the State Bank will get less for its
bonds in London than it has been .getting in
Adelaide. And, apart front all these things, the
Government which begins dabbling in syndicates and
delegating its duties to private capitalists is always to be
regarded with suspicion. The plea urged in the‘present
case is that the Govett syndicate is willing to give £lOB
7s. 6d., whereas the best local price is only £lO2 18s. But
the £lOB odd is dependent on S.A. State securities rising
to £l2O, and they are a very long way off that price, and
may never get there. At present rates (£111) the price
for bank bonds would be about £lO4, and after allowing
for all casual expenses and losses it isn’t at all certain
that that is worth any more than £lO2 18s. locally. A
very moderate drop in the market would bring the price
paid by the Govett syndicate down to £lO2 or so. Alto-
gether the scheme is not only foolish, but there is an
odour about it which will hang around Holder’s repu-
tation for a long time to come.
* * * *
In Queensland the State is the sole issuer of
paper-money. The scheme was met at first by much
opposition, and many financial authorities and eminent
persons who ran dubious banks proved over and over
again that it was absolutely impossible and ridiculous;
but apparently all these troubles have simmered down.
The State issue has come to be accepted as a matter of
course. At the end of May there were £972,609 of State
paper in circulation, and the coin reserve held against
it was £592,942, making it the best-secured note-
issue in Australasia. Even with this evidence at their
doors, however, the private-enterprise crowds in N.S.W.
and Victoria keep on proving the utter impossibility of a
State paper currency just the same.
* * » *
Some further amendments in the reconstruction
scheme of the Modern Permanent Building Society (Mel-
bourne) make it still more interesting. The depositors,
who represent about £476,000, are to have the option of
taking preference shares, which will get a dividend in
the remote future—l6s. worth of preference share for
every £1 of deposits. If they don’t want preference
shares they can get deposit receipts at the rate of 9s. 4Jd.
worth of deposit receipt for every £1 of deposits. The
receipts are to bear 3 per cent, interest (equal to less than
lj per cent, on the original deposit), and are Anally re-
deemable in 1908. The society starts with the idea of
writing down the deposits to 15s. in the £, but the miser-
able 3 per cent, deferred person, as above-mentioned, gets
only 9s. 4Jd., the other ss. 7Ad. being carried to a reserve-
fund. If the reserve-fund is a reality, this means that
the society has assets enough to give its depositor 15s. in
the £, but proposes to do him out of ss. 7id. And if it
really can’t give him more than 9s. 4jd in the £ because
its assets won’t go any further, then the reserve-fund is
apparently bogus and a good part of the preference-share
capital has no existence.
Considering that the society saves ss. 7|d. in the
£ by giving deposit receipts in lieu of preference shares, it
might be supposed that it would prefer the former device.
But, instead, it is intimated that only <£1507000 worth of
depositor shall be entitled to the blessed privilege of get-
ting 9s. 4£d. in the £ at 3 per cent, payable by instal-
ments spread over ten years, and those who want this
mode of settlement are invited to come early and avoid
the rush. The present shareholders, whose money is all
gone, are to get deferred shares for 10s. in the £ of their
nominal capital, and, after the preference shareholders
have had 5 per cent, dividends for three years, and a
sufficient reserve fund has accumulated to make up the
other ss. in the £ of their deposits, these deferred people
are entitled to get something per cent, if there is any thing.
If the reconstruction goes through, the interest bill will
be reduced from £13,500 a year to about £2200. Last
year’s loss was £11,400, but this was really loss through
depreciation of property sold. When the depreciation is
all provided for by writing down capital and deposits,
then the Modern, on last year’s figures, should be able to
give the reduced depositor 5 per cent, instead of 3 as
some compensation for his lost principal, and still have
a good margin. What Tub Bulletin mostly admires
about the scheme, apart from its mild assurance,
is the deadly accuracy of the person who figured
out the 9s. 4Jd. and the ss. 7£d. Only people who live in
a great, free country like this can fully appreciate the
advantages of getting 9s. 4Jd spread over ten years at
3 per cent.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland finishes a good
half-year with a net profit of £7463 as compared with
£6515, £6445 and 16033 for the three previous periods—
an eminently satisfactory result. A dividend of 2J per
cent, absorbs £5156 ; dividend duty on same, £258; £2OOO
is added to reserve making it £35,000, and the remaining
£49, with previous balance, makes £3920 at credit of
profit and loss. The improvement in profits arises through
the repayment of a large part of the reconstructed i'% per
cent, deposits and a consequent saving in interest. The
Royal’s balance-sheet looks generally satisfactory, especi-
ally as regards its reserve of cash and liquid securities
(£232,832) which equals 31 per cent, of all its liabilities to
the public, and it is feeling so good that the remaining
instalments of the call made in 1893 have been postponed
indefinitely. On that disastrous occasion the Royal called
up £187,500 (£2 10s. per share), of which £104,286 has
been already collected. The policy of adding a quarter
of the profits to reserve fund is steadily building up a
solid line of defence. Said reserve, by the way, is con-
stantly set forth in the balance-sheet as being “ invested
in Government securities,” but as the reserve is £35,000,
and the bank’s entire holding of Government securities
is only £31,959, and has been stationary at that figure for
12 months, the assertion seems to need explanation.
* * * *
The scheme for forming an English Assets Co.
to take over the remains of the Federal, City of Mel-
bourne, Mercantile, and English and Australian Mortgage
banks, appears to be meeting with acceptance. Yet its
only features seem to be that it will involve the cosh of a
London office in addition to the Australian ones, that six
irremoveable British directors will proceed to draw good
salaries out of the business, that the management will be
shifted 16,000 miles away from the assets, and that there
will be a huge sum to pay for stamp-duty on the transfer
of the assets, legal expenses, promotion expenses, cable-
grams, and stationery. Also the new co. proposes to
issue shares and debentures and so on, which means more
stationery and stamps, but as these won’t make the assets
any more valuable or more saleable, the only improve-
ment they can possibly make is that they will be handy to
fall back on as pipe-lights.
* * * •
The great Hooley, who wants to buy up all the
Australasian meat-freezing works with the pure and dis-
interested motive of getting better prices for the producer,
is accused of a very ugly transaction in London. The
charge (as per Times weekly edition) runs as follows : A
certain bike company was in low water, shares selling
below 4s. Hooley bought vast numbers of the shares.
Then he offered to buy the whole concern for £385,000,
but the agreement contained a clause, which seems to
have been kept very dark, giving him the option of back-
ing out of the purchase on forfeit of £25,000. When it was
known that the tremendous Hooley was buying the con-
cern the public felt so dead sure that there was a stupen-
dous fortune in it that the shares boomed from 4s. to £4.
Hooley sold, made, it is said, £lOO,OOO or so, paid his
£25,000 forfeit, and dropped out, and the shares went
down with a loud thud to the old wretched figure. And
the people who tell this yarn say that they were
cronkly “stuck” with the philanthropist’s shares at £4,
and want damages.
* ' * • *
Dear Bulletin,—ln noticing the 54th annual
balance-sheet of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of
New York, in your last issue, you quote the item “ In-
terest accrued and due, £468,140,” and add, “ The Mutual,
like several Australian offices, follows the bad practice of
lumping these together, and the amount of arrears is not
stated.” I need scarcely tell you that in the case of this
company the practice is only adopted for brevity’s sake.
The item, £468,140, is made of “ Interest accrued,
£424,101,” and “ Interest due, £44,039.” You also allude
to what you term the “very heavy expense rate equal
to ... a little over 20 per cent, on total assets.”
[Total “ income ” was what was meant. “ Assets ” was a
hideous misprint, the responsibility of which is hereby
put on the compositor, as usual.— Ed. B.] Assuming that
you mean “ total income,” I would ask you to remember
that before you can term this a “very heavy expense”
you must consider the new business obtained there-
by. Of new insurance actually paid for there was
added in 1896 no less than £26,448,008. It is
the influx of new lives in a company’s books which tends
to keep down the rate of mortality, thereby enhancing
the bonus profits of the policy-holders. Surely that ad-
vantage is worth paying for. The new premiums of the
Mutual Life of New York for 1896 amounted to £2,071,732,
bearing the proportion to renewals of 358 per cent. The
new premiums of the leading Australian office, to which
you refer, amounted to £104,727, bearing the proportion
to renewals of 88 per cent. only. In comparing expense
ratios, the volume of permanent premium-paying insur-
ance secured is a most important factor, and I think you
will find, when that factor has due significance given to
it, that there is no life insurance office whose manage-
ment is more profitable to its policy-holders than the
Mutual Life of New York.—Z. 0. Rbnnib, General
Manager. #
Sydney has a beautiful and capacious harbor,
and, according to her “great dailies,” foreign trade has
stimulated her shipping. Yet, of the large shipping co’s
trading with the port, how many are locally owned ? Not
one ! Melbourne, Maoriland, Adelaide, have each an
interprovincial fleet, but not Sydney, since the A.S.N. Co.
went bung. There is a moral in this anomaly.
• * • •
Elliott’s Investors’ Guide, issued in Melb., is
a very creditable pamphlet, giving market reports and
particulars of the chief investments of the day, as well as
an almost complete list of the mining co.’s of Australia,
with their share-capital, calls, divs., and market prices,
accompanied with a description. It has a dig at Mt.
Lyell: “There is no doubt the mine is a great property,
but we consider £lO a share too high a figure for the pre-
sent. The issue of reserved shares at equal to a discount
of £5 is no doubt reckoned as a div., but that cannot be
repeated very often, and only results in reducing the
amount of div. per share in the future. We would not
like to say that the mine will not ultimately return £lO a
share to holders, but repeat we look upon the price as
too high for prudent people to pay, having in view the
present position of the co., usual risks attending such
ventures, and the possibility of the minerals produced
falling in value. The future is being anticipated too
much. It is rumored that the last jump in share-quota-
tions has been caused by buying-orders from London,
consequent on London dealers being largely over-sold.
On the rising market few people are inclined to sell, but,
when the new issue is allotted, we anticipate that, in
the ordinary course of events, many people will wish to
realise their profits out of the issue. We reckon that the
shares will ease, unless London supports the market.
London buyers are an unknown quantity, and they rush
things up to prices that Australian speculators would not
dream of.” Since this warning was issued, Mt. Lyell’s
have reached £l2.
* * * *
The New Pinnacle Group Co., which took over
the property on Jan. 14, held its first statutory meeting
in Sydney early in July. The co. is financially weak. Of
£6250 subscribed £985 only is now available after all
creditors are paid. Ore sales for the period covered—
about five months—represent £lOB9, and it was estimated
that ore worth another £1125 was ready for despatch or in
transit, while che mining expenses, which don’t include
assay and sampling, horse-feed, rent of leases, directors’
fees, &c., reached £2345. Still, no doubt, a good deal of
dead work had to be done in straightening up the mine
after its ransacking by tributors.
* * * *
The voluminous report issued by the New Pin-
nacle directors is, altogether, none too cheering. It
doesn’t give the impression that the men in charge know
either what they have got hold of, or what to do with it
now they have got it. First, Mr. John Mundy, “a gentleman
of large and varied experience both in these colonies and
elsewhere,” having reported upon the mine, has been
appointed “ to act as consulting and advising engineer,
and generally to direct the mining operations, visiting
the mine for the purpose as often as may be necessary.”
Mr. Mundy may be all that is said, but he is unknown in
the Barrier sulphide industry ; and non-resident engineers
have failed every time. Then “ the solution of the sul-
phide problem has made the Pinnacles ore a marketable
product. . . . The question of dressing the ore up to a
sufficiently high grade and the consequent saving in
carriage, &c., appears to be the only matter likely to
retard the success of the company.” Why, that was the
very thing which “ retarded the success ” of all the com-
panies before the sulphide problem was solved. Up to
date that is all the solution amounts to. Apparently what
the New Pinnacles Co. proposes to do is to potter along
breaking out the best of the ore in sight, hand-dressing it,
and sending away the best of the product without any
attempt to mechanically concentrate or otherwise over-
come the special metallurgical difficulties which Pinnacles
ore presents. It is a poor policy in connection with a
mine of such great possibilities.
* * * *
B.H. South prospects continue indifferent : hard
ore, consequent small mill-runs, and poor silver contents
are the trouble. The ore worked lately goes only 6oz.
silver and 29 per cent, lead, with 16 per cent. zinc. Even
the zinc is too low to make the zinc tailings worth any-
thing. And the B.H. North figures are just a trifle worse
still; the ore is not so hard, though. But if it isn’t so
hard it is rarer.
* * * •
The concentrating-mill at the Silver Hill Junc-
tion has been started. A mere toy.
The sulphide parcel sold by the Junction to the
Smelting 00. of Australia (John Howell’s Ulawarra works)
is second-grade stuff—3ooo tons of it. The mine is look-
ing well; but the creep is causing so much inconvenience
and delay that, in order that shareholders may be spared
as much of the pinch as is possible, every available ton of
material on the floors is being realised.
• • * *
Isn’t it about time the Junotion North made
some provision for adequately dealing with its lower-grade
ores? For some of the co.’s oie is low-trrade.
• * • *
Four months ago it was mentioned in a “ Oat ”
par. that the game of the Yuba people was a London sale.
Meetings of shareholders in Adelaide now authorised the
directors to negotiate. The claim lies in a locality proved
to be the most unreliable in the whole Barrier district,
and nothing has been exposed in the mine itself to justify
the belief that it is better than its neighbors. And it is
also just as well to remember that pretty well throughout
the present co.’s career the mine has been worked with an
English sale in view.
* • * •
Birthday mine, Parkes, N.S.W., 170 tons 91oz.
This being the first crushing at the mine’s own mill,
attention is directed to the gold absorbed by plates.
Tailings assay nearly sdwts., but the manager says “ this
will be rectified in future crushings.” How ? The yield
is quite good enough from so big a reef. It would also
be well to know whether the reef, like most others in the
district, consists of blocks of stone with much waste rock
intervening, or is a continuous ore-body? That con-
sideration makes a heap of difference.
• * • •
Ross, Ross & Co. financiers, 352 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, notify that money at very low interest is now
available on C.P. or Freehold Land. Owners writing to
this firm can always rely on prompt and straightforward
business.*
• * * •
The directors of the Great Boulder in London
“arrived at a very amicable settlement with the gentle-
man who came over from Adelaide.” They consented
not to take full advantage of the percentage-on-profits
allowed them by the articles, and had fixed a maximum
of £3OOO a year. They also allowed the appointment of
an advisory board in Adelaide, and one or two other
smaller things, and Dixon, the representative of the dis-
satisfied Adelaide shareholders, expressed himself pleased,
and promised to assure them that their confidence in the
board need not be disturbed. No reference seems to have
been made to the character of the mine when this profit-
sharing arrangement was first made. That would be too
cruel at such a gorgeous time. It is sufficiently indicated
by the price of the shares for long after the mine was
floated. Lane said at the meeting that “many Australian
papers said they were afraid to sink, but the develop-
ments at the 300 ft. proved that the Great Boulder was a
main fissure vein and was going down.” But it does not
prove that they were not afraid to sink. They were a long
time about it, anyhow. And they had good reason to be
afraid when they remembered the experience of other
Westralian mines in that direction. If sinking had been
Lane’s chief object with the Boulder it might be down a
thousand feet by now.
* * * •
As usual ! “ Tributors at Penrose’s claim, Yul-
gilbar, N.S.W., have put through a parcel of 23 tons 14ewt.
of stone for the magnificent yield of 150 oz. It is under-
stood that negotiations have been entered into for the
sale of the property to an English co.” Probably offered
for sale to prove the great faith the owners have in the
reef going down strong and rich, there being no local use
for rich mines in N.S.W.
• * * •
Associated Gold Mines, W.A.—173 tons treated
at Adelaide, 4720 z. Less than half the tonnage and yield
anticipated bv the wire-hummers.
* * * *
“Haycroft’s ore-reduction works, W.A., have
shut down, under instructions from London. The reason
for this step is not disclosed.” But probably they have
been running at too great a profit, and producing too
much gold.
* * * *
The three famous W.A. mines. Lake View,
for the month, 5000 oz. ; Great Boulder, fortnight, 35850 z.,
and Ivanhoe, ditto, 14740 z. Over 2000 oz. of the L.V.
yield came from failings by cyanide, which is going to play
an important part in W.A., particularly at Hannan’s. The
other two mines have big heaps awaiting treatment; that
of the G.B. is estimated at £130,000.
* * * *
“ The reconstruction of the Brown Hill mill is
proceeding slowly.” Perhaps it is better to go slow this
time. Two years ago the plant was rushed up at a cost
of some £15,000, and it shut like an oyster after two or
three trial runs. It was a combination of dry crushing,
cyanidation and amalgamation, and an awful failure,
which, naturally, many shareholders attributed to the
mine and got out in the slump that followed. How many
men have been ruined by experimental machinery ?
* * • •
“ An alluvial rush has set in 37 miles from Kal-
goorlie. Only a few men are on gold.”—W.A. wire. A
change here, from the time when every rush was re-
ported as sensationally rich. Rushes don’t seem to be
fashionable nowadays.
* * * •
The copper-market has unexpectedly weakened
lately, and several revived prospecting ventures in the
N.W. of S. Aus. and on the Barrier have been abandoned.
* * * •
Charters Towers results for June: Mill returns
16,200 tons for 18,7780 z. About 2000 tons of tailings
cyanided contributed about IOOOoz.
* * * *
For the first half of present year the Towers
produced 147,2540 z. gold from 161,277 tons including
cyanide treatment (cyanide returns, of course, reduce the
average). Result of six months’ operations shows an in-
crease of 59,251 tons and 44,0370 z. over corresponding
period last year.
* * * *
Towers calls for June, =65170 16s. Bd. ; divs.,
£42,525. Calls for half-year, £43,013 6s. Bd.; divs.,
£139,311 19s.
* * * *
For last fortnight of June, Victory (Charters
Towers) put through 90 tons for 44Soz. Brilliant mine
(idle during Jubilee junketting week) raised and crushed
2115 tons in June for a 28650 z. cake. Clark’s Worcester,
at close of last month, had about 300 tons of ore pad-
docked towards next crushing.
* * * *
Something has turned up in the Victoria No. 1
West (Towers). On June 29 stone in end of east level
widened out to 18in. and bettered in quality. Shares
hardened considerably. Co. has 60ft. to drive to boundary
in direction of strike, so that the weary shareholders at
latest were looking “ happy.”
• * • •
For last fortnight of June (Jubilee notwith-
standing) Brilliant Extended (Towers) paddoeked 2188
trucks of pay ore, and crushed 980 tons for 5370 z. Better
grade ore now going through. Mine now keeping 50-head
stamps at work. Right men at head of affairs.
* * • •
Good Hope (Towers), a Bull concern at Mill-
chester, crushed 50 tons from hanging-wall reef for 70oz.
Phoebe (another Bull) putting through about 400 tons.
* * * •
Queensland gold output for half-year—34B,3lBoz.
against 298,9920 z. for the corresponding period last year
—a substantial increase.
• * • •
Mt. Morgan for the year ended June —profit,
£320,000, £300,000 of which went in divs., the balance in
div.-duty and royalty.
• * * *
Rumored that a big Q. mineral discovery—’way
back of Rockhampton—“ combining the best features of
Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill, and Mt. Morgan,” is being traded
off in England. The holders, so it is said, put it under
offer for £250,000, and now repent their bargain.
* • * *
Tasmanian divs. for June: Gold, New Golden
Gate, two of 2s. each, £6400; Tasmania, Is., £2910 155.;
Silver, Oonah, 3d., £1325; Western, 3d., £750. Tin,
Bischoff, 7s. 6d., £4500. Total, £15,885 15s. £3525 in-
crease on corresponding month of 1896.
* » * *
For the half-year ending June 30 Tas. divs.
amount to £71,832, or £4872 ahead of first half of last
year.
* « • •
A Queensland tradesman the other day gar-
nisheed a friendly society’s “ sick pay ” to a temporary
cripple. No magistrate should be permitted to garnishee
any such allowances made by benefit societies. The
creditor who attempts such an inhuman action is a
ghoul; the beak who places the legal power in his hands
is a patron of vampires.
• * • •
'Women are no longer allowed to work under-
ground in English mines, but of the 135,658 surface-
“hands” of coal mines on 31st Dec. last, 3‘3 per cent,
were females ; while of the 13,820 surface- 11 hands ”at the
metal mines on same date, 4‘3 per cent, were females. A
pretty big proportion of the latter are fighting starvation
on Cornish tin works, now shockingly depressed through
Straits competitibii.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY,
The Celebrated Orient Clothing
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRULTE;.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING
OFFICE - BUSH _
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 357-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and 1 inish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
David Jones & Company,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORG E and BAR HACK STREETS, SYDNEY,
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS, •
MADE;OF THE
FINEST HAVANA -6d. Each.
See the name CORTO ov, the hands, and beware of imitations.
E. CXJSEKTIER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
BRANDY.
The PUREST BRANDY known, being distilled'SOLELY from picked brandy
grapes, and each bottle analysed by the French Government Chief Expert. All
eminent physicians pronounce'it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES.
Price No Hiyher than Other Leading Brands .
SOCIETY
Wood, M.L.A. (South Australia), was par-
ticularly anxious that the Government should
have„ Joshua Beard “hanged by a Christian
man,” and not by a person with a criminal record
or a mere hired butcher. There is a lot of humor
m the idea of being hanged gratis by a sincere
professing Christian. What kind of apostle does
Wood suppose is likely to go in for that kind of
work? And supposing some devout preacher
could have been induced to hang Beard, and ho
got through with the job all right, and stooped
his respectable top hat over the trap to see
whether Joshua was strangling satisfactorily down
below, and then wiped his hands on his respectable
coat-tail and departed, how much better would
anyone be ? There is a sort of feeling that a
poem about the advantages of being hanged
cheaply by a sincere Christian would come in very
well here, but the lyric isn’t to hand.
* • * •
Another legend comes to the surface con-
cerning Joshua Beard, of Streaky Bay (S.A.), the
man whom Wood, M.L.A., desired should be
hanged by a Christian. The police have already
traced the bodies of two men who went out with
Beard, and were never afterwards heard of till
they were dug up in a decomposed state. But
sundry old inhabitants with only one reliable
TWO DAUGHTERS OF MAORILAND. —From copyright photo, by Hes, now of the
Tasma Studio, Hobart.
back-tooth among them profess that Joshua was
in the same line of business over 20 years ago,
though they can only locate his alleged victim
vaguely as a man with spectacles. Very little
is known about the matter ; it appears to have
been generally understood at the time that Beard
was responsible for the spectacled man’s dis-
appearance ; also that his property—one rug with
blood on it and a cake of tobacco —was afterwards
seen in good old Joshua’s possession. But no one
was sufficiently interested in the supposed corpse to
take action, and until a skeleton with goggles on
rises to explain matters at the general resurrec-
tion, it isn’t likely that anything will be known
for certain.
* • • *
Victoria and N.S. Wales differ as to the
disposal of the body of a judicially-hanged. If
there are friends to claim, N.S.W. hands the
body over to them, taking precautions that it
shall be duly buried within a stated time. In
Victoria the body remains the property of the
State, and is quicklimed within gaol walls. In
N.S.W. the hangman may go out and get drunk
as soon as he gathers up his rope, but in Victoria
he must coffin the corpse and drop it in the grave.
* * * *
Most of the newspaper-proclaimed “smart
captures ” by detectives are smart only because
the “information supplied,” which has made the
capture the simplest of matters, is carefully sup-
pressed by the d’s. Sometimes the facts become
public, to the consternation and discomfiture of
the force. Lately a gang of Perth (W. A.) burglars
removed a safe containing £7O from a house in the
main street, almost before dark, and opened it in
the bush. An hour or two later the rifled safe had
been found, and two of the thieves were in
custody, one of them having been captured with
the swag on him. The detective-office supplied
the reporters with an account of the glorious
achievement robbery at 7, detectives soon
apprised, got to work, soon found clue, followed
it actively, searched bush, found men just as
safe had been opened, recovered money—instance
of remarkable promptitude and efficiency of force.
But, alas ! beneath this par. in one of the Perth
dailies appeared a second, headed “ Another
Account.” It related how the burglars had hailed
a cab and driven off with the safe, having invited
cabby to stand in. Cabby had dissembled, and,
after setting them down at a lonely spot out of
town, and being told to wait, had driven back to
town and related the story to the detectives. Six
d’s then mounted the cab and were driven to the
scene of the safe-opening, and descended on the
way and ambushed. Cabby went on and met the
two burglars, who had meanwhile opened the safe,
returning to town. He calmed th or suspicions
with a yarn about having been engaged by a pass-
ing fare, and they entered the vehicle, to be
pounced upon by the six d’s a short distance along
the road, Hie “ Another Account ” was the true
one, but it. vexed the d.-office sorely, and the par-
ticular newspaper which published it, it is threat-
ened, must find its own burglary news in future.
Here is also “another account.” The d’s had
been expecting that, particular burglary, which a
“fizgig” had informed them was to be perpe-
trated, but a little later, that particular week.
When the two captured burglars were examined—
A GERMAN EXERCISE.
“Robert, have you brought my boots and some hot water (wasser)? ”
“ Yes, my lord, I have brought some hot (heiss) water and some lemon-peel,
some sugar, and some (etwas) Scotch whisky, but I have forgotten
the boots (Ich habe der stieffeln vorgessen).”
“ Good! If I can have whisky, I can do without boots (stieffeln)!”
10, one of them was the fizgig! He had been
trying to turn an honest penny by putting his
fiends, the enemy, off the scent.
* * » •
The clever capture in Melbourne of the
pious Scotch solicitor who was wanted on a charge
of defrauding the British Linen Co. Bank of
£40,000 proved, as such things usually do, to be
the very mildest kind of accident. The Gent.
One vanished from his usual haunts over a year
ago, and (though he is a conspicuous figure any-
where) all the combined Sherlock Holmes of Great
Britain failed to trace him. But one day he was
sunning himself on St. Kilda pier, when a Scotch
lady who had known him in his old pasture at
Kilmarnock passed by and recognised him. She
told the detectives, and the rest consisted in
cabling to Scotland for the warrant and keeping
an occasional eye on the truant through the key-
hole in the interim.
* * * *
The recent sentencing of English black-
mailers to imprisonment for life, while probably
administering a severe blow to a flourishing
industry, suggests that its abolition need not,
after all, be such an urgent concern of the Social
Purity people, since “our dear brother in the
Loard ” could never have been found—like the
prosecutor in this case —talking to the Man in the
Street at midnight, and couldn’t therefore have
accepted a hospitality which was to cost £4OO in
hush-money. Extremes meet; the Blackmailer is
as much a numble instrument ”as the Gimleteer.
» » * *
“Edward Charles Ryley. Born, Nov.,
9th, 1847. Died, May 14th, 1897,” was printed
outside the pocket copies of the Burial Service
presented to all who attended the funeral of our
old young friend.
Bananaland is essentially a land of strange,
unholy bargains. Even the joyous Kanaka occa-
sionally forms himself into a company for financial
purposes. Billy Mallicolo is a-weary of his bride,
and Tommy Tanna forms a syndicate to purchase
the lady. Eight' boys at £5 apiece put their
dollars in the pool and so scoop in the dusky
damosel, who loves them all duly in turn and
divides her charms
among the enrap-
tured eight.
Recently a col-
ored man on Thurs-
day Island bought a
native woman and
two children. The
piccaninnies lie hab-
itually ill - treated
until a native boy,
acting in collusion
with the mother,
stole a dingy and
carried off the
youngsters. During
a storm the boat up-
set, but the boy
swam on with the
children until one
of them died of ex-
posure. A casual
shark relieved him
of this burden but
did not cool his
courage, for the
dusky hero swam
on until he struck
the mainland and
was rescued. And
no medal—-no purse
of sovereigns not
even his uncouth
name figuring in the
papers!
N. : “Vainglorious statements are a chal-
lenge. Bishop Goe and his colleagues, in Melb.,
have been indulging in puff. In reality, the
Church of England is far behind the times.
Bishop Moorhouse was a refreshing indraught.
Before him was moss, and after him is the green
mantle of the standing, stagnant pool. The cathe-
dral is virtually insolvent. Imagine how Moor-
house would have vivified it ! Cabinet Minister
Best was put up at Bishop Goe’s luncheon function
last week to do slaver, but played Balaam, and
rung in about the folly of appointing English
prelates to Australia, cutting off the chances of
promotion and systematically keeping down the
tone and status of the men who enter the pro-
fession.”
* * * *
An Age writer gives Bishop Goe “toko”
over the Anglican Church. This after a
The late CHARLES RYLEY as “ Pippo.”
A Souvenir.
Photo., Falk.
luncheon corroboree where the speakers vied in
laying on the color of panegyric, like the .Spanish
artist Goya, who used to do 30ft. of fresco in a
couple of days, even throwing on paint with a
broom in his furious impatience. Surely Herbert
Booth, at £3 10s. a week, with his Workmen’s
Metropole, Maternity Home, Prison Gate Brigade,
and Labor Farm, leaving out his merely ‘ reli-
gious ’ appliances, knocks Bishop Goe, at <£4o a
week, into a cocked hat. *
* * * *
In matrimony, as in chess, the end is very
often stale mate.
Will the damsels who ogled him shyly.
Or worshipped the god from afar,
Be startled to learn that their R.yley
Was hardly as young as “ Papa ” ?
Will Youth, which is said to be golden,
Feel tempted to get in a rage
When thinking how Charley—an old ’un—
Could pass for two-thirds of his age ?
Rich merchants, who prattle.so drily . ■
Of wisdom which cometh with years,
Ye are fools in the sight of a R.vley.
Your wives may address you as “ dears,”
But your aspect is quite uninviting,
Your manners lack softness, or dash—
And ye know not the art of delighting
The darlings who play with your cash.
What a “ jar ’’ for the opulent, thrifty
Dull fellows who govern the mart
To reflect that a “ hoy ” nearing fifty
Can reign in their womankind’s heart t
The “mash ’’-time for Fatman is over
Ere the autumn of life draweth nigh,
And he envies the evergreen lover
Those triumphs which money can’t buy.
Young life is a period measured
By moments of rapture sublime ;
Their memories carefully treasured
Are safe from the ravage of time.
In the trade-making world of the wily,
Whence love has been driven away,
One may live and be younger than Ryley,
Yet deader, much deader, to-day.
Melb.
EDMUND FISHER.


:miwN&TON»T^
; ; PHOTO- OUTFITTERS v.>
66 KING S' 1 SYDNti
H $1
fj -ag) j I
Arp... _w. —.
rM'erw/H /auy fhom^
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
SXPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION
Use of Dark Rooms—FREE.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free' or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
TJ OSE’S CELEBRATED
" LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dinin' ss of Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Leadin'; Sydney
Oculists. 11. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists <& Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forma on Application
B. MOUNTfASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, (Hand.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSEN ER
LA6ER : BEER.
Largely Imitated on Account of
Its Superb Qualities.
Mrs. Barney, the Yankee W.C.T.U.
anostle, who has come to Australia chiefly .
to force the police authorities to keep
matrons in the lock-ups for the handling
of run-in women, has sense at her back.
In most lock-ups there is a policemans
wife but she has no official standing, and
the large-footed male tenant plays monarch
of the show. Why a reputedly sane com-
munity waited for an apostle named
Barney to come all the way from Bull s
Run to show the egregious blunder of
such a method is harder to answer than it
is to end the system outright.
„ * * *
The story goes that the proposers
of a certain amateur warrior—now tip-
topping it abr- 'ad—for • membership of a
fashionable Australian club had to with-
draw his name in a mighty hurry, be-
cause, no sooner had it been put up than
there came to every member of the club
a circular soliciting his patronage for the
firm of which the aforesaid warrior is an
ornament. ’Twixt Toff and 1 ill down
went M'Ginty!
» * * *
In a certain coast-town of Northern
Mongrelia the wardsman of the local hos-
pital is also grave-digger to the com-
munity. Thirty shillings is the local price
of excavating a sepulchre. Consequently
the wardsman’s interests clash somewhat
with those of the grave-digger. . .
An empty hospital is ruin to the former
functionary, but may spell substantial
profits to" the latter. Probably they
whack the dividends. Should they form
a combine and play into each others
hands one shudders to contemplate the
consequences.
The utter futility of N.S.W. diseased-
meat arrangements appears again in the case of a
cow condemned the other day at Canterbury
(Sydney) as tuberculous, and thereupon sold to a
person who promptly proceeded to diffuse the in-
fection to the greatest advantage by cutting up
th ■ carcase for pig-and-poultry feed, and who—
.-•rini joke !—is to be prosecuted for carrying on a
noxious trade, ! Inspection, without power to des-
troy, is a splendid example of “ how not to do it.
N.S.W. Veterinary Medical Association
has probably made a huil’s-eye with the suggestion
that phthisis-poison is disseminated by the im-
ported tinned-milk which is so largely used, and
about the antecedents of which we know nothing.
Also wbat’s to show that imported tinned-meat
isn’t’often tuberculous ? The phthisis perspective
widens-out fast.
An instructive fact vouched for by a death-
certificate given by Dr. Atkins, of Wilcannia,
N.S.W. Johnston, a teamster there, was drenching
a pleuro’d bullock when the animal coughed into
the teamster’s open mouth. The teamster felt
something go down his throat, and was taken ill
next day. Dr. Atkins, who was called to the
case, pronounced the man suffering from pleuro-
pneumonia, and, on Johnston dying, certified to
that effect, attributing the disease to the bullock s
sputum. Moral: Don’t keep your mouth open;
breathe through the nose.
* * * *
The slovenly cableman !
London, Ist July.
The survivors of the Aden disaster, despite their fort-
night’s misery, celebrated the Jubilee on board the
wrecked vessel whilst awaiting succor, and the
occasion by singing the National Anthem. Her Majesty
has cabled her condolences with them under the terrible
sufferings they were obliged to endure.
Does H.M. really share The Bulletin’s opinion
of the Unnatural Anathema?
* * * *
“ Her Majesty the Queen has been
graciously pleased, at the request of Sir George
Turner, to accept the kangaroo which the Vic.
Mounted Rifles detachment took with them to
England.” —( Cable.)
Authorities at Yic. National Gallery have
tried “Working Men’s Conversaziones,” but,
happily, the working man “ isn’t taking any.’
He doubtless sees the snobbish motive underlying
THEOPHYSIOLOGICAL.
ELSIE: “ Mother , haven’t I been christenedt”
MOTHER: “ No, dear .”
ELSIE (reproachfully): “Oh, mother! How naughty of you to forget it! Now, I shall just go and
catch the smallpox !”
the shabby-genteel “ conversazione ” —an attempt
to work up a loyalty-boom by packing him in to
gloat over a rag-tag collection of prints and pic-
tures connected with the Record Reign, by a gang
of loyalists who bar him out of the public gallery
on the one day when he could visit it with comfort.
• • * *
Extract from Maoriland Jubilee prayer :
« We bless Thee that, enabled by Thy grace, she
has preserved Thy people committed to her charge
in well-being, peace, and godliness.” There is a
“ HIG”
(4 a.m.)
FIRST CONVIVIAL: “ What -hic 'll ye say to y're-hic-wife wkensh get-
hic— home?”
SECOND DITTO: “ Norra—hic—word.”
FIRST C.: “ Why not?"
SECOND C.: “ Shan’t get — hic-shancel"
streak of fine, rich, oily grovel about the parson-
person who could stand up and work off the asser-
tion that Victoria had personally looked alter tne
godliness of her 350 million subjects, but when
once a parson does start grovelling he doesn t
stand on trifles. f „ *
A iubilee bullock was roasted in Royal
Paflc Melb After the poor had wolfed lumps of
The funds of St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
Sydney, are so low that there Is serious talk of
again cutting the salaries of organist, choir, verger,
and little fry. The stipends of the Bishop, Bean,
and Precentor will presumably remain intact. The
special service arranged in connection with the
Jubilee celebrations when all the potentates
Sydney elbowed each other to get in—secured a
few extra pounds, which was a perfect godsend to
the Chapter.
Godless scoffers
in the bush are again
reminded by the
drought that, pre-
vious to the advent
of priests, parsons,
gospel-shops and
Salvation Army,
rains were abun-
dant (compara-
tively) dandry spells
of infrequent occur-
rence. The moral
whereof, whoso runs
may read. . . . By
the way, the writer
knows a backblocks
village where a
mackintosh has not
been seen in the
memory of man.
* * »
The Murrum-
burrah larkists who
recently filled with
a deceased calf the
aching void of an
undertaker’s win-
dow-coffin, uninten-
tionally laid a clum-
sy finger upon a
pleasing little cus-
to m which the
“ pi an ti ng ” fra-
ternity would do
well to honor in the
breach. The gor-
ge ous specimen
corpse-case of adult
capacity is no more,
perhaps, than an
offence against
reasonably good
taste, but while the
baby-coffin which,
for cubic reasons,
serves mostly for
window - advertise -
ment, is, to the
mother of the living
infant, a painful
suggestion, it is, to
the mother of the
dead, little short of
an outrage. Also,
let us have at N.S.
Wales Agricutural
Show no more pal
tent combination
baby-hearse and
mourning-coach, _ or
Grand Imperial
Prize Hearse, or any-
thing of that sort.
The Show should be
a place of enter-
tainment. Why
should its conduc-
tors allow it to become a parade-ground for
ghouls ?
*»• ' •
The youthful bride of an elderly widower
had an unpleasant quarter-of-an-hour on her wed-
ding-day recently. When she reached the church
where the ceremony was to be performed the
bridegroom was not there to receive her, but after
a long wait his youngest son rushed in with the
intelligence that “ Pa couldn’t find his teeth, but
he’ll be here directly ! ”
A LAMENT.
He journeyed ’Ome the other week
An ardent democratic learner :
How soon the Knight of Labor meek
Became a greasy butter churner !
Poor Turner
He joined the Tory toadies, who
Around the British Throne were flocking,
And gave the Queen a kangaroo —
A jest for watchful cynics mocking.
It’s shocking?
The emblem of our Austral land
She took, and, as a further favor,
She proffered him a royal hand,
Which Turner kissed, and liked the savor
(or flavor).
Of class distinctions in the past
An honest, unrelenting spurner,
He turned against himself at last,
And played the part of title-earner.
O ! Turner.
The kangaroo cried “ What a drop !
No principles than his were sounder ;
They caught the man upon the hop
Who might have been a nation-founder.
Vain bounder."
Answers to Correspondents .
ffo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
T.Y. : Too vague and discursive Stroller:
“ Library ” better elsewhere Alone: “Gloria” wants
a little more force .... J.D.R. : Speculations where dead
people go to are gone too G.J. (M.L.) ; Thanks; hut
such literary references are -common . M.H.J. : Not
what's wanted; see any text-book Anxious: Lacks
attractive verisimilitude Es. K. : “Bush” not grit
enough for our space, and “ B.” crude and unreal
W.D.A. : Thanks Nanovatta : Vigorous ; but too long
for merit, and wants clinching Herbert Cal. (W.A.) :
Worthless ... J.M.W. : Now, if your name was Crockett
or “ lan Maclaren ” that neat sample of slushy “ pathos”
would draw tears front a’ the folk in oor kailyard, and you
would be f6ted, and interviewed, and wooed by imploring
publishers. In the present circumstances —Dustman,
ahoy! Ranebo : That anagrams “an bore.” If isn t
grammar; but it’s sound sense Veldt: “Hunger
Track” good idea ; wants better handling Hugh Mac :
“ Scratch Item ”to hand. Please explain idea, and send
full address C.A.J.T. : Enough domestic-insect litera-
ture for the present. Won’t pursue the subject H.R.
(Anchor) : Printed on the presumption that it is original.
Snowball: Screamingly funny, but it would get u*
six months J. Liv. C. : Inexpressibly clumsy
A.T.B. : Thanks ; send name and address Valentine
W. : Not quite good enough for space... Republican :
Sonnet good enough for that advertising poet,
but not for us T.D.W. : Unusable A.E.D. : federa-
tion is a good cause, but it has some d d bad poets.
Helen W. : Domestic little episode probably true, but
lacks Bulletin interest Bloke : Points ; too hashy
Rabbit : Good YV.G. W. : Thanks .... B. :We had for-
gotten, Griffith got the G.C.M.G. in ’95 C. M‘D. :He s
a very nice-looking soggarth indeed Alone : Very
clever. Name and address? Colo : Other things
being equal, the most successful parson would be the best
evening-newspaper editor. Meaning thereby the man
who had the best eye for current “sensation. | 1. :
Whoever heard of new billiard champions springing sud-
denly from the backblocks? K. : Privy Councillors
don’t take precedence of Knights of the Garter, lhey
follow next in order N.B. : Declined W.M.F. :
Ditto, with emphasis Firefly: Point too small
for space L. J. : Your first sentence is a curiosity
“ One bright sunny day in July, a day on which the
streets of Sydney were unusually crowded most likely on
account of this particular day being a beautiful one and
the first of its kind which had been bestowed upon the
inhabitants for the last week, for the five preceding days
had been miserably wet and so not at all conducive to
shopping and window gazing which ladies so like to in-
dulge in, I was sauntering down one of the principal
streets of the city, smoking a cigar, in very high spirits,
not thinking of anything in particular, and bent on noth-
ing except a pleasant ramble round town.” You stopped
there ; and so do we M.J.F. : A fine old English tract
it is—one of the olden time T.F.M. :No use. Bel-
shazzar B. : Excellent chaff J.W.R. :No use merely
saying “’Tis,” “’Tain’t.” Say why his loan-collection
pictures are admirable ; take one, and point out its merits
in detail—if you can—and we’ll print you Backblocker:
Shorter Penbar: Can’t use; suppose you try theme
mock-seriouslv, imitating familiar shriek, enthusing over
his “ fall,” and blasting the base betrayer of innocence.
C.P. : Bit stiff; possibly J.11.M.: “Rails” not
um'..P.P.Q. : Try and knock thought into three short-
line verses E.S.S. : Possibly “Dry Stages. A.L.
(Vic.): The unclothed moral protrudeth 100 far.
Always chain the moral firmly in its loathsome lair
.Paper-knife: Better. R.W.: Good items.
H.L. : “Clio” more fantastic than forcible.. D.H. :
One doubtful; one dashed A. : Will you take
your solemn perjury you invented those gags yourself ?
Yellow bush : Jubilee copy dead D. Ml.; Re-
ceived Marc Antony: Jubilee copy still dead Zef:
Will print Hamp Mach : Sonnet stiff ; and please don’t
write chris-um, rhyth-um, &c James W.: Australia
was once the site of'a colony; so was Britain. Britain is
no longer a colony ; neither is Australia. The Bulletin
calls the sections of Australia “provinces,” because that
word, in its plain and usual sense, tells exactly what they
are : “ colonies ” implies what they are not. No single pro-
vince is “ your country” : your country is Australia
A.M. (Strathfield): No energy, no poetry, no soul .....
W. : In short, you want to give God some more good
advice F.J.:The Ancient Order of Liars duly noted.
Zephvr: Verse knock-kneed in one leg and bow-
legged in'the other A.J.L. :“I owe a great deal; I
possess nothing, and the rest I give to the poor.’ Old
joke John W. (Kalgoorlie): (1) Securities haven’t
“depreciated 100 or 200 per cent.” When a security
depreciates 100 per cent, it is worth nothing. (2) The
silver currency countries (China, Mexico and India
mainly) are not “ the largest producers.” The countries
that use mainly paper currency are leaving them far
behind. (3) Silver is no more variable than gold. A
while ago you bought a sovereign for 4oz. silver or for
201 b. wool or 6 dollars Argentina paper. Now, that
uncertain coin costs Boz. silver or, say, 401 b. wool or
12 dollars Argentina paper. Silver has kept about, the
same relation to tea and Argentina paper dollars all
through ; it is gold which wobbles all the time and won’t
keep still. (4) You say prices fell when silver was
demonetised. It never was demonetised. There is
more silver money afloat than there ever was before. (5)
Argentina is a paper-currency country. (6) About 40
other things E.G.H. : Two lines are enough—
Oh weep ye saintlies weap an waile
the devil has regane his tail
The rest is silence Karori: Tale drags its Floored
eloquence around for miles to arrive at two tea-leaves
Colonel (Humula) : Hopelessly illegible John Squirrel! :
Great Scott 1 ! A.J. : Joke will hardly bear dishing up
again Shy Talk : The picnic was about to start when
a black gin came along. Then the tale falls down dead
suddenly Anti-Sing Ching : Shuddery Chinese horror
t,o hand E.J.H. : Thanks Thos. B. (St Deters) :
There is always a chance for bright, cheerful, original
blasphemy, but dull blasphemy is a drug in the market.
One of the People : Try and say something new, or at
least say something old without being bathed in woe over
it Gemini :No room for massive essays Sancho
Panza : Afraid the betterment scheme wouldn’t work re
the Sj-dney city railway except as regards a limited area
about the terminus ? The mere fact of a railway passing
a man’s warehouse or shop is hardly an improvement.
Verv often it is the other way about Salisbury Plain
(Uralla) : In short, you want us to libel your personal
enemy for you. It takes us all our time to libel our own
enemies F.G.R. : Thanks J.S. : Can’t do it. The
author (in W.A.) may prefer to be anonymous Myall :
If you write him care Colonial-Secretary, Brisbane, he will
doubtless put you on the track of his writings T’other-
sider : None too brilliant Phoenix : Three little pars.,
and one llttie log roll in each par Fossicker : Thanks.


Don’t have
Cold Feet.
It isn’t necessary.
It isn’t economical.
It isn’t safe.
(tgl ii pair of Callaghan Boots for outdoor wear.
And a pair of Callaghan Cosy Slippers for indoor wear,
Gent’s Warm Felt Slippers, 5/9, 8/6
or Morocco Wool-lined, 9/6
Good Winter Boots
at 15/6, 21/-, 27/6, 32/6
Callaghan & Son,
895 George-street, Sydney.
Fifty Psr Cei)t
Will be saved by ladies who buy during
our great half-yearly sale, for, in order
to make room for early shipments of
-spring goods, we have reduced our prices
to this extent. The chance is unique, so
orders should be given at once.
W. T. WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers, etc., etc.,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
WAHOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion,
Blacktown, 27th May, 1S!)7.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—For fifteen years I endured the miseries
of Indigestion and Liver Complaint. I suffered con-
stantly from sick headache, and always felt tired out
and unfit for work. I tried numerous remedies, but
could get no relief. The wonderful cures claimed for
LOASBY’S “ WAHOO ” induced me to give it a trial,
with the result that lam completely cured. Many of
my friends are now taking “ WAHOO,” and sneak as
highly of it as I do. —Yours truly,
CHARLES HONES.
WAHOO!
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasb/s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
A WOMAN’S LETTER .
Sydney, Jiily 13,1897.
The Juvenile fancy-dress ball in aid of the Con-
sumptive Hospital Fund happens on Thursday
(to-night) in the Town Hall. A committee has
energetically worked off tickets to a large extent,
and the hopefuls of several hundred families
arrayed in fancy garb will disport themselves for
flir;£ d i* aus ?\ To kee P d °wn the average of
fairies and cricketers and white-capped cooks,
prizes are to be given to those arrayed in original
and striking costumes. g
There is much disgust among the lady members
who took part in the recent Gymkhana held‘>by
the Hampden. Riding and Cycling Club over the
report of the high-toned sports meeting in a daily
paper Instead of figuring in a double-headed,
half-column notice, the itein was lumped in among
cycling notes along with doings of professionals
and other common folk.
r~, k ' rom 1 point of view of the spectators, the
iempe ball, at the Town Hall, on Wednesday
wa . s n< ?t nearly as amusing and exciting as
the function has been in former years. As regards
numbers the affair was much below preceding
averages, and the comfortable dancing-space
wmch each couple had to gyrate in did away with
the furious scenes of jostling and confusion which
the onlookers naturally expect at a smart sub-
scription dance. The loaves-and-fishes arrange-
f n£ Tfcof five men and two small boys to every
half-hundred girls seems to be the only one pos-
sible ; at hops now-a-days the girls have learnt to
make the best of it. An adroit plan whereby
some dozen otherwise attractive girls placed
themselves hors concours, by attiring them-
selves m weird night-gown-like wrappings
of cheap muslin and top-heavy velvet
head-pieces, worked successfully, for only males
of considerable courage were bold enough to dance'
With the maidens so attired, and this arrange-
ment left more partners to go round among the
normally-clad girls. Smartly-dressed coiffures,
smothered with violet-powder, made some fresh
faces look younger and fresher and added a score
of years and advertised wrinkles on features which
had seen harder service—-the invariable effect of
powder and patches. Sudden of steel
sequins on a black moire gown drew observation
to its fair wearer as imperatively as her own high
soprano, and one tiny woman offered to the specta-
tors interesting speculation as to how she managed
to keep her slight bodice from wilting entirely
away from her creamy shoulders. The ball was
rounded off by a plain, unvarnished supper, and
was kept a-rolling by Re Groen’s excellent band,
lne popular Les Fiances ” valse, with its sickly-
sweet refrain, reminds one at this date of the
flavor of stale wedding-cake icing, but it is the
most danceable measure the local talent has turned
out for many a day.
Ibsens “Doll’s House ” and other things were
discussed at Mme Juliette Henry’s conference at
her rooms in Hunter-street- last "Wednesday. A
fairly large crowd was entertained, notwithstand-
ing the attractions of the Teinpe ball, which was
going on at the same time. The lecture was in
T rench, and consequently, for many, the vagaries
°f the erratic Helmer and wife were not disen-
tangled of any of the mystery surrounding them,
and the problem of the door-slam was still un-
solved when the meeting rose.
Mr. Harry Hyndes farewelled the fair Cora B
Potter at Paling’s rooms on the Saturday before
she sailed. Mrs. P. rather underacted her partin
a blue gown remarkable for nothing in particular
but her hat was characteristic. K. Bellow was
attired as usual in casually-cut clothes. He is not
a tailor-made man in real life, reserving all his
sartorial triumphs for costume plays. Even on
the stage his modern costuming isn’t quite satisfac-
tory. His greatest social effect is in his conversa-
tion. On Monday the Potter following of devoted
maidens turned up at the mail steamer and waved
handkerchiefs enthusiastically, while their goddess
tore her bunch of flowers apart and distributed it
around, a violet apiece.
Not long ago Westralian Parliamentary sta-
tionery was distributed around Sydney wholesale
by a close relative of a Westralian M.P. The lady
brought over with her about lcwt. of gratis writ-
ing-paper with the arms of the province stamped
upon it. Even her orders to butcher, baker, and
draper were all written on stationery bearing the
L.C. brand. And many W.A. inhabitants wonder
at the enormous amount of stationery annuallv
consumed by Parliament. y
A well-known Darling River identity, who was
lately made a J.P., is more at home with sheep
than in polite society. While travelling to Syd-
ney he dined at the railway refreshment-room.
His neighbor was a new-chum dressed in latest
London style. The J.P. reached across the table
for the mustard, jostling the new arrival as he did
so The swell glared fiercely at the back-blocker
and said, indignantly, “Sir, if you had asked me,
1 would have passed the mustard.” When the
J.P. could speak, he burst out—“ Why, how was
a cove to know you was the blanky waiter? ”
Among the latest draws to make church attrac-
tive, High-Church parties are now holding first
Elaee. The youthful celibate curate, who is
ecoming too prevalent to please altogether the
adoring maidens of his flock, is being drawn into
this latest net under cover of “church work.”
On a moonlight water-picnic, many vows of
celibacy have been known to halt, and “ High
Girls ” are usually social somebodies, and blessed
with plenteous coin—worth making monkish vows
for.
The theatre entr’acte is going to be filled by
something else besides band for women who have
become tired of seeing their escorts regularly file
out between acts In one of the Sydney theatres,
a few nights ago, a fashionable-looking damsel in
the stalls whipped out needle and thread during
the interval and mended a glove. After this thin
end of the wedge, why not bring along the family
darning to the play, and “ the missis ” can execute
the necessary repairs while the old man makes the
usual exit ?
Now that Sydney street loaferdom has become
used to the bicycle woman, it has become tired of
the absorbing occupation of watching her pedal
twisting. But a considerate Transit Commission
has given it a new object in life by allowing women
to mount the perilous iron ’bus ladders and sit on
the roof, and loiterers can glue their eyes to the
steps as passengers alight—
‘Bor it’s not considered shocking
Just to indicate a stocking,”
as Deoima Moore used to sing.
Bush children who view for the first time the
wonders of town and of the ocean are, as a rule,
disappointedly stolid, and sturdily refuse to be
impressed with newly-beheld marvels. Little'
Jimmy from the backblocks, in town for his first
visit, could find wonderment in nothing except
the gas-stove, which he gazed at for an hour in
bewilderment, and then asked slowly—
Wheres the blanky logs?” A Govt.-educated
bush maiden, trying to give her first impression of
flat ’ ,ea ’ Wr ° te ’ " It; lo ° kS Hke a big blue hil1 ’ ° nly
A friend, writing from London, tells me that
tulle has entirely taken the place of chiffon on
smart gowns this season, and that hardly a yard
of the once-popular “ rag ” is used now except for
lamp-shades and sun-veils. This change, she
explains, is merely a wile of the drapers, for,
despite the fragile transparency of chiffon, it
stands a good deal of hard wear, not to speak of
washing and dyeing. . On the other hand, there is
an unostentatious stiffness about tulle which the
slightest crushing or damp will dispel, and with
it goes the whole virtue of the fabric. With the
most careful handling tulle stands only one wear,
whereas chiffon would freshen up cheerfully many
times during a long season.
During festivities at a Govt. House over the
water a meteoric person of foreign title ap-
peared at the free feed and jubed so charmingly
that all the other jubers were eclipsed. Her Ex.
was particularly gracious and' thawed under the
genial glow of the Baron’s presence, while the
suite took charge of the overlooked company and
quietly jubed with them in the background. And
it _is darkly alleged that the reason why
the fascinating foreigner felt so much at home in
swallow tails is because he wears ’em all day long
as he hands round corned beef and carrots.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“At the Princess Theatre these nights it’s edi-
fylll!? to see rows of church-goers gloating over
Mary Weir’s dance, slashed skirt and all, as
unctuously as if it were a revival sermon from a
popular preacher. And to think how these very
saints have hitherto carried on about the immo-
rality of the theatre, the immodesty of stage
dancing, and the indecency of the dialogue. Now,
just because there’s a flavor of sentimental theo-
logy thrown in, they complacently countenance a
production with fully the average amount of
naughtiness (as they would know if they had ever
seen any other play), and applaud unblushingly
midnight love-making, drunken buffoonery and
epileptic royalty. Undeterred by these seeulari-
ties, elders and deacons bring along their olive-
branches to hear the juvenile martyr screech, and
the early Christians sing hymns in first-class style
and unrestrained voice at forbidden midnight ser-
vices.
“In the ‘Sign of the Cross ’ the so-called ‘Mel-
bourne beauty ’ is a delightful vision as a slave, in
a delicious yellow robe and fillets of gold coins in
her hair. In the pose of a lute-player, however,
she falls short of perfection owing to the reed-like
proportions of her arms. ‘No woman with thin
arms was ever unreservedly attractive to a man.’
Though the dressing as a whole was admirable,
the Christians even at that early stage were
evidently remarkable for their dowdiness. Nine
out of every ten women who have seen the play
condemn Mercia’s flowing style of coiffure as
unsuited to the sparseness of her tresses, and yearn
for a gold-and-crimson evening gown, built on the
lines of Miss Elliott Page’s (Berenis). Ladies’
schools are being taken to the Princess’s to get up
their Roman history. So far the chief result of
the object lesson seems to be joy at the discovery
that the Latin Johnnies wore high-laced boots,
with heels, instead of floppy sandals.
“Dr. Clifford, the London Baptist pr'eacher now
witn you in Sydney, is in appearance a frail, shabby
ancient with a straggling, grey beard, a creased
navy-blue tie twisted round his limp shirt collar,
and, altogether, not a particle of ecclesiastical
foppery in his get-up. In the old country, a suc-
cessful dissenting divine is, or was, a bird of another
feather from his colonial brother. The former,
Radical in politics, more or less socialistic in
opinions, would speedily have barked his shins
against the watchful Nonconformist conscience,
had he personally indulged in man-millinery. On
this side of the water, the higher-salaried Baptists
and such, unchastened by persecution, school-
board and established church grievances, wax fat
and sleek. Their dress outherods Herod in its
immaculate sacerdotalism, and, so far from defy-
ing the 0. of E. parson, their chief ambition is to
be recognised by him as a fellow professional.
“As is the new world pastor so is his flock.
Local Wesleyans and members of kindred denomi-
nations, instead of glorying in their old tradi-
tions of humility, fearlessness, &c., constantly tilt
at the popular delusion that only the lower classes
worship in the minor tabernacles. They point
with pride to this or the other rich warehouseman
as a prominent communicant, and dwell fondly on
the social elegance of his daughters and the ex-
pensiveness of his sons. In fact, convention, pro-
perty, and the powers that be, are the idols of the
so-called dissenting bodies in Australia, no less
than of those religious institutions which lay claim
to the monopoly of the title * Church.’
“However, old-man Clifford, as a relic from
the former Nonconformist dispensation, puts on
no frill, and has a good deal of fire in him when
he warms up. Gov. and Lady Brassey, the
Mayor and Mayoress, Judge Hodges, and the
most prominent of local ‘ dippers,’ sat on the plat-
form m the Town Hall during his lecture in aid
°f the fever hospital. The wives of wealthy
wholesale drapers are always remarkable for the
solid excellence of their furs, mantles and such-
like, while the salient point in the outward ap-
pearance of successful softgoodsmen themselves is
that in their own raiment they never spare the
stuff.
. * The application of many Sydney women to
witness the strangulation of murderer Butler re-
calls the efforts of several Melb. ‘lydies’ to see
Deeming turned off. One prominent member of
the Austral Salon was particularly energetic to
obtain a pass, but without avail, •_ and another
alleged woman had hopes'right to the end; even
nasty remarks from Sheriff Ellis himself failed to
damp her craving. The very morning of the
execution she was at the gaol gates importuning
the warder on duty to admit her.
“ Each suburb of any pretensions is at present
trying to outdo its rival ‘ city ’ in everything save
the sewer-rate, and every aspiring Mayor seems
bent not only on going one better than his neighbor
but on rivalling the Melb. dignitary in style. The
civic hop-gatherings this year have been mounted
on a Eland Holtean scale of impressiveness. Haw-
thorn started with a fairly expensive display, and
others followed suit with added splendors, but
when Richmond took the field all the glory of
these preceding efforts departed from them. The
interior of the Richmond hall positively blazed
with hundreds of colored electric-lights, not to
mention flags, garlands of greenery, ferns, and the
inevitable V.R. Male creatures were accommo-
dated with a quite luxurious smoking marquee
by way of supplement to the card-room, in
which was a bar evidently well-equipped with
breath-perfumeries. The weaker sex, as some-
body remarked in a plaintive soprano, could
get nothing stronger than sherry. As a matter of
Jubilee course, there was a private reservation of
one refreshment-room for the numerous Mayors,
together with their family belongings, and such
members of the “ hupper suckles ” as had been
successfully implored to leaven the function were
provided with a card admitting them to the sacred
retreat, the door whereof was guarded by a brawny
waiter of chueking-out proportions. One was
amused to observe the foreign Mayors taking stock
of the fixings and mental notes of matters to be
unproved upon at their approaching shivoos. The
dressing, as a rule, was rather above the civic
mark, although, of course, the crowd included
many who emerge from the Ark on these particu-
lar occasions, and seem to return to Noah’s care
when the curtain falls.
“ Lady Brassey has shed the light of her coun-
tenance several times upon Miss Annie Mau
since that ‘scharmine ’ prima-donna’s unfortunate
retirement to the Homeopathic Hospital. Also,
floral offerings from Lady B. and the warbling
Earl have brought sweet memories of stage-fever
into the invalid’s dozy daily life. Miss Mau was
so seriously ill that her doctor refused to attend
her at her home, and insisted on her removal to a
hospital. She now lies in a private room in the
St. Kilda-road Institute progressing slowly.
Siiiellbourne is a blaze of wattle-blossom this
week. The * golden harbinger of spring 'is intro-
duced into everything in the way of decoration
without the least regard for artistic effect. A
Collins-street hostess spoilt the look of her two
handsome reception rooms and supper-table at an
‘ -AJ Home,’ last week, by too lavish a display of
the bush bardlet’s pet weakness. Another wild
enthusiast sent up a bouquet of the blossom over
the footlights to a Roman lady (Miss Elliot Page)
on Saturday night, and a third spoilt a dainty
wedding set-out by having bridesmaids’ posies of
wattle.
“Lindsay Gordon’s warmest enthusiasts have
gone West, and ’Ome, and even heavenwards, and
so scattered are they that the anniversary of his
death passed off without the merest shake of the
cypress. A few pedestrians down Brighton way
strolled into the cemetery to see that the poet’s
head-stone was still there ; but that was all. Even
his old friend Mount was so busy bringing out a
daughter at the Govt.-house ball that lie minded
not to come before the footlights and maunder of
the bard’s decease.
“ Marshall-Hall’s vanity is the most inflexible (to
use a paradox) of human frailties. It covers him
like a coat of mail, so that the whizzing arrows of
various critics glance past and hurt him not. The
‘Hymn to Sydney ’ is, Prof. Marshall-Hall
thinks, the finest thing (of its kind, be it said
parenthetically), in the new language. ‘ Did
you read my new poem ? ’ said the prof, to a lady
in a Collins-street bookseller’s, the other day.
‘No,’ said she, ‘ do you think I miyhtV (dubiously).
“Marshall Hall begins his orchestral concerts for
the season on Saturday, 17th, which recalls that
at one of the Wagnerian bang-and-jingles last
year a discordant note among the violins caught
the director’s ear. He descended from his perch,
and made straight for a guilty-looking person in
the fourth row. ‘ Tune your instrument! ’ said
the great man. The audience, who had been
pressing into the hall of Jove on the heels of Wag-
ner, came down to earth, with a great gasp, at the
sudden interruption to the proceedings, and gasped
again when they saw the Prof, detect the jarring
instrumentalist in a band of 40. Of course, it
7/iight have been a put-up job, but the incident
looked spontaneous enough.
“The prisoners at Pentridge (Melb.), who par-
ticipated so far in the Jubilee revels as to have
their sentences shortened a few days, sent up the
Hanthem in the prison-yard when they were
hned-up to hear the good news. Truly the reduc-
tio ad absurdum! One felonious bird blubbered,
and would have broken down but for his stoic
companions. And yet his emotion was wasted,
for he got no further reduction of his term in
H.M.’s gaol.
“Government House (with theaspirate)recovered
soon enough after the bloominations to give a
private dance to its friends (numbering, seemingly,
250 in Victoria) on Monday night last week. Mrs.’
Freeman-Thomas, who origiiiates all these side-
shows, kept things humming, and made the select
gathering, which had threatened to be deadly dull,
one of the brightest events of the Brassey regime.
“ The grief felt in many circles for Lady Clarke’s
bereavement is not mere surface sorrow. The
little fishes in the social net mourn sincerely that
the hostess of Cliveden’s retirement into the back-
ground as an entertainer deprives them of their
only chance of playing in sassiety circles. Lady
C. has always been miles ahead of the limitations
of snobdom, and her invitation-lists are long and
generous. She is the patron saint of all who can
get her name on their business-books—gives the
advt. of a nod to her tradespeople, and cranes her
neck from her carriage-window to bestow a bow
on her frock-artist. Whereas most fashionable
dames pass with a stony stare the woman whose
life, an hour or two before, they have been worry-
ing out over ruches and gathers.
“At the Bijou, on Saturday evening, as the
Victorian Operatic Society neared the end of its
three-night season in aid of the Fever Hospital,
the large and friendly audience acquiesced for the
billionth time in the hopeless inferiority of
amateur mummers to the “real Mackay.” * For
one thing, non-professional make-up, so far from
helping to make a heroine younger and
prettier, or a hero more martial and im-
pressive, is merely an unbecoming disguise,
adapted, apparently, out of compliment to
stage tradition. Then the raw recruit rarely hits
upon an effective costume. Remember the frisky
farmer’s wife, for instance (in the ‘Hermit’s Bell ’)
whose red skirt and green velvet Swiss bodice
made her look as round-backed as if hubby habitu-
ally drove her in the plough. And, to add to the
liigh-shouldered effect, she wore her hair in a
frizzed, roundabout mop, hiding every vestige of
neck. The dashing dragoon of the cast
had adopted an aggravating tinkle - tinkle
laugh, and constantly posed in profile for his
frequent kiss-tableaux, an error in judgment
for one by no means nasally deficient. The part
of Sylvan, the ample country swain, was taken
by an individual suitably named ‘ Pett,’ with a
sweet-enough singitug voice, but talking tones so
tearful as to excite the laughter of the well-
behaved gods. Peasant Rose Moineau, though
livelier than most amateurs, was handicapped by
her facial make-up, which gave her a staring hair-
teeth-and-eyes sort of expression, surprising in a
young lady who, in private life; is described as a
prepossessing damsel.
“ Here is one of the little things that make the
democracy hate the sight of a soldier. A party
was crossing in the military launch from the
Franklin to the Queenscliff Battery (Vic.) and
when it came on to rain ‘ cats and dogs, ’ the ladies
on board at once rushed the cabin, and among
them was the wife of a ‘common soldier,’ holding
rank no higher than a sergeant. The swash-
buckler in charge of the boat noted the offence,
and, immediately on reaching barracks reported
the presumption of the non-commissioned man in
not letting his spouse get wet through. The ser-
geant was hauled before the commanding officer
and, though allowed to depart without being
drummed out or shot for insubordination, an order
was posted in the barracks stating that in future
the saloon of the launch would be exclusively for
the use of officers’ wives.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Out in the desert, far from apparatus, a
certain Westralian doctor administers enemas
with a bicycle pump. Patent applied for.
With the withdrawal of the protection
which made N.S.W. sugar a white man’s industry,
the colored races step in. It looks as if Reid’s
“ fiscal reform” will not affect the Sugar Co.,
while it will rum white labor—will, in fact, pro-
tect black against white.
Further information does not place the
purchase of the Parkes second-hand “not first-
class ” statue in a better light. It seems that the
late G.O.M. had inspected and pronounced it not
good enough even for St’Enrial Park. But here
is where the Parkesian element comes in. With
this statue were others of Gladstone, Disraeli, and
Dickens, by the same artist. These old man
Parkes bought as good enough for the Centennial.
Ex-Premier Jennings has died at Brisbane
of Bright’s disease. Although he had bei n
head of the State in N.S.W., no one regardfd
him seriously as a politician, and it is doubtful, in-
deed, if he ever took a solemn view of himself in
that capacity. He was of high education, refined
tastes, and unimpeachable honor, and one of the
most generous and compassionate men who ever
owned a big bank-account. He married a
Victorian heiress and was at one time of great
wealth ; but he mortgaged one huge property to
buy another, and then he invested in a third and
bought no end of land to get rid of selectors, and
in the end—well, many a 640-acre selector dies
more wealthy and more happy. Thus departs
another leading light of Sydney’s old “ cabbage-
tree ” club, the Reform.
The late N.S.W. Railway Commissioner
Eddy did many good things for the public, and
this in particular : he firmly set his face against
political influence in the railway service. And
the malicious spleen of the little lodge bosses and
mouthy politicians who had “ lived on the game,”
and whom he defeated and discredited, vainly
spits venom over his open grave. To those
who had the least acquaintance with Mr. Eddy
the printed slander that he indirectly suc-
cumbed to the effects of liquor is merely
ludicrous. But those who did not know
him may be told that it would be hard to find a
more abstemious man. His doctors constantly
told him that he must live more generously. At
official banquets he honored the toasts by sipping
at one glass of wine. Por seven years he had cold
luncheon with a cup of tea or milk in his office.
His work was his life ; it alone interested him ; he
allowed himself no time for recreation, exercise, or
leisure. And this high tension, coupled with a
temperament which worried incessantly, was what
broke him down. The story that employees con-
sidered him a tyrant is refuted by the fact that some
3000 of these sacrificed a day's pay and came, long
distances to attend his funeral, while practically
every country station sent either a wreath or ex-
pressions of regret. This sorrow was not show ;
it was sincere and spontaneous—nothing was to
be feared or gained from a dead Caasar.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, ££ 4~s.
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
£75 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
_____ • •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“Mllut
U>
tilt
isa
,\wm
mb
11l
A
lllk
is
iuiUl
iilllJHl
m.
wwn
w
mm
ill?
mm
Ml.;
m
m
mi
fit
m
if'
LL'II
1 1 1
Wniiffi
“•i
ilnill
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OP—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W. BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
A Knight out—Mayor Ives.
Rev. Carr-Smith, of St. James’, Sydney,
Is known in clerical circles as “ the Smoking
Carr.”
One suit of the Kelly armor (Ned’s) is
mysteriously missing from the Vic. Treasury
lumber-room.
The author of “ Wrixon on Socialism ” got
J 55000 a year with his wife. Consequently he has
missed being’Vic. Chief Justice.
The immediate cause of surgeon T. N.
Fitzgerald’s knighthood probably was his mending
•of Lady Hopetoun’s pretty little nose.
Premier Braddon, LL.D. ! This in recog-
nition of his recent valuable services in attempting
to strangle what there is of the Tasmanian Uni-
versity ?
Gov. Buxton much offended the Adelaide
crowd on Jubilee day by keeping his hat solidly
on as he drove through the streets despite the
oheering. He simply grinned.
A SOLOMON ISLAND SEPULCHRE.
Actual Vic. occurrence. Proposed that a
shire surveyor should receive an honorarium. Up
rose a local Solon: “As the surveyor is not
musical, probably a few pounds would be more
acceptable.”
Mr. S. D. Hancox, Railway Auditor at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), who died last week, some
! years ago had triplets (girls) added to his family.
He named them Faith, Hope, and Charity—and
; they still live.
At a Sydney Presbyterian church the
! other Sunday, a baby was baptised into this sinful
world with the cognomen of John Andrew Record
| Reign M‘Fudd. And yet they say the Scotchman
j has no sense of humor !
It is related of “ Philosopher ” Smith, the
Mt. Bischoff discoverer, who died at Launceston
last month, that he used to cut it so fine in the
way of rations when prospecting that his dog
would not accompany him.
Dr. G. Forde Rutter, the rising young
Sydney medico who died last week of typhoid,
was grandson of Dr. Rutter, late of Parramatta,
1 who, in Henry Parkes’s infancy in England, found
him tongue-tied and let loose his talk upon the
; world.
Muswellbrook Chronicle, June 26, says
! that N.S.W. Chief Justice Stephen has been made
a K.C.M.G. It is just 25 years since Judge
Stephen was Chief Justice, and he has been dead
now some three years. News travels slowly to
Muswellbrook.
Hartley Williams (Vic.) is the only knight
in Australia whose father was a knight before
him. Baronets, of course, don’t count, because
their sons can’t help that sort of thing. Kingston,
whose father was be-titled as Speaker of S.A.
Assembly, has had a narrow escape.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lyne objects
to “P.C.” as much as to “K.C.M.G.” Lyne
may some day become Premier and be in as tight
afixasG.H.R. A wise politician always keeps
open at least one avenue of escape as it is so hard
for Australian Premiers to “ refuse a lady.”
Frank Farnell, M.L.A., the rosy Recha-
bite who publicly scouted the flowing bowl and
still wags a monitory finger at the sinful pew-
ter, is the great-grandson of the man who first
brewed ale in Australia. The brewer, Squire, was
a soldier, and his brewery was at Kissing Point.
Federal Conventionist “Jack” Gordon,
ex-Chief Secretary of S.A. and the sweetest-
tempered man in local politics, will be 47 on July
26. Kingston, Holder, and Cockburn, with whom
Gordon was a colleague before the wretched Hos-
pital dispute separated them, were all born in 1850.
Ricardo : “Sir Cuthbert, as the French
put it, is the richest Vic. knight. He was the
prime legal milkman and oyster-opener in the
prodigious Ballarat mining litigation that used to
come off before Judge Molesworth the first, who
created the provincial mining law on such solid
foundations that litigation died out —and Cuth
bert became politick.”
Seymour Dicker, Brisbane’s leading organ-
ist, was travelling to Sydney per steamer and,
being ill, asked for a steward. “Mr. Seymour
Dicker wants you-he is very sick,” said another
passenger to the man of basins. “ Yes,” remarked
the waiter, and “he’ll be a D-more sicker very
soon.”
A sni-generis barrister, brother of an illus-
trious Englishman, was “run in” the other day as a
noisy “drunk ”; he had been hammering “after
hours” at the door of a sixpenny lodging-house.
“Discharged ! ” cried the beak, and immediately
the name of a Chinaman was called as the next
case. “I appear for the prisoner,” said the bar-
rister, as he meandered from the spikes-compart-
ment to the lawyer’s table. He had “improved
the shining hours ” of incarceration !
From N.S.W. Hansard :
Crick : The hon. member cannot complain if to-morrow
he is ordered out to shoot down his own kith and kin.
Nkild : Supposing I were ordered out to shoot down
the hon. member’s kith and kin ?
Crick : The hon. member couldn’t do that. lam an
orphan.
This accounts for Crick’s recklessness. He isn’t
kept in order by the fear of Neild shooting at his
aged parents.
S.A. Democrats tremblingly wonder
whether Premier Kingston is wearing in London
that faded holland suit which has nobly stuck to
him through good and ill, and, further, whether
the shabby terai hat, so prominent on the day of
his departure, has now, alas, been discarded and
forgotten amidst the vanities of the Jubilee cele-
brations. “ Don’t you worry, boys, I won’t for-
get you,” said Kingston in April. But what of
July? The Right Hon. C. C. Kingston, P.C.,
D.C.L., in a terai hat! What would Albert
Edward say?
Many good stories, mostly Rabelaisian, are
told of the late George Hill, the Sydney sporting
man. One day a flash person, who had just ac-
quired a huge diamond ring, sought to have Hill
admire it, and twiddled it under his nose; but
Hill declined to take notice. At last, in despera-
tion, the diamond man said : “ Fine stone, isn’t it,
Mr. Hill—what do you think of it ? ” “I think,”
said old George, very deliberately, “that it’s like
a brass knocker on the door of a ” (com-
pound Saxon word).
“ Rev. G. D. Buchanan, parson-elect of
Chalmers Church, Sydney, made no idle boast
when he recently declared that one of the most
encouraging features of his work in Brisbane had
been the influence of his preaching on the com-
mercial travellers. Last night the members of
the Brisbane Commercial Travellers’ Association
were to entertain Mr. Buchanan at a farewell
social.” Pastor Buchanan is the one cleric in all
Australia eminently fitted to act as ghostly com-
forter to the average drummer.
N, : “ Melb. demise. W. G. Palmer,
ex-Sergeant-at-Arms Leg. Assembly. Nephew of
J. F. Palmer, who stuffed him into this cosy
nest of a billet, .£l5 a week wages. Snoozed in it
80 years, then panned out another 10, sleeping as
much as he liked on only £7los. a week pension.
Palmer had the distinguished honor of being
reckoned the laziest man at Parliament House,
confining his exertions to lift'ng the mace on ana
off the table. Le Souef, the corresponding man in
the Council, did a lot outside. Palmer didn’t.”
S.A. Gov. Buxton’s married daughters
have all wedded parsons, and now Conybeare,
the assistant private secretary, who is en-
gaged to the youngest daughter, has departed
for England to take “ holy orders.” Capt.
Guise, who is engaged to the other available
daughter, and has almost covered S.A. with tracts,
is also ambitious to become a pulpit-thumper.
Harold and Leland Buxton, who have gone Eng-
land wards with Conybeare, are also similarly des-
tined. It must be indeed saddening to Gov.
Buxton to think that with all this piety the Bux-
tons will be best remembered in connection with
the family beer.
IN “PUSH” SOCIETY.
B ILL: “ Gam, Liz, stop that bloomin' cryin ’. I
don’t want everyone to know I’m married.”
If murderer Butler is allowed to read the
Sunday papers, and happens to fall up against
Truth’s hideous list of the botched strangulations
perpetrated by Crown law officer “Nosey Bob,”
he will probably die of sheer fright, or get his
skull fractured when trying to sleep cm his horror-
frozen hair.
THE BALD BILLIONAIRE.
THE PROFESSOR : “ Vat I like about you, Mr. Billions, eez zat, in spite of ze
velth you have, you don’t put on a lot of ’airs.”
A S.M. Herald scribe jeers a solemn jeer
at the absurd iteration of “ honorable ” in parlia-
mentary procedure. But the Herald herself
never fails in her cablegrams to set forth, with
true yellowplush unction, “ The Right Hon. G. H.
Reid, P.C.,” and so on with the rest of the junket-
ing premiers. What’s the matter with, for in-
stance, “Premier Reid? ” A turnip by any other
name!
Sydney D.T. advt. :
WANTED, address of a solicitor who has a know-
ledge of some newspaper, personals. Victim,
Daily Telegraph.
And the law-tout makes his bow next day:—
TTICTIM may have all its requirements by stating its
' cause to straightforward, honest person. —Vic-
timised.
A Falstaffian officer of N.S.W. khakee
soldiery puffed his way through the crowd at the
close of a Sydney review' lately. “ See him ! ”
said a Stars-and-Stripes man ; “in my country it
is the law that no fat man shall wear a commission.
Obesity is a standard disqualification. When fat
shows, the man is retired.” A good rule, too, in
general; but if The Bulletin was in a beleagured
city it would like the commandant to be fat.
Henry Ayers, the S.A. knight who re-
cently died, lai d the foundation of his wealth
by playing the harp in Adelaide hotels in the
early days. He made a “ rise ” out of the
S.A. copper-boom in the forties, and was
the largest shareholder in the Burra mine.
There was once a politician who was
cited as co-respondent in divorce, and was
so conclusively bowled-out that there was
no getaway. So, the lady having “cleared,”
he put the best possible face on matters by
calling his constituents together and pub-
licly asking forgiveness. Armed with a
stack of Hansard, he fired off one after
another the beneficial acts which he had
been instrumental in placing on the statute-
book, and asked in broken accents that all"
these good deeds should weigh against his
one error. As the last word left liis lips
the politician reeled and fell back into his
chair sobbing bitterly, his face hidden
with his hands. “ That ought to fetch the
blankers,” he whispered to his chairman
as he staggered into his seat. And it did.
Bishop Meyers, of Melbourne (bishop of
Nat. Kinsman’s church—own make), has been lec-
turing on “Drunken Parsons I have Met.” He
tells of one minister who was so tight that he
went to sleep in the middle of his own sermon.
Bishop Meyers shouldn’t jump to conclusions.
We have often seen good teetotallers fall asleep in
the middle of a sermon—why should the parson
always escape the influence ?
By promptly transferring to the deceased’s
family the property which an enthusiastic Queens-
land devotee had willed to the Theosophical
Society, President Olcott puts up a recond. No
other religious body, as far as The Bulletin
knows, has ever disgorged a penny of any bequest
it could legally stick to—no matter how gross the
moral injustice involved. Christianity always
makes a bad break at the scent of hard cash.
Shown Bus*
kin’s recent word-
pain ting of the
Alps the other day
a certain “ beau-
teous ” warrior-
bard remarked
that it wonder-
fully resembled hit
description of
those mountains.
“And, more curi-
ous still,” he add-
ed, “I find that
Ruskin’s account
appeared exactly
six weeks after
mine!” “Ah!”
said the other fel-
low, “just time
for yours to reach
England ! ” And
the warrior - bard
twirled his spikes
and smiled in
three volume*
During the
Speight (Vic.) rail-
way regime an ex-
alted ecclesiastic,
annoyed by the
professions of
friendship of a
bibulous person
on the platform at
Speneer-st., made
his way to head-
quarters and con-
fronted King
Dicky at his desk.
“Mr. Speight,”
said he wrathfully,
“do you allow
drunken persons
to travel on your
trains?” The
Chairman of the
Railway Commis-
sioners paused a
moment to glance
up and down at
his visitor, and
then, with a merry
little twinkle in
his eye, he said
sotto voce and con-
fidentially : “Just
you take a seat
about the middle
of the train and
keep very quiet ;
and you’ll get into no trouble.” The bishop goed
—went, we mean.
Eastern newspapers, when commenting on
things Westralian, often refer to the “Six
Families.” Properly speaking there are seven—
viz., Lee Steere, Parker, Hammersly, Burgess,
Hassell, Leake and Burt.
Re Butler’s brain. Doesn’t this case come
within the common-law jurisdiction of the coro-
ner ? and can’t he order a post-mortem ? This is
certainly the case in Victoria, and the N.S.W.
provision for a certificate of the due carrying out
of the choking process hardly seems to be intended
as a substitute for, but as a complement to, the old
law. Both in N.S.W. and Vic., after an execu-
tion, the coroner holds an inquest, with a jury
and all the paraphernalia, in addition to a gazet-
ted statement of the fact of judicial hanging,
signed by all persons present.
Minister Ghould’s high-chested assurance
of clemency in the Thomas Suffield case is merely
what Chief Justice Griffith used to call “flap-
doodle.” Two years ago, and again before Reid
went to England, Suffield was informed that if he
petitioned for clemency the petition would receive
favorable consideration ; but this man demanded
release, not as a clemency, but as a right. It is
probable he will again refuse to petition according
to prison stereotype, unless, indeed, as a gaol-
warder whispered a few days ago, the gaol officials
make things so hot for him between now and
Christmas that a man will do anything to get out
of that Gehenna.
The admission of the budding poet, con-
cholouist, sociologist and ex-footballer, Collins,
to Vic. bar, subject to an easily-fulfilled condi-
tion about reciprocity, seems to remove, if the
case is correctly reported, the absolute bar which
has appeared to exist against the admission of
English and other barristers to Victoria. The
absence of articles in the English regulations tiaa
been hitherto thought an insuperable objectiqn.
But, judging from this case, all that is necessary
for an English, and presumably a N.S.W., barris-
ter to do, is to get admitted in Maoriland also,
when, without fulfilling articles, he can, on satis-
fying the Vic. court that he has got through
a course of study equivalent to the Vic. standard,
be admitted there without difficulty.
“ Henry Lawson has settled at Kaikouri
(M.L.) as schoolmaster at the Maori pah school.”
A REGRET.
The restless rover has left the track
Of “dust and flies” in the far “ out-back” ;
He has dumped his swag: by the Maori sea,
And we’re lonely here in the old Gum-tree.
For the green leaves quivered to hear his song
Of the right of Right and the wrong of Wrong,
And the dead leaves turned from their misery
To hear that hymn in the old Gum-tree.
Will he find new themes in the Maori land—
A league of sea for a league of land 1
Then his pent-up notes will be all too free,
Till he come back and sing in the old Gum-tree.
THE RAVEN.


% f/ %
■ Vx
6,\
\
_ _ <#S J
S;6nDo.\, Thursd&y.— The .‘'Lancet”
tp/tfie detfcriorafion of eyesight from vVliich
the Queen Is suffering, and declares that the'
rcpdrtsp which have appeared with regard
to it have been grossly exaggerated. The;
■paper says that her Majesty, is not ."pre-,
vented from the performance of her official
duties.
.If yOUIlgStelS ruifted*&e?r~p6iaj>ritutimi» hy qrpnying
/they must neceasaiily go to. a premature <traw> *
', - , , ‘ * -w, Asa mboical inah
\ «?. a , u ? the f e W «M many people who, if
Xth.yhad taken his advice, would have. been alive
\ to-day.
yDr fa?*-'
e)jj€
ay CLn
\ olcL 7y<z.ytiC&l <%hya.-
s\ Tor <?*-«"?-
: j \ fold _
Ga, i sill! <r
J niL-\
/ Wl
k* j
v
We
\ DiD
gkNo]/
/>*
/ * &/js-
- <?
y 'v 1
> .-s’ sy v c> -q;
>so
o sV*€#
(f 5,
jT */? *- c-
■ /
<?£&*
<, .^vl s
J°£ V>? ®
?<?/&
° 4?'
JAjND.iX, Tuesday Night.—The C"uncil of
- fh<- It ova 1 Geographical Society to-day con-
ferred with the Agents-Gener.il upon the sub-
ject of Antarctic exploration.
Sir Clements Markham, the president of
the society, presided, and on its behalf offer-
ed £5OOO towards an Antarctic expedition, on
condition that each of the Australasian colo-
nies made aasitnilai: contribution.
Aursf'ndin h/iU lja/e rtoffun-t} to da
wiJfi fke scheme unless it can bcsho
that it is \ihtly U benefit Ike frozen
itU'Cif trader
descriprtorj
ab ov't.
J^rurvKe-i''
15 he-re St-e-re upsetting
rhe- Sw-rvol'Oy apple'- Carl
/V
\,\^k
> /
'
s a %4
hh rPq/ ■ /ly -t 1
fn l/ L " l r , L '".fc l tS< f rt
' e r s -in (?K a '‘ j.
i >;>« u.tXif
A
j. y
w <‘” v
*«>
V* n
'^ad-haring
iJVow ff)&- rv, my yu ~
Whw cUcl you. TRa-f ajofslfc- •
lnnocwf -7ft Htfc- public
‘bu.se> oyfe-r Tf{e-r'e' !
JI3/TuaiKe-t* -0! 1 feoL\-frd. kcidhe-tfv
SftbbafPu '
The Hon. D. O'Connor is stated to have \
closed an Eloquent speech in live Legislative
Council on Wednesday last on the Sunday
selling question .with the following re-'
markable perqrabipn : —“ Is it to be
.tolerated that if a;oan takes his family to
view the>. wonderful works of Nature
especially Created for the enjoyment of the
’■'citizens of Sydney by Almighty Cod, that
he should bo prevented from obtaining for
their refreshment the natural fruits of the
earth, such as gingerbeer and lemonade ?**
THE SYDNEY BLUE LAWS AND OTHER POEMS.


, t
C..*‘
. rt^ a rf"
if*'jr °t
ha t* le °
"'late-'
IMfF.
jtM^'ciny^\suif/je/orv cfafi
/( ie A ?■* i Coiy s Yci^/<£.il!
O//af~a .— ‘~Z) > i/* *-*- >a Z 3 0//^.
s, S/iur-e t VAes-e. <stm& a,
f / ?~ta h /e
feerso?i
7*rf7<St/~ A'/lOVVf
he/-. "
|j
11
<c< cIC e r
n- .. . LONDON, st]i July.
d M t Sty the Queon >‘a* been La- '
« “>« request -of B ShJ
l ° accept tl,e ka "S«°°
nwi the Victorian Mounted Rifles de
fachtoent took with them to England" a
Su- George burner, in responding,. said 1
lio»%l»t weeß LnKJnJtDd'tbt^'i"' 1 ” 11 'vk-
“"'■“•'•.-So.zJSsrr
>&?>&<**
V?
j^y 9
V fiW£\y r H E. XA MfS7/? 0o
77 e Queen- /Aa^7s y
// e '///
tjnake a. wee.
A£> o CvN.
0/
c **e e of , if)... /o f)
•*s£s o 4
*<fe : °/
*V
#
s V.'c?';?
>/
/%/
’
Hgf
iys.toLf-7-1 oji l / /£7o/~<'& S //dZ/~o „
grrftt?<. Jtajjjjßif i woilß te W#
fj& e
MELBOURNIANA.


Granuma for Health ,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Horn ah for the very best of Bread ;
And , if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there's really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
??????
“ What Ails You ? ”
You are looking, perhaps feeling, badly. You
have something wrorg, but think it will soon pass
away ! That is one of the fatal delusions •such as
disease always weaves about its victims. If you
are wise you will send reinforcements to nature.
She can pull you through if you give her a little
timely aid. [V|
“DON’T KNOW WHAT TO DO!”
Let us tell you. If you have a weak, languid
feeling, periodical headaches, dizziness and vari-
able appetite, skin eruptions, bad taste in the
mouth on rising, disagreeable breath, yellow,
spotted, pimply skin, blood corruption, are easily
tired without known cause, have chills, fevers,
and more frequent “off days,” are restless at
night, troubled with dreams and startings in sleep,
are prematurely debilitated, are nervous, and ra
always in dread of some indefinable event I—*
which never happens, are irritable, peevish, easily
dispirited, have aching in the back and around
and above the hips, belching of wind, distress after
eating, distention of the bowels, which are irregu-
lar—mostly constipated,—if your whole system
lacks tone and vigor, then we knoiv what ails you 1
ARE YOU HELPLESS?
No; neither are you necessarily in a dangerous
condition yet, but you certainly will pr: be soon if
you don’t help nature. HOW ? L-i
WARNER’S SAFE CURE CURES
these unpleasant symptoms which are caused by
torpidity of the liver or breaking down of the kid-
neys. Sold by medicine vendors all over the
world.
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SOU LTD.
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE,
Ob the following Agents—
Kingston, S.A.} QUEENSLAND
POLITICAL
POINTS
About 40 per cent, of N.S.W. Assembly
now consists of miserable wretches whose fear of
divorce from their £3OO a year impels them to beg
from the Treasury blankets for the poor of their
electorates, and then to have the ghastly fact para-
graphed in all the daily papers. The Blanket-
party !
Labor-member Prendergast is shoving
through Vic. Assembly a useful little bill to fix
the fees chargeable in servants’ registry offices,
and to abolish all the swindling registry people by
compelling them to take out licenses, which can
be promptly cancelled in case of fraud or other
misconduct. As the measure won’t personally
damage Sargood or Cornelius Job Ham it has a
better show in the Council than most democratic
ideas.
A HARDENED OFFENDER.
O’HARA, J.P.: “ Ye say. Constable Raffardi, the prisoner was whistling
in a loud strain this morning. I can’t see any harem.”
CONSTABLE R. (in whisper) : “But, yer Washup, it was a sthrain of
the Wather.”
O’H.: “ What Wather?”
C. R.: “Boyne Wather.”
O.H.: “Dare, oh dare! It’s a good job for ye, M‘Mannis, it’s a free
and enlightened country. Ye’re let off with ten shillings
and costs.”
Queensland politicians, supposed to be
Able to “ read between the lines ” the meaning of
recent party movements, profess to see that the
peculiar personal appointments made to the
“ Royal Commissions ” on lands and mining have
temporarily averted the general political slump
that threatened to rearrange the various Parlia-
mentary sections.
The recent case of garnisheeing a tem-
porarily-crippled debtor’s pay in a Queensland
coastal town recalls that, in ’94, a bill to prevent
•workmen’s wages from being garnisheed was
passed by Q. Assembly, but blocked by the
Council. If the. Tozer crowd does not re-introduce
the measure some Labor-member should, at least,
table a motion about it.
H. : “ Bravo, Ileid ! He stands up to
Gosehen, gives it him square from the shoulder,
and knocks out a tooth or two. A delicious cold
douche. Here is Gosehen, in his gold-plastered
coat, expecting the usual oratoric suit of Dittoes,
in reply. His eyebrow's are pretty high, but they
must have been elevated almost to the roots of his
hair, as he peered over his glasses, at this
Audacity.”
N.S.W. Police Superannuation Fund has
gone broke. There was <£5300 left of the fund on
March 31, and on June 30 it was down to £2OOO.
The outgoings are about £24,000 a year, so unless
the State comes to the rescue with a large sum of
money, theold,broken-down “cop.”must needs end
his days in the Benevolent Asylum, or be run in
for vagrancy by his younger and more active
successor.
Constitutional history is sometimes made
whole pages at a time. But a few years ago
Parkes and Reid denounced the Acting-Premier-
ship of Dailey during the Stuart illness and of
Barton during Dibbs’s trip to “ Moscow ” as an
office unknown to the Constitution. And here,
to-day, every division of the Australias and every
other self-governing dependency of the empire
flourishes a full-blown, officially-gazetted and par-
liameu tardy-accepted Acting-Premier.
It appears that one of the N. S. W. Minis-
ters keeps up the dignity of his office by declining
to travel per penny-ferry, and uses a Govt, launch
(all to his gorgeous self) to take him to town, most
mornings.
Higgins’ Referendum Bill again intro-
duced—this time by Outtrim and Higgins, with
detail much more specific —into Vic. Parliament.
Its substance (containing a latent prophecy of its
chances of success) may be summed up thus:
Be it enacted by Her Gracious, by and with the
consent of the Leg. Council and Assembly of Vic-
toria, that said Council do forthwith commit
felo de se.
Melb. : “It is not hard to imagine how a
rumor arises that Turner and Reid have not been
quite ‘ hitting it ’in England. They do not show
together. Surely nobody can imagine London is
so dazzled as to be unable to bear the effulgence of
such a twin star in any one banquet. May be, it
is because Reid has so much the advantage in the
oratoric, but evidently Turner is reckoned the
bigger man For one thing, there is the polar
difference between Freetrade and Protection.”
Lord Mayor Ives, presiding at a Sydney
public meeting:—
The Australian colonies had reached their present stage
of development under the divine wisdom and guidance of
the Supreme Being, yet they were endeavoring to create
a nation without a recognition of that Supreme Being.
According to Ives’ Gospel, the Supreme Being
took matters very easily until Cook arrived, or,
rather, until Hargreaves discovered gold. But
hold, The Bulletin has it! God and J. Bull
arrived here together. In a word, Bull is God.
Keir Hardie, who
went with a red Republi-
can cap on his head to
take his seat in the Com-
mons years ago, continues
to show reason why the
“great newspapers ” held
him in awful contempt.
The other week he had
the bad taste to tell an
ignorant audience that
any monarch is neces-
sarily in co. with the
aristocrats and title-pur-
chasing classes. “ The
Crown and the coronet,”
said Keir Hardie, “ are
so inseparable that any
interference with the one
must weaken the position
of the other. The heads
of the enemies of the
people are all fixed on
one neck, which will
make a saving of labor
when the chopping pro-
cess sets in.” In other
words, destroy the Crown
symbol, then you abolish
the accursed aristocratic
and plutocratic ambition
to bask in its reflected
glory and bring the
hupper classes more into
sympathy with the lowah
ordahs. Suppress the
monarchy, and the foun-
tain of titular distinc-
tion, for one thing, is
turned off at the main
tap.
And has it come to this—that on one day of
the week, in Sydney, an honest man with sixpence
in his pocket may not go into a shop and buy a
bottle of milk and a few cakes for his wife and
child w r ho are sitting on the beach?
Labor - party prospects seem hopeful in
Collingwood, Vic. Several men spent jubilee
week distributing bills for a meeting the following
week, one man alone having posted up 300. Re-
sult, an attendance of seven, including two avowed
opponents.
IRREPRESSIBLE!
The English Court of Appeal has decided that
cash-betting on racecourses is legal.
Two more, making four in all, of Victoria’s
little cockspur railways—the scrap of line from
H-orsham to Norad juba and the Ilpmile branch
from Mount Moriac to Wensleydale—are to be
closed in August. Gillies’s policy of giving every
member about miles of line in his electorate to
keep him quiet caused the country to be littered
over with these odd twopenn’orths of useless rail-
way. Now that Duncan is posing in view of the
election as the “ one wise head ” of the Vic. Tory
party, the closing of four of his most insane rail-
ways is a very inopportune advertisement.
Wensleydale, by the way, has a population of 18
souls—yet Duncan thought even its support worth
buying with a railway.
Dear Bul-
letin, The
difficulty in
the way of
baptising
children
“ Lord ’’ John
or “Sir”
Nicholas, as
suggested by
C.R.W., is
that such
names would
not be accep-
ted by parson
or registrar.
The R.O.
Church, for
instance, ob-
stinately re-
fuses to allow
any names
but those
taken from
the Calendar
of Saints,
and the aver-
age parson
would look
upon the chris-
tening
of any
brat in
the way
suggested
as the
rankest sacri-
1e g e and a
distinct
menace to
the Throne. —
T.D.
P r e m i er
Reid is now
entitled to call
himself “Doctor.” Well, he “doctors” the
N.S.W. public accounts.
A Northern pastoralist on his grievances :
“ Bill to adjust matters from the Queen-street
gang ! You will get a bill to adjust losses due to
the tick plague when the tick reaches Brisbane,
and not a day earlier ! ” Savage, but true.
A very reputable M.P., who has' until
lately, been a high Rechabite official, startled
the House the other morning by turning up in
an aggressive state of drunk to take part in
debate. Usually a silent member, he talked on
the occasion for an hour and a half; but the Han-
sard reporters were merciful to him.
An Australian visitor to Japan can only
buy goods there per medium of a Jap agent.
Also, white men are not permitted, except in
treaty ports, to hold land in Japan. Why, then,
should Australia hesitate about restricting Jap
privileges here, and prohibiting the little brown
man from making his direful scoop?
Glassey’s Queensland. One-man-one-vote
Bill, after Tozer had vigorously rallied up
the Government forces against it, was only de-
feated on the second reading by 35 votes against
29. Compared to the majorities which used to
back the old Griffilwraith Government this is very
weak.
Premier Reid’s straightest and boldest
statement up to date was his intimation to John
Bull in general that Australia had no intention of
giving up its semi-independence in order to be a
hopeless, helpless minority in an Imperial Federal
Parliament, and a mere joint in the tail of the
empire. By comparison with this honest and
courageous utterance it was a painful thing to
find Forrest, Braddon, and Seddon —the once
democratic Richard of Kumara —all doing a mild
crawl in favor of Imperial Federation and the
“ tightening of the silken bonds,” and the
other stereotyped bosh.
The person who doesn’t know when
to burn incriminating documents has a lot
to answer for. A few months ago a lady
left her traveling-bag in a railway-carriage.
It went to the lost-luggage office, and was
sold by auction in the usual course, another
lady buying it for a song. Among the con-
tents were a lot of letters, the writer of
which mentioned that he enclosed certain
drugs for an unlawful purpose, as instructed
by a person whose name was given in full.
Naturally the buyer read these horrifying
disclosures to her friends at afternoon-tea,
and the contents filtered through many
shocked females till the social purity society
Eassed them on to the police. And now a
ighly-respected citizen is in very deep
water indeed.
Britishah . “I have just written Home to
my honored mother the glorious news that there is
not a single Republican in Australia except about
three Irish, more or less.”
The man chosen to saw off the “one
wise head ” of the Conservative party in Victoria
(Duncan Gillies) at the Toorak election is W. H.
Lewis, whom the Age seemingly has adopted as
its Liberal candidate and supporter of the Turner
Government. Lewis is an enlightened critic of
insolvency law in the southern province.
The general feeling up North is that
Queensland isn’t coining in to the Federation
movement. The Toztr crowd still insists on the
nomination of Convention delegates by Parlia-
ment ; the Opposition demands election by the
people ; and the general feeling is that the TLozei
Ministry hates election by the people a great deal
more than it loves Federation. The debate practi-
cally means that the Govt, party is talking against
fate in the hope that two or three Oppositionists
may drop down dead or something. There is an
anxious counting of heads now and then, and, as
the numbers are against the Government, the
House adjourns without a division. As a result,
the Federation Bill has hardly got started yet.
“ANY EXCUSE," &c.
“And you allowed that woman to insinuate that you married me for my money?”
“My dear, I had no other defence ready !”
Chairman of Committees M‘Court is the
only M.L.A. in N.S.W. history elected on a writ
issued while Governor and Speaker were outside
N.S.W. territory. Some constitutionalists are
uneasy over the validity of his official acts.
Convincing argument from the Austra-
lasian :
Why on earth should Victoria want to invest capital in
N.S.W., and then follow after it in thousands, if all that
is claimed for Protection be true? A colony that is
alleged to be only creeping along under Freetrade ought
to be no place for the investment of Victorian money.
Quite so. Or, to put it another way, why should
British people want to invest millions of capital
in all manner of protected countries if all that is
claimed for Freetrade be true? It is a poor
argument which won’t bear being inspected on
both sides.
The solidarity of the Queensland Labor-
party was strikingly exemplified, the other day,
when that same party, during discussion on
Glassey’s amendment to Tozer’s Federal pro-
posals, missed defeating the Government simply
because four of their number (the leader among
them) voted with the Ministry for an adjournment
of debate. A more humiliating position than
Glassey’s cannot well be conceived. Nominally
leader, he is usually accompanied, on divisions, by
a third or a fourth of his party, to the confusion of
Labor and the huge delight of the local Fats.


The Supremacy of the Cycles
Has been Abundantly Proved by their IMMENSE POPULARITY.
A Few Recent Wins.
Junk Ist, at Wellington.—
CLEVELANDS won ab-
solutely EVERY Bicycle
Event on the Programme.
June 22nd, at Narrabri.
THE MAYOR’S CUP.
At Dubbo.— FlVE FIRSTS
from SCRATCH.
LEAGUE OF WHEEL-
MEN’S SPORTS.-The
Queen’s Cup ; second in
Tandem Race; second in
Second and Third - Class
Handicap ; third in Vic-
toria Wheel Race ; third in
Coronation Handicap ; first
in 10-Mile International
Scratch Race for Pacing.
N
ill
Bicycle Riding School
& Show Rooms:
LARGE BASEMENT,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
WE MAKE a SPECIALITY
—OF—
Cycle Repairs,
Cycles for Hire,
Cycle Sundries.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
It Will Interest You.
Telephone 388.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
cufciA usvrwj
MON EST iVALUEI
XTXllfmr^TVJ
Telephone 388.
TH€ SYPNey CYCLE CO., Ltd.,
Large Basement, Equitable Buildings, George-st>, Sydney•
Wjtldw
£ven if you
get HP before
* COCK=CROW
YOU WON’T FlNcT~'~~'
l anything better
'wmm,
for the
VOICE
BRONCHIAL TUBES
or LUNGS,,
111;,., than
m,
i
Wmm , '
m
mmmm
Wmmmm
Geraudel’s Pastilles in tubes containing 72 each
To be had of all Druggists and Storekeepers .
7^
& c rcLy,*ft£
FEURIGH PIANOS have gained a deservedly high reputa-
tion for excellent quality and durability. They have a fine, massive appearance,
with chaste elegance of design, and are remarkable for their great power and
brilliancy of tone, quick responsive touch, and exceptional finish and solidity
of construction. Eminent musicians have pronounced them to be the finest
Pianos manufactured in Germany. Their sterling qualities have been abundantly
proved by long and varied experience in the most trying climates of Australia.
Sole Agents: W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
JEROME MURIF
RODE
I
&
ACROSS
AUSTRALIA
From Adelaide to Port Darwin
(2000 Miles),
Aod Had Oply Fotir POpctOrgs-
W. SISELL
RODE
Dunlop tyres 1
FROM
MENZIES (W.A.) to MELBOURNE
(2400 Miles),
Ai}d Had Ooly Oqc PCijctGr*.
Startling! |s it Hot ?
THE DUHLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO., LTD.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
and NEW ZEALAND.
Jubilee “honors” were conferred on or
before 22nd June. It now appears, by cable, that
the addresses of congratulation from municipal
corporations were only presented to Queen Vic-
toria on 7th July. No addresses—no “ honors ! ”
,£lOO and all the Sydney municipal grovel abso-
lutely wasted through Premier Reid’s blundering.
No wonder Sydney City Council is agin the
Government.
At Collingwood (Melb.) police-court last
week, the evil effect of statuary in public gardens
was brought under the Bench’s notice by Johanna
Mussaline, spinster. Johanna, who happened to
be present on a charge of uttering obscene lan-
guage, stripped herself suddenly of her various
habiliments, and besought the “beaks ” to testify
that her figure was at least lovelier than the
common or garden kind of plaster Venus. “I’m
no artist’s dream, or sculptor’s study, but a live
woman ; and, if you’re judges, say so,” shrieked the
nude Johanna. It was the cry of a woman whose
modesty had been undermined, whilst her spirit
of emulation was excited, by the weather-beaten
visions that flaunt their chipped outlines anigh
the benches in the park. The cry rang with
artistic feeling, and created an awful sensation in
court. “ The magistrates stared in blank sur-
prise ” —having lost for the moment the power to
blush and turn away their heads; whilst the
living Venus was hustled away (with great diffi-
culty) by three policemen. Then the Bench in-
flicted a sentence of three months’ imprisonment
on account of the obscene language, but preserved
a strict silence as to whether Johanna had proved
her case against the effigies mit nodings on.
Probably the fact that she didn’t get more than
three months was expected to speak for itself.
Both in Sydney and Melbourne on J übilee
night it was noticed that where “ God Save the
Queen’’was outlined in flaring gas-jets “God”
kept going out most frequently, and “Queen”
was the next hardest to keep alight. The two
unimportant words in the middle gave no trouble.
The ten S.A. delegates to the Federal
Convention —six out of the ten oppose payment of
members !—are still drawing their two guineas a
day, including Sundays, and will continue doing
so till after the next Convention meeting is over.
This means that Kingston is Jubilating in Eng-
land at £l4 14s. per week and his Ministerial
salary in addition.
Majah Lassettah said “the volunteers in
the colonies looked upon England as their home,
and gloried in what had been called her ‘ isola-
tion.’ ” The first statement may pass as the mere
post-prandial prancing of a tin warrior—but the
second is unutterable fool-talk for a tradesman.
The ‘ ‘ isolation ” of England spells ultimate ruin
to her hucksters.
The beautifully abject Jubilee address of
Maoriland Parliament —the thing with the 26 or
189 “Your Majesty’s” in it—came to a bad end.
A gorgeous copy was prepared and Premier Sed-
don was to present it personally while he wiped
up the floor of Windsor Castle with his stomach.
But to his horror it wasn’t among his baggage,
nor did it arrive by- post, and after much indig-
nant cablegramming it was found on a carrier’s
premises in Wellington detained for non-payment
of Is. 6d. cartage. What a fall is there ! Now
the illuminated grovel will arrive six weeks late,
and Agent-General Reeves will take it round to
the kitchen entrance, and for all the glory there
will be it might almost as well be an address to
G, Washington.


Banking. Publio Companies, &o.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
P A WJtf BROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address :
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every il to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4<i. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-dp .. .. .. *2,950,211 ss.
Directors *
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gvies Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: VVm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Lishopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with atrency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. - .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capiial payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE-
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcoek, Esq.; G. 0. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.O.
Sydney Office : 90 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden <£ Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at 6% per
annum by
US Kiyizabeth St.
(The Block),
Provrietary Ltd.,
Mlella ourae.
Cable Address—RiuMskir,. TE'LKiMfONB No. 695.
Code— Mo being & Nkai,, etc. Box No. :i)T, G.P.O.
Clarke & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Speoial Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Slocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
TbiS Coippaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. L,td.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital . .£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
6riti)€ & Sn>itf>,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.)>
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest. design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from's/6
.. ...... to 75/- .
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
, Banking. Public Companies, &c,
The Trustees , Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rfIHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital.. „ .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up „ £1,697,976 5 6
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 62,023 14 7
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. 750,000 0 0
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE^ 8
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: VV. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. SouTn Australia (Adhlaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. „ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY „ „ 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. „ 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, om melbournk'’
Testing Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals,' Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
The Leading
BD
Wholesale Depdt:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”- I. Timothy v. 23.
at
Lyoos’ Palac« Hotel,
South E risbazie
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Blinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
TOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
KUPIP
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
Toronto Hotel,
LaJce
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths,
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, .Is. 3d
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
VVARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Friday, July 16, 6 p.m.
Aere, Saturday, July 17, 12 noon.
only.
Hubbuck, Tuesday, July 20, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Hubbuck, Tuesday, July 20, 6 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERA.LDTON
Hubbuck, Tuesday, July 20, 6 p.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, July 17, 2 p.m.
Kcnoowarra, Tues., July 20, 6 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Leura, Saturday, July 17, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 24, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FAKES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices— Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
JSouth Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
f UK
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamineka (from Sydney)
Tuesday, July 20.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Saturday, July 17.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd-
ney) Tuesday, July 20.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Saturday, July 17.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Rob Roy (from Adelaide) Thurs-
day, July 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Amur, Tuesday, July 20.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., I /I'D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
tjuddart, parker & (Jo’s |Jine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oanadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO— ’•
-FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at lowest Eates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
lAN GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDU CED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
. E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Shipping,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl— Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
/ LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne: or
GEO. WILLS & CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYDT
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL GERMAN
MAIL STEAMERS according to the requirements of the
Merchants Shipping Act of 1894.
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, BREMEM, via ALBANY,
COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and
Genoa. Steamers from GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTH-
AMPTON, DIRECT TO NEW YORK.
Weimar ...'C.Steeneken 5318- [Aug. 14 Aug. 18 Aug. 21
Gera ... W. Meissel 5319 Sept. 8 Sept. 14 Sept. 18
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Steamers call at
Albany. Special facilities are afforded for bringing out re-
latives and friends from Europe by prepayment of passage-
money. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Reginald A. F. WOrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Bfutual Buildings,
Co lins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
DICKSON <&, BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London, E.O.
M'GEE’STHollow-GROUND razors.
THISTLE BRANT), 3 sizes .. 10/- and 12/6 Each.
KHAMIf BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8,6, and 10 6 „
KROPP BRAND 6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALI. BRA.ND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7 6,10/6 ~
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 5/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
x getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M‘GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
6 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
7 CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
.PATENT,
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring Hymn, Ihe cheer-
ful Song, and the Merry Dance, can all be played on theso
charming Instruments. No knowledge of Music Required.
A Useful and Pre ty Present. Enorrr ous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of the
“ SYDNEY BULLETIN. '
Campbell’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 10 6
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon v , 22/6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, ‘or the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privile e Price List for Musical Season 18117, nmv ready.
150,000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL & .CO., Musical Instrument Makers,
116. Trongate, Glasgow. Est. 60 Years. Agents Wanted,


i m
OQKES
TRADE
MARK
■s
m
SO AP
1
MONKEY BRAND
■
ALWAYS READ THE DIRECTIONS
Observe Name «t Trade MARK
M
•y^
x-a
Z"»
"?'■
-SSsSBSsSs
4
§H§
8?
4.
■
m
e
mt
§S
22
»
i■
£X C
if;
<v
<g
9>
a:
Of
%
2>
SKSSSS
§§SS
UIM
SkASS
H
MSfS
ssss
ss
sss
litlili
sss
■
it*
*SSBS
!S*«vS
SkSS
>,x
sss
•V iSSfSi
1 pf
yy'&/A&oZyy'y&,
-\r;.rc»-TO’T •W'ufV.SH CIiOTELES.
WON’T WASH OLOTIISS.
BROOKE’S
monkey BRAND SOAP
For Gleaning, Scouring, and Scrubbing Floors and Kitchen Tables.
FOR POLISHING
Metals, Marble, Paint, Cutlery, Crockery, Machinery, Baths, Stair-Bods.
For STEEL, IRON, BRASS and COPPER VESSELS, FIRE-IRONS, MANTELS, etc.
Removes Rust, Dirt, Stains, Tarnish, etc.


Packets
Of
'PayepjveZ^ZZ
Is.
SoftCa O'/as Sfjirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30j- per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
y ery Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE li HOT HERS
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
A new Aus. road-record : F. S. Beauchamp, on
Dun op tyres, rode from Oakland to Hobart, 50 miles, on
Jubdee day in 2h. 24m. other records on Dunlop tyres :
Platt-Betts mile in 1*40; 5 miles in 9*4 4-5 : T. Linton’s
31 miles 582yds. in lh.« nco, ‘ b
-i * * * *
The Beeston-Humber secured over one-third of
the total prize-money and first and third places in both 5-
mde N.S.W. championship and 10-mile International
Scratch Race at the N.S.W. Wheelmen’s V.R. carnival *
*•• * *
Mr. Westralian Calvert, of Clwyd notoriety
won £30,000 in bets over his horse in Jubilee Stakes His
cheque from one bookie alone was £23,000—a nice sola-
tium for the public’s hoots and howls.
* • * *
From Auckland Weekly News (June 20)
The main feature of the Wellington celebration to-
morrow will be a review, followed by a gigantic proces-
sion including- all classes, from the Acting-Governor to the
cyclists and members of the press.”
C. T. B. Turner, the N.S.W. bowler, is now at
Gympie (Q.) fielding’ as a stock-and-share-broker.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery ; 8, Pictures ; 0,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery ; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department,“containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
Dear Bulletin, —You asked who was going
to pay for the “ grand illuminated arch ” in Bris
bane (Q.), near the main approach to Excellency
Lamington’s fireworks show. Well, it was made
public that it was the Governor’s gas-bill ; but,
when there was no Lormaire of Brisbane created,
it was revealed that it was an extra spasm of
jubiliodicy on the part of Mayor M'Master. The
City Council pays for that there arch, sir.—
Yours, Ux.
Good for Producers.—Competition, when
not overdone, is bracing, and it is pleasant to ob-
serve those veteran stock-salesmen, Pitt, Son &
Badgery, Ltd., making good headway in the wool
and produce selling, which they took up a while
back. No doubt stock and wool selling have the
same essentials for success, hence the productive
results. #
Mr. H. E. Stoye, who until recently held
an important position in the Hotel Australia, has
taken over the management of the Grand Central
Coffee Palace, Clarence - street, Sydney, and,
being a man of many years’ experience in the
hotel business, he is confident that he will make
the Grand Central a place of entertainment second
to none in the seven provinces. The culinary
department will be under his own direct super-
vision, which should be a guarantee that even the
most fastidious student of the art of dining will
have no cause of complaint. The above expression
is used advisedly. Dining was meant to be an
art, though too often it is a mere casting of under-
done mutton into the open countenance.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
\Mrs. E.
j JLYNN
\ UNTON ,
I The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Mauvern,
I January 16th, 1896.
I “ I have used your‘KOKO’now since
■ June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
I cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young w 7 oman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation. ’ ’ :
‘koko*
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly |
Harmless. Clean. Cooling, and Invigorating, ,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be '
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the |
Hair. 1 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c. I
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,, LTD., J
16, Bevis Marks, London, England. |
IJSfßffl
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell s’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
NOW READY. '
t T. ,T. MILKER’S . . .
ANNUAL SPORTING PAMPHLET
Contains Entries, Weights, Performances of all Horses
engaged in Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, and principal
w.f.a. races of the season. Winners of past principal
Australian races ; complete tables of bests on record in
all branches of sport, including Cycling. Pricp Oivv
SHILLING-posted, Id. extra. Printed by J J Miller
Wholesale Agents : Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne Sydney"
Brisbane. Perth. ’ J
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN
CYCLE & AIOTOR CO., Limited,
York Street, SYDNEY .
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Hayseed, for the Grand Nat. Steeplechase, was
™ I f Bt 1 5J? peo ‘^ l £°, od thin ff” that has come from the
n? fh- a f °A ,at £ year3 ‘ The P ubli ° had heard
* “' e or .°* tbe horses merits previous to his
success in the Maiden Steeple the other Saturday, nor did
that second-rate-looking performance give them much
eveni' r w me vj nt i to i follo "L the red and white for the big
event last Saturday. Hayseed, being a stranger to
Lce n ™lh^« C 0 t! ? e early i um PS in the Maiden
race rather awkwardly, and so made a bad first impres-
winnin,,‘ K Tm aS vf-n' dlSpe l led h y his workmanlike style of
i ?■ be Millers subsequently backed their novice,
Thi n pc i w ? rs the y had proved in private, for
the Grand National, but the “tip” didn’t convince the
unenlightened. Therefore, Haysied went oT™om
paratively big price (8 to 1) in a field of 12, and surprised
U. 'ters b y winning all the way down the street. The
Bulletin certainly mentioned Hayseed among its five
fancies (three of them were starters), but only as a likely
attendant on Zouroff. Favorite Zouroff finished fourth.
Hayseed’s achievement ranks high among G.N
Steeplechase records. His weight, 10 stone, was quite
enough for a 4-year-old to carry, the course was pretty
sticky, and the time was nearly 4sec. faster than the pre-
vious record When Fearless 11., in 1890, won the same
double-event, Edges gelding carried five pounds less
and took 20 seconds longer in doing the long journey.
Out of 17 G.N. Steeple winners only the first
one Sussex, was a stallion. The mare Ruby scored in
1880, and in fifteen other cases the prize has gone to
geldings. Racing over sticks certainly can’t be advo-
cated on the ground that it tends to improve the breed of
horses. The successful lepper is almost invariably an un-
sexed animal.
The Open Hurdle Race, at Flemington, last
Saturday, strengthened the prejudices of those who
doant like to see money joomping oop in the air.”
Soult and So-and-So, on the strength of their performances
on July 3rd, were reckoned safe conveyances this time
Backed at fours and fives to one, they were the only com'-
petitors that fell. J
Doctor put up a record, last Saturday, by going
five miles over the big sticks. He did the Grand Nat
distance without making the slightest mistake, and 75
minutes later, was brought out again for the Open Steeple-
chase. Although a bit stiff at the commencement of his
second journey, Doctor jumped all right, and struggled
into third place at the finish. What Harry Rickards
would call “ a dear, kind Doctor.”
Patriot’s victory in the six furlongs Lawn Han-
dicap. at Flemington, seems to give him a chance of
taking classic honors next season—which, by the way
starts next month. At any rate, he gave a lot of weight
to other youngsters in the race, of whom Eugene, carry-
ing 221 b. less than Patriot, was backed freely. ’Among
the unbacked ones in this flutter good judges took note
of Bayonet, a 3-.vear-old, by Carbine, that may win some-
thing hereafter.
* * * *
Mark Whitty, father of the lad who steered
Buzzi through the G.N. Hurdles, is a brother-in-law of
the owner, J. Farrell, and in ’96, when the horse got
home, his residence at Flemington was thrown open and
all-comers were treated ad lib This year no such’pre-
parations were made, the stable not reckoning that the
horse had a big chance, but nevertheless the same old
crowd, augmented with all the “beats” of the course
who remembered the story of last year’s luck, rolled up
rushed Whitty’s house, and “scoffed” everything drinkl
able and eatable under the roof.
* * * *
Had the members of the English Jockey Club
seen Mr. Hagerty jump his nineteen horses off in the
Welter Handicap, at Moorefield, last Saturday, level as a
die, the use of Gray’s machine at ’Ome would be assured.
♦ * * *
Larrikin’s untimely end will, no doubt, warn
owners of top-notch steeplechasers not to risk their
animals over the smaller obstacles. It was assuredly an
error of judgment to start hurdle-racing with a horse
like Larrikin, whose people considered him, even with
the maximum weight up, as holding a mortgage for some
time to come upon cross-country events.
• * * *
If Merman, after wintering well, couldn’t run
forward in a handicap at Newmarket, with only 7st. 51b.
on his crack Australian back, what was the good of send-
ing Newhaven to Hingland?
* * * *
One of these days it may occur to an Australian
turfman to import English thoroughbreds from France,
where the stock is reared under somewhat Australian
climatic conditions. The French edition of the thorough-
bred is apt to be bigger-boned and hardier than the
English original, and should be better suited to the com-
paratively rough career of a racehorse in this country.
Considering that market prices run lower in France than
Britain, the idea seems worth an experiment.
• « • •
The owners of a horse sued a Tas. country race
club, the other day, for wrongful and malicious disquali-
fication. Damages claimed, £250. It transpired in evi-
dence that the horse was protested against by the rider
of the second horse for having run inside a post. The
stewards, at least one of whom had backed the winner,
dismissed the protest. Subsequently, a week or so after
the meeting, they met and disqualified the horse for a
year and the jockey for two years. Without enquiry, the
T.R.C. endorsed the disqualification, which, of course,
blocks the horse throughout Australia. In the opinion of
Judge and jury plaintiffs failed to prove malice on the
part of the club, though ignorance of racing rules and
carelessness stuck out far enough for a Judge to han<>- a
caustic comment upon. Verdict for defendant club, with
a recommendation from the bench that the disqualifica-
tion be removed. The paradoxes of the law 1
* * » •
The Vic. Damien (Off-Color —The Nun), who
made such a good coup for his party when he won the
A.J.C. Summer Cup last Xmas, has been put over hurdles,
and is now qualified for jumpers’ flat races, in which class
of event he should make it hot for some of the Vic.
pseudo-j umpers.
* • * *
The A.J.C.’s annual meeting is fixed for 26th
inst., when it is to be hoped definite action will be taken
re the nuisance of the multitudinous pony meetings; also,
re the introduction of the totalisator.
There is a good entry-list for to-day (Saturday’s)
meeting at Rosehill. The Steeplechase may be won by
Bernal or Killawarra, whilst Admonition, Silverstone, and
Raynor s selected (probably Aurea) should supply the
winner of the Flying Handicap. The July Handicap is
8U a large field, and Wyalong, Newman,
ana The Meddler seem to have the best chances. With a
» the Nursery Handicap looks a good thing for
Bathilde. Robin Hood reads as a likely winner of the
Welter, with Ooombwood and Honor Bright as his most
dangerous opponents.
* • * *
_W. R- Wilson is negotiating for the purchase
of Torrens Park, the estate of R. Barr-Smith, the S.A.
millionaire, about three miles from Adelaide. Years ago,
when Wilson first established his racing-stud, he tried to
buy the same place. He intends, they 7 say, to give up
horse-racing altogether—which will be a pity, for the turf
has had few such clean sportsmen.
* * * *
_ At Townsville the handicapper recently asked
Battalion to hump 12st., and concede some of the other
racehorses ” a trifle of 6st.
* » * *
As Goldspur and one or two other cracks are
likely to visit Australia, it is as well to remember that
Maoriland horses, after coming across, have been of two
kinds. The Carbines, Trentons, Nordenfeldts and Martini-
ilen rys have upheld their reputation, and proved better
than Australia’s best. On the other hand, the more
numerous class, such as Tirailleur, Cuirassier, Medallion,
Man ton, St. Hippo, &c., &c., through climatic or other
reasons, never came near their island form and became
veritable milch cows for Ikey Mo.
» * * •
Just before the mail left .£25,000 was offered for
waitee More with contingencies in case he won the Derby
a record price for a three-year-old. It is doubtful, how-
ever, whether winning the coveted event has made him
any more valuable, as the big offer is understood to have
‘‘Jubilee Deb Juggins desirous of winning the
* * * *
~ defeat of the M.L. footballers by 22—8 in
trie return match with Sydney was due partly to the
nome team s improvement in personnel, partly to its
scrummers playing in shin-pads, partly to its making the
game fast and open, partly to its surprising unselfishness
and combination. M.L. had done considerable railway
travelling, had played at Bathurst and Orange, and had
eaten, drunk, and knocked about considerably during the
week, ouch things, however, do not condone M.L.’s de-
feat, since to be a footballer is to plav hard, drink hard,
eat hard, sleep hard. When the English football team,
for instance, was in Aus. its drunks and disorderlies used
to be stirred up by the policemen in the morning from
door-steps, bridges, footpaths, etc., etc., used to have a
bath, a rundown and feed—and then file out to the battle
and win. The yarn that the Maorilanders weren’t on the
job is very improbable, however. The only evidence in
its favor is that the game was not rough : for, although a
couple of men got kicked on the head, the only consider-
able stoppage was for “ ripped pants.”
* * * •
, .AA-Tj- , though helped by the strong breeze first
ha f, did not score a point; N.S. W. made 8 ; unquestion-
ablv proving N.S.W’s superiority. The new men in the
•N.fc>. W team—-Gardiner (back), Walker, Barrie, Frazer-
shone for cool, hard, clever play. Smith (M.L.) did feats
at times—kicked the ball with, say, six Sydneyites on top
oL* 11111 ' Hardcastle (M.L.) “ dealt it out ” in a satisfac-
tory manner. The feature of the match, however, was
wii I , hs kicking, nor Hardcastle’s Rugby, nor
•Walkers tremendous run, nor Jumbo Frazer’s 16
stone in vehement collision or thundering locomo-
t on, nor was it Curley’s dodgy running, or Hen-
lons unselfish passing; nor was it the suffer-
,, th f M-,L. manager, who did nothing but
wil 0 xr r c a w d k,Ck ~' hl]e his side their gruel. It
N V S 'T' ca Pt- Galloway’s smile —bland when its
master took a mark, resigned when his legs were crushed
under by a rush, inoffensive when his scruff was seized,
and his body yanked off the ball or out of the scrum
serene when his side was hard pressed, comforting when
his men nursed the battered shin, or groaned with the
cannoned rib, triumphant when the try was scored or the
goal kicked fair between the posts.
* * * ,
Jack Hellings’ win of a 100yds. swim in Eng-
land, easily, in lmin. llsec., means either that the condi-
tions of clothing and water are vastly different from those
obtaining here, or that the general run of British
swimmers are not up to Australian standard. Hellings’
best in Australia stands at lmin. 2sec. When it was
mooted in Australia that Tyers, the English crack, should
be invited out, it was reckoned that £350 could be raised
towards paying his expenses. Australian swimmers,
howeier, have behaved very shabbily towards Hellings,
h A ear f u Pon ?°od authority that it is impro-
bable the little Australian s funds will last sufficiently to
enable him to remain m England until October, when the
championship will be raced for. As an amateur, Hellino-s
cannot make his feed-oats out of racing, and it will be"a
standing disgrace if the hundreds of swimmers in Sydney
fn„M Ot T?m :,eCt SOrt of a benefit t 0 raise funds to
enable Hellings to tide over the championship matches in
October, by which time he would have settled down to
work.
, *. * • *
,A far-seeing Melb. business man started to run a
cycle-insurance agency a while back, accepting 10s. a year
to cover a machine to £3O. By the time he had raked in
half-a-dozen premiums, a big smash occurred through two
riders meeting face to face in the dark. Both bikes were
reduced to old metal, and, by an extraordinary coinci-
dence, both nders were clients of the underwriter '
* * * *
The cycle-trade is experiencing the severest
slump on record just now, and several agencies for in-
ferior makes will snuff-out altogether before winter is
over, bpring is expected to revive the trade, but people
are beginning to know a cycle from a perambulator, and
only first-grade wheels will stand a chance next season
*****
Dear Bulletin,-You ask, “What is the con-
nection between Orientalism and amateurism’” As a
student of memory systems I should put it thus : Amateur
ph^ S K V - r_jew ? ller J-° rienU] . ln other words, it
pays. Not being a jeweller myself, I believe in cash
prizes, but if I had jewellery to dispose of I should pro-
WiD<jERBE° Cate troph - v ‘P rizes as a matter of business.—
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Just a word in reply to vour
correspondent as to weights of rowing men. A man isn’t
good or bad simply because he is either big or small
There are good Ing men and good little ditto, and also
darned bad uns of either sort. Has “ M‘G.” ever heard
the rowing expression “ Pull your weight» ? This sums
the whole thing up in a nutshell. Whatever a man’s
weight, he must pull it and a bit over—viz., his share of
boa * a ?d c ox. Now, as by the laws of proportion a
12st. man is to a 9st. man as 4 to 3, he is consequently
likely to pull more overweight in that proportion. As for
University crews, you simply can’t take them seriously
They are composed principally of youths who come down
to the sheds for about three weeks previous to a race and
not at all afterwards. “ M‘G.” talks of list, as a light
weight. It takes a fair-sized man to scale list, trained
and in rowing costume. If “ M‘G.” is going to barrack
for little men, let him do so by all means, but don’t let
him include list, stripped in the category.—W.
* * *
Fitzsimmons cannot have been over-confident
when he met Corbett. It now transpires that he waived
ii, nl!ih b U iv-lt P r‘' IZ l a r. d ■ the for a certain surti
in cash. With Corbett it was a case of all or nothing,
and he got—nothing.
Amusing to read that anybody exhibiting bogus
cinematograph pictures of the Fitzsimmons-Corbett fight
wul be prosecuted by the holders of the copyrighted
films. It is quite certain that no reproduction of a brutal
spectacle ought to be permitted by the police. Fitz-
simmons and Corbett couldn't get permission to fight in
an Australian theatre. Why sanction a demoralising set-
to between their photographs ?
* * * •
. Looking at photographs of Corbett and Fitz-
simmons in the buff, above the waist Corbett shows
poorly as compared with the muscular blacksmith,
ritz., square built to a fault, and looking hard as nails,
makes Corbett appear soft and washy—in fact, the latter
reminds one very much of poor old Mick Dooley. A week
before the fight Fitzsimmons’ chest-measurement was
42in. in repose, and 46J expanded, all bone, muscle and
smew. Corbett, round and soft-looking as a girl,
measured 39in., with an expansion of 43in. The pair
mutely showed their respective youthful implements of
training—the sledgehammer and the pen.
* * * *
Boxer Corbett had better abandon his an-
nounced intention of visiting Australia. As an actor, he
should be warned by the fate of John L. Sullivan, who
came with a clean-sheet record, the only clean thing
about the hog. Corbett would find his recent defeat a
drawback. Then both lines are not nearly so remunera-
tive as when Sullivan came. At one time,'Corbett might
have drawn as a pugilist, as his victim (Choynski)did, but
not now. ' ’
* * * *
. English team to visit Australia will pro-
bably be Stoddart, K. S. Ranjitsinhji, Captain Wvnvard,
U M Laren, Jackson, C. L. Townsend, Richardson,
Of i ’ Peel >. Storer > Eilley, and Hirst.
" Stoddart, M’Laren, Richardson, Brown, Briggs,
and Peel have already been here, and are well-known to
Australian enthusiasts. So is Ran jit., though he has
never been “down under.”
Captain Wynyard, of Hampshire, is a faultless
bat and a few years ago was considered the most consis-
r.ellfble . scorer England. He is no longer a
Ut played m well as ever in last year’s county
- . blke Stoddart, he has shone at football. Jack-
son is considered the best all-round cricketer in England
h ,T,r a ! tS T’. a sound field ’ and a ffood medium
of h the Ferns type. He is a stuck-up, superior
person who may sling the blawsted kawlinies at the last
moment As captain of Cambridge ’Varsity team he did
not consider Ranjv ” good enough to get his “ blue”—
a fact which speaks little for his judgment. His father,
a rich Yorkshire manufacturer, was once Chief-Secretary
for Ireland. Townsend, a member of an old Gloucester
cricketing family, is a grand slow bowler. From his
h< L 18 known as “ the match.”
Haywood should be about the most useful man of the lot,
ni e C im SI K the b ? st field in England at third man, and a
deadly bowler. Hirst, of Yorkshire, is a second Peel as
an all-round player, except that his bowling is verv fast.
It is assumed that Richardson will be more formidable
Ve f ° a A ! lstrallan wickets because of experience ;
but the Australian batsmen should know him better To
be thoroughly effective he needs good fielders and, above
all, good wicket-keepers. With Storer and Lilley, Stod-
r^L S o t 6 t n i S p OU , d h®'strong behind the sticks. The latter
represented England m all the last Australian tour test-
matches, but many good judges pronounce Storer to be
?^ P ® r '°r at ' receiving balls and whipping off bails. He
has not brought off many catches, but had to deal with
faster and more difficult bowling. He is the better bats-
man, and last season made two centuries in one match
against Yorkshire, the champion countv. He has a mighty
opinion of himself. ‘
* * * •
• , Th ? ? rea , t Geor ge Giffen, it is stated, does not
in whth b P y ?, r W v est , Ad ? laide > the electorate-district
JLI- i h he resides, but will only take part in interpro-
vincial and big matches next season. George is greatly
opposed to electorate cricket, but they are going to try it,
despite the big man’s feelings. 8 8 y ’
The American press did not take the Australian
baseballers seriously. Ridicule is the hardest sort of
criticism to bear up against, and the Australians appear
to have gone under. They are dead to the world.
* * * *
It does not appear as if Mr. Rodd will get a
chance of a spar in England. Arrangements were made
for a go with this year’s amateur middleweight champion,
but it did not come off, failing a permit from the Amateur
Boxing Association.
* * * *
.Followers of cycle-racing note that lily-white
riders wh<> have put up astonishing- times not only become
°J third.-classers when they take to professionalism,
but also fail to come anywhere near their alleged records
watchto tell lies ? d ° th “ Pr ° fit the amateur stop-
* * * *
, £ big Melb. chewing-gum maker threatens to
hold a ‘ chewing-match” during the coming winter. So
far, no details are announced, and the Southern experts
will kI qUl , Vet v. anxiet y to learn whether the contest
will be open to both sexes ; whether grace and style will
count, or whether it will simply be a dogged fight to see
whose iron jaws can pulverise the greatest amount of
n, U rUv nAu'jr 1 Whichever way it goes, the popu-
larity of the sport is so great that big entries and corres-
p?ndln££ates can confidently be expected. The League
of Vic. Chewers is a body certain to rise in the near
future to conserve the rights of members and purify the
sport generally. F }
* * • *
Dear Bulletin, —You are wrong re young
George Turner, whose offence was condoned by V.L.W
He is not identical with the Premier’s son, whom papa
would not allow to ride for beastly cash, and who has
never, therefore, been a League member. Truly the
" u, 1 1 ? ber ° f People connected with the wheel-trade in
Melb. and named Turner is becoming somewhat exaspe-
rating.—Widobebb. F
* • • •
The M.L. team brought two footballs with
them for practice aboard ship. The first was lost before
the Hauroto was out of Wellington harbor, and next day
a powerful kick sent the other one over a yard-arm into
the bounding mam.
* * * *
League of Yic. Wheelmen, as reconstructed,
should prove a less flabby power than before. A new
racing rule provides that “competitors in handicap
events shall not start from a mark distant from the pole
or inner circle of the track, except in cases where a
number of competitors are allotted the same mark”
Hitherto a competitor has been at liberty to start from
any part of the track he pleased, and the result was to
give a great advantage to men who were able to go from
off the high banking and thus get “ wav ” on from their
run down the incline. Good judges consider the banking
start worth 15yds. in the mile.
• * *
Ranjitsinjhi having definitely decided to visit
Australia, gate-money is assured.


‘ ‘ What’s in a name ’ is shown by the fact
that the England Midland Railways’ Refreshment
Rooffis, under contract, stock Sir John Power’s
Whiskey and no other.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
That Young Australia will have the good
soft-drink is evidenced by the surprising trade
now done this winter weather at Washington H.
Soul’s counter. As many as 30 people—ladies, bar-
risters, solicitors, business men—can be seen at
the one moment waiting for a pull from the big
fountains.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
“The Retrospect,” issued by D. Jones &
Co., is an interesting account of an interesting
firm, showing how the business began in ’37 with
a shop no larger than a dining-room, and grew
and grew until, to-day, it occupies three acres,
and is one of the business sights of Sydney.
“The Retrospect” shows the past 60 years’
changes in dress and fashion, by good illustration
and description, while the pithy memoirs concern-
ing the evolution of Sydney and N.S.W. institu-
tions and other public matters, make “ The
Retrospect ” of interest to all classes of the com-
munity. *
A Boon to Sufferers.— A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
What necessity was there for Premier Reid
to cable out the full reply of Her Gracious to the
“ loyal and dutiful ” addresses of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment and Sydney Municipal Council? N.S.W.
could well have waited till the P.C.’s return to
hear the precious words—the usual conglomeration
of inept platitudes.
Lustralian Novelty Introducing 00.,
13 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
importers Latest American Novelties.
Sole Agents Monarch Card, Pistol and 3 Arrow Slot
achines, Jewellery. 14-carat Solid Gold-filled WAL-
HAM WATCHES, £3 155., guaranteed 15 years.
Only Depot for the CINEMATOGRAPH BOOKS :
orbett-Fitzsimmons Fight, Widow’s Kiss, Dancing Girl,
id The Hooligans. Wholesale and Retail.
“SANTAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stein Linen »
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application,
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n;brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU OET
Row’s €fi)brocatioi).
LYRICS
of Shakespeare and Browning set
to Music by Arthur Chanter, Mus. Bac.
' '“‘TAKE, OH, TAKE THOSE LIPS AWAY."
“THERE’S A WOMAN LIKE A DEWDROP.”
All Australian Music Sellers. Publishers, ALLAN & CO.,
Melbourne.
IN DESIGN . .
MATERIAL . .
WORKMANSHIP . .
and, consequently, RESULTS 1
THE
‘phiz’ Bicycles
ARE
Absolutely Unrivalled.
Catalogues Posted Free.
“ Phiz” Cycle Works,
61 to 65 Druitt Street (next Town Hall), SYDNEY.
< wvc\^c\e&
PIS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “ High
Grade ” as a sign of Excellence —have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The Greville,
ABSOLUTELY the
CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£l5. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
K)''
YORKSHIRE RELISH
’ THE HOST DEEICIOVS SAUCE lIS THE WORED,
,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OP BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d„ iand as/- each.
Proprietors I GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO., LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and UYEKPOOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
“J6st a Miotite
Ahead of the Tin^cS,”
just a minute, but just enough to catch the eye of the leading English
experts, one of whom, speaking of the
Royal Progress
.... Bicycle,
says “It is one of the best machines in the show, and justifies its name,
‘PROGEE S.’” Convince yourselves by sending for our Illustrated
Catalogi e. Price, =£2s. Ladies’, <£26.
Tbe English ai)d Aipericao Agency Co.,
New Jubilee Show-Rooms— 4l6 George-st., City (close to Strand Arcade).
- - TUB NEW - -
Herald BicycU>
For LADIES and GENTS.
Tj'MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
-*- J fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combin ed with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tl>e iQtercbaoseabfc
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Kims, R.T.Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 266 CL A REN CE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.] .
Tile ACME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“DOWKXDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Z6BI
S3l}A}
H9131«V1
3 Cvijj
s**ll*l*3s
“S'
&
=0
/s
V>
AN €XC€PTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
of purchasing a Pirst-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give up the Agency for “ Raleigh ” Cycles, we are
offering our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
at the following
REDUCED PRICES.
All fitted with Dunlop Tyres, Martin Silent, Toolbag, Pump an
Spanner. All Ladies’ Machines have Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Raleigh Co.’s] Post Free
The p sir a I Cycle Jgency [ld.,
“Raleich
Depot, 393 <*€org€-£t., Sydney.
Branches At :
Melbourne — 229 Elizabeth-st.
Adelaide—33 Rundle-st.
Perth — Hay-st.
Brisbane — Adelaide-sb.
Charters Towers — Gill-st.
W ARRNAMBOOL — Kepler-st.
Goulburn
Christchurch — Lichfield-st.
Dunkdin— l23 George-st.
Hobart, &c.


Special Advertisements.
TERRIBLE CASE OF
ECZEMA
CORED BY
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. E. Wyatt, of Port Road, West
Hindmarsh, So. Australia, writes of
the sad condition of her little daugh-
ter, whose portrait she also sends:
“My daughter was afflicted with
Eczema of the most aggravated
type. The disease first appeared in
eruptions on her head, then her hair
began to fall out, and in spite of
the best medical advice and treat-
ment she grew steadily worse. The
sores were full of matter and were
extremely offensive. Her eyes be-
came affected, and she was, in truth,
in a terrible state. My neighbors
were very sympathetic and took
great interest in the case. They
persuaded me to try Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla, and I am most thankful to
be able to say that this wonderful
medicine completely restored my
daughter’s health. She has now as
good a head of hair as anyone could
wish, her eyes are perfectly well,
and she is a fine girl of eight years
with every prospect of growing up
to be a strong and healthy woman/’
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
& lo\
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS 01'
SYNTHETIC SGENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
■ . natural perfumes.
Tk\ A Obtainable of Chemists, r £ r
VJ: Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from A
h \ 0 >
Street .
The Celebrated
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦ .
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
k JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” YELYETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes.
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children's
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL. — Each Yard of Genithie" LOUIS “
Velveteen bears the name (swelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
Other way), and is stamped with a tummies or wear.
A man named Moon was gored by a Jubilee
bullock at Ballarat, the other day. The horned
TTinnn •'
Writes Mr. P. R. Gordon, Q. Chief In-
spector of Stock:—
COl »tribu to r of a par. to Bulletin of ]2th June is in
error in stating that Q. meat inspectors have no power to
estroy diseased animals. They have ample powers, and,
according to the stockowners, exercise those powers some-
wnat freely The par. probably refers to diseased strag-
glers in the bush, which local authorities have the power
to destroy, but won’t.
Melb. : Inquiring, to-day after a lino-
typed comp. another told me he was dead. His
last bitter words to me were: “ Good job. Let
the miserable comp, die out.”
of the Party offering imitations of
«^, IVI4N&,;AMI ' ;KON ’ s uenowned pens.
f hey come as a boon and a blessing to men,
I he Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers.
A humorist is the advt.-clerk who put this
in the matrimonial ” column of a recent Satur-
day s Age
T.-A.DY, with £l5O, wanted, to invest in a certainty
returning: £5OO per annum. Felix Holt, G.P.O.
Copy of a notice stuck up in a boarding-
house on the outskirts of a Westralian town
Boarders will confer a great favor by carrying a stick of
nrewood and depositing same on wood-heap on their way
to their meals. MISS .
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London,*
The young men who stroll around in long
hair and soft felt hats talking largely about their
intention to lead a purely literary life, should
seriously regard James Hill, a frowsy, shirtless
person who received a year “under the vag.” from
Melb. City Court the other day. Hill described
himself in the watchhouse book as a ‘‘ man of
letters ” and, when brought before the court, he
offered to write the bench a “ good book ” if they
would give him time. But James had been living
in a nua-mia on Yarra banks, and he had been
lightingfires in dangerous proximity to T. Brassey’s
back-yard, so the bench disregarded his offer and
gave him 12 months hard. So much for the out-
look of literature in Australia.
Sydney land-tax officials valued the big
city estate of John Cooper at .£495,000, and de-
manded £2OOO a year tax ; and John Cooper
values it at £95,000, and offers about £4OO. The
difference being irreconcilable, a joyous fight is in
progress. Cooper claims, among other things,
that the 1896 tax is wholly illegal because the
assessment was issued before the assessment-books
were completed, or the court of review appointed,
or various other necessary things done. It will
be a big case, and it is reckoned the court will be
covered with the hair of both parties before it is
settled. Cooper, by the way, complains that the
tax demanded is half the income of the estate,
which is quite probable, and also not at all unde-
sirable. When a large portion of an estate is kept
lying idle and yields nothing, because the owner
is waiting for the unearned increment to come
along, then a land-tax is apt to produce surprising
results like this.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE .
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
-> Sauce.
THS BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
*
*
lime-Frdlt
Juice, it is
found, forms
fa most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
J OHN T WOODALL, Muster tn Surgery, writes
so far back as i6iy, in a treatise on Scurvy: —“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Dauidson Bros., Jules Renard
d Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen d Co., d The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
A more than up-to-date Yankee paper
makes a feature of publishing portraits of sassiety
women with the date underneath on which an
addition to the family may be expected. Next,
please !
Kangaroo tendons are in huge demand for
surgical stitching in America. Dr. W. Coley, of
New York, has just reported having used kanga-
roo tendon for sutures in 350 cases of hernia, with
only one death and but three relapses.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH,
SCRUBB’S c f° u T AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites’.
Invigorating in Hdt Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery
For Sale bjrall Grocers and Chemists
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales -
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
DIRECT to the Chief Australasian DepAt, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
Particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest ol
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direet from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with'buying them from dealers.
?° tKm3 are all check-repeator ivitli front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany,
i ' Vlth best felt > a » d are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
P°>nt of a Piano, is of 1 unique construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate, and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
anu palir ? ,! ;, Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy; elastic, and
‘ m |jj| o tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
sustaining c 2* npi [ ss .’ anc * » clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
freight tn norf e f ve opln & *° t^ie Volce * take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
f v °u ir ? su , rai ;? e » an d duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
• Q i i° su omitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide Gelebrity, Governors of
xjionies, churches, schools, convents,- and public institutions. wtsat.U! a- nr% ttu aqa
Street, bydney, and throughout New South Wales.
Wrist pins are extra
long and plated. All
ba.B3 wires copper
covered. The clavia-
turo (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two stees
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone,
carved panels, pilastus and patirae.
nuwu-wiuo fiCfOUIll) 1 , UUVmiUlil Ul
BEAfJB & CO. LTD., 484 George
BEALE & CO. LTD,, SYDNEY.
JANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Forbes’s PHOSFEKRIML
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by ;
Martin & Pleasance
HOMOEOPATHIC CHEMIST
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Pree.
IZ -
TSOOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, 19- by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About tiie Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kocv, post free, Is 3d.
komancb of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or tire Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heftameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mai pin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post, Is 9d.
New Realistic Novels:—Tiie Serpent Tempted Her;
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories ok Love and Frol'C, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, liy Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of the Court of Napoleon I'll., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Famous Romances of Voltaire, illus., post free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post Lee 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Le Chateau de la Fav rite (in French), post Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
inn all the tricks and dec- pi ions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed -G ...ie to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Tellino Hook of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife's Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TKADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOB OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR book
ltUDlJlll 16 PARK street, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
> LIFTS. ..
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst gf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
Benger’s Pood Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drag Cc . Sydney; and by pleading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aged.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
d 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney BULLETIN, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen. — Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you (hat a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R'ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. i-UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. > eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Buit.in writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor,
1 gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to hear testimony to
the efficacy of your alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
feagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CARL and see numerous testimonials.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To II ERR Kai-mussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me'. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trving your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several -of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J J. NERYIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
oelebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, l shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mbs. E. SMiTH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Defcility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Hkrr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Hhrr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills 1 have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to he, yours truly',
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9/3/97.
Dear (sir, —lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and liidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking yonr Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could he felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Partes Range, Southern Gross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affeo-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline R'-medies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Kemedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra.
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of genera
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that i was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST
OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFA LINE
REMEDIES.
•• -
m
n
X
ALFA LINE PILL Si
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD NERVES.
I AWARDED
ftwO GOLD
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood ure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Rair Restorer and Bfeautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 12s.', and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness,.lndigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy pi existence for
r< gulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, ls. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength anel Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness ot
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
lIKitR RASSMUSSRN will Post his Valuable Book>
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS'MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
hEM -DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN'S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Branches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Bundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.— 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Next Coolgardie Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 LindeU's Chambers. Hanuan-st.


Amusements.
TT E g. MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
®ole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1
Harry Paulton and Alma Stanley
In the Brightest, Cleverest, and most Irresistibly Funny
Farcical Comedy of the day,
“A NI6HT OUT.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
237 S ALON CI NEMATOGRAPHE, 237
PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
Vls,tors ln Nine Months at this 180,000
THK MOST POPULAR RENDEZVOUS IN SYDNEY.
»xt .nm, t O-DAY, from 11 a.m.
BATTLE in the Cuban Rebellion,
ihe Greek Advance in the Greco-Turkish War, &c., &c.
_ J. MACMAHON, Director.
■J* HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
OH ! GEMINI ! !
BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
THE TWINS ! !
BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
MRS. QUINN’S TWINS.’
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Popular Prices 3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
■JIOWN HALD SYDNEY.
SATURDAY EVENING, 17th JULY.
FLORENCE SCHMIDT’S
SECOND GRAND CONCERT.
Assisting Artists Engaged M. Henri Stael, Mrs. C. C.
Lance, Little Miss Freda Miller, Miss R. Coutts Duvalli.
Mr. F. R. Woodhouse, and Herr Gerard Vollmar.
Seating Plan and Tickets, 3s, 2s, Is, at Nioholson’s
Pianoforte Warehouse.
fVPERA HOUSE (Kimr and York-sts.), SYDNEY!
W EVERY EVENING ! CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Farley’s Eoglisl) Opera Co.
EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE!
F. GOUNOD’S
“ FA. XT S T.”
Three Shillings, Two Shillings, & One Shilling.
Plan at Paling’s. Day tickets at Josephson’s York Hotel
next Theatre. J. A. CRAIN. ’
TO WN HALL , YOUNG.
TENDERS will be received at this Office up to WEDNES-
DAY, the 21st JULY, for use of the Town Hall, Young
during Show Week, 1st SEPTEMBER, 1897, addressed to
the undersigned (endorsed Tender Town Hall).
O. W. M. BARBER,
Town Hall, Young. Town Clerk.
29th June, 1897.
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Bridliant Success of
Mr. Marry Rickards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d •
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
IJJIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager. JOHN C. LEETE.
■DUTOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of L. J. Lohr.
THIS SATURDAY EVENING!
THE GREAT LAUGHING SUCCESS I
“CHARLEY’S AUNT.’’
Revived by FRANK THORNTON and his new English
Comedy Company.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls,
3s; Stalls, 2s; Family Circle and Gallery, Is. NO
EARLY DOORS. Box Plan at Glen’s.
ATHENA2UM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of L. J. LOHR.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING 1
Continued Brilliant Success of
HERTZ THE MARVELLOUS,
by the Charming and Graceful MDLLE.
and including representations from the
Original CINEMATOGRAPHE.
-3s, 2s, and Is. ... Box office at Glen’s.
EDWIN GEAOH, Manager.
CARL
Assisted
D’ALTON,
PRICES-
SPECIAL :
Ngiti
WM
Amusements.
■JIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
• FINAL PRODUCTION OF A
* RECORD SEASON.
BLAND HOLT’S
Brilliant Presentation of the Melodramatic Domestic
«« Story,
Tlx© Cotton King,”
Lavishly Staged and REALISTICALLY ILLUSTRATED.
Box Plan at Allan’s. jj®“ Prices as Usual.
- Q ~. ’THEATRE, MELBOURNE.'
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“ Tl)e Sigo of tbe Cross.”
MATINEE Saturday Next, July 17, at 2 o’clocck.
aS f Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
uay sales at Bentwitch s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
PRINCESS’S
Sol
Amusements.
•fIOTUNDA - MELBOURNE - ROTUNDA.
Entrance—2o7 Bourke-st., through Yeoman’s Studio.
Entrance—Little Collins-st.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8.
PROF. NORTON B. SMITH,
EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS.
The Greatest Horse Trainer since the days of Rarey.
ATTENTION, OWNERS OF HORSES.-Bring or send
your Kickers, Runaway's, Jibbers, Shyers, Plungers,
Strikers, Fighters, Nervous Horses, Horses afraid of steam
and other objects, Biters, Halter Breakers, Young Colts,
Wild Mustangs, Bronchos, Wild Horses, and Man-eating
Stallions, and I will HANDLE and SUBDUE them FREE
OF CHARGE. A Word to the Ladies of Australia.—
Follow the example of the Grand Dames of England, who
have regularly visited Professor Smith’s Exhibition, and
sent their Hunters, Hacks, Carriage Horses, and Child-
ren’s Ponies to be handled.
Prices—4s., 35., 25., &ls. Boxes, £1 Is. Children, half-
price. Plan at Glen’s. Day Tickets. Bourke-st. entrance.
Persons wishing to have horses handled, write or apply
at the Rotunda to NAT BEHRENS.
LAT6ST LONDON NOV€LTY.
15 - Carat Gold
Twin Swallow
Brooches,
£1
per Pair.
15-0. Pearl Set
Twin Swallow
Brooches,
JEI 17s. 6d.
per Pair.
ONE PIECE’ Studs The World’s Most Serviceable Studs
ii u , Ar t? CUFF buttons.
Unbreakable. - PATENTED. - Unbreakable.
Section
Collar Stud
Actual
Size
Enlarged
Collar
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns
Speciai Advantages of the ‘One Piece’ Studs
I *~St ruc k from single disc of metal—no solder.
2 ‘ oi- e^ai i c ® anc ! a t> so^ut e uniformity of curve, ands*
3. Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease
View of
Stud.
Section
Shirt Stud
] Actual
>i ze.
Solid Gold. 9-Carat. 15-Carat. 18-Carat.
Suite of 3 Studs 6/6 9/- 10,'- 10/6 12 - 15/- 14/6 16/- 18/6 per Suite.
Collar Studs ... 5/- 6/- 7'6 7/- 9/- 10,6 10/6 12 6 15/-each.
Cuff Buttons .10/- 13/- 15/-16/- 17/6 20/- 20/- 22 6 25/- per pair.
POST FREE.
The Public are CAUTIONED against vamped-up
IMITATIONS of these Studs—clumsy—in pieces, sol-
dered together, but shaped to deceive, and sold as the
“One Piece.”
ABT JEWELLERS
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address—
AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
\
&
m
m
■i
m
■
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
6/a inch and 3/ 4 inch Blades,
Bound and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
Razor is True to Name—RINGS like a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents; HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydney
HOCMDO’S marvellous HMR RESTORER
c ps
1
C/?
T® I'ig'htJy considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
&
52
MR. HOLS’ 16 M ° Wing 0enUine “'SSW;
Dear Sir,—I want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer but 1 *! drfn, f ufc]l Wales.
If 7°t J 11 ! let me know ’ 1 wil1 send y° u the money. I have tried various Hai^R^ he price,
and I find yonrs far and away the best. I -bought a bottle of if wi, • e8 t°rers,
it is used up.—-I remain, YoL faithfully, g bottle of lfc wh en in Melbourne, but
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TRTTATvrwtmvAt
,s yLv&iztXX sr-a JSS
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
MELBQ UHNE.
TOE
‘ Plum 5
pfD
THE
‘Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. Phis brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public
at is specially-tempered, Perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding We
w d ,i 11 the gene i a i > ml)lic ' Being practical tradesmen ourselvf , V
kn ™tl e 3* ot kmd of ® d f. e ( tha Vu requ,red t 0 ensure an eas y shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price I gPSja § azor > l n strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
, Z< £’ Y 1 i, handle - ss. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Register cd and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
i,„nHi a wi!! )r ?^f P ° SeS “ t « !lded - Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
fodowed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
end it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveita trial
_ , . , , Proprietors: QOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENd.
Sole Aeents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/« each,
Are Women Degenerating ?
„ .. Sydney, June 13, 1897.
To the Editor,
Sir, In these days of ever-increasing competi-
tion, when the struggle for existence has become
more intense and earnest than it has ever been
before in the world’s history, the question as to
whether women should enter into the pursuits,
and assume the vocations, hitherto regarded as
exclusively manly, is one of the utmost importance
to both sexes. It is not my intention in this short
letter, however, to go into this question again, for
it has already been discussed in all its aspects, and
with great, freedom, by many of the greatest
thinkers of the day. That women do compete,
and successfully too, with men is a fact most em-
phatically proved. But the question which is of
the greatest importance to us at the present
moment is : Are women physically capable of
sustaining the great efforts now required of them
both in their home life with its worries and cares,
or in the outside world of business and pleasure ?
Alas ! we have not to seek for the answer. It is
written too plainly in the faces and forms of the
women and young girls we meet every day in our
streets. Pale faces which should bear the bloom
of health, and dull, expressionless eyes, which
should beam with life and hope, tell their own
tale; and we know our women are paying the
penalties due to diseased constitutions, either in-
herited or resultant from the artificial modes of
living and the unhealthy foods of the day. The
climate of this country, too, with its sudden
changes from heat to cold, its dust storms, and its
enervating winds, is in itself a great strain on the
female constitution. It is, then, an undoubted
fact that the women of the day are physically
degenerating, and, therefore, the interesting par-
ticulars contained in the following letter, received
recently from Miss Adeline Bell, of Napier, prov-
ing as they do the marvellous curative powers of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills in all ailments of the
female sex, should prove interesting to all readers.
This lady gives the following graphic description '
of her ailments. She says: “I was troubled
with cold hands and feet, palpitation of the heart,
constant feelings of weariness, headaches, loss of
appetite, lack of energy, and also swollen feet and
legs. The symptoms first appeared about three
years ago. Two doctors were consulted about my
case, and medicines were used, but without avail.
I now wish to thank you for the benefit I have
derived from your highly-valued Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. They have done me every good, and
I am now quite another person in health. I can
recommend your pills to anybody. ” In conclusion
it may be added that this wonderful medicine has
cured numbers of people, not only in Australia,
but all over the world, of Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, and other ail-
ments.—I am, Sir, Yours, etc.,
“PRO BONO PUBLICO.”
@63?
®ttW? y
Cm
>u&m
l A
Vraolivk
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy f You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
Hairdressers and wigmakers
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs!
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles!
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d. ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. Gd. Best English Hair Tails
from 5s. Gd. to 42s. each. Wigs, ScalDets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
080 A W82 George Street, Sydney,
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets!
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds , Meioourne.
s
TUDENTS Enrolled, INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.


Stocktaking Closing Out Cash
Sale of Winter Goods
—AT—
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
IS NOW ON.
Goods in every Department are substantially
reduced for this Closing Out Sale.
ORDERS should be sent EARLY, with a
careful description of requirements, naming
prices wished to be paid, and enclosing remittance
to cover amount. Any change over after execut-
ing'orders will at once be refunded, and
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
may rely upon getting the benefit of all reductions,
and goods nearest in price to those mentioned.
Drapery Goods of the value of £2 and upwards
that can go by Parcels Post, with the excep-
tion of certain heavy or bulky low-priced
lines, are sent by us to any Parcels Post Office
in the colony POSTAGE FREE.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank
Drafts and Cheques payable to
Finney, Isles & Co.,
Brisbane.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.
• • •
Cleanse your blood with Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla—the most thoroughly
reliable alterative ever compounded.
For scrofula, boils, ulcers, sores, car-
buncles, pimples, blotches, and all
disorders originating in vitiated
blood, this medicine is a specific.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is equally bene-
ficial as a remedy for catarrh, rheu-
matism, and rheumatic gout. As a
Tonic, it assists the process of
digestion, stimulates the sluggish
liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated
by excessive fatigue or wasting
illness. Physicians everywhere con-
sider Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the best. It
is a skilfully-prepared combination
of the most powerful alteratives and
tonics. No other blood-purifier gives
equal satisfaction or is so universally
in demand.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills cure biliousness
FOR SAW-CULLEi’iNG, PLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, and GENERAL
TOOL GRINDING,
Tbe Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Intelligent Artizans.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
EWG-IKTE ESRS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
tyiSS E. Tweedie,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tlk Up-to-date FrockiSt.
SPLENDID Accommodation for Visitors at
“Wyadra,” 115 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Mre. LILLIS (late of Bundaberg).
Naturalist A. J. Campbell avers that that
fine bird, the Cape Barren goose, has but a few
more years to exist before it follows the moa, the
great auk, and the dodo to the spirit-land.
George Weatinghouse tried to sell his patent
railway brake for .£6OO, but could not find a pur-
chaser. In the subsequent ten years it brought
him in three millions of money. There are many
other things still to be invented just as valuable as
a railway brake. But many inventors have lost
their patents through defective specifications,
claims, etc. This risk can be avoided by inventors
consulting Mr. Arthur Griffith (M.L.A), Patent
Agent, Sydney, who will not only do the work with
exactitude, but at rates within the reach of every
inventor. For instance, £2O will secure pro-
visional Protection in the whole of the seven
colonies of Australia and Great Britain, ana
Foreign Patents can be obtained through him at
similarly reasonable rates.*
The little Champion, which was not the
worst of Melb. weeklies, has merged its struggling
identity into the Sun, devoted to society
and the household,” a chronicle of small tea "
parties and other social engagements. The Cham-
pion had one hopeful moment in its career, and
the sanguine radical whose name was writ large
on the wrapper decided to celebrate the gleam or
sunshine with a little dinner to the staff. 0,. what
a night—what a night! as Paulton remarks in the
new farce. Warmed by the juice of local grapes,
boss Champion painted a glorious political future
for the company at large. His election to Parlia-
ment and prompt capture of the Premiership were
set down as sure things. Then the staff were to
waltz into the Legislature, one at a time,
or simultaneously if possible, and get pro-
moted to seats in the Ministry. Ihe
Champion would direct popular opinion and
its editor would rule the House assisted by all the
admiring intellects present on this historical
occasion. Even the canvasser was to have a
Cabinet position—without portfolio, perhaps, but
a position all the same. The staff sat revelling m
a vision of knighthoods whilst they harked to the
chairman’s oratory, sweet as the murmur of low
fountains that gush forth in the midst of roses,
and lofty as the Blue Alsatian Mountains of am-
bition. Led by such a champion they never
dreamed of leaving their bones to bleach in the
Sun.' The world was their oyster, and they had
swallowed it from the half-shell. And now—well,
what there is left of the Champion records that
Miss Smith “ looked nice in pink.” It is melan-
choly to remember that this, is the man who
waged war so long, and (all things considered) so
well, against the boodlers of society. He is now
chronicling the fact that Mrs. Secret Composition
held a delightful reception on Saturday—at which
painful persons wore smart gowns bought on
credit Yet that first issue of the Champion
shadowed H.H.C’s destination. It was a demo-
cratic paper, and it had a block of the newest
spring shape hat ” and of a “ becoming gown.
Also, there was a picture of the Beaconsheld
statue in Westminster, and of the Salisbury medal-
lion H. H. Champion did a plucky thing at the
end of ’95, when he cynically published, vn his
Christmas number, a list of the boom secret com-
positions, which list caused more heart-burning
down South than any other article ever published
in the city of smells —or, perhaps, in Australasia.
Champion was born in India 40 years ago to swell-
society parents. He was reared in England in the
usual style of a “gentleman’s son. 1 hen he
went into the army—but threw up his commission
when ordered into active service against the
Mahdi, as he regarded that noisy person m the
light of a patriot. Possessing keen literary tastes
and no small amount of ready ability he took
up journalism, and soon was sub-editor of the
Nineteenth Centuby, to the disgust of struggling
professional journalists without. his luck. He
spoke at Trafalgar Square in ’B6, in the month of
the riots, and had to stand in the dock with John
Burns and Hyndman, on a charge of sedition.
He conducted his own defence, earning the praise
of the Judge, and called the magnificent Joseph
Chamberlain as a witness. Chamberlain was
made to prove speeches delivered against
the Government, which were more “seditious”
than Champion’s own—inference: the Govern-
ment was afraid to tackle Chamberlain. The
seditious persons were found not guilty. Then
Champion took a prominent part in the big Hock
strike, and became known to Australia through
the cablegrams. He came to Australia while the
’9l maritime strike was in course, and he got
much censure from the Trades Hall for alleged
actions then. Champion’s old habit of thinking
with the Liberals and dining with the Tories
stood him in bad stead in Australia, though it was
his right bower in England. When he again
returned to Victoria he joined the Age staff, but
had a quarrel with David Syme. That is why he
started the Champion, with an open letter to
King David as the main feature. In May last
year Champion stood for South Melbourne against
Mauger and Ben Tucker. Champion nearly lost
his £5O deposit. Since then his paper has ap-
peared in several shapes, with intermittent spasms
of boldness, and has now disappeared without a
gurgle. The late H. H. Champion now edits a
paper for the households of Society. Lists of wed-
ding-presents a specialty.
G-O TO HEELL-
IOOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
j)avid graham & C°-
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
(Ssotknm’s ~
Wiotcr StiitiQgs
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BBAHAM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
•75 KZiiig St., SycaLaPLes^r.
Aestles
w
—FOR—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
byduey.
9
§
PMRqT
Br^ne>,
mvp%
j?Rt a«N5 Wound?
Co<J6Ms C°LPS
Beware of y
Imitations
MELLIKS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
NIELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. — Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co.
John Connell & Co., Ltd,
iQdiaQ Art Mai)Gfact(ir«s.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in. to 53in. wide, 5f to 6£yds.
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 7yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 10 to 12yds.
in piece. Price, Rs. 6/8 to Rs. 15/- piece.
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in. wide, 8 to 12yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece.
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wide.
Price —White, 4 annas and 6 pies yard.
Colored Stripes, 5 annas „
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 18in., length 9yds.
Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syds.
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Mates; Retail Prices are 6 per
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work, Sandal-
Wood Boxes, &c., &c., Bombay and Cutch Works,
and all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplied.
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the Ex-
change current, or reference for payment to any
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency in
India. G. G. WHITE & CO.,
45 Radha Bazaar-st., CALCUTTA.
Tales of the convict system, by
Pin Ow. Wanuno : Is. 3d. posted.
T
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE
safei!
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, *e., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of al
others, I should say ChIoRODYNE. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of # simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With all increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which Will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH,
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
bv the Wearer through all
WEAK PARTS, REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee W'ith each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what w'e promise.
NOTICE —Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), gnung
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
II9VH
Eucrasy will comp’etely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed^
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
It
the drum"
IN POSITION j
PcafQCSS
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Uaing
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Relieved
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspepsia, li'cr
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 869 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character/from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. W ALLACE. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: - Depression of spirits, headache
hair coming" out* dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons names,
places, etc., loss.of voice, taste, or smell sunken
eves pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen,’ disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case ,are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-sfc. P.O.
T
he last of
PRICE—Is. : Per POST,
SIX
i. 3d.


FISHER «© CO’S
MATRICARIA
(REGISTERED).
‘ a, A)
m
XJN SURPASSED
For Children Cutting their Teeth, and the various
Slight Derangements incident to Infancy.
DOSE.—Under six months, half a powder, dry on the
tongue, every three hours; above six months, one powder
dry on the tongue, every three hours. If the child is in
much pain, or very restless, a few doses may be given every
one or two hours.
In Boxes, Is. Three Boxes for 2s. 6d.
Postage extra, Id.
The purest and most effective powder
KNOWN TO SCIENCE.
Wholesale from Elliott Bros., Aukt. Drug
Compy., Hoppnung’s, and any other Wholesale
House,
ALSO,
At tbs Pbarnjacv,
837 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite G.P.0.).
-^me* aNG^
B 0O m
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. (id. NATIVE WA-
BATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding covers,
price 2s.
J. ALBERT & SON,
Largest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments and
Spectacles Illustrated Catalogue of Violins, Accordeons,
Cornets, Mandolines, Music, etc., posted free on applica-
t,lon - 118 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
O
fiend P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET
SYDNEY, and get one of *
Coxoo’s Noted Accord^ooS,
Or call at one of our Branches-182 Kihg-st., Newtown ;
son' t er ; S 'ir No /,?. S , J ' dney; 79 H «»ter-st„ Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
w F. COXON & CO., TAd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of & per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
HO WARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms'. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
picte, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra!
OWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., aTI
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Mouth Organs (£ tone), from 6d.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
m_all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
M
U
U
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25g5.; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated :
cash or terms. Queen -st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver ; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
pCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST
145 Oollins-street, MELBOURNE ’
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
defy COMPETITION 1 .
WINES The Best B ™ ids ° ni v °f SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
♦ . PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Cold, Silver, [ead Copper flres jjj products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Com prise PL A NTS for CRUS HI NG, A BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
under MA NUIACLURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
£ati(?n of the wnrl H L-° f B “ KKM r °KE, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
obfadnW7h2nrv2^P^ ng w midBt . of the , Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
P ° ’ Coke > and 1 luxes , thu « enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
* Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of * Assays,
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)>
Managing Director ,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Coowl
Is of Unequalled Value as a Household Beverage.
Easy to Make—Easy to Digest and of Exquisite Flavour.
Adan>s Tatt?rsall Hotel,
PITT ST., SITZDZtsrZEir.
Adati)S Cafs, George Strict.
SPLFNDI I) A CCOMM ODA TJ ON.
TEIiMS: FRO3I Bs. PER DAY.
VISITORS CAN DIN 1C IN HOTEL OR CAFE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J, ADAMS, Manager.
WaSbiQgtoi) N. SoGl & Co.
Do not be satisfied with “Good Enough.”
The Best is the only Good I- nough ” you should have, and
always the Cheapest in the long 1 run.
A FEW EXAMPLES :
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER is a pure and sound article, at 6d. per tin.
DENTAROMA, at Is. 6d., whitens the teeth, purifies the breath. A most Fragrant
Dentifrice. &
DR COLTSFOOT COUGH LINCTUS, or GLYCERINE and
LINSEED, each Is. per bottle. Splendid articles for Coughs, Colds, Ac.
YAALA, or PEPALGEN, 2s. per bottle. If you have no indigestion, you will not
need it ; if you have, use it. The most effective cure to be obtained.
SPARTAN lONIC, 2s. 6d. and 4s. The tonic that reigns supreme, and its
qualities are recorded in many an Australian household.
Do Not Forget the Old Shop—Next door but one to the City Bank.
WASHINGTON N. SOUL & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street, Sydney,
ALSO AT 268 PITT STREET; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
a
i
NEVER. CAUGHT A COLD
FISHER AND CO.’S
FarpoGS Natara
(REGISTERED)
CURES - - The Head,
CURES - - The Throat,
CURES - - The Chest.
Once Tried, always Recommended for
COLDS, COUCHS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
lIRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH,
il’c.j lir.
A MOST CERTAIN REMEDY, UNRIVALLED FOR
QUICK ACTION AND IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
One DOSE RELIEVES. One BOTTLE CURES
PLEASANT TO THE TASTE.
Arthur Cocks and Co.,
Wholesale Opticians, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— l was persuaded to try your Natara re-
cently whilst sufferimr from a heavy cold, and its effect
was far beyond my expectations. “One dose effected a
marked improvement, and next day I had fullv recovered
from the cold, after taking four doses. It’is the best
remedy I have ever used.—Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR COCKS.
Manufactured only by the Proprietors
FISHER AND CO.,
WHOLESALE CHEMISTS AND ,
DRUGGISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Is. (id. mid 2s. (id. per Bottle ;
By Post, 6d. and Bd. Extra.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WHEN IN TOWN
CAN OBTAIN SINGLE DOSES, 13d. per dose
To be had from all Chemists and Storekeepers in the
Colonies. Beware of Imitations, and insist upon being
served with NATARA, and no other Cough Mixture.-
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Sydney and Parramatta:
PATTINSON (all shops).
Wholesale from —Elliott Brothers ; Australian Drug
Company ; Hoffnung’s ; Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co • or
any other Wholesale House.
00 YOU want
A
r FRFF-^.
watches-Clocks-JevVelleryßirtHday-
Wedding Christening Presents
RNeWmaN- 1755177-EUZABEIH St-
OPPOSITE G:P.Q.—
MELBOURNE-
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
SULPHUR PILLS
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full direction, with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is 3d
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses!
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
Vf IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red. & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding' Oil.
“ tattoo ni'W & T°k B S e fchat the words
TATTOO OIL (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London are
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydnev
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & 00., Adelaide
Representative : J. C. M'Cann, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb. ’
Pubications. ~ -
G-©o» Robertson & Co.
361 & 363 Georoe Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets!
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebritie


The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-knownoptieiansof George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraelough.*
Tb€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long-, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Williani-st. Only. Sydney.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
“CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triu.rn.pli.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable.
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
Arpcricap lipport Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All (lie I.ending Warehouses.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY CJRED BY .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
rpHOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Coutrh, Difficulty of Breathing, .
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the,difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you thi3 acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
“Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure ? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.—J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“Mr. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never coughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, l ittle Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. ' The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he did so, and it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too widely known,:
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat anci
along back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, TIIOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Sir, —Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M‘BEAN, Carlton.”
“Dear Sir,—! had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, j. PI. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“Dear Sir, —Many .thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doin"-
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so" weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Age of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. Aftertaking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor, W G. Hear ae, Chemist. Geelong, Victoria. Small size, 2s. 6d. ; larjre, Is. (id. Sold In C’iiemisU aiid
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable locally.
Dave’s Snakebite.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One hot day, as we were finishing dinner*
a sheriff’s bailiff rode up to the door. Dad left the
table, munching some bread, and went out to him.
Mother looked out of the door; Sal went to the
window ; little Bill and Tom peeped through a
crack ; Dave remained at his dinner; and Joe
knavishly seized the opportunity of exploring the
table for leavings, finally seating himself in Dad’s
place, and commencing where Dad had left off.
“Jury-summons,” said the meek bailiff, extract-
ing a paper from his breast-pocket, and reading
“Murtagh Colin Joseph Duncan M‘Gregor Ross,
selector, Shingle Hut . . . Correct ? ”
Dad nodded assent.
“ Got any water ? ”
There wasn’t a drop in the cask, so Dad came in
and asked Mother if there was any tea left. She
pulled a long, solemn, Sunday-school face, and
looked at Joe, who was holding the teapot upside-
down, shaking the tea-leaves into his cup.
“ Tea, Dad ? ” he chuckled—“ by golly ! ”
Dad didn’t think it worth while going out to the
bailiff again. He sent Joe.
“ Not any at all ? ”
“ Nothink,” said Joe.
“ H’m! Nulla bona, eh ? ” And the Law
smiled at its own joke and went off thirsty.
Thus it was that Dad came to be away one day
when his great presence of mind and ability as a
bush doctor was most required at Shingle Hut.
* • * •
Dave took Dad’s place at the plough. One
of the horses—a colt that Dad bought with the
money he got from Red Donovan for Farmer —
had only just been broken. He was bad at start-
ing. When touched with the rein he would stand
and wait until the old furrow-horse put in a few
steps ; then plunge to get ahead of him, and if a
chain or a swingle-tree or something else didn’t
break, and Dave kept the plough in, he ripped
and tore along in style, bearing in and . bear-
ing out and knocking the old horse about till
that much-enduring animal became as cranky
as himself, and the pace terrible. Down would
go the plough-handles, and, with one tremend-
ous pull on the reins, Dave would haul
them back on to. their rumps. Then he would
rush up and kick the colt on the root of the tail;
and if that didn’t make him put his leg over the
chains and kick till he ran a hook into his heel
and lamed himself, or broke something, it caused
him to rear up and fall back on the plough and
snort and strain and struggle till there was not a
stitch left on him but the winkers.
Now, if Dave was noted for one thing more
than another it was for his silence. He scarcely
ever took the trouble to speak. He hated to be
asked a question, and mostly answered by nodding
his head. Yet, though he never seemed to prac-
tise, he could, when his blood was fairly up, swear
with distinction and effect. On this occasion he
swore through the whole afternoon without once
making a mistake.
Towards evening Joe took the reins and began
to drive. He hadn’t gone once around when,
just as the horses approached a big dead tree that
had been left standing in the cultivation, he
planted his left foot heavily upon a Bathurst-burr
that had been cut and left lying. It clung to him.
He hopped along on one leg, trying to kick it off ;
still it clung to him. He fell down. The horses
and the tree got mixed up, and everything was
copfusion. Dave abused Joe remorselessly.
“ Go on ! ” he howled, waving in the air a fist-
ful of grass and weeds which he had pulled from
the nose of the plough ; “ clear out of this alto-
gether ! —you’re only a damn nuisance.”
Joe’s eyes rested on the fistful of grass. They
lit up suddenly.
“ L-l-look out, Dave,” he stuttered ; “ y’-y’ got a
s-s-snake. ”
Dave dropped the grass promptly. A deaf-adder
crawled out of it. Joe killed it. Dave looked
closely at his hand, which was all scratches and
scars. He looked at it again ; then he sat on the
beam of the plough, pale and miserable-looking.
“ D-d-did it bite y’, Dave ? ” No answer.
Joe saw a chance to distinguish himself, and
took it. He ran home, glad to be the bearer of
the news, and told Mother that “ Dave’s got bit
by a adder—a sudden-death adder —right on top
o’ th’ finger.”
How mother screamed ! “My God ! whatever
shall we do? Run quick,” she said, “and bring
Mr. Maloney. Dear, oh dear !oh dear ! ”
Joe had not calculated on this injunction. .He
dropped his head and said sullenly:
“ Wot, walk all the way over there ? ”
Before he could say another word a tin-dish left
a dinge on the back of his skull that will accom-
pany him to his grave if he lives to be a thousand.
“ You wretch, you ! Why don’t you run when I
tell you ? ”
Joe sprang in the air like a shot wallaby.
“ I’ll not go at all now—y’ see ! ” he answered,
starting to cry. Then Sal put on her hat and ran
for Maloney.
Meanwhile Dave took the horses out, walked
inside and threw himself on the sofa without
uttering a word. He felt ill.
Mother was in a paroxysm of fright. She
threw her arms about frantically and cried for
someone to come. At last she sat down and tried
to think what she could do. She thought of the
very thing, and ran for the carving-knife, which
she handed to Dave with shut eyes. He motioned
her with a disdainful movement of the elbow to
take it away.
Would Maloney ever come ? He was coming,
hat in hand, and running for dear life across the
Eotato-paddock. Behind him was his man. Be-
ind his man—Sal, out of breath. Behind her,
Mrs. Maloney and the children.
“ Phwat’B th’ thrubble ? ” cried Maloney. “ Bit
be a dif-adher ? O, be the tares of war ! ” Then
he asked Dave numerous questions as to how it
happened, which Joe answered with promptitude
and pride. Dave simply shrugged his shoulders
and turned his face to the wall. Nothing was to
be got out of him.
Maloney held a short consultation with himself.
Then—“ Hould up yer hand ! ” he said, bending
over Dave with a knife. Dave thrust out his arm
violently, knocked the instrument to the other
side of the room, and kicked wickedly.
“The pison’s wurrkin’,” whispered Maloney
quite loud.
“ Oh, my gracious ! ” groaned Mother.
“ The poor crathur,” said Mrs. Maloney.
There was a pause.
“Phwhat finger’s bit?” asked Maloney. Joe
thought it was the littlest one of the lot.
He. approached the sofa again, knife in hand.
“Show me yer finger,” he said to Dave.
For the first time Dave spoke. He said :
“Damn y’—what the devil do y’ want? Clear
out and lea’ me ’lone. ”
Maloney hesitated. There was a long silence.
Dave commenced breathing heavily.
“It’s maikin’ ’m slape,” whispered Maloney*
glancing over his shoulder at the women.
“ Don’t let him ! Don’t let him ! ” Mother
wailed.
“ Salvation to’s all,” muttered Mrs. Maloney,
piously crossing herself.
Maloney put away the knife and beckoned to
his man, who was looking on from the door. They
both took a firm hold of Dave and stood him
upon his feet. He looked hard and contemptu-
ously at Maloney for some seconds. Then with
gravity and deliberation Dave said: “Now wot
’n th’ devil are y’ up t’ ? Are y’ mad ? ”
“ Walk’m along, Jaimes —walk ’in along,” was
all Maloney had to say. And out into the yard
they marched him. How Dave did struggle to
get away ! Swearing and cursing Maloney for a
cranky Irishman till he foamed at the mouth, all
of which the other put down to snake-poison.
Round and round the yard and up and down it
they trotted him till long after dark, until there
wasn’t a struggle left in him.
They placed him on the sofa again, Maloney
keeping him awake with a strap. How Dave
ground his teeth and kicked and swore whenever
he felt that strap ! And they sat and watched
him.
• * • *
It was late in the night when Dad came
from town. He staggered in with the neck of a
bottle showing out of his pocket. In his hand
was a piece of paper wrapped round the end of
some yards of sausage. The dog outside carried
the other end.
“ An’ ’e ishn’t dead ? ” Dad said after hearing
what had befallen Dave. “ Don’ b’leevsh id—
wuzhn’t bit. Die ’fore shun-’own ifsh desh ad’er
bish’m.”
“ Bit! ” Dave said bitterly, turning round to
the surprise of everyone. “I never said I was
bit. No one said I was —only those snivelling
idiots and that pumpkin-headed Irish pig there.’’
Maloney lowered his jaw and opened his eyes.
“ Zhackly. Dia’n’ I (hie) shayzo, ’Loney ?
Did’n’ I, eh, ol’ wom’n ? ” Dad mumbled, and
dropped his chin on his chest.
Maloney began to take another view of the
matter. He put a leading question to Joe.
“He muster been bit,” Joe answered, “ ’cuz he
had the d-death-adder in his hand.”
More silence.
“ Mush die ’fore shun’own,” Dad murmured.
Maloney w T as thinking hard. At last he spoke.
“ Bridgy,” he cried, “ where’s th’childer?” Mrs.
Maloney gathered them up.
dust then Dad seemed to be dreaming. He
swayed about. His head hung lower, and he mut-
tered : “ Shen’l’m’n, yoush disharged wish shanksh
y’cun’ry.”
The Maloneys left.
* * * *
Dave is still alive and well, and silent as
ever; and if any one question is more intolerable
and irritating to him than another, it is to be
asked if he remembers the time he was bitten by a
deaf-adder.
Q.
STEELE RUDD.
A Sydney suburban Mayor declared on
his election to the c 1 air, the other day, that he
felt an inward religious monitor urging him to
accept the position. We shall next hear, probably,
of a nuisance inspector having a spiritual call to
remove the defunct william-goat out of the alley.
Words that burn : “God Save the Queen.’
“ Billy ” Brookes has retired from the Q.
Leg. Council at the age of 72. He was for years
a sort of standing member for N. Brisbane, until
the plethorio M‘II wraith downed him in ’BB over
the “ Hopeful ” prisoners’ cases. Billy was an
obstinate “ Liberal,” as the party to which he
belonged was called, but he was, at any rate, con*
sistently Australian in opposing “black labor.” His
great misfortune was to have to creep under- the
wing of such a slippery opportunist as Griffith.
How Billy hated (politically) M ! llwraith ! What
he must have thought of the subsequent coalition
of Sam and Mac —of the M'llgriff, or the Griffil-
wraith—could not be adequately expressed except
in words of burning blasphemy. And Billy never
swore. He was a clean-living man—an under-
sized, parchmenty-skinned, spectacle - wearing
chap, with a forehead much larger than its depen-
dents ; and, withal, with a determination of chin
that suggested pugnacity and gave a misty, men-
tal apparition of a light-weight prizefighter. He
is old and feeble now, and animosities against him
have long since been forgotten. He was in the
hard-goods line, the name of his old firm having
been Brookes and Noble. The only political scan-
dal ever breathed against Billy was something
about an iron contract (Govt.) in connection with
one of the Brisbane River bridges (since swept
away); but there was probably little truth in it.
“The War Office authorities have pro-
mised to try Australian horses at the Cape before
taking any definite action with regard to cavalry
remounts. They state that the purchase in the
Argentine Republic was only an experiment. Sir
Ocorcje Turner is satisfied with this explanation.
Akgus cable.
Great Britain’s officers of War
(A stuck-up crowd, by all accounts),
They sent to Argentina for
A lot of cavalry remounts.
Australia’s horsey soul was stirred ;
Our land was wounded in its pride—
Until the cable brought us word
That Turner, knight, was satisfied.
1-Ie might have risen, full of wrath,
To cut the silken bonds in twain,
Brushing the Lion from his path,
And breaking up the Record Reign ;
But, no ; an explanation first
He sought, and meekly they replied.
War’s threat’ning clouds at once disperst
When Turner, knight, was satisfied.
Now Lady T., contented, greets
Her Gracious when she calls at Court,
And if she casually meets
The Prince of Wales, she doesn’t snort.
Joe Chamberlain says “All is right”—
And then he adds, in stage-aside—
“ I'll pull the silken bond more tight
Since Turner, knight, is satisfied.”


Has Rheumatism or Influenza got you in its terrible grasp? Are you Weak or Ailing.
Do you suffer from Anaemia, Locomoter Ataxia, Sciatica, Lumbago, General Debility ?
Be happy, then, in the knowledge that there is a remedy for your trouble.
DOING A DAY’S WASHING ! HARDSHIPS MET WITH
IN COLD WEATHER! HANDS IN HOT WATER,
THEN IN COLD ! GETTING HEATED, THEN GOING
OUT OE DOORS IN ALL SORTS OE WEATHER !
COUGHS, COLDS AND RHEUMATISM THE INEVI-
TABLE RESULTS!
Read what Mrs. Mary Brown, of 71 Simmons-street, Enmore,
told a Reporter.
“ I have been suffering on and off from rheumatism for the
last five years, and the slightest change in the weather used to
give me most awful twinges. It chiefly affected my arms, and I
can assure you, sir, that it took me all my time to do my hair.
As to lifting this tub, that
was a matter of sheer im-
possibility. If it had not
been for some of my friends,
I could never have gotten
through my household duties.
This complaint appeared to
affect my entire system, and
as to the money I have spent
in doctors’ advice and so-
called remedies, why it makes
me positively disgusted to
think of. I began to think
that if my sufferings con-
tinued, life was not worth
living. I remember one day,
as I was sitting by the fire
and endeavoring to employ
my mind by reading the
Evening News, that an ad-
vertisement caught my eye
headed ‘ Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills Pale People cures Rheu-
matism, Sciatica,’etc. Now,
having wasted so much
money already, I was at
first loath to try any more
advertised medicines, but I
thought ‘in for a penny in for a pound,’so I invested m three
boxes of this specific, and right glad am I that I did so, for I am
happy to tell you that they have done me all the good in the
world Talk about the new woman, why I feel now a brand-new
woman, and my husband only this morning said to me, Well,
you certainly look the “ pink ”of perfection now. I suppose it is
your Pink Pills that have done it.’ And so it is. Not only have
I lost my rheumatic pains, but my appetite has returned, and I
can now enjoy my food. ... . T .
“ I have had seven boxes in all, and I have so much belief m
them that I intend always to keep a box by me, and I shall recom-
mend them to all my friends. You are quite at liberty to publish
this statement, as I believe in giving credit to whom credit is due.
Tl'
Pale and Sallow Girls.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at the time their
daughters are budding into womanhood. If your daughter is
pale, complains of weakness, is “tired out upon the slightest
exertion; if she is troubled with headache or backache, pain in
the side, if her temper is fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a
condition of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development of the
most dreaded of all diseases-Consumption. If yon notice any
of the above symptoms, lose no time m procuring JJr. Williams
Pink Pills. They will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood, and restore health s roses to
the cheeks; bright eyes and lightness of step will surely follow
their use, and all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will insist upon their
daughters taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills upon the approach of
the period of puberty, and thus avoid all chances of disease or
early decay.
General Weakness Cured.
Brucedale, near Wagga Wagga (N.S.W.),
21st January, 1897.
Sirs,—l hereby testify as to the good use your Pink Pills have
been to me. I have used them for General Weakness, and have
derived great benefit from their use. I heartily recommend them
to all sufferers as a really good medicine to take.
I am, Sirs, faithfully yours,
E. BARNES.
FOR
YoOijg ai)d Old, Ri«b ai)d Poor,
Mei), Wonjei), ai>d Cbildr«o-
-
O
Blood Builder and Nerve Tonic.
Anaemia Cured.
Miss Catherine Flood, daughter of Patrick Flood, Esq., who
lives a few miles from Mallorytown, Ont., says : —“ A little more
than a year ago X began to deeline in health. X felt constantly
tired, my appetite failed, and my color was deathly. My father
saw a doctor and described my Case, and he said the trouble was
anaemia, and sent me a bottle of medicine. I found that the medi-
cine did not agree with me and discontinued it. I was constantly
growing worse, and was subject to weak spells, and was fast
becoming little more than a living skeleton. One Sunday after I
had been to church a friend who returned with me strongly urged
me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I decided to give them a
trial, and my father purchased a supply. The first change I
noticed was that the dizziness was leaving me, then my appetite
improved and my color began to/return, and soon I was enjoying
as good health as I had ever done. It is now about a year since
I discontinued the use of the pills, and I have not felt one symp-
tom of the old trouble. I believe that Pink Pills saved me from
the grave,' and I strongly urge other girls who may be in a condi-
tion similar to mine to try them.”
The Terrible Influenza.
ITS
RAVAGES* ARE
MEASURES CAN
HEALTH.
APPALLING ONLY PROMPT
RESTORE THE SUEEERER TO
The people of this country
have good cause to view with
alarm an outbreak of influenza,
as it leaves behind it more shat-
tered constitutions than any
other known disease. Mr.
Edward Botting, for ten years a
councillor of the united town-
ships of Bedford, Olden, and
Palmerston, in Frontenac county
Ontario, Canada, is one who
nearly fell a victim to the
scourge. To a Whig corres-
pondent Mr. Botting said
“ About two years ago I had a
bad attack of influenza, and the
after effects of that malignant
trouble brought me so low that
my friends dispaired of my re-
covery. I was troubled with
severe and constant pains in the
back, sensations of extreme dizziness, weakness, and was, in
fact, in a generally used up condition. I had read frequently of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and felt they must have some special
virtues else they could not obtain such strong endorsations in all
parts of the country. I determined to try them, and I bless the
day that I came to that conclusion. Before the first box was
finished I felt benefited, and I continued their use, until I was as
strong as ever. I consider Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills the best
medicine sold, and I would not be without them in the house if
they cost 5 dollars a box. "
The Terrors of Indigestion.
Four-Mile Creek, Pretty Gully,
20th January, 1897.
To the Dr. Williams Medicine Co.
Dear Sir,-—Your Pills I received safely, and I can say with
truth that they have done me good. I feel quite confident that
they will do all they are required to do. I feel much better. It is
indigestion I have been suffering from, I must tell you that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have made a great change in me with regard
to a certain ailment I was suffering from. I have found them a
freat relief. My husband is quite pleased with the change your
'ills have made in me, and will send for some more. Both he and
myself have spoken to all the diggers around. Many of them, if
not all, are suffering from some complaint or other. They are
sending down for some Pills, as they are quite tired of other
remedies. You can print this if you wish, as I feel quite certain
that they are doing me good.
I must now remain, yours respectfully,
(Mrs.) T. Donaldson,
Four-Mile Creek, Pretty Gully, via Drake.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are obtainable from all leading
chemists, or from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Queen’s
Place, Sydney, who will forward (post paid), on receipt of stamps
or post office order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-a-dozen for 14s. 9d
/a
X-
Dr- IMLIM3 PIDK PILLS FOR PILE PEOPLE
Briijg Bright Eyes, Rosy Cheeks # NappioeSS.
“ Paid.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Look here, doctor,” said the man with the
scrubby, red moustache and the piggy eyes, “ it
ain’t no further use. This little matter has been
a-standin’ between you and me for two months
now, and I want the stuff.”
The doctor was looking out of the window of
his “surgery” past the other’s head. He saw
what he had seen so many times before, a sandy
space of ground, bleak in winter, burning in
summer, with its few anaemic trees struggling
bravely amid adverse surroundings, a disreputable
wire-fence or.two, and a background of State-
school—the last a thing of beauty formed of lime-
stone rubble and tin.
In the playground the children were occupied
in languid attempts at frolic. He knew most of
them. They were all “Rechabites” to a child,
and thus, in his club practice, he had many chances
of studying them. Their faint, raucous shouts and
yells came floating through the open window of
his office, and made a fitting accompaniment to
the scarcely less agreeable tones of the man with
the scrubby moustache.
The doctor sighed. He did not dispute the
debt. It was a very small one, but one of many,
and it had “ had to wait.”
“ And see here,” said the man, “ I ain’t a-goin’
to wait no longer ; so that’s flat. Folks as can’t
pay up shouldn’t indulge in luxuries.”
The luxury responsible for this debt was poultry
for the doctor’s invalid wife. The amount was
one pound. “ And so I tell you,” went on the
other, “ that unless I’m paid to-morrow I’m
a-goin’ to take out a summons —that’s straight.”
The summons would not have mattered so much
in itself, but it would have entailed consequences :
other summonses and possibly a meeting of
creditors.
And still the doctor looked vacantly out of his
window at the school-ground and wondered if any
one there could work out a little sum in arithmetic
such as the following : “Given cash in hand, nil ;
overdraft at bank, £lOO ; further debts, £150;
And JBI sterling.” He saw two boys mount the
tall swing in the school-yard and commence swing-
ing, standing-up. A curious fancy flitted across
his mind that they looked like the old-fashioned
“ monkeys on sticks ” with which he had played
as a boy. The man with the red moustache con-
tinued half-bullying, half-complaining, and the
children’s voices crept across the sandy space to
his half-attentive ear. And he recognised the
boys on the swing. One was the son of the man
opposite him—a Rechabite, of course. And the
swing went higher and higher, to and fro, to and
fro; very high now. But still the boys stooped and
straightened themselves and urged it higher and
higher—and—ah ! The doctor drew a long breath
and started up. The swing had “kicked,” and one
of the boys, his companion’s son, had lost his hold
and fallen, and he almost fancied he heard the
sound of the lad’s body as it struck the earth. The
children yelled and shrieked a little louder than
before, and then were silent. The doctor moved
to where his hat was and laid his hand on his bag.
“ Now, no sneaking off ! ” said the man with the
scrubby moustache, “Are you goin’to pay it or
not? That’s what I want to know before I leave
you. ’Cos if you’re not, so ’elp me gawd ”
“ I haven't the money in the house, man,” an-
swered the doctor, speaking for the first time in
many minutes, “ but will you take an order on the
Attorney-General ? •”
“ Oh ! ” responded the other, somewhat taken
aback. He had wanted the excuse for that sum-
mons very much.
“ I’ll take it if it’s goin’ to be honored ; but is
there anything cornin’ to you ? ”
“ There will be,” rejoined the doctor, in a day
or so. But if it is not honored you can summon
me then.”
“ Humph ! ” grunted his creditor ; I suppose
it’s better than nothing.”
The doctor made out the order dated that day
week, and handed it to the man, saying, “ And
now I must go. There’s been an accident at the
school. Perhaps you’d better come with me.”
As they left the house—the man with the mou-
stache wondering much what the accident had to
do with him—they were met by a breathless boy,
who gasped, all wide-eyed and pale: Please,
doctor, they wants yer quick at the school ! A
boy’s been and fell off of the swing, and they
think he’s dead.”
They hurried to the play-ground- Pushing
through the crowd of children and women from
neighboring houses, they found the schoolmaster
supporting the boy’s head on his lap. The man
with the moustache gave a hoarse ory and fell upon
his knees beside them.
The doctor waved aside the crowd, and after a
moment’s examination said, “Yes; I was afraid
so. He is quite dead.” They carried the body to
the school, and the doctor went slowly home.
* • * *
A week later the man with the scrubby red
moustache sent in his order on the Attorney-
General for collection. He got his money and
signed the following receipt
Attorney-General to Dr. .
Attending and giving evidence at inquest
touching death of George i. 14 (i !>
Received per 1 1 "
It referred to the death of his own son.
NIL.
“The troops were all in line of bottle.”—
Comp.
The Vie. P.O. Commercial Directory for
1897-98, a biennial production, invaluable as a
book of reference and for banging anybody on the
head, has been published by Wise a.nd Co., of
Melbourne (and elsewhere in Australasia). It is
a great book, in the strictest sense of the term.
Germany has now the strongest artillery of
all armies—she lately spent on it <£15,000,000 in
one act. “ Completion of the war stores ” was
the official title of the item in the extraordinary
estimates, in which the colossal sum named was
demanded and unanimously voted without debate.
Only a few months ago the first intimations about
the real object of that considerable sum were
made in a clerical paper, and although they could
do no more harm the publication was stigmatised
as unpatriotic on all sides.
Southland (M.L.) Times states that at
Waikaha the highest wages of working men are
paid to rabbiters (trappers for the exporters). A
wages-sheet for one man s work for one month
totted up to <£3l odd ; and there are quite a number
who are making from =£2s to £2O a month. It is
computed that during the five months for which
the season lasts about <£130,000 is distributed in
wages, and this to a large extent among a class of
people who otherwise would find it hard to obtain
employment during winter, even at much lower
wages than they are making at the rabbit indus-
try. And yet it is proposed to insist on rabbit-
poisoning in Southland !
Dies Irce.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was some millions of years after the great Judg-
ment Day. Satan had been sleeping, and when
he awoke he felt somewhat chilly.
“ Confound those imps ! ” he exclaimed, “ I be-
lieve they’ve let the fires down a bit. A more
careless set of devils I never had to do with in all
my eternity. I’ll give them particular sheol tor
this.”
As he spoke he touched the electric bell, and a
few seconds afterwards a trapdoor in the floor fell
open, and a devil, burnt to a rich terra-cotta by
the eternal fires, shot into the presence of ttie
Lord of Hell.
“ How now, sir ? ” thundered the potentate ;
“ do vou think hell was meant to be an ice-house,
that you let the fires down so low ? You seem to
have mistaken your vocation. The whole stoking
department ought to have been angels with white
robes and crowns of glory. What do you mean
by it, anyhow? .
The stoker-devil trembled like a leaf. May it
please your majesty,” he said, “ it isn’t realty our
fault; the fact is, we are running out of fuel.
“ What ! ” roared Satan, “ running out of fuel,
with the whole universe to draw on? ”
“ We’ve been using ten constellations a minute
for the last three million years,” explained the
stoker ; “and now the supply has given out. We
kept the Milky Way till the last, hoping against
hope, but this week we had to use it. We are
running the furnaces now with the Magellan
Clouds, but the quality is none of the best, and
we’ll want a fresh supply in a few hours.”
“Search the ends of Space then!’ exclaimed
Satan, “ there must surely be any quantity of
constellations left.” m ,
The stoker-devil shook his head sadly. We ve
used ’em all up,” he replied. „ “Our cinder heap
reaches to the farthest depths.” _
“Search that cinder heap then'.’’cried Satan,
“ plenty of suns and constellations may have been
thrown carelessly out.” .
“No,” replied the stoker-devil despondently,
“ during the last million years the ashes have been
carefully sifted, and all burnable parts have been
returned to the furnaces.”
Satan ground his mighty teeth in despair.
“ This comes of damning too many souls, he ex-
claimed. “ I begin to think that I was far too
active in the old days. If I had had any foresight
at all I’d have let the parsons save all the souls
they wanted. Here I am brought to beggary in
my old age—burnt out of house and home by a
lot of miserable souls who have not the common
decency to thank me for giving them the chance.
But I will not submit, I’ll strain the universe
through a hair sieve before I give up the game.
Here, you, turn out ten thousand of those Aus-
tralian miners we damned in the nineteenth cen-
tury. Tell ’em to prospect all Space. Tell them
I’ll give threepence each for planets, and nine-
pence each for suns—in asbestos orders good for
whisky at the refreshment-room. And, while
they are routing around, I’ll see what I can find
on my own account.”
At once the message clanged throughout hell,
but before the order could be carried out Satan
took a header into the depths, on a quest of Ins
own. In a few seconds thousands of eager souls
swarmed out on to the clinker-heap. There they
were, gaunt and grim, seared by millions of years
of searching fires, grilled for ages on the unmelt-
ing fire-bars of the inferno, racked and torn by the
tireless torturers, and hideously disfigured by a
thousand endless and unimaginable torments.
But there they stood with the old prospecting
fever still strong within them, and before them
lay the biggest prospecting field ever offered to the
sons of men. There lay an apparently duffered-
out universe, with just a chance that somewhere in
it were constellations every sun of which was
worth a drink in the private bar of hell, and so
with a whoop that shook the grim portal of the
inferno they dashed into Space.
But little they recked of the task before them.
For days they wandered, that troop of discon-
solate diggers, and many a billion miles they
prospected without success. At last, when the
search seemed almost hopeless, something huge
and filmy hove in sisrht on the great black wall of
starless Space. With a simultaneous rush the
prospectors went for it, and, hooking themselves
on by every available point, they dragged it, with
a wild hurrah, through billions of miles of empti-
ness till they triumphantly dumped it at hell’s
gate, and sent it bodily down into the furnaces.
A stoker-imp rose up and thanked them, with
tears in his eyes.
“Just in time, oh, just in time !” he exclaimed,
in broken accents. “ The weather prophet in the
third gridiron has prophesied a white frost.”
But suddenly a mighty form spun up from the
exterior darkness. It was Satan, returned from a
fruitless search.
“I hear the roar of the furnaces,” he said;
“ what have you found ? ”
They told him.
“ ‘A filmy thing, floating in Space.’ Oh, fools ! ”
he cried, “you have gone and burnt up Heaven.
It won’t last ten minutes. We are lost! ”
And, sure enough, fifteen minutes later Hell
froze over.
ZEF
NOT GUILTY, Y’R WUSHUP.
I put it to you this way : s’posin’ you
’N’ the missus’d had a picnic down the bay ;
'N’ the feed and sport’d made your life seem new,
’N’ the liquor’d made the missus full of play.
’N’ s’pose you meets Don Pedos on his beat,
Whose small thirtcens makes all the donahs grin
’N’ the missus busts out laughing at his feet,
’N’ he grabs her, pretty rough, to run her in.
’N’ y’r muslin’s eyes, beseeching, look at you,
While Bunions scruffs ’n’ mauls your tart about,
I ask you, as a man, what would you do ?
I biffed him on the jaw, and knocked him out.
Three months ! You call that justice? Bli me ! Three '
I only hit him once—that’s tough, that is.
Well, never mind, Liz swears she ll stick to me,
’N’ I’d do it on my blooming head for Liz.
ALONE.
New Guinea Macgregor is seriously typed
as being a resident director of that huge trading
concern, the London Missionary Society.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, tin-
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, a,re supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)


IT
was said of the first Napoleon that one of the canons by which he regulated
the correspondence of his high office was this : “A letter that is not answered
answers itself.” A.nd in many instances this is, no doubt, true. “ Silence,”
we say, “ gives consent. ” Often, again, it means refusal. Much depends on
the form of the appeal ; and much on the relative positions of the two parties
to the communication.
REALLY
business-like people, however, in business affairs, will seldom adopt any of
these formulae of indifference, whether of princely or popular origin. A
neglected letter is, in some respects, like a neglected chill, or a neglected head-
ache, or a neglected physical ailment of any kind. Each of these, indeed, is a
message—a message from Nature. And it
POESN’T
do to trifle with her communications. She is too powerful, and we are
too puny ; and when our indifference ruffles her she has a way of calling us
angrily to account. A postcard will often answer a long letter; “ A stitch in
time saves nine,” and attention to a slight physical ailment, or apparently
trivial obstruction, may alike save unnecessary suffering and useless regret.
MATTER
in the wrong place is a famous definition of “ Dirt.” Equally is it true (very
often, at all events) of Disease. A sluggish liver, an impaired circulation or
recurrent indigestion ; a bilious attack or a sick headache; nervous disorders
and functional irregularities, each of these is often simply caused by “ Matter
in the wrong place.” Of each how often has one heard it said, “It really
doesn't matter ! ” And yet they all do : they are “ Matters that do matter ! ”
They are Nature’s MESSAGES ; and one of the best specifics—one that
is always found to ANSWER—is a timely purifying dose of BEECH AM’S
PI LLS. They are to be had of all Chemists ; so that for the purpose, at all
events, of obtaining a supply, wherever you may happen to be
It Really PoeSQ’t Matter.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD?
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
} ° an bear professional testimony to the value of your Lung Tonic. As a
nat-hn. it is unrivalled. I have given it to Mrs. For9haw for severe
inimQir a , , bronchial affections, combined with much coughing, and it ha#
mediately given relief when all other remedies have failed.”
CHAS. F. FORSHAW, D.D.S., Bradford.
ivrbrt
. My family have need it for years, and have found it matchless. My little
gn! has been taking it unremittingly for a fortnight tor whooping-cough,
which has nearly disappeared.”
J.D.H., 7 Beever’s Terrace, Beeaton Hill, Leeds.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. 1 jd., 2s. 9d., 4s. Bd.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OP SIX.
1
Immons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMAKKET, SYDNEY,
DIRECT IMPORTER OP
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AKD**
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY FANCY LEATHER
GOODS ; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT. NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS. BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
K3T Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKBT, SYDNEY.
IT LOOKED LIKE IT.
BELL: “I wonder if she is really rich?”
NELL: “Oh, she must be. Three men proposed to her last night!"


‘iuies’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Solfl by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
yvg»
a
—THE-'
BaSSct Csirf,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting* hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A tree account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs, and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest,
mg and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 91S, G.P.0., SYDVRY.
MADAME S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) P6n>pii>g EpgiQe Conjpaijy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlieFS. (Australasian Branch.)
82 Clarence-st.,
WORTHI NGTON
trade mark-
Sydney,
- A ;
v?«
US
flajaEsMU §&s& , lip
<■-• S’
HK&s&ie
'fsMsrt*.
•v..
REGULAR PATTERN.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCAREE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
VW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oaen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. l-W~ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where -
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who woidd pro -
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
#
FOOD &
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (-Refreshment) -92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywiiere.
H. PATESON, Manager.
c
PftRKE & LACY COMPANY, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ajtaziisriißrG- machinery, ißixrG-iisnEss & boilers.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Crusliiug Machinery.
Gates Rook Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers. Sample Grinders. Coarse Crushing Rolls.
Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall's Corrugated Rolls. Krom Rolls.
Dodge Pulverizers. Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers. HENDY’S CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
Ainalgamating Alacliinery.
Pans and Settlers. Clean-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators. Blast Furnaces.
Heater.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Roasting and Chloridizing Furnaces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Cone en trating Machinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Erue Vanners. Triumph Concentrators.
Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Machinery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
Hoisting Machinery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Humping Machinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pumps.
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and Rook 33i*ill Plants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &0., &o.
Blowers.
Root’s Patent, and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans. Sturtevanb and Huyett & Smith’s Fans
for Ventilating Purposes.
Water Wheels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS.
Bullock Diamond Drills. Huson’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for all purposes.
Caldwell s Sectional Boilers. Simmons’ Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Boilers. Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supplies.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
THE - -
YIBRATOR
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
OSCILLATOR pff T v STTTnw
MACHINES. UilAlll Ullluil
atho s Bakin
owner
Scale of Advertising 1
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly ~ (26 insertions)
One Year „ (52 insertions)
Paragraph Advertisements
—IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance,
6s. per inoh per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
Bol)l)iQgtoQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
TX/’ILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
' ' INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
Ses you get Bonnington’s
