

McE WAN’S ALE.
PIG STOUT.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
3=£. Gr. WATKINS & 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
DRYSDALEas*
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1000 Tons “ Orto ” and. “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Casks Knight Bevan’s Cement.
Mining and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL
BBISCOE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Yj
A
ZB
>
o a;
<RackaJocK>
c, "xu
oV ° C J>
3 A 4
o
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent,, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Rvston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best; manufactured bv
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BR O“ 1,,,v
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, 6ic. ,
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting ana
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS), manu-
factured by the Chloride Elbcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, and SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
SOLE
AGENTS
FOR
BM
■»> _
ft $
M
4
This Steel, which is of the highest quality,
is fast displacing every other brand on all
the leading fields throughout Australasia.
Price, £3O per Ton.
Before viyih'nj the City write r the Manager for
Card of Tariff, Correspondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRISBA-KTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETEBMANN,
Propriktor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
UTIEEIE
(SrosVsoorNotsl,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDKTB'Y'.
For TEEMS, please address the Manager.
7
Use “Pioneer” Sole Leather .
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
p pop le
BY ENCO U RA c> IN'
AUSTRALIAN INDUS PRY
OUR GOODS
ARE
Tanned 3t Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHE APER than
Imported.
THE BE'T IN' THE WORM*.
KUIDOfiMUi,
tanners,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery : Lane Cove River.
&!!}!
Toronto Hotel,
Lalce
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Iresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tiekets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
c eive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
HCEt ART.
Hadley’s Orient hotel.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketohes in
Prose and Yerse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
FROSSSrD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Yol ib. — jSo. 92LJ
[Saturday, October 9, 1897.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


fA EORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
V3T George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOM ERY’S 'TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin ; price, Is. fid. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLt< REGIME (new series, from Thb
Bullktin), by Price Warung ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSCYN STAYNE, by Roderio Quinn; price, 2s. «&;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Boole or Magazine you wont.
A G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author tmd Rub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
nnHE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
JL THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
YOUR CHOICC
is called into question pretty nearly every day you live, in some matter or another. Tt may be
business or pleasure, a question of eating, drinking, or even smoking. And if the latter event
calls for a decision you will not find it difficult. You will consider that cigarettes are the nicest
and choicest way of enjoying tobacco, and you will remember that one cigarette in particular
provides, without exaggeration, every qualification as to quality that an experienced smoker requires.
Yodr Choice will be a “ CAMEO.”
Won’t it ?
THE RED PAGE .
There is something of the attraction of
battle-literature in the ‘ Australian Medical
Journal’—which falls nothing behind the
‘ British Medical Journal ’ in interest, and
only so far in value as may be expected from
a comparison of the populations dealt with.
A physician is a lighter, overcoming hostile
disease with a Napoleonic combination of
drugs. A surgeon is rather an explorer : he
sees hi 3 Nile of symptoms, and pushes on-
ward to their source in lesion or degenera-
tion. And diagnosis has all the fascination
of detective-work ; it is less a matter of
knowledge than of acumen, intuition, per-
sonal genius ; while its triumphs bring the
intellectual pleasure of an astronomer who
deduces new planets from a mathematical
hypothesis. The reader of medical records
is able to combine a war-correspondent’s
fever with a chess-expert’s enthusiasm ; and
to leaven the lump with that ‘ human inter-
est ’ which comes from knowledge that the
experiments are being made not ‘ in corpore
vili,’ but upon ‘the beauty of the world, the
paragon of animals.’ And if this statement
of the fact be inaccurate and roundabout, the
fact is still indubitable ; medical literature,
even or especially in the shape of quack
advertisements, is most seductive reading for
the million. It is disease-talk in excelsis ;
and the only time many people feel really
well is when they are talking about their
diseases.
» * • *
Most of the contributors to the ‘A.M.J.’
seem men of details, occupied and pre-occu-
pied with the study of cases and phases, and
rarely ascending to the consideration of laws
and principles. But in the June number
Dr. J. Murray-Gibbes had a statement of
‘the philosophy of disease,’ somewhat lack-
ing in theoretical novelty and literary
lucidity, yet full of suggestion and stimulus.
Dr. Murray-Gibbes argued, in effect, that
disease is health ; since, generally and
essentially speaking, disease is a natural re-
action from the effects of noxious agents.
And incidentally he states or re-states many
truths which are little appreciated even by
intelligent people— e.g. : ‘ Those who are
most liable to digestive disturbances, as
dyspepsia, are frequently the least afflicted
with constitutional diseases, for the reactions
of the digestive canal prevent the admission
of the causes producing them. Those, also,
who are liable to constitutional diseases are
frequently free from any great disturbance
of the organs of digestion.’ But affirma-
tions such as this— ‘ No drugs, even includ-
ing stimulants, add to the nourishment of
the body ’ —are altogether generous ; and
the paper throughout must be read eclecti-
cally.
9 $ |i I
An excellent essay of another kind, yet
also connected with a neat generalisation,
was contributed to the July ‘A.M.J.,’ by
Dr. A. Mueller, of Yackanflandah (Vie.),
the apostle of the strychnin hure for snake-
bite. Dr. Mueller now advances perehloride
of mercury as a cure for typhoid fever and
other germ-diseases. His preliminaries seem
solid—
The surgeon carries on a constant war with
disease germs, keeps them at arm’s length from
the wounds he makes or treats, and, if they have
sneaked in despite his vigilance, attacks them
vigorously, and exterminates them. The ptvysician
acts on very different lines when certain symptoms
tell him that certain germs have invaded the
system ; he leaves the germs severely alone, as if
they were on sacred ground, letting them do as
much mischief as they can whilst he puts all his
ingenuity to the task of treating the symptoms ;
trusting to the vis medicatrix natures , supported
by appropriate nourishment, to carry his patient
through the long and serious illness which in-
variably results, and never dreaming that this ill-
ness could have been nipped in the bud, and
deprived of all its dangers, by a vigorous germi-
cide treatment in the first stages.
And Dr. Mueller relates how a posteriori
justifies a priori —
The fact that a strong germicide, such as the
perehloride of mercury, will exert its powerful
action on the germs of certain diseases—notably
those of diphtheria, influenza, and scarlatina—
after they have been introduced into the system
and set up disease, has been known to me for
years, and I have acted on this knowledge with a
uniformly favorable result. In diphtheria I give
the drug in combination with Iron, and dispense
with any looal treatment, except syringing the
fauces with Condy’s fluid as soon as the mem-
branes ootnmence to slough. This takes place
almost always towards the third day of the treat-
ment ; there are no secondary growths, and re-
covery proceeds forthwith. Influenza also yielc s
readily to the Perchlonde given in combinatio
with Liq. Jaborandi every two hours, until profu
perspiration breaks out. When this ceases th
temperature usually goes down to normal, bu
rises again on the following day. The Perchloric e
mixture is then taken again with the same resul
and but rarely a third course of it is required. O
the fourth day the patient, though rather weak,
able to dress and walk about. In scarlatina th
Perchloride does not interfere with the eruption
but rather pushes it out; but the latter is invar
ably of shorter duration, and more quickly followec
by desquamation. The temperature is lowered
all cases, and the troublesome sequelae do no i
occur. The treatment of all three diseases wit
Perchloride, in fact, has beoome a mere matter o: r
routine with me, and they give me no trouble
Sore gums, diarrhoea, etc., are very rarely ob
served, as the highest dose for an adult is one
sixteenth part of a grain, and to children,
course, less in proportion to age and constitution
* « * *
Space fails for following Dr. Mueller int
details of his application of the perchloric!
in typhoid fever—with the result that when
the disease was taken early the patient wa
generally out of bed in a week, and was eat
ing solid food almost at the beginning o :
convalescence ; while when the germs hac
firmer hold the dangerous symptoms were
fewer or absent, and the cure was more
rapid than by the ordinary treatment. Dr
Mueller asserts that when generally adopted
perchloride ‘ will reduce the death-rate froir.
typhoid to a minimum hitherto unknown
and undreamt-of ’ ; and his statement anc
results seem of high scientific importance.
* * * *
An interesting paper in Dr. G-. Y. Poore’s
‘ Nervous Affections of the Hand and Other
Clinical Studies (Lond., 1897) quotes Sir
James Paget’s calculation of the cerebra
impressions and transmissions involved in
playing the piano quickly—
He remembered once hearing Mdlle. Janobha
play a presto by Mendelssohn, and he counted the
notes and the time occupied. She played 5595
notes in 4mins. 3secs. It seemed startling, but
let them look at it in the fair amount of its won-
der. Every one of those notes involved certain
movements of a finger, at least two, and many 6
them involved an additional movement laterally
as well as those up and down. They also in-
volved repeated movements of the wrists, elbows,
and arms, altogether probably not less than one
movement for each pote. Therefore there were
three distinct movements for each note. As there
were 24 notes per second, and each of those notes
involved three distinct musical movements, that
amounted to 72 movements in each aeoond. More-
over, each of those notes was determined by the
will to a chosen place, with a certain force, at a
certain time, and with a certain duration.
Therefore there were four distinct qualities
in each of the 72 movements in each
second. Such were the transmissions outwards.
And all those were conditional on consciousness
of the position of each hand and each finger before
it was moved, and, while moving it, the sound of
each note and the force of each touch. Therefore,
there I ** were three conscious sensations for every
note. There were 72 transmissions per second,
144 to and fro, and those with constant change of
quality. Let them imagine it in telegraph wires.
And then, added to that, all the time the memory
was remembering each note in its due time and
place, and was exercised in the comparison of it
with others that came before. So that it would
be fair to say that there were not less than 200
transmissions of nerve force to and from the brain
outwards and inwards every seoond, and during
the whole of that time judgment was being
exercised as to whether the music was being
played worse or better than before, and the mind
was conscious of some of the emotions which the
music was intended to impress.
It must have occurred to many people who
attended the Hambourg concerts that the
chief—almost the only—interest of the elder
brother’s playing came in his brilliant tech-
nique ; and that the marvel of it was not a
musical marvel, but a cerebral marvel akin
to that which astonished Sir James Paget in
Mdlle. Janotha. Where something of musi-
cal inspiration lay in his notes, young Ham-
bourg usually succeeded in translating it
into sound ; but he added no emotion of his
own, created nothing, repeated as mechani-
cally as a talking parrot. The reason is pro-
bably that he had no emotion to give : he is
physically and cerebrally immature, and pro-
bably more immature than the average youth
of his age, because his cerebral force has been
concentrated upon the acquirement of a ve
difficult technique. His ‘ boyish appearance
was frequently matter for newspaper cor
ment ; and on nearly all questions but mus
he talked like a child ; the interviewers oou
make, nothing of him. Neil Gow’s test o: ;
a fiddler was that he could ‘ gar himse ’
greet ’; but one cannot imagine Mark Han
bourg making himself ‘ greet ’ with his pian
And if you consider of what value th
brightest lad of 18 is in literature or printing
or in any other form of art, or in any sphere
of business, you will have something like
measure of Mark Hambourg’s musical value
Maturity may bring him power ; at presen
he is only a clever mechanic. And piano
people must be held to the same standard
other craftsmentheir artistic method i
practically worthless unless they can get th
inspiring force of artistic results.
* * * *
Dr. Poore’s book is a collection of shor;
■papers on a variety of subjects. Those on
the cramps and neuroses arising from cere
bral trouble are perhaps the most acute ant
valuable. In two or three places Dr. Poor
incidentally discusses the interesting ques
tion whether there is a special brain-centr
for writing, as for sight, hearing, &c.— i.e.
whether the writing faculty has become
sort of sixth sense, to the control of which
special area in the brain is exclusively de
voted. Histologically, this seems likely
enough. If the habit of speech has deveiopec
co-ordinating centres for speech, then the
habit of writing—in acquiring which so large
a part of modern life is spent—may well leave
its impression on the, plastic brain of child
hood ; and whether the impression be directly
inherited or not, there is no doubt that the
constant reiteration of impressions on the
brain of generation after generation tends to
produce a susceptibility to similar impressions
which by degrees may develop into a dis-
tinct localisation of capacity. Some such
graphic localisation is probably in the course
of fixation in the educated race-brain at the
present time ; but in European countries the
practice of writing has not been continues
sufficiently long to permit definite conclu-
sions as to the exact extent of the modifica-
tion of the brain, or as to how far this
modification is handed down from parents to
children. But a series of observations has
shown that the unconscious movements of
the muscles in writing are controlled by a
number of brain-cells situated at or near
what is called Broca’s convolution on the left
side. In dealing with writer’s cramp, Dr.
Poore says :
The frequency of writer’s cramp is due, in the
first place, to the unwholesome life of a clerk who
spends his days in a stuffy office in a crowded
city. Secondly, it is due to the fact that the hold-
ing of a pen involves the continuous contraction of
the muscles of pen-prehension, which get tired
out, just as our arms get tired when we hold them
rigidly extended, and as our legs get tired when
we stand in one position for long periods !
The only remedy for this is to teach the child to
write with both hands, which, I believe, might
easily be done. The writing would have to be
upright instead of slanting, and, with a pen in
both hands, the left half of the line might be
written with the left hand and the right half with
the right. We educate the left hand far too little.
Girls in this respect are better off than boys, for
such exercises as piano-playing and knitting en-
courage a great amount of ambidexterity in girls.
Why should not the clerk use either hand alter-
nately. and so give to each its much-needed rest ?
What effect has the exercise of the periphery
upon the development of the centre ? By con-
stantly using the left hand for written language
might we not possibly educate our right Broca’s
convolution instead of letting it lie idle ?
I once gave utterance to these opinions and
speculations at the bedside, and at. their con-
clusion a student of more than ordinary intelli-
gence asked me whether the extreme fluency of
the female organs of speech might not be due to
the fact that the right side of women’s brains had
been developed by a more constant use of the left
hand than is common in males?
Doubtless the periphery does re-act on the
brain and spinal cord ; every reflex centre is
an expression of such a re-action become
habitual and involuntary. Thus the act of
walking is unconsciously performed because
the repetition of the peripheral movement
has permanently impressed the co-ordinating
centres. It is probable that an infant’s
attempts to walk are more or less voluntary
imitations of the walking of others; and
they are po.ssibly controlled by brain-centres
quite other than those to which, through, the
influence of the periphery, the performance of
the act is finally relegated. Quite likely the
infantile brain inherits no active power of
co-ordinating the walking movements, but
merely a latent capacity, which is developed
and confirmed by habit. In early life, every
step modifies or strengthens a brain-cell.
And so with every other often-repeated act
or idea ; voluntary..becomes involuntary, and
involuntary becomes unconscious. The act
of knitting necessitates at first an imitation
which concentrates the whole power of the
brain ; but by dint of continual repetition it
becomes reflex, and many old ladies knit
like machines, and have their brains avail-
able for other matters. It would probably be
quite correct to say that such persons have
developed a knitting centre in the cerebrum,
which does not permit them to miss a stitch,
although they ‘ never count the stitches.’ In
the same way, an expert piano-player, play-
ing a piece to which he is accustomed, will
often say that he ‘ cannot sound a wrong
note ’ —no matter what the speed or the intri-
cacy. The power of sounding wrong notes is,
in fact, put out of his control by the reflex
centres which the periphery has trained;
unless he violently uses higher centres in
opposition.
* * * •
But the remark of Dr. Poore’s student is
not so acute as it appears to have seemed to
Dr. Poore ; for peripheral habits breed in
the brain only the power of continuing those
habits with less and less voluntary exertion
—not an increased power to perform actions
essentially different. Thus the practice of
using the left hand to play the piano can
have no effect whatever on their power of
speech ; it can only increase the power of
using the left hand to play the piano, or of
performing, other acts in which the muscles
are brought into play in a way more or less
similar. Female loquacity is probably due
chiefly to the greater affectability of the
female brain—which is, as it were, hung
more loosely than the male, and reacts more
easily to evanescent impressions. This
affectability is probably due in part to local
heredity and education ; but chiefly to
the affectability of the whole female
organism, with its comparatively unsteady
life-curve. Not only does the average woman
talk more than the average man ; but the
average woman-who-writes writes more than
the average man-who-wfites—and she needs
less provocation in incident or idea And it
is not in evidence that male piano-players
are particularly talkative, or that women are
less talkative when they have never learned
to play the piano or to knit. Women are
more talkative than men because, in the first
place, they are built that way—a slighter
stimulus suffices to produce the mental re-
action which sets their speech-organs in
motion; and because, in the second place,
their brains, as a rule, are not exhausted by
regular or protracted labor, and they have
consequently plenty of energy to spare for
slight stimuli—which are also more abundant
than graver ones ; and because, in the third
place, talk begets talk— i.e., the child accus-
tomed to utter its emotions on slight provo-
cation tends to need always slighter provoca-
tion—or no provocation at all. Many women
appear to talk as they walk —by something
very like reflex action.


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
iSYLKEVo LEADING bPECIALIST) and
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE,
Tlie tried <fc trusted
Fkiki. usoj sutler ers
Second to -Neari in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
esi erienoe.
Consult- these able
Specialists,
And get rid ol jour
troubles.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & IiECISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts,
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at tlie head of the medical
profession is no longer a quest ion of doubt. J bar,
they have investigated fui tlier into the mysteries ot
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets ot disease,
than tlieir quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in S Y I> JN j ,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRItIIViPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
m 3NROA
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfulness,
aversion to society,
stupioness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unlit
for study, business or nnmi»ge— if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be Oen.
MIDDLE-AGED & OLD MEN.
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
achiug backs and kidneys, fi cquent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
MAIL.
By tliis
means
you
cau describe your
troubles to the
doctors if living
away fr>m the
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
iu this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-.
i ises, NERVOUS
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
’ ' " r 'X
All Trams stop at the Door ,
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt a' tention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaiut,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If se cannot Cure jou, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
,T
11
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy E NTIJt El , Y
FItEE, in plain SEALED
Cov«r. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABori) PljySiciai).”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
jf energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these-
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequentl.v accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price fc2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclostd a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Bef"re confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S. , Kng ,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention tuts Barer.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to tne
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSE\ ERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER'S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
&gr MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate urio
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post, free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETIIY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
JjQiNINI SUR ANT'S
ESI
n
u
K
FULL £>l RECTORS'
„ ENCLOSED? j
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.F.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LA.DIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box no. 29 York Street, Sydney.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-.
ppropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Dismiss as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstiuction.
Price 10s and i'l per Pox (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
£3 R'lCO*p'c|
rt
E.
IS
7'/,, on'ii In ’a’ l Wt Remedy for WEAKNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedenl- d success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength 10 the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for Ms. Freight
extra PampKets free on receipt of stamped addressed
mV A°nrsfor Aus’e at nsia—Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street 717 VLBO URNK
AgentsforN. S. Wales— W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney,
Publications, etc.
it. , ■- ll T«A i op Send Four
cLT v led. Lactic, stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife's Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOHTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Erequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy se.di-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
Reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STKEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT (UnROOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
TTTEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
'' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, r- e restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don't
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible. . . .
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
/2%S\
Mr. J. H. WEIIR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes “ I can-
not refrain from , adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
"treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTIIONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindle.v-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Ilorse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been ' a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to Ne\v Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,* and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. 1 cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what/
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
to*
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick , Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
, TCiuwaa


TATTERS ALL’S
p®“ MONSTER PRIZE LIST, -w
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Caulfield C. 16th October.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me_
.Shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
Melbourne 0. 2nd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.Shares in the above.
Name.
£ t t
Address.
Melbourne 0.
2nd November.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me-
-Shares in the above.
Name_
Address-
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschewa everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
YELYET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ting, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
witli “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for wnat is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
Anthony Hordern &{j ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
USE
Spooler's
j^oONE*^
IROYALNAMDREMC
FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
pi: BOOTS & SHOES
pi: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREUIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING-,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
JP.O. Boas 18S, MELBOURNE.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 eaoh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, i/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
we are the cheapettln Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz'll,
' 110 William Street, *“
eorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention# yen to Country OrdWA
The Blahe Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
*iping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTGASTLE !e SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
' £l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
'’end, for a Catalogue.
H. HILLIBR,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery.
Tamer Wheels, Spring’s, etc.
Saddles for Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, ‘‘H. Hillier,” is to be seen 01
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good If you have not tr
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony.
nearly all good saddles used in th»
ed one, do so. If you order from thu
SEND FOB A CATALOGUE.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS »
Tb€ FiQcSt ai)d Largest tyGSic WareljoGS*
Ilff AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKTEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPBTITIOW.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with snecial beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its liarmlessness, purity, and beautifymg qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.' S. HARVEY. 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Bjanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND' INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W; E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by a!
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from £3 3s. each.
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER ,
227 Little Collins Street,
MEL'JBOXJRKTE.
THE
*
Plum ’
THE
‘ Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plutti
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. W€
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years .
Price
J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful
l Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle®
morocco leather case, 21s.
in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra _
Sole
▲gents
CRAIG & AITK.EN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melb. Jews, greatly troubled over
the apparent fact that proselytising has been
carried on by certain rabbis, have motioned
“ That ministers of the congegation shall not
assist in making converts without the permission
of the majority of the members present at a meet-
ing convened to consider the matter.” What are
Cohen and Isaacstein afraid of ? A rush of com-
petition in money-lending or pawnbroking ? The
House of Israel has for centuries been a close
shindy kit, but it would be one of the oddest
developments of this hothouse-age if a red-headed
Moses O’Finn or Phelim O’Cohen, with a thick
brogue and turned-up nose, should become rabbi
of the congregation.
FRIENDS.
We had boiled our quarts together, by lagoons in
summer weather ;
We had ridden side by side behind the scrub-
bers in the. night.
In all the rounds of station life we two were
linked together,
Till they called us “Dave and Jonathan,” and
surely they were right !
That vyinter when I fell so sick you nursed me
like a brother
Through hours of sore complaining when the
pain was hard to bear ;
You had the light and gentle touch and kindness
of a mother,
And all a wife’s fond thoughtfulness and unre-
mitting care.
She was just a slip of girlhood then—but girls’eyes
can work evil—
Even Samson by a woman fell, and we are not
the first
Who, holding faith through ups and downs and
Fortune’s worst upheaval,
Have put the Best of Friendship by for Love
that was the Worst!
And she’s vanished now and left us with a scent
of dead white roses—
Faint mem’ries of the thrilling touch of wander-
ing finger-tips ;
Mere tantalising, agonising hopes the mind dis-
closes,
But never warmth of woman’s mouth against
the bearded lips.
And somewhere in the world she is—surprising
and undoing;
She is somewhere wrecking friendship’s faith
and breaking human lives ;
And yet in dreams the longing heart those light
steps is pursuing,
And the phantom of remembrance ever onward,
onward drives !
Q.
M. BURKINSHAW.
A WAIL FROM THE WEST.
The first rush at Bayley’s was over; Kurnalpi
had started to boom,
And we’d all got a bit in our pockets, though for
more there was plenty of room ;
We were glad, in a way, and contented—though
our veins held the gold-fever still — .»
That which even the typhoid respected, and not
even blank failure could kill.
I’d picked up a slug in the morning, and I thought
we were in for a haul;
And I’d spent half a thousand in fancy, but
castles have always a fall.
The camp-fire was very nigh dyin’ when Joe he
comes in with a run,
And he shows me a glitterin’ beauty—-’twas at
least fifty ounce to the ton.
He described me the place where he’d found it,
when napping a reef white as snow,
Away round the hill at the back there—just aside
of the ironstone-blow.
He’d put in his pegs ere he left it—prospectors’
good “ twenty-four square ” ;
With the thirty days’ grace to “ develop ” —then
“take up,” if prospects are fair.
With the first streak of dawn I was movin’; I
wanted to see what we’d got,
For I knew, if his tale stood the provin’, we were
in for a nice little pot.
We soon reached the site of our treasure —with
the outcrop of reef clear and bold—
When “ My God ! ” muttered Joe, “ here’s a facer!
Two coves nappin’ stones on my gold ! ”
“You’re certain you pegged, Bill?” I asked him,
looking round for a sign of the sticks.
“Assure as I live,” was the answer; “and we
ain’t standin’ none of these tricks.
“ Do yer know that you’re trespassin’, matey, on a
claim that was pegged out by me ?
You’re a-picking between my four corners, and the
gold in her’s mine, do ye see! ”
The intruders were both young in summers, but in
wickedness older than we,
And the younger, a lad about twenty, wheeled
round, and stared brazen at me.
If there’s one thing that riles me like thunder, it
is seeing a kid ape the man ;
And it sticks in my throat to be answered—l must
take him down if I can !
“ You reckon you pegged,” said the youngster ;
“are you lyin’ or dreamin’, old bloke !
Why, the pegs there are mine and my comrade’s ”
—and he grinned in my face as he spoke.
“ We’ve applied ; and we reckon we’ll get it—the
Warden we’ve got up our sleeve !
You’ve no ghost of a show here, my pippin ! so if
you’re quite through you can leave.”
Joe’s face went the color of crimson ; it was cornin’,
I knew, by his look :
“ You’re a liar ! ” he cried, with a straight-un, and
down went the lad like a book.
But the youngster was game as a pebble; he
fought like a tiger at bay,
And for three or four rounds they were level, until
Joe brought his weight into play.
Then a left made the young fellow wobble, and a
feint for the wind dropped his guard,
When —“ whish ! ” went Joe’s right for the finish
—the battle was won by my pard.
But they tackled us next with the lawyers, and
’twas they that had this time the luck,
And they’re making their pile at Kurnalpi—while
we’re hunting “ weights ” for our “chuck.”
Coolgardie.
FRANK HERBERT.


ACi&traliai) WtitGal
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established V FAR '
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR. .
-»»»»■»»■»»*♦»»»♦ «**** „ , .
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES Hlr ; Ij ' V, m'^SHORT*’ ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W ‘MEEKS, Egq., BENJAMIN Esq
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, t .1.A., .
Annual Income ... Exceeds Two Minions Sterling. sterling
Accumulated Funds Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large ™ amounted to *
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
TToari Office- 8-7 RITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H a Office - o i ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
?■ ■
m
Rate i 2/&
PER
DAY
6 IMPS
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
tt.Edwin Moore,
/vvamacer.
ALL
CLASSES
OP
accommodation
—FOR—
TOURISTS,
Commercial . . .
. . . Travellers,
Theatricals, Families,
&e., &c.
ROOMS, 28. to 10s. per Night.
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week.
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE.
FcdcralX
\Palace\
\ Hotel.
MELBOURNE.
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trains pass Door.
WRITE FOR
CARDS OF
TARIFFS
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
. jrr; . .. , . , ,
t t i.
i
. PURCHASERS OF ALU GLASSES OF ' , .
(old, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.’
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cosh Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Summer Suita! Summer Suits!
-»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Tbc Loijdop & Tailoriijg Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have one of the Largest and most Varied Stock of SUMMER SUITINGS in the City.
Call or send for Patterns and Measurement Forms.
«T SUITS— 4S/-, 50/- to 90/- TROUSERS- 12/6 to 25/-
All Goods delivered FREE to any part of the Colony.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED. S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
E very Variety of
m nr* a V
JL JCji *»
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
tsr SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH, is*
painless dentistry.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
rpHE above Establishment lias been improved and fitted
J- with every convenience for" the practice of MOI'MCLN
Surgical arid Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Ylates, by means of BridyemorJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of i l }?
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address
98 BZing-st., Svclney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
<sriti}€ &Sn>itb,
Ladies’& Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(Ik-1 ween George & Pitt Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 5/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
For Reviving the Liver and Brain
AND RESTORING VIGOR.
“oh, what a difference in the morning!”
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK —
Fisher & Co.’s
FAMOUS ‘ KOLA NUT" TONIC,
Tlio OT?K A TEST “ PTH'K'.M'RI.TTP ” A NTT*
The GREATEST “PICK-ME-UP” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAKES YOU STKONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co.’s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHARMACY, 337 George Street
(Nearly opposite General Post Office), SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE with ah ■ .
AUSTRALIAN COMPANT*,
—THU—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 416' Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
, FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972 —assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, ere.
W. M'Millan, M. P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES,
W. C. ZEULODIRTIDGKE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Toi)S njore I reported Leaf
tbai) all tbe other Tobacco
Factories PCit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of DiXSOn’S
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yaokec Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
CbaiQpioi).
The Choicest Bright Gut and Plug.
Coi)qGsror.
New and Old. The Workingmans Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)t€i)i)ial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club ; Favorite Monopole,
Rothschilds.
Bonanza— 4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Nesvspaper,
Vol. 18.—No. 921.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1897.
Price, Gd.
A BARE SUGGESTION.
As the Indian trip is off why not let the N.S.W. Lancers quench their blood-thirst as above? More exciting and useful than tent-pegging or lemon-cutting, and less
dangerous than spearing Swatis.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the AustraliansJ
Planted and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ••• £1 -9 9
Half-yearly 0 U J
Quarterly 0 b b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where re ffi u ; ir f a
which you may pay by Post Ojice Order, Postal -Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. . .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. r.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or ether Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Jilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Cordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiie Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.—W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside" N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with Bs. id. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is no w sent to Queensland.
SteT^tdleZz/ri.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1897.
The Indian Contingent.
It would be interesting to know the exact
variety of blasphemy which was evoked in
British military circles by the offer of 100
Cornstalk warriors to go and help the
“Empire” in its troubles upon the Indo-
Afghan border. The offer was received with
outward courtesy, and replied to with appar-
ent enthusiasm. Nevertheless, the harried
British functionaries probably felt very much
as Rothschild would do if, in the middle of
a big financial crisis, someone cabled to him
urgently, offering to place gd. with him on
fixed deposit provided the conditions were
satisfactory. The regular British army
apart from the multitudes of miscellaneous
armed niggers who have been enrolled and
drilled in various parts of the empire—is so
small by comparison that it is a standing
joke among other European nations. Still
it musters, on paper, about a-quarter of a
million. At the time when New South
Wales sent along its misguided offer a large,
indefinite trouble was looming in India—a
trouble which might, for all anyone knew to
the contrary, ultimately develope into a holy
war, and an upraising of the green banner of
the Prophet, and that general outbreak of
Islam which, it seems to be agreed, must come
some day, and which, when it comes, will
probably be the largest contract Europe has
had on hand since the days of Solyman the
Magnificent. There were no definite signs
of anything of this size, but still Islam is
an unknown quantity, and for a time the
trouble looked serious. The scarce Tommy
Atkins was being hustled to the front with
all possible celerity. There were signs of
unrest among that vast Hindoo population
whose name is mostly Ram Chunder and
things like that, as well as fierce uprisings in
the mountains among the turbulent Mahom-
medans, who are mainly described as Abdul-
something-or-other. It seemed possible for
a while that the Emir of Afghanistan was
urging on the insurrection, and that the
Sultan at Stamboul was sooling on the Emir,
and that the Tsar was whooping up the move-
ment from the rear. For a moment or two,
Britain was seriously reckoning up the
800,000 or 900,000 trained soldiers—British,
Sikhs, Ghoorkas, Pathans, Houssas, black,
white, and yellow men, half-breeds, mon-
grels and nondescripts—that it might be
possible to lay hands upon at the instant.
And when a large, self-complacent offer of
100 self-satisfied, half-trained men came along
just then the probabilities are that the first
and loudest remark was ‘ ‘ Damn ! ”
• • * *
Thc Bulletin, at all events, feels inclined
to bet that the remark which came first to
hand was “ Damn ! ” The situation called
for something of the kind. If the sudden
rising of half-a-dozen or more lighting tribes
on the Indian borderland meant nothing
more than that these same tribes had a
desire for a casual day out, then there
was no real emergency at all. But the
unusual nature of the offer implied that
an emergency was supposed to exist. And
if there was a genuine trouble behind —the
sort of trouble that might be there —100,000
men would be badly wanted, and the 100
offered weren’t the tenth part of a drop in a
tank. Also there is an idea afloat in many
quarters that the British Government had
almost enough of Cornstalk assistance at the
Soudan time. The Australian, having never
seen real war or real butchery, looks upon
soldiering in somewhat of a holiday spirit,
and is apt, from pure want of experience, to re-
gard it as rather like Chowder on an enlarged
scale. And there are reasons why he should
not be too roughly undeceived as to the
Chowder aspect of things. It is the fashion
just now in England to brag violently about
“the colonies” ; the Little Englander cult
is practically dead, and the Imperial senti-
ment is the fashion, and the “ silken bond ”
disease is in a violent state of development.
Britain is furiously joyful at present about
the vastness of the Jubilee empire, and
kipples concerning it in a good deal of verse.
The present tendency is, therefore, to speak
kindly to “the colonies” and offer them
milk in a saucer on the mat. Consequently,
the offer of a miscroscopic scrap of armament
had —out of deference to the sentiment of
the moment —to be received with studied
outward courtesy, and if the 100 soldiers do
really go, and they have to be sent to the
front—assuming there is any front by that
time to send them to—the person in com-
mand will doubtless have to make a great
effort to look as if he took them seriously.
♦ * * »
All the same, if the trouble developes into
anything really great and dangerous, it will
be very difficult to take 100 men seri-
ously—especially if they are accompanied
by four or five correspondents to telegraph
about their doings and experiences, and are
despatched with the blessing of a whole con-
tinent as expressed in several hundred lead-
ing articles, and come liberally provided, like
the other famous Contingent, with tinned
turkey and potted ox-tongue, to say no-
thing of cases of opoponax and bottled hock.
Supposing something like Armageddon on a
small scale breaks out in the passes, and
things go as they usually do on such
occasions, and the defiles are crowded with
broken-down commissariat arrangements,
and camel-trains, and mule-trains, and bogged
artillery, and everything is one great effort
to shove and curse and hustle the motley
army through. Then the presence of a
small squad of amateurs who are supposed
to be treated with some special considera-
tion because they are a sign of the loyal en-
thusiasm of Australia will probably be a
great comfort to somebody. Most likely
that somebody would gladly exchange them
for as many nigger mercenaries who could be
cursed or have even stronger things done to
them if necessary, without the fact being at
once cabled to the Sydney Morning
Herald, and helping to create disloyalty, or
loosen the silken bonds, or arouse complica-
tions within the empire. In case of a parti-
cularly bad stampede some very unpleasant
things often happen in war to the worst
samples among the stampeders. If the Aus-
tralians stampeded very badly, however, the
only visible thing to do would be to cable
that they had behaved with great valour.
The officer who, by doing something un-
pleasant yet necessary, turned off at the tap
that stream of Australian loyalty which had
just begun to dribble, after Joseph Chamber-
lain had agonised so greatly at the Jubilee
to get the flow started, would probably make
himself considerably disliked for the rest of
his life. Under all the circumstances, if the
real inward soul-observation of the British
war authorities when the offer of 100 men
came to hand was not “ Damn ! ” it was
probably a good deal worse.
* * * *
The proposed contingent would be even a
trifle less useful to Australia than to Britain.
When the famous Soudan crowd went off on
the road to Khartoum 12 years ago, with its
Gladstone bag and its hair-wash and its
supply of bloater-paste and other refresh-
ments, one alleged reason for it was that it
would bring back much valuable military
knowledge for use in case of invasion. It
really brought back only an ass and a goat,
and the memory of much desert, and of
some casual views of the Mahdi’s spearmen.
The new contingent, if it goes at all, will
probably see, at the most, a little flurry
among the mountains with some irregular
tribesmen. If Australia ever is invaded it
will almost certainly be by very different
enemies with a very different mode of fight-
ing. And when the great trouble, which
comes to every country soon or late, does
arrive, and Australia makes a levy en masse
or something like that, and gets together
150,000 motley troops, there may be among
them an odd dozen or so of the Contingent,
the rest being dead or emigrated or super-
annuated. They will he present to stiffen
these raw legions with the experience they
gathered while scrimmaging with half-armed
irregulars among the passes, and to tell fish-
stories around the camp-fire of their one
bygone campaign. The idea of sending 100
men in the hope that they will gain
enough military experience to materially
assist in holding up a whole continent
in time of need is wildly ludicrous. If ex-
perience—really useful experience, that is,
not a mere accumulation of reminiscences—
is what is wanted, then the best way to get
it is to send 2000 men to bear a hand in the
next campaign against a scientific enemy,
and to send them on the ordinary conditions,
without the tinned turkey, or the wine, or
potted prawns, or the war-correspondents,
or special artists, or other glories. And, if
the idea is mere grovel and jingoism, then
one man in uniform is enough to send, with
another man to wheel along the refresh-
ments and luggage and the illuminated
address in a barrow. The proposed 100 men
are too few for a military force and too many
for a deputation. Besides, the war is ap-
parently about over, in any case.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gentleman Who Is Away.
The motion of Glassey, M.L.A., that the re-
port of the Queensland National Bank Investi-
gation Committee should be presented to
Parliament immediately, instead of being hung
up to await the convenience of the Gentleman
Who Is Away, was lost by only three votes.
Twenty-four members voted for having the
Queensland National stink uncorked im-
mediately, and Horace Tozer only contrived
to muster 27 votes on the other side. It was a
decidedly close thing, and but for the manage-
ment of Tozer the chances are that the Govern-
ment would have been badly beaten. Tozer, as
a rule, does not manage things skilfully, but in
this case there was such an obvious way out
that only a phenomenal blunderer could miss
it. Glassey’s attitude was that the report
should be presented immediately. Acting-Pre-
mier Horace replied that the Ministry had no
desire to conceal anything, or to aid in any
wrong-doing, and that it wouldn’t bolster up
any shady bank for the world, or help to cover
up the misdeeds of anybody, or lend itself to
wrongfully shelter the Gentleman Who Is
Away, or any other gentleman. It was only
the aggressive purity and incredible spot-
lessness of the Government which made
it resist Glassey’s demand. Parliament
had entrusted a certain committee with the
business of overhauling the Q. N. Bank. Its
business was to overhaul it thoroughly at any
cost of time and trouble. When it presented
its report Tozer would lay it on the table right
away, but he objected to hurrying the com-
mittee lest it should thereby be induced to send
in its report before it had dragged everything
into the light, and had quite finished blasting
the character of everybody who deserved to
have his character blasted in the matter. It
was such a nobly patriotic way of putting it
that a small majority stood by Tozer, and saw
him through with difficulty. The one point
which was carefully omitted was this : the
committee stated some time ago that its report
was ready, but that before presenting the docu-
ment it wanted formal protection against any
libel proceedings to which it might give rise.
It hasn’t got the formal protection, and the re-
port hasn’t been presented. If Tozer and co.
obtained from Parliament the protection asked
for they might then sit down and wait for
the report with some chance of its coming
along. Not having done this, Tozer and co.
profess to be anxiously waiting for the re-
port in a pure and noble spirit with a
reasonable certainty that they have done what
they can to prevent it corning at all. Two
things that are very doubtful in the matter,
however, are w'hether Glassey very badly
wanted the report to be presented, and whether
Tozer very badly wanted it to be suppressed.
Glassey’s attack was certainly by no means
strong. And on the other side it is probable
that, while the Government is so much
oppressed by the MTlwraith incubus that it
dare not openly do otherwise than help to
keep things dark, yet if, after having kept
friendly with the incubus by doing everything
possible to keep the report out of sight, the
said report insisted on appearing after all, and
the result was to blot MTlwraith out of
Queensland politics, there are several mem-
bers of the Ministry who would feel all
the better pleased MTlwraith is of no pos-
sible use to the Ministry now, and he would
probably have been thrown overboard long ago
if there was only a chance to do it without
anyone else being dragged along with him.
Kaiser Tozer.
“ A Queensland Citizen ” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin, — The “ in-and-out-running” of Kaiser
Tozer (Q.) is very difficult to “size up.” Endeavor to
stand mentally as a supporter of Tozer, an idolatrous,
blind champion of him, and the peculiarities of his
actions become more mystifying than ever. Here is a
presentment of the aspect from that peephole. I am a
lozer supporter, prepared to circumvent the Opposition
(which is practically the Q. Labor-party) all I know, and
in every way in which the Tozer index-finger points. It
is my particular gag at this juncture to declare that the
Labor-party is impertinently interfering with the smooth
and passionless course of justice by trying to compel the
qJ.JN. Bank Committee to present an incomplete report to
the Government. Labor-leader Glassey gives notice of
S® that ml r fP, ol t in question be laid on the table of
the House. What do I see my chief do ? He temporises
adioitly by saying that, if the Committee will, of its own
“ Hs re P°rt to Govt, (of course, knowing
™ vell fc hat the Committee will do no such thing !) he
will lay that report on the table of the House and submit
T!LI!T I 1 i l ,vi late l r t s - ol l tion for its publication. In fact,
Tozer hides behind the Committee. What would
a masterful leader of the House do in such
a situation as this ? He would simply confront the
House with an ultimatum to this effect “ We are
the Govt., and we are running this country So
long as we enjoy the confidence of a majority of members
of this Ilouse, we intend to run the and to run
it in the way we think proper. We are not goin- to ask
the Committee for its report; we won’t accept anlncom
r eP or t ;,the Comniittee, by its own admission has
declared that further evidence is desirable in justice to a
gentleman not now in the country, and, by the Great
Jumping Kangaroo! that gentleman not now in the
country is going to have justice. If you don’t believe in
us as a Govt the remedy is in your own hands. App •
!t This is the last word.” That is what a masterful
chief would have done. That is just what Tozer does not
$?• tl } at Tozer is a masterful chief—when he
1 e m at a ' n 1 ?° th,nkV Can the suspicion escape
me that Tozer is spinning Machiavellian threads to pre
serve his own personal sympathetic contact with as many
of all parties as is even feebly possible ? It cannot. Can
the idea be banished from my mind that Tozer is messimr
up a chaotic situation for the perplexity of his returning
boss, the real Kaiser, “Nevermind ” Nelson ? It cannot
If Tozer were the de facto Kaiser, instead of the locum
tenens i acting-Kaiser, would he have acted as he does now':
I think not. The very fact that I thus think that he would
not is a significant illustration of the subtle influences
which the mysteriousness of Kaiser Tozer’s actions ex-
hales. But, and here, as a loyal idolater of Kaiser Tozer
I ruminate mournfully. Have I ever known a political
leader who spun such midnight cobwebs without comin-
to gnef and having the dew-betrayed catch-flies swept
ruthlessly away by the crush of daylight thoroughfare’ I
have not. And I don’t believe even Tozer, though he iiiav
have an iron hand beneath a silken glove, and be more
dangerous to his enemies when he is oily than when he is
stern towards them, can escape the fate common to those
who veil their minds. These do not fall heroically but
slide into bottomlessness between the rocking rims of
canting stools.. Give me the sturdy chieftainship of Tam
MTlvvraith, in his mental and physical vigor. Give me a
man that can and will fight. Give me a lion that
will confront and overawe into silence the yelping jackals.
Believe me, if the “gentleman not now in the country '
were to return to Brisbane in vigor of body and mind
the snapping turtles of to-day would crawl behind his
leadership and fawn on his coat-tails. Give me hack the
good old days of Bully Palmer ! When he was Premier
who dared to say to him, “What doest thou?" Bully
would simply announce a plan, and, if attempts were
made to compel him to alter it, he would curtly ami
rudely reply—“ Go to blazes ! I’m going to do this, and
I’m not going to do that. If you don’t like it, lump it, or
chuck me out! That’s your remedy." And Palmer
was beloved, and always had a loyal following, because it
was of no use for his backers to talk disloyally; they’d
have to be disloyal, and take the consequences. And the
old lion is now reigniny, in feeble health, at Guvment-
ouse ! I remember how he once made a public appearance
in Rockhampton that would have killed any politician of
less calibre. He displeased his audience* into interjec-
tions. There were hot and lurid words exchanged.
Bullockdriverese saturated the air. Suddenly, Bully
Palmer sprang upon the chairman’s table, threw off his
coat, “squared” his arms pugilistically at the whole
meeting, and invited every blanky mother’s son of them
to come up individually or collectively and he’d give them
all —“ one down, t’other come on inost pertikler glori-
fied toko! And I remember the subsequent attempted
row in the House to try and draw the old badger. He
was accused of having been guilty of conduct unbecoming
in a Minister of the Crown. This was the gist of all the
apology he dreamed of making ; “ Mr. Speaker, I’ve often
addressed this House with far more liquor in me than I
had up at Rockhampton, and I hope to do so often again ! ”
Kaiser Tozer ! verily thou almost persuadest me to be a
rat.—Yours, &c., Zum.
. -♦
“Let Him Marry the Girl.”
Charles Hall, hanged at Bendigo a week
or two back, was a whole essay on the
futility of that great moral theory, “ Let him
marry the girl.” When two young people are
acquainted, and the acquaintance ends un-
wisely and not too well, and the man
refuses to shield the girl from unpleasant com-
ment by marriage, the general result is “affilia-
tion,” or “ maintenance,” or something of the
sort. Then a fatherly bench frequently urges
them to get married and be respectable ever
afterwards. If the bench doesn’t interfere,
the girl’s relatives usually do their best to
hustle them into matrimony. Considering the
circumstances, there is something wildly
grotesque in the idea of any man trying to
bounce the deceiver of his daughter into
taking possession of her, so that he
may get level with her for ever afterwards,
but orthodox Respectability is built that way.
Charles Hall’s marriage came about in this
fashion ; he refused to do the right thing, as it
is understood in the orthodoxy of Podsnap,
and it was only by hard coercion that he was
induced to permanently take over the girl he
had deceived, and make her an “ honest
woman,” and then jump on her for the rest of
her short life. She became respectable —and
dead. In the view of society, four years’
brutal ill - usage, followed by drowning, was
probably worth going through for the sake
of what respectability could be acquired
by marriage with a coarse, unlettered, and
altogether ruffianly footballer. In the bright
lexicon of Respectability, for a woman to
give her body once for love is so utterly dreadful
that the evil deed should be disguised after-
wards even by selling her body permanently to
an individual who only takes it under compul-
sion. On the face of things, to hand over any
young girl to a man who has deceived her and
then cast her off, and who only accepts her to
save himself from worse consequences, is
dropping her deliberately into hell so that she
may be Respectable and damned. But the
moral doctrine, “Let him marry the girl,
reckons it is worth while being damned to be
Respectable—even to be Respectable in the eyes
of a social circle which comprises one small
street and two alleys.
4
The Steel Rails Job.
The Reid Government’s steel-rail contract,
which suddenly came to a head last week, has
started the N.S.W. fiscal controversy again
in a violent form. The situation is this .
Steel rails are worth about £4 15s. in Europe,
and the cost of landing them in Sydney
is set down at another 15s. —total importe
cost a shade under £5 10s. Provided one
Mitchell, a special political friend of Premier
Reid, establishes the necessary works in
N.S.W., the Reid Government undertakes to
buy locally-manufactured rails of! him at
per ton, which is 10s. above imported price, am
is equal to 9 per cent. duty. The S.M. Heral
and Daily Telegraph allege with great bitter-
ness that this is not Protection, because ro
tection consists in imposing duties on impor s.
And in that sense it is not Protection , i
only Prohibition—as absolute Prohibition as n
the duty was made six billion per cent. 1
Government is practically the only user o s
rails, and when it refuses to accept the i° rei S
article at any price it literally shuts down
the imports altogether. Also, it is Protec.
in another sense : Protection not only cons
in imposing duties on imports but in g 1 " 1 »
bonuses and similar artificial encouragemen
local producers, and the Reid Governmen , )
giving 10s. per ton more than the present mar
price for 150,000 tons of rails, gives the n


industry a bonus of <£75,000. The S.M. Herald
comes in here with an especially painful ex-
plauat ion :
To tell us that to make such an arrangement is to adopt
Protection is to talk nonsense, and to set at nought all
the facts of the case. When we use the term Protection
in' political language as the designation of a policy we
mean, as the Protectionists know well, something other
than making contracts for the local supply of-materials.
What is meant is, not that the State shall arrange to buy
for its own requirements in the local market, but that the
State by means of a prohibitive fiscal tariff shall compel
the community to do so. Of course our Protectionists
know this quite well, and know also that the fact is
destructive of their statement that the steel rails con-
tract, if adopted, would mean Protection in the sense in
which they use the word every day of their lives. But
they say “ the principle is the same. ’ This statement is
as unfounded as the other. The principle involved in
giving preference to a local contract is dissimilar from
that implied in the exclusion by means of a tariff of im-
ported goods, inasmuch as the former imposes no limita-
tions on the freedom o f the individual or on ths freedom of
trade. It causes no difference in the general purchasing
power of a sovereign.
Yet in this case the State is plainly compelling
the community to buy its steel rails in the local
market—the only steel rails the community
wants to buy are for the railways. And it is
imposing limitations on the freedom of the indi-
vidual ; each individual, as part owner of the
State railways, is compelled to pay more for
his share of the rail supply in order to arti-
ficially coddle the industry of Premier Reid’s
friend Mitchell. And it not only imposes
limitations on the freedom of trade (in steel
rails), but it closes the trade altogether. Like-
wise it causes a difference of nearly 2s. in
the <£ in the “ general purchasing price of a
sovereign” the sovereign that the com-
munity generally had set aside for the pur-
chase of rails. The business is merely
Lyne’s pipe - contract over again—the same
contract which the Herald and Telegraph
have denounced off and on for four years ; with
the difference that Lyne paid an enhanced
price for his pipes to protect the local pipe
industry, because he said he believed in Pro-
tection, and Reid proposes doing the same to
protect the local rail industry because he says
he doesn’t believe in Protection. The only
difference lies in the mean shuffling and the
Ananias involved in the steel-rails business.
And, incidentally, the struggles of the two Syd-
ney morning papers to prove that Protection
isn’t Protection when it is done by G. Reid
show up the newspaper party hack—the indivi-
dual who has to prove that everything is as
pure as the driven snowball when his own
fellow does it, and that everything is blacker
than ink when the other fellow does it—in a
very melancholy light. Next to being a ’bus
horse in a ’bus that goes live miles for 2d. the
lot of the newspaper party-hack looks about the
most soulless on this globe.
Our Colonial Oath.
It is a fashion among Australian Judges to
lament about the “ great increase in perjury”
said to have arisen since the law allowed a
prisoner to give sworn evidence on his own be-
half. Several judicial ornaments even suggest
that this privilege should be abolished because
of the alleged increase of perjury to which it
gives rise. Apropos of this theory, The Bulle-
tin would like to know if the small additional
amount of false-swearing, as compared with
the very large amount which previously exis-
ted, is really a thing of any account. Under
the old system a prisoner almost always said
he was innocent, and when the law found him
guilty his statement was set down as lying.
Now he swears that he is innocent, and when
the law finds him guilty his swear is set down
as perjury. The moral difference lies in the
fact that the prisoner formerly lied without
kissing the microbe-infected volume, whereas
lie now lies with that unhealthy decoration
thrown in, and the alleged increase of perjury
consists wholly in the fact that the same pre-
sumably untrue story is told in a different way.
The amount of untruth, however, remains
exactly the same, and as plain falsehood seems
just as bad as the same thing with a moral
ham - frill on it, and adorned with allu-
sions to a Deity that neither the Judge nor
the accused really believes in, there is no
visible increase in any evil in particular. More-
over, The Bulletin reckons on good evidence
that the kind of Judge who is so much troubled
in his soul about the perjury done by prisoners is
a poor, conventional pretender at the best. When
an accused person swears that he is innocent
and the jury finds him guilty, that, in the eye
of ihe law, means that he has committed per-
jury, and the law is greatly shocked thereat.
In quite a large number of cases the law
emphasises its grief by prosecuting the poor
wretch for perjury, and getting him convicted a
second time, which probably means, in some
cases, that he was wrongly convicted in the
first place, and wrongly convicted for saying he
was innocent in the second. On the other
hand, it happens very often indeed that the
prisoner is acquitted, and that at times is equally
solid evidence that all the Crown witnesses who
swore he was guilty are perjurers. Has any
Judge ever complained about the truly alarm-
ing prevalence of perjury among Crown wit-
nesses? Or has any one of the Judges who
wants to prohibit prisoners from giving
evidence because the jury often decides,
in effect, that their evidence is untrue
—has any one of them ever suggested that
Crown witnesses should be similarly prohibited
because the jury often decides, in effect, that
they are false-swearers and gross perverters of
the truth ? The Bulletin smiles with a smile
that can be heard right out by Johanna Springs
or thereabouts. Going solely by the decisions
of juries—and there is generally nothing else to
go by—about twice or three times as many
Crown witnesses perjure themselves as prisoners,
and the average Judge is grieved in his inmost
soul about the small evil, and isn’t troubled in
the least about the large one. It is a curious
state of things.
The Bulletin’s recent remarks about the state
of things Fijian have moved Sydney Catholic
Press to a despairing eruption of mingled
hysterics and garble. This paper wasn’t
“ pleading the cause of Paganism,” or of any
other “ ism ” ; it was simply recording, for
what they were worth, the specific conclusions
of disinterested observers upon a given issue
with regard to a given people, and the cold,
hard facts of the case cauuot be shifted by any
quantity of illogical shriek about Nero, and
Domitian, and the iniquities, generally, of Im-
perial Rome. The question isn’t what paganism
did for Rome, but what so-called Christianity
has indisputably done for Fiji ; and, even put-
ting aside the extreme probability that the
20th century finds the world merely more
hypocritical than it was in the first —
and no whit inherently better, The Bul-
letin wasn’t advancing any general proposi-
tion when it asserted, as it asserts again,
that the conspicuous failure of soi-disant-
Christian dogma, as a moral and social re-
generator, has, in this particular instance, been
conclusively demonstrated. Whether it would
always and everywhere so ignominiouslv fail,
or whether in this case a better brand of the
article would have produced better results, are
matters with w'hich this paper didn’t concern
itself. It stuck simply to the adamantine, un-
hoi table facts, and to describe it on that account
as the “organ of infidelity,” or the organ of
anything else, is mere wilful perversion and
cheap fanatical howl.
Stump speech by “ Lictor,” a Bulletin corres-
pondent at Kalgoorlie:—
Mr. Finnerty, the Coolgardie R.M., has again been
presiding at Quarter Sessions, de.spite the remonstrances
of press and public and several disagreeable remarks
made bv jurymen at the previous sittings. Mr. Finnerty
had lately been making 60me show of concession to
popular opinion by openly declining in court to sit on
some preliminary examinations because he said he had
overheard jurymen remark that they would not find men
guilty if the R.M. first committed and afterwards
tried them. The R.M. perhaps meant well ; but surely
this was very like a hint to the other magistrates that he
considered there should be committals in the cases re-
ferred to. The policy of W. A. Govt, is that everything
they have to buy shall be with the smallest coin avail-
able, and what they have to sell with the largest.
The Supreme Court Judges, Wardens, and P.M’s are
miserably paid, as are also all the civil servants.
As a natural result, many of these last sell
departmental secrets and blackmail the public ; and some
of the least dishonest embezzle, and, when caught (which
is rarely on account of the cheap scheme of rackety super-
vision), are sent to penal servitude. The Government sell
exemptions on mining leases and charge an exorbitant
price, whilst, in civilised provinces, there is only a small
foe to pay cost of recording. A man cannot leave his
residence area for a holiday without paying, besides the
time he wastes in hanging round the court; and he has
to pay £2O for the freehold of a quarter-acre block on
which to live, in addition to numerous preliminary and
vexatious charges—same price for an area close to town
or miles away. If there is a worse hell anywhere than
W.A. the parsons may yet be shown to have been right
after al!
»
“ A Melbourne Pressman ” to The Bulletin :
What is very likely a mere outcome of the inhuman
piece-work system prevailing in so many industries is the
recent tragic explosion at the Colonial Ammunition Co.’s
works at Footsoray (Vic). Giving his version of the
catastrophe to the reporters of the daily press, the
manager, Captain Whitney, observed, ingenuously,
“ With a powder magazine and ammunition factory it is
always the unexpected that happens, and those who
work in and are connected with factories of the sort are
always liable to suddenly meet with some tragic end "
and announced that he was at a complete loss to account
for the accident. To persons, neither shareholders nor
directors nor employes of the factory, who have had an
opportunity of inspecting these works, the probable
cause is less obscure, and to them the wonder is that only
one explosion has taken place since the establishment of
the concern 12 years ago, and that only three girls have,
so far, lost their lives. In all, 50 girls are employed, the
majority being in comparative safety making cartridge-
cases, while the remainder pass their lives in deadly peril
filling and finishing. But one rule applies to all—the
iron rule of payment by results. According to the state-
ments published in the local Herald, the three girls who
were ihlled received respectively 10s., Bs., and 7s. per
week—a truly noble wage for which to work at racing-
speed and get blown to pieces in the end. But the girls
who work in the dangerous part of this factory are,
judging by their faces, figures, and dress, in a far more
comfortable position than the girls in the cartridge-
making room. This house is the most heartrending
industrial spectacle I have ever seen. The girls are all
ominously young—or else they are unnaturally stunted—
apparently ranging from 14 to 18. Very few grown
women, including the overseers, are met in the whole
establishment. These youngsters, dressed in most
poverty-stricken fashion, feed machines and feed them at
a pace that suggests the last lap of a cycle race —a
pace which must soon smash the nerves of every
worker. Every now’ and again a tired child will
raise her hands over her head and stretch her arms —
to return to w'ork with renewed speed to make up for the
fractional amount she has lost by leaving off—and here
and there are girls with bad scars on their arms and
hands, the result of some minor accident that never
reaches the press. But all are paid by results, and one of
the results of those results is the fearful deaths of Alice
M'Lkod, Elizabeth Greenham, arid Ettie Fitzpatrick.
Not one of these girls was 20 years old, two were but 17,
hut each had already cast upon her the responsibility of
assisting an aged relative. Knowing, consequently, how
their very living, and the livings of those they loved,
depended upon the number of cartridges put-
through the machine by the time the bell sounded, little
wonder is it that one out of the millions of cartridges
manipulated entered the machine a fraction of an inch
out of place ! Did the Colonial Ammunition Co. pay a
weekly wage, it w'ould probably have an output of 50 per
cent, iess, and very properly so, w’hen its employes now
cram two days’ work into one ; but it would have no big
accidents resulting from the hurry and worry the opera-
tives now endure. The blackened bodies of the three
girls, w'ho should have just been entering the happiest
period of their lives, are simply tributes laid by the High
Priest Piecework on the altar of Capital.
The awful stink that hangs round Victorian
J.P.-dom —especially in the matter of Factory
Act oases, where the cheap and nasty beak
openly sympathises with law - breaking em-
ployers and refuses to enforce the law—lately
moved Vic. Labor-party to enter a formal pro-
test against the administration of law by gratis
fat-men. It got very little satisfaction, how-
ever, Premier Turner merely stating that in
his opinion “ the majority of the members of
the bench did their work honestly and fairly.”
Which is probably quite true —and is certainly
quite beside the case. Nobody protested against
the majority which is honest and fair, but
against the large minority which is dishonest
and unfair, also ignorant, brutal, boorish, cor-
rupt, prejudiced and duuder : headed to boot.
The fact that there is a fair and honest majority
is no reason why the very considerable and
wholly-disgusting minority should pervert the
law without hindrance. There is a very large
majority of people who don’t commit murder,
but that isn’t considered as any reason why the
minority who do commit it shouldn’t be hanged.
Dear Bulletin, —I am not writing this from
“ in the know ; ” it is a mere hazard of deduc-
tion. First fact : Tozer has, all through the
late Q.N. Bank tempest, and also in the Willie
Stephens attack anent the Lands Commission,
artfully slid all the alleged blame upon “ Never-
mind ” Nelson by representing, sometimes
straight out and sometimes by insinuation, that
he (Tozer) was opposed personally to those
things which a majority of the Govt, favored.
Second fact: So pronounced was this method
of defence that watchful observers of the
game of politics as it is played in Leperland
have given the warning—" Look out for a
slump somewhere in the phalanx.” Third
fact: Tozer, ever since he took the head of
the table, has carved off titbits of flattery
to Glassey and has ladled lots of
"gravy out of the joint.” Fourth fact:
Glassey and other Labor members are
now credited with inspiring the politics of
Brisbane (Q.) Echo ; it is even hinted that some
of them own, or partly own, shares in it. At
any rate, the Echo is now booming that section
of the Q. Labor-party which the Worker is
not too sweet with. Fifth fact: The Echo
backed up Glassey and damned the Govt,
through this last Q.N. Bank business —right up
till last week. Sixth fact: The Echo the other
day found excuses for Tozer’s evident desire to
let things stand until Nelson returns, saying
—"He (Nelson) has made this business his
own, and should be called upon to add the final
chapter to his rather questionable work in
1893.” Question: What mean these weather-
signs ? The self-portraiture of Tozer ? The
buttering of Glassey? The Echo’s excusation
of Tozer? When shall these three meet again?
When the debonair "Nevermind” lounges
sleepily among the spring-traps which way
will the explosion go ? —Yours, Ow.
4
"F.” : "A fine alteration has been made in the
preamble of the 1891 Draft of Federal Consti-
tution by the 1897 Convention. The old pre-
amble commenced thus :
Whereas the Australasian colonies of ( ) have
agreed to unite in one Federal Commonwealth.
The new bill reads this way :
Whereas the people of ( ) have agreed to unite in
one indissoluble Federal Commonwealth.
The ‘ States rights ’ folk could not have noticed
this alteration. It gives away their whole case.
It is not the ‘ colonies ’ but the people who are
federating—and the claim that Tasmania shall
have equal voting power in the Senate with
N.S.W. is tliusly proved to be ‘salted’ and a
‘ duffer.’ If Vandeinonians are not con-
tent to be Australians, each Australian
being politically equal to every other
Australian, then let them stay out of a federa-
tion they will never appreciate. If South
Australians want principally to be South Aus-
tralians, let them, in the name of eternal
Bumble, continue in that parochial state while
N.B. W. and Victoria consummate a Federation
on equal terms. And what are we to do with
the slave State ? Queensland gets the credit of
having a white man’s heart, though the Kanaka
skin is so dusky. The now apparently inevit-
able election of Federal delegates will settle
this question, which is a most momentous one
in Australian affairs. (Mem. Australian
Federation, by Bumble out of Kanaka, a good
flatcatcher.).”
♦
Vic. Minister of Railways Williams, after a
three years spell of astonishing failure, is ap-
parently to be returned unopposed by Eagle-
hawk to the House—but not to the Cabinet.
There has never been a Railways Minister like
him. Old John Woods was faddy, crotchety,
and a failure in big patches. The deplorable
C. E. Jones earned a reputation as an adminis-
trator that lives, in certain quarters, despite
mint-sauce incidents. Dunky Gillies was a
magnificent spendthrift. Wheeler tackled
Speight, and threw up the sponge. Shiels
took the job and threw out Speight, and left
on record a mass of unforgetably florid epistles
to the railway-boss. However, they all had
lucid intervals—but Williams has never at any
time done anything that pleased the Cabinet,
the railway-officials, or tlie public. His speeches
in the House were always the helpless drivellings
of out-and-out failure. He reduced failure to a
science. Premier Turner again and again was
compelled to relieve him of his duties in the
House, again and again had to make speeches
to obliterate the inevitable Williams fatuities.
Duffy’s incompetence in the Post-office has
been made endurable to many people by the
bald fiction that Duffy is the author of one or
two good jokes, though, apart from pretend-
ing to be a statesman, his jokes have always
been of the attenuated type. Moreover, Duffy
has some vague reputation by reason of the
many Post-office scandals, his daring silence in
the presence of shattering criticism being re-
garded as more or less heroic. But Williams
has not even the successful silence of stupidity
to his credit—and the only hope is that he will
attempt to explain his railway impolicy to
his constituents before nominations close.
Thereupon some local Chinese fossicker will be
run against him, and will win.
Listen to Tom Bent, the man who figured as
Speaker of Vic. Assembly before last general
election. Burly Thomas moves in a mysterious
way at Port Fairy, where his " dear old friend
and colleague,” Bryan O’Loghlen, was re-
placed by local candidate Duffus three years
ago. Thomas, at time of writing, couldn’t say
for certain whether he was opposing Duffus on
his own account, or merely waddling around
the district in the interests of dear old Bryan,
but his principles are full of awful significance,
anyhow. The wave of Young Victorian feeling
that swept the Speaker off his legs seems to
have left his principles unimpaired. " In allud-
ing to the various works he had done at Port
Fairy during the time he was Commissioner of
Public Works, &c., Mr. Bent said he had got
the large post-office for them, and all Mr.
Duffus had done was to get a pair of doors
put on, which proved too small for him (Mr.
Bent) to get through.” Vote for Bent, the
getter of the large post-office, and down with
Duffus, who merely added a too-small pair of
doors ! Also remember that it was Bent whom
Vic. Assembly delighted to honor, and clothe
him once again in his official wig and gown, and
place him upon the roof of the P.O, aforesaid,
and sing praises to his name !
The very light fines of 10s. and costs lately
imposed by Brisbane Police-court Bench on
Minister Dickson and other magnates for ille-
gally employing Kanakas contrast significantly
with those visited on farmers for slight breaches
of the Polynesian Act. The writer has seen
farmers in Bundaberg district fined £5, .£lO,
and £2O for illegally employing Kanakas, even
in field work—the illegality consisting in the
fact that a duly-attested agreement had not
been entered into before the Polynesian In-
spector. The Courier sort of blamed certain
Labor Ms.L.A. for sitting on the bench in the
Brisbane cases, insinuating that they went
there for the purpose of scorching the stylisli
defendants, but those in the know significantly
winked the other eye when that view of the
case was presented to them. The fines imposed
were so ridiculously low that it is impossible
for the prosecutor to have recovered the ex-
penses of initiating the proceedings—proceed
ings which were very badly needed indeed.
The decision of the Melb. Lormer-Gaunson
case by the Full Court against the teetotal
panjandrum who claimed the right of adjudicat-
ing in public-house licensing and other cases,
came as a surprise in legal circles, and it is by
no means clear that the ground of their Honor’s
judgment can, or will, be logically worked out.
If it is, much good will incidentally come of it,
for the squatter must cease adjudicating over
his neighbor’s shearers, the country store-
keeper over his rival’s debtors, the Orangeman
over Catholic rioters, the orthodox Christian
Judge must stand down in cases of blasphemous
libel, the believer in flogging in cases of garrot-
ting, every Judge in cases of contempt of court,
and a host of other such “ abusions of the
law ” must pack up their traps and depart
from Victoria. But it is seriously to be feared
that the grounds of this decision will be whittled
down by judicious “ distinguishing ” until it
embraces only those cases in which the otrend-
ing justice is a member of a reform movement
(or a fad movement, if you like), in which
the members of the Full Court for the time
being do not concur. For instance, is it likely
that a bench of Freemason Judges will hold
that a Freemason justice is incompetent to hold
the scales in a case between a Freemason and
an outsider? Hey! Had the Vic. court de-
cided the matter on the particular facts of Cold-
Tea Lokmer’s case alone, possibly they might
have been justified (but only possibly). But
the broad grounds given for their decision,
however desirable they may seem to some
minds, certainly appear to be a serious innova-
tion by the Judges on the principles of the
common law.
“ Public School-teacher ” to The Bulletin :
The “religious instruction” given by teachers in N.S.
Wales public schools is highly amusing to an impartial
onlooker, and the ideas of the children on the subject of
religion must be a most interesting miscellany. They
begin with a very young teacher in the infant class, who
gives them her notions on “The Creation,” and “The
Fall of Man,” impressing the eating of the “apple” by
the unhappy Eve and its consequences with great em-
phasis. The youngsters execrate Eve. Then they are
promoted to the immediate charge of the infant mistress,
who is an older woman and has sympathy with her own
sex or a bad opinion of the other one. She shows up
the glaring faults of Adam, passes lightly over the
templing of Joski'H, and refrains altogether from showing
how Ruth and Esther “hooked in” their husbands.
Young teachers invariably try to explain these matters,
not forgetting the birth of Isaac, and the effort would
make a cat laugh. The irreligious young man assistant
“shirks” his religious instruction, if possible ; if not he
“ sticks to the book,” and is asked some awkward ques-
tions by an occasional pupil who takes some interest in
the subject. The Methodist teacher inculcates the “ In-
spiration ” of the Word, and so attempts the gigantic
task of justifying the character of David, because it
is written he was “a man after God’s own heart”!
What a model for our future manhood ! Read
the dying David’s sanguinary charge to his son,
Solomon. No examinations are undergone by teachers
on religious subjects. Each gives his own ideas
or follows some other teacher’s lead. The result is
a wonderful “ free-and-easy,” and if religious instruction,
as per Scriptures, were any good the present farcical
teaching would be a thousand pities. Actually the moral
training of the school counteracts the immoral effect of
the Scripture-lessons and declares that the ways of the
ancient Jews, if passable in their day, are quite unsuit-
able to ours. Occasionally there is a teacher who sifts
the good from the bad, brings the light of the 19th cen-
tury to bear on the Bible as on any other old book, un-
hesitatingly condemns the hideous old Kings of Israel
and their pals and their doings, and explains “Jonaii
in the Whale” and such matters by saying that people
were so ignorant in those old days as to believe anything,
or else we are ignorant and have lost their meanings.
I’m a teacher of that sort but I abstain from religious in-
struction.
4.
The Victorian Government proposes attempting
to create a great tobacco industry by granting a
bonus of 3d. on every lb. of good tobacco ex-
ported—the cash payable to growers only. The
bonus system is a great grief, to Freetraders,
but there is no doubt it often acts well. The
huge butter-export industry of Victoria was
created by it. So was the beet-sugar industry
of France, Germany, and Austria. .So, in part,
was the shipping of several European countries.
So were most of England’s manufactures ; in
the days of 300 years back, when those primi-
tive industries first began to drift over to Eng-
land from Belgium, France, Italy and other
places, they were largely attracted by various
kinds of State assistance. Even that noble
animal, the English horse, arose from bonuses
and grandmotherly government, and beastly
state interference. The English horse used to
be a stunted animal in a disgraceful state of
disrepair, but Henry VIII. interfered by order-
ing the wholesale slaughter of all undersized
mares and stallions, and by giving bonuses for
animals which could stand inspection. The
bonus system may be a disreputable fraud, as
Freetraders allege, but it has done a lot of good
at different times.
“ Compton ” :
As to Ben. Tillett’s cocksureness. It’s an unfortunate
necessity of the position. An Australian audience is to
be moved only by positive assertion. “ Blanky ’is good,
and a wager is still better, but assertion—loud, vociferous
and undoubting —is the bedrock of it all. Some eight
years’ experience of chin-wagging to every variety
of Australian gathering have borne in strongly
upon me the utter futility of expecting any
allowance for the inevitable limitations of a lecturer’s
knowledge or opportunities. A successful Australian
speaker must know all things. The great god, Sport,
rules here as everywhere. A speaker, in Australian con-
ception, is a man putting up a record, and nothing else.
If there is anything he doesn’t know the effect is as
disastrous as would be ignorance by Fitzsimmons of the
approved method of breaking out of a corner. Come to
think of it, how is it. that Tiie Bulletin flourishes
so well, and is so generally accepted ? It isn’t through
any weakness in the way of expressing hesitation or
misgiving. As to Tillett’s disparaging references to
Australian unionism, as a fairly old unionist I support
him. Much has been done here, as you say. But we have
a present and a future (let us hope)—not a past. We
haven’t got enough margin over early days yet to quote
what has been ; while in England, so far as we" can judg'e,
the cause of the horny-handed is in a fair way. Our
unions are, with a few startling exceptions, moribund.
One policy of Q. Government seems to he
to promise increases of salary to those depart-
mental heads who can best “sweat” their subor-
dinates. “ Take £lO a-year off 20 of your officer.-
and we’ll raise your salary by £5O. ”


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op tub UNITED STATES.
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. ;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W,
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only >£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (102 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
The. .
Infinite.
Capacity
for >.
taking.
Pains. .
Which characterises
all our work, enables
us to guarantee ab-
solute satisfaction in
every case
We invite you to
call and see our spec-
imens of Photo-
graphic Art ....
We have spared
neither labour nor
expense in main-
taining our acknow-
ledged position at
the head of our pro-
fession in this city.
Six Knarae led Cabinet Portraits,
with Beautifully Fini-died Enlarge-
ment in Permanent Bromide or
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras
7/6
Portrait
Corppany
4SO GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Fteneh Maid."
Royal “ In the Ranks.”
Lyceum “ At Dutv’s Call.”
Exhibition Buildinq Prof. Norton B. Smith.
Tivoli Rickards’Variety Co.
Palace “ a Bunch of Keys.”
Opera House “ Saved from the Deep.”
Town Hall Amy Sherwin Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “A Royal Divorce.”
Bt’ou Frank Thornton Co.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Royal Fitzsimmons v. Corbett.
Alexandra “A Cruel Wrong.”
“ At Duty’s Call,” the latest Lyceum pro-
duction, started on Monday night with eclat and
everything else it could lay its hands on. Re-
garded as a literary work it deserves much pro-
found disrespect; also, it lacks historical accuracy,
and the logic of its plot is knocked endways at
the beginning and knocked into a cocked hat at
the end, and the middle of it is chaos. But as a
spectacle it is very high-colored, and as a patriotic
howl it is above par. Haidly three minutes pass
without some enthusiastic remarks about the Flag.
The British soldier tramps through it in hundreds,
and then he gets round the back and tramps
through again till he amounts to thousands.
Alfred Woods, closely pursued by the overwhelm-
ing enemy, plunges from a great height into the
raging tank with the British flag round his waist,
and struggles through, damp but glorious. Maud
Williamson, being a prisoner in the towers of the
Egyptian oppressor and her honor threatened by
A. Boothnian, Esq., throws a torch into the
powder-magazine and blows the towers of the
oppressor in various directions. Alfred Woods
and Brother Charles (Brother Charles being a low
character who has joined the Egyptians) fight a
sanguinary duel on horseback; and when the
former has plunged into the tank with the
British flag Maud Williamson arrives on horse-
back and plugs the Copt army with a re-
volver promiscuously. It is sometimes diffi-
cult to tell exactly what the British soldier
is rushing at, but lie rushes furiously and shoots
“something tremenjous,” and, if his aim isn’t
any too good, his loyalty is a pure and spotless
emotion, mingled with drink, and he has a brass
band in front and another behind, and there are
seldom less than eight officers on horseback
sooling him on, and the explosions which take
place on the premises of the Egyptian are
alarming.
* * * *
The scenery of the new production may
fairly be set down as first-class, and the stage-
management— an important feature in a drama
where fortresses and tanks and entrenchments
are heaped up in great numbers—is very good.
As for plot, it is something about an English
gentleman, whose son proves not to be his son
after all, and an Italian lady, whose daughter is
really somebody else, and a British villain who
hears this from behind a plant in the conservatory.
In consequence of which he buys an estate
from the brother of the alleged mother of the
girl who wasn’t her daughter, and, to make
good his title, he arranges to get rid of the
alleged son, and creates evidence against him which
causes him to be sentenced to death by a colonel
who is really his father, and who is likewise the
lost husband of the lady who has the daughter
that isn’t hers. And it is by reason of these
things that Alfred Woods leads a precarious exist-
ence on the heaving tank, and Maud Williamson
blows up the Egyption fortress, and from the
same cause there is a tableau of 2000 British
soldiers at sunset in the desert illuminated by red
fire. Miss Williamson makes a rather pretty and
clever heroine, and Miss Ethel Grey—remem-
bered some years ago in Sydney as a beauty
actress of a rather wooden description—has de-
veloped into acapable performer, without losingany
of her good looks. About a dozen other people—
notably Alfred Woods, Brother Charles, Booth-
man, King Hedley, Harry Shine, and Miss Edith
Barrow— deserve more space than can be spared
this week, so they are held over in a friendly
spirit. Also Private Abraham Moss is treated
with a certain amount of kindly consideration as
the only Hebrew private on record.
** * *
The “Bunch of Keys” made a fair
start at the Palace, and if it doesn’t live up to it
that fact will be more the fault of the piece than
of the company. The company is excellent, and
the piece is moderately good, but thin. It belongs
to the “Chinatown” order, in which the writer
takes one idea —and a very small idea at that—and
hangs on it songs, dances, free fights, jokes, per-
sons falling downstairs with trunks, calisthenics,
beer, theology, spontaneous combustion, and any-
thing else he can think of. In the beginning it
transpires that old man Keys is dead; he was a tough
character in his life and in death he wasn’t divided
unless he died through a train going over him,
which matter remains in obscurity. He left a
hotel and three nieces, and instructions that his
executor shall keep the hotel going till the first
commercial traveller comes along, when the pro-
perty shall go to the ugliest girl of the three—the
bagman to decide. The act ends with two nieces
in hysterics at the prospect of being adjudged the
ugliest, and the third—the torn tomboy of the
crowd —putting a frog down the executor’s
back. The other two acts represent the
executor, George Lauri, solicitor, running
the hotel, and the three men who hope
to marry the three girls laying plans to
make the expected bagman “run stiff.” These acts
don’t help on the story in the least, but they show
that Lauri can’t run a hotel worth a cent. Among
other things, he puts the pig in the safe along
with the will, to prevent it making a row in the
yard at night; hangs himself unsuccessfully
through blighted affections; gets lamentably
drunk, and has a bad time with the functionary
whose duty it is to fall down stairs with the
guest’s trunk. And after everybody has disguised
himself to no particular purpose as somebody else,
and everybody has sung and danced, and the
stove has exploded, and the pig has got out of the
safe, the three girls agree to divide the property
after all. Also, the small towzled girl with the
frog doesn’t marry the executor.
* • • •
The brightest individual feature in a strong
company is Miss Lottie Moore—the same lady
whose neatly - executed somersault won golden
opinions at the Palace in the early Goatcher days.
She is a perfectly incidental character who has
nothing to do with the attenuated rag of plot,
being merely the kitchen Dolly in the hotel.
But she plays her little part admirably, and
dances marvellously, and somersaults in a
very short frock without anything happening
to cause a blush. George Lauri and Misses
Marietta Nash, Fanny Liddiard, and Addie Con-
yers are other people who do good service. A
new arrival, Willie Freear, falls downstairs credit-
ably with the trunk, though the present writer
. has seen the trunk fallen downstairs with a shade
better. The co. also includes Albert Bellman,
Robert Watson, comedian (who used to be Bobby
Watson in the old, irreverent days of melodrama),
and others. It is a really strong combination
for its size, and, seeing that the thin “ China-
town ” did so well, there seems no reason why the
“ Bunch of Keys ” should not do likewise.
** * *
George Rignold returned to Sydney and
opened his martial show at the Royal under pro-
mising conditions. “In the Ranks,” when com-
pared with some newer military spectacles, is full
of good points, and it is so long since it was last
seen in Sydney that it is almost as new as it ever
was. _ Ig is a military spectacle built on coherent
principles, and it doesn’t run on the familiar
theory that when a man puts on a red coat and
wraps his martial gun around him, he necessarily
becomes a lunatic, and conducts himself for ever
afterwards like an ant violently going nowhere in
great haste, with a load of something that is per-
fectly useless. The average dramatic soldier
is an utterly irresponsible person, whose
great idea is to rush at an impregnable
fortress, carrying his rifle in one hand, and
a dead elephant under his arm, and his
wounded officer on his back, and the Flag in his
other hand, while he sings “ God Save,” and
writes a letter to his aged mother simultaneously.
This sort of thing has happened so often that it is
pleasant to come across a military play which
has a motive to start with, and travels on under-
standable lines, “In the Ranks ” looks as pro-
bable as any four-act melodrama can afford to do ;
it is well-mounted, brightly colored, apd adorned
with a convincing villain named Gideon, a beauti-
ful heroine, and every other convenience. The
heroine is the only person who is absolutely new
to Sydney, and, so far as can be judged on a very
short acquaintance, Lilian Wheeler will be a
favorite with the gods. In addition to being a
clever actress, she looks as nice as her photograph,
which is a rare accomplishment.
** * *
“The French Maid,” after a long and
prosperous career at Her Majesty’s, closes at the
end of next week.
** * *
Alfred Dampier and his family and co.
farewelled at the Lyceum on Saturday, and are
now working their way towards Victoria. After
a brief season in Bendigo and elsewhere, they
further move on to England, partly for a rest and
partly to gather up new dramas, and for various
other reasons. The Lyceum audience parted with
Dampier reluctantly, and he exited in the midst
of a great ovation. He is understood to be due
here again some time next year, and the necessary
fatted calf is already in preparation.
** * *
Sydney Opera House, under the manage-
ment of Mr. W. F. Clitherow, is now open three
nights a week. “East Lynne” did a temporary
weep of one night on Saturday, and “Little Lord
Fauntleroy ” followed for Monday and Tuesday.
Jessie Clitherow, a very promising child actress,
does a good deal to lighten up the gloom of the
Opera House, and otherwise the Clitherow show
is mostly old weepful drama played by a co. in
which nobody is first-rate, and nobody is pic-
turesquely disgraceful. “ Saved From the Deep,”
which is at least more novel than “ East Lynne,”
follows on Saturday.
** * *
Some of the people who used to be at the
Tivoli have come back with great difficulty for a
stiort season only, and some other people have gone
away owing to the fact that an overwhelming
mass of engagements elsewhere made it quite im-
possible for them to remain any longer. Also, one
or two new people have come, and some other
people announce that they will shortly have to
depart. But the show in general goes on as pros-
perously as ever, and once every night the shadow
of G. Reid drifts by in the royal carriage, with a
fixed and glassy eye looking out at the prosperity
of Freetrade England.
** * *
Prof. Norton B. Smith, the horse-taming
expert, opened his show under hard conditions.
Prof. Smith undertakes to tame and mollify the
wildest steed which the public can supply, but no
one sent any wild steed. A number of animals
which seemed to be filled with a mild Christian
spirit were brought in, and wanted to lick the
Professor’s hand in amity. It was necessary to
excite them by ringing bells and banging drums
before there was any material to operate on, and
even then they weren’t vicious—only scared and
covered with perspiration. Probably N. B. Smith
can tame the hardest kicker and biter going, but
if only the patient cab-wreck is forthcoming, there
is no room to display his abilities.
A Royal Divorce,” shown to Australia
, r the first time at Melb. Princess’s, on Saturday
night, is a success of uncertain magnitude. As a
dramatic story it is a slow-goer, leaning heavily
upon the crutch of historical interest, but as a
spectacle, the Firm's latest venture should fetch
even those people who have forgotten all that they
ever knew concerning Napoleon Buonaparte, and
the little things he did previous to the Waterloo
fiasco. For which matter the dramatist took care
not to let anyone be well informed, by history, of
the evils that happen in “A Royal Divorce.”
Hie late W. G. Wills imagined many
vain things re Charles the First, Cromwell, Jane
Shore, and other bygone figures, but when he
came to Napoleon and Josephine he let himself
go a lot further than usual. In this unscrupulous
tale we find an ideal Josephine, a constant sweet-
heart and guiding star of Napoleon, sacrificing her
happiness upon the altar of her husband’s ambi-
tion, and anon clinging to his broken fortunes
with beautiful tenacity. The play suggests that
Josephine, when Napoleon wooed her, was a
maiden madly in love with a mere soldier,
whereas she was a calculating widow who married
him for his growing importance, and because his
duties would keep him safely away from her
flirtations at home. Moreover, thereat Josephine
didn't get a chance to cling to her divorced hus-
band after the sun went down upon his greatness.
She was dead. No matter. Had she remained
she might have clung.
* * • *
Tho dialogue in “A Royal Divorce,”
although not tho best of W. G. Wills’s stage
literature, is pretty strong and dignified for the
most part. Napoleon’s mood} - reference to Hing-
lish bull-dog courage is tho one purely ridiculous
bit of clap-trap in the play, and the good old bull-
dog metaphor succeeds in its mission, anyway.
Four fine tableaux are the mainstays of this hand-
some show. The Retreat of the Napoleonic host
from Moscow with a background of flame effects ;
two clever misrepresentations of the Waterloo
battle-field, the second one depicting Buonaparte
in the act of walking away, at the head of his
army, from the alleged charge of the Life Guards ;
and finally the forlorn captive posed upon the St.
Helena rock,' an impressive reminder of a well-
known picture, despite an unaccountable want of
distance in the seascape. For these valuable con-
tributions George Gordon got several bursts of
enthusiasm, being called and re-called. The Gor-
dons—G. and J. —are tho real heroes of “ A Royal
Divorce ” wherein the local drapers, Messrs.
George and George, also score heavily.
* • * ♦
The bulk of the acting falls to Miss Ada
Ferrar, as Josephine. It is a very large, “fat”
part, and the actress makes much of her oppor-
tunities without achieving a really great perform-
ance. Miss Ferrar never quite gets hold of her
audience as a more magnetic artist might. Julius
Knight’s Napoleon is a well-sustained pictorial
effort, and a suitable rendering of the figure when
it speaks. Miss Elliott Page puts in one or two
glorious appearances as a vixenish Marie Louise,
also Miss Raymond is bright and pleasing in the
character of Josephine’s relative and loyal sup-
porter, Stephanie de Beauharnais. Harry Hill,
woodeny at the outset, plays with spirit in the
fourth act, and Atholwood is a successful inciden-
tal “drunk.” The other people are lords, mar-
shals, princes, and kings, and they don’t display
their historical distinction to advantage. One
tall, juvenile marshal ought to be taken out and
shot before daybreak.
** # *
The veriscopic views of Fitzsimmons and
Corbett flickering around a large square “ring”
were duly submitted to a Melb. public, at the
Theatre Royal, on Saturday, and, as far as the
present writer could bring himself to think
seriously about this weird entertainment, he
thought it fell short of reason aide expectation.
The fight, as it appears indistinctly on the big
sheet, is a tame and rather tattered transaction,
intersected by frequent intervals of five minutes.
Still, it is a genuine attempt to show how Fitz-
simmons punched Corbett, and if it doesn’t suc-
ceed in showing the fastest pace at which the
punchers travelled, tho blame is due to the
machine, and not to the enterprising speculators
who run it.
** * *
Frank Thornton, at Melb. Bijou, has dis-
posed of “Miss Brown,” and is now winding up
his three months’ business with “Charley’s
Aunt ” (Thursday), and three last nights of “Pri-
vate Secretary.” It was necessary to revive the
Aunt and the Curate out of respect for the multi-
tudes that couldn’t get seated a few weeks back.
* * *
This week’s bill at the Alexandra is “The
Old Forge Mystery,” a not too lurid drama, in
which nobody seems happy until the missing
papers have been discovered. On Saturday the
same competent and persevering co. will put all
its energy into “ A Cruel Wrong.”
** * *
The excellent Selbinis are back again at
Melbourne Opera House, where likewise the
loose-legged comedian unfolds a new budget of
songs, and the Haytors compete for plaudits with
ventriloquist Win ton, and the einematographe is
still on the job, notwithstanding that it begins to
lag superfluous on the programme.
** * *
A last farewell performance by the Ham-
bourgs, plus John Leinmone, is to happen at
Melb. Town Hall this (Thursday) afternoon, the
musical numbers having been selected by a plebis-
cite vote of Hambourgian worshippers.
At Poverty Point.
The copper-boom has arrived. Tub Bolleti.v knew it
when it saw Amy Sherwin.
Dear Bulletin', —You miss the point re Hutchinson's
Federation cantata. The appearance of the stage aborigi-
nal in a chorus descriptive of a corroboree, though out of
taste was not so much out of place. But his foot-gear
u-fl.?. “ The well-known comedian ” performed his “ weird
native dance" in clogs! By the beard of King Billy 1
A blacktracker in clogs !! And yet we blame the “ Hing-
lish” writers’ knowledge of Australian “local color."— Be.
Paperknife : “In connection with ‘A Royal Divorce,
read Barras’s new Memoirs. A lovely picture, indeed, he
draws of Josephine; makes out that she was a common
stale when Nap. married her, to oblige Barras and get
the command of the army of Italy. But cam grano."
N. : “ (In Tub Bclletin) ‘ I consider Dick Phenyl a
disgusting character.' Pinero (in the Theatre) : ‘ The
Athenians invariably showed to their children a drunken
Helot.’ ”
The young Majeronis speak English, or Italian, without
a suggestion of foreign accent in either case. They talk
Italian at home, but, outside of the family circle, they are
so habitually Australian as to term Signora Majeroni “the
mater” instead of mamma. For fear of seeming effemin-
ately snobbish (to people who don’t know that mamma is
a word imported from Italy by the English “exquisites”
of last century), they even refrain from calling their
mother by her proper title when they meet her in public.
Journalist: “I have been anatomizing a first-class
church choir, from the inside. It is exactly like a thea-
trical co., except, I will allow, in a more stringent regard
to legal matrimony. The choir has the same oamaraderie
as the players, and regards the w hole church as existing
for its special display. It is a matter of Religion for
every choir to devote prayer-time to looking up the
music. I have not yet seen them at a picnic, but they
keep up a sort of one during Divine Service, and the
whole is a mere performance.”
Ilaresfoot: “I suppose Mr. Terry, jun., has a peculiar
glee in eliciting that Frank Thornton’s name is Tubbs.
Harwood once had his true name of Biggs advertised, by
a malicious actor, in court. Then somebody ascertained
that Walter Montgomery’s name was Tomlinson, and
that he began as a London counter-jumper—at Swan and
Edgar’s drapery.”
Either of the Majeroni brothers would have made an
effective Joseph of Canaan in the Rignold-Walters drama.
Amy Sherwin is a fine object-lesson for a number of
Australian girls who, having voices almost equal to hers,
reckon themselves singers as soon as they achieve an
encore at a suburban concert.
Barton M'Guckin's throat went wrong entirely after
his first appearance in Melbourne. It was then unfit to
bear the strain he put upon it. Result, a general impres-
sion that the tenor's voice has gone for ever, whereas it
is merely worn a little at the edges through hard work in
opera, and should soon be much improved by the change
of climate and comparatively easy time he will have whilst
touring round with a concert co.
Amy Sherwin to Mp|b. Hkrald interviewer :—“ When I
started on this career I had neither means nor influence,
though I had a good deal of kindness, but when I used to
sing in Paris before the old masters, they would take me
in their arms and embrace me.” Good old men !
Carl Hertz’s little show did great business in Perth
(W.A.), where the wizard was promptly interviewed by
the local Morsino Hrrau). The interviewer found him
wide awake, as usual. “ Mr. Hertz cautiously declined to
give any opinion about Perth until he had really seen the
town, but he intimated that he was accustomed to
travelling, and liked every place that he visited."
“The Royal Divorce" costumes form the biggest
theatrical order ever executed in Melb., where there was
grumbling over the importation of the ‘ Prisoner of
Zenda ’ clothes.
Szezepanowski, the unpronounceable pianist of the Amy
Sherwin company, is (or was) teacher of the viola, and
also one of the violin instructors at Trinity College,
London.
Spagnoletti: “ The tune of 1 Benches in the Park ’ is
fading off the lip of the whistling world, which
pants and struggles to get round the ‘ Washington
Post.’ The man with a tune in his head wakes up in the
middle of the night, shouting ‘l’ve got it!’ ‘What?’
‘The tune! Oh. Tiddly-Iddly-I do ! ’ Whether he is the
bigger nuisance before or after is a matter of taste.”
Dear Bullktin, —Ditto to your ‘ Woman’s Let ter’ mention
of Ethel llavdon as a fully-qualified Sweet Lavender. The
pretty little blonde played the inijenue part in Garner’s
revival of “ Turn of the Tide,” some three years ago, and
her air of innocence was charming—not a suspicion of
acting about it. For its equal, in the artless maiden line
of business, we had to look back to Nina Boucicault’s
picture of Duleie in “ Woe Versa.” — Lang Synb.
Old friend Snazelle has contributed some rather
astounding “Tales of a Traveller” to Lloyd’s Nrws. For
instance, he commences Chapter V. with the allegation
that when Melbourne “ hurricanes” blow from a certain
quarter delicious mussels are washed upon the shore in
beds two feet deep and thirty feet wide, extending for
hundreds of miles around the coast. The shellfish, being
so plentiful, are naturally despised by the local populace,
although Snazzy found them even richer and more sustain-
ing then the whelks sold in London.
Miss Elsie Stanley Hall, the young Australian pianiste,
sailed from England on 27t,h Sept, for her native land.
Miss Hall brings back the distinction of being the winner
of the Berlin Mendelssohn Scholarship against all the
German competitors, and to her “belongs the honor,”
remarks London Musical Standard, “ of being the first
English girl to gain this important scholarship, and when
her youth is considered it is simply incredible.” She
comes fresh from a brilliant success in London.
Barton M'Guckin tells a yarn against himself of how he
overheard two Irishmen in Dublin discussing one of his
first appearances in opera. They were satisfied with his
voice, which they had heard before, also they passed a
vote of confidence in his acting—but, said Pat No. 1, “ I
can’t get over Barton’s nose.” “ How can ye get over it,
when there’s no bridge,” said the other l’athrick. The
tenor can afford to tell the tale seeing that his nose is not
an unimportant feature in private life. It makes a dis-
tinct beginning and a bold end, although the middle por-
tion leaves room for the introduction of stage-effect.
M'Guckin has a budget of Dublin recollections. One
night when he arrived upon the scene as Tannhauser, in
a boat drawn by a swan, a broguev critic yelled from the
gallery “ Begorra ! here comes Barton, with his duck,
down the Liffey.” No Irishman can hope to be taken
seriously in his own country. They give him love with-
out reverence.
Melb. : “ J.M.F. asks for the name of a tragedian who
appeared at the match-box Princess’s somewhere about
1860 (?). It was Maddocks, who appeared in ’57, as I
reckon. I was then a stage-struck little boy, with a loose
leg, but fortunately destitute of money. My evenings
were spent under the Princess’s piazza, because the music
could be heard from the inside, likewise the actors' voices
when they did a bit of rant. The house was not then
named the Princess's, but the Royal Amphitheatre, to
which the title had been changed from Astle.v’s Amphi-
theatre on the circus-ring being taken out and a pit and
stage made. I think it opened as a theatre with the
‘School for Scandal,’ in which Lambert made his first
Melb. appearance. I remember the first night of Mad-
docks, who was saifl to be a tall man. He opened in
‘ Hamlet,’ with 11. N. Warner as the Ghost. Maddocks
died in Melb. not very long after.”
“This drama contains one expression stamped with
the unmistakeable hall-mark of original genius, ‘Ha I
You here ! ’ ”
(Continued on page 24).


R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Acs. |
Reps, j
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Building's, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
■
The KOEIiSTZ
PATENT
“ Little giant ”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
SIR JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Moonby & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Burns, Phtlp & Co. Ltd.,
N. Q’ld & New Guinea.
Australasian
Representatives:
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office & Chemical Laboratory,
TKLKPIIONBI
2444. J
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
There is Nothing Cheap
About Our Work
€xcept tbc Price.
SIMPSON, Ooachbuilder,
Newtown, SYDNEY.
PERTH —Robt. Wolfe.
GERALDTON—A. Mkadowcroft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New South Wales revenue for September
A'as £681,067, being £8268 more than that for September,
1896. The revenue for the first three months of the finan-
cial year ( £2,115,173) is £166,258 less than that for the cor-
responding quarter of 1896, while the expenditure
( 1 2,240,560) is £9299 more than for the same three months
last year. The expenditure is already £125,387 ahead of
revenue, which is a good and early beginning for G. H.
Reid’s fourth deficit. That champion explainer of things,
being interviewed by the S.M. Herald re the painful
slump, points out that the biggest part of the decline
is in income-tax, which hasn’t come in yet, and it
“simply means that, taking the year as a whole, the
deficiency this quarter as regards income-tax will be com-
pensated by an equally large surplus in another quarter.”
If he really said this it is a fine evidence of Premier Reid’s
chronic inability to tell the whole, straight, honest truth
about anything. The income-tax is deficient because in
last financial year two whole years’ tax was collected—one
lot at the beginning of the financial year and the other at
the end—so that the income-tax receipts for the 12
months were £305,316. This year it will be only pos-
sible to get one year’s' tax, about £160,000,
and there will be no “equally large surplus”
in any other quarter to make up the present de-
ficit. Unless the Reid Government doubles the in-
come-tax this one item of revenue must show a decline
of at least £140,000 as compared with last year. Last
year’s revenue was £170,000 short of expenditure, and
this year, with diminished revenue and increased expendi-
ture, begins badly enough.
During the same quarter, the N.S.W. expendi-
ture of loan-moneys has been £367,522, which is £86,428
more than that for the same quarter of last year. The
great art and mystery of Premier Reid’s finance lies in
charging all possible expenditure to loans, and evidently
the work has been going on this quarter even a little more
gaily than usual.
* * * •
The sale of N.S.W. 3 per cent, stock has been
resumed, and so the process of piling up the Cornstalk
debt is again in full blast. If the province must borrow
it is undoubtedly a hundred times better to borrow
locally than abroad ; nevertheless, the new system has
one serious disadvantage. When a big loan was floated
all in a heap the public could hardly help opening one
eye_ in its sleep and noticing that the province was still
taking the easy way to get over its liabilities by leaving
them to posterity. But now the loan falls as silently
as the gentle dew from heaven, and not one person in a
dozen knows that N.S.W. i 3 booming along the road to
insolvency in a worse fashion than it ever did before-
worse because the old loans were at least mostly spent on
reproductive works, while of the £3,900,u00' borrowed
money which the Reid Government has spent in two and
a-half years more than half has gone upon works which
return absolutely nothing. Still, as N.S.W. never did
anything when it partially woke up and opened one tired
eye to the situation, it probably doesn’t matter much.
* * » *
Queensland revenue for July, Aug., and Sept,
was £1,069,325, as compared with £1,143,017 for the same
months last year— a decline of £73,692. In 1896 the
Queensland revenue reached top figure, and for the year
ending June, ’97, it fell off by about £30,000. Apparently,
unless it braces up considerably, there will be a still
worse decline by June, ’9B, and the Treasury will be on
the rocks again —which is the place where it is usually to
be found.
* * * •
For the quarter ended September, 1897, South
Australia collected £558,305 revenue, which is a fall of
£20,594 as compared with the corresponding quarter of
last year.
* * * *
The Westralian revenue for September (£240,129)
is £10,948 less than that for September, 1896, and the
revenue for the quarter (£655,383) is £25,821 less than
that for the same quarter last year. This is the first
downward movement since the boom, of blessed memory,
started in 1890, and, coupled with the falling off in immi-
gration, the empty Treasury, the difficulty in raising new
loans, even at the heavy rate of 4 per cent., it looks like
as if the glory had departed. Last year, the surplus was
only £3298. If the revenue keeps on at the present rate,
the year’s income will be £lOO,OOO less than that for
1896-97, and that probably means a heavy deficit.
* * * *
The Victorian revenue for the three months up
to 30th September was £1,583,949—£39,857 more than
the amount realised up to 30th Sept., ’96. Tasmania,
which closes its accounts on 31st Dec., has now got through
nine months of its financial year, and, so far, the revenue
is £24,336 better than for the first nine months of ’96.
So far, Vic. and Tas. alone of the six Australian provinces
show any improvement, while N.S.W. has the biggest
slump, and Queensland comes a good second.
* * * *
Agent-General Playford, of S.A., strongly con-
demns the insane agreement entered into by the King-
ston Government, whereby a certain newspaper man gets
a contract for a number of years to hawk the bonds of the
S.A. State Bank in England. There were so many good
reasons against the scheme that its acceptance by Acting-
Premier Holder looks next to incredible. The bonds were
fetching a good price in Adelaide. There is no guarantee
that they will fetch a better price in London ; the Govett
syndicate is to get them at a figure which is governed by
the selling value of S.A. Government stock, so the
Government may find itself compelled to let the
syndicate have them for two or three years at a
lower price than they would realise in Adelaide.
The syndicate will doubtless stick to the business while it
is a loss to the Government, but apparently there is no
cash guarantee that it won’t drop it just as soon as it
becomes a profit to the Government. Sj’ndicates are
smellful things at all times. This one must give the
Government less than could be obtained in the open
market in order to make a profit for itself —it isn’t doing
the business out of pure philanthropy. The new arrange-
ment deprives the local inhabitant of a good investment,
and makes S.A. more dependent on the eternal John
Bull, and takes more money out of the country annually
in interest, and further postpones the time of financial
independence. Altogether it is difficult to find one visible
good point about the scheme.
» * * *
The Victorian income-tax case of Webb v. Eng-
land is going to the Privy Council. This fine example of
British cheek and assurance has now raged in the Vic.
courts for over a year. Defendant represents a large
amount of British capital invested in Victoria. The in-
surance co. whose capital it is gets a big income out of
the province, but flatly refuses to pay tax upon it, appar-
ently on the moral ground that a British co. is something
too large and imposing to be taxed by the beastly
Government of a common, beastly colony. The legal
point on which the trouble is nominally based looks of
the slenderest. Defendant claims that only persons who
“carry on business” in Victoria are taxable, and he
pleads that investing money through an agent, and
collecting interest, and foreclosing on defaulters and
realising the security, are not “carrying on business,”
and that unless the co. does insurance in Australia it
doesn’t come into the category. To the lay mind it
would seem that investing the funds and getting interest
on them is carrying on a very important branch of the
business, and two Vic. courts have decided against the
British person, but this latter is still full of fight and in-
tends having another run for his money. If he wins, the
Victorian Government will have to hustle round as it
never hustled b. fore, and get the Income Tax Act amended.
The idea of levying a special tax on the absentee has
often been considered, but the idea of taxing the local
investor and letting the absentee go free altogether is a
wild inversion of things.
• « * *
N.S. Wales has three railways which don’t pay
working expenses, let alone interest on cost - Armidale
to Jennings, Murrumburrah to Blayney, and Sydenham
to Belmore. The last one, in proportion to the capital
involved, is the most hopeless job of the lot.
* * * *
In view of the largely increased Victorian fire
insurance rates, the local Railway Department has decided
to establish its own insurance fund and be its own in-
surer for the future. Sundry steamship co’s and other
large insurers contemplate doing likewise. This was the
inevitable result of the attempt to put up rates. The
trouble was, not that premiums were too low—they were
high enough to pay magnificent dividends under fair con-
ditions—but that office expenses are ruinous and utterly
awful. And the reason why the expenses have reached
such a pitch is that twice as many offices —mostly English
—as the business can support are trying to live on it.
As a fine example of how the industry is overdone in
Australian cities, Coghlan enumerates 40 leading offices
doing fire business in Sydney alone. Sixteen of them have
less than half-a-million of insurances, and nine have less
than £'300,000. Assuming an average rate of 10s. per
cent., this latter figure would mean less than £lsooa year
income out of which to pay a full blown manager, office
staff, agents, rent, taxes, gas, stationery, stamps and
sundries—in addition to fire losses. No business can
stand so much management as that under fair conditions.
* * * *
So deep is the Hebrew’s horror of a bad bargain
that a certain M.L.C., who imported a lot of tobacco 11
years ago, prefers to continue paying storage on same (in
the Queen’s warehouse) to this day. The tohacco is, of
course, almost worthless by this time, and storage has
cost 20 times its original value, arid had the M.L.C. dared
to outrage all the traditions of his race, he might have
sold it, when originally imported, at a loss of not more
than 10 per cent.
♦ * » •
The interesting question is likely to be tried
shortly in Vie. Law Courts as to whether one individual s
shares in a co. are attachable for debt when the whole of
the shareholders in the co. have agreed to pool their
interests and hold all the shares intact until the mine is
sold.
* » * *
Although Nat Levi (Vic. M.L.C.) has had the
concession for the construction of a railway to the Kil-
cunda and Cape Patterson mining districts renewed for so
many years, he will have a tough job to get a renewal
this year. Judging, however, from the efforts he is
making in England to float the concession into a co., Nao
evidently considers the renewal a “dead bird” if he
applies for it.
* * * •
The promoter of the Great Western Railway
Co. (Tas.), who was to have gone ’Ome last week to chase
British capital, has delayed his departure, owing, it is
alleged, to the alarming intelligence that the grant for
the G.W.R. terminus has been more or less duplicated by
the grant to the Emu Bay Co. Litigation is said to be on
the tapis.
• • * *
Probably the best deal lately done in Sydney
real estate is the recent purchase for about £375 a foot,
by Mr. Geo. Cohen, of the George-street land whereon
premises are now being built for Lloyd and Collins and
photographer Kerry. The same land in the boom changed
hands at some £l6OO a foot.
« » * •
According to pearler Clarke there are only six
white divers left now in the Straits. About 80 boats are
either hired or owned by Japanese, and average earnings
per boat, amount to about £2OO. Four or five years at this
sort of thing and the Jap. is a made man.
» * * *
The N.S. W. Govt. Board of Exports’consign-
ment of oranges to London turned out a failure ; the fruit
arrived in poor condition, having heated. The South
Australian depot oranges, on the other hand, arrived in
good condition and sold well.
* * * •
The pungency of the gas thrown off by the
burning Oregon timber in the B.H. mine was marvellous.
Twelve days after the outbreak, and four days after the
issue of the official report that if the fire was not abso-
lutely extinct it was practically so, the odor was horribly
offensive at a distance of a mile from the mine. From a
spectacular point of view, though, amine fire is a thorough
failure. For an hour or less there was a faint issue of
smoke from one of the shafts ; but after that nothing
but this formless and truly shocking stink. The com-
plaint is made that, though the watchman service
on the Broken Hill Proprietary is all that could be
desired on top, it is inadequate underground. Every
hour of the week, except from midnight on Saturday
until midnight on Sunday, the underground workings are
occupied ; for that 24 hours they are deserted except for
half-a-dozen shift-bosses. Men, fearing to be left behind,
rush out of the faces when the signals sound, and the
danger of fire from candles left burning, &c., is thus
largely added to. Certainly it is curious, if nothing
more, that both fires have broken out early on Sunday
morning ; and, more curious still, the last mail brought
word of a very destructive fire in a lead-mine in the Isle
of Man, which also broke out on a Sunday morning. At
one mine the men have been instructed to go to work on
Sundays as on other days ; but that course is not likely to
be adopted on the bigger mines. It ought to be kicked
against, anyway—and for that matter so ought night-
shift (midnight to 8 a.m.). It is a brutal institution in a
hot climate, where men can’t possibly get decent rest in
8 x 10 iron shanties during the day-time.
* • * *
The fire in the B.H. Prop, has had one good
effect : Other mines are making more provision for filling
up the worked-out stopes, between the timbers, with sur-
face refuse—concentrator tailings, &o. Block 14 has been
best-off in this respect, then Block 10 and the British ; the
Junction has been improving lately, and the South, Cen-
tral, and North are now doing more.
* * * *
The British takes advantage of the rise in lead
to go tearing out the carbonate ores at a greater rate ; and
this has something to do, too, with the call of the miners
to do Sunday work in the mine. The British is now send-
ing fair parcels of concentrates to the Illawarra works.
* * • *
“ Doing very poorly ” is the verdict of a man
who ought to be able to tell after inquiring close!}' into
the Sulphide Corporation (Ashcroft’s process) treatment
at Cockle Creek.
* * * *
North Nymagee manager’s first report : —“ Ar-
rived at mine on Sunday last. The Nymagee co. has
worked the lode up to our boundary, so it is evident it
must run in our ground.” Look at that now ! Why did
not the old co. work it before going into liquidation ? All
this does not answer the question how it was that it, an
abandoned mine, to be had for the taking-up, reached a
market-value of over £20,000 before a pick had been put
in it?
* * • *
“Every available piece of ground north and
south of the Lake George Mines, N.S.W., is being pegged.
Several leading mining men and experts are here inspect-
ing properties for flotation.” The same old business.
Value established after many years’ work in one mine,
and the surrounding country is pegged for miles. Every
block, of course, will be “on the lode.” The writer
seriously warns everybody to regard each position-block
as Billings did the snake’s hole. The game is played as a
quick means of making money. Mineral leases can be
taken up for ss. an acre, and, if the public only knew how
hard it is to sell a good mine, they would not waste any
money on duffers.
* * * *
As pointed out by Sydney D.T., one thing
which will help to keep the copper-boom cool in N.S.W.
is the fact that most of the best-known properties are
freehold, and in the hands of people who won’t allow
them to be prospected or worked unless they are made
millionaires right away. Copper, when the Mining on
Private Property Act was framed, was not made one of the
metals which might be mined for.
» * * *
Excuse given for the non-publication of returns
from the Lake George Mines, N.S.W.— that none have yet
been made by the new furnaces, which leaked so badly
that the jackets had to be thrown out and new ones
ordered. They are about to be put in blast, and returns
are to be published regularly. To the richer develop-
ments in copper in the deeper levels of this property the
wonderful rise in the value of shares during the last few
months is attributable.
* * * •
Scrip dealers are advised that “North Nyma-
gees are as right as rain.” Very consoling to those who
bought at double the present market price.
* * * *
Conqueror mine, Cobar, N.S.W., 204 tons
treated at Illawarra for 24,54!)0z. silver and 1960 z. gold.
It also belongs to Barrass and Conley, and adjoins the
Peak Freehold on the south. Strange that all the other
claims around can find neither gold nor silver.
* * * *
Relations between the Lucknow strikers and
Vic. Miners’ Association are strained. At latest, the sec.
of the Lucknow men had wired to the sec. of the Bendigo
association :—“ Keep scabs back ; only Victorian black-
legs here.” The cause of the Miners’Association's com-
parative indifference is that the Lucknow men hadn’t a
union of their own till they got in the soup ; and, so far
as Bendigo is concerned, the Mines Act —making a living
wage a first charge on the gold won—has rendered the
local tributors’ occupation more precarious than ever.
* * * *
Bendigo and Ballarat are being canvassed for
miners for Lucknow —7s. a day for miners and 6s. 6d. for
laborers, with 12 months guarantee. Local recognised
rates are 7s. 6d. for ordinary places, and Bs. 4d. for wet
and hot workings. But work is irregular, and men are
forced to tributing, at which less than 30s. is averaged ;
it is the 12 months’ guarantee that attracts. And the
Bendigo A.M.A. officers confess that men may go to
Lucknow and remain members of the A.M.A. provided
they continue to pay their dues. This, which reaches
Tub Bulletin on apparently good authority, is indeed a
startler.
• * * *
New Bushman’s, N.S.W.: 400 tons for 1750 z
and yet they refused a big cash offer, and have never had
a div. since. They don’t deserve one.
• » * *
The prospectus of the Lake George South
Mines, capital £lOO,OOO, appears in this issue. This show
is situate at Captain’s Flat, N.S.W., to the south of the
Lake George Mine's, and it is reckoned that the latter’s
lode goes right through the property. If it does, and if
the lode preserves its quality, there should be money in
the new spec., barring bad management,, special ill-luck,
swindle, the Act of God, and the other risks that all
mining flesh is heir to. A notable fact is that Reginald
Murray, late Victorian Government Geologist, is on the
directorate.
« * * •
Hillgrove: “The Garibaldi mine has been re-
ported for non-fulfilment of labor conditions, but the co.
holds the tributors responsible.” Let Bull once lose a
N.S.W. mine by forfeiture, and it, is all up with the other
floats till the law is changed. Insecurity of tenure is the
curse of mining throughout Australasia. It is not on
account of the number of mines lost by jumping, but all
on account of the glaring anomaly that under the Aus-
tralian law the informer, if successful, is the man who
walks away with the property. All very well in the old
digging days, when everyone worked his own claim and
personal possession was everything, but all that has
changed, and it is time the law changed too. It is almost
obsolete anyway, as there is not a Mines Minister in Aus-
tralasia who dare forfeit a Bull-owned mine.
♦ * * *
Another shareholder of the ill-fated Ernest
Giles Prospecting Co. writes that “the total amount col-
lected from the public was between t'lo,ooo and £12,000,
and that about £2OOO was spent in fitting out the expedi-
tion under Giles before he severed his connection. Other
leaders went out, did no good, and for a long time the
thing lived on Sabbath tips. Brokers in Sydney, when
asked about the co., replied: ‘Dismiss it from y«ur
mind. We hear they have no money in hand.’ What
has become of all the money, and why has the tipster
ceased from tipping?’’ The Bulletin dunno.
• * * *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* * * *
“The developments in the Golden Bar (Cool-
gardie) continue satisfactory.” Alas I how often have we
read this during the last two years ?
Another boom predicted for W.A., this time by
one Heineman : —“ I cannot help thinking that when the
increasing returns are made known we shall have a bigger
boom than ever seen in Australia. I found in travelling
through France and Germany hardly a waiter or house-
maid who did not hold some' South African scrip, and
there is no reason why they should not have tens and
twenty-fives in W.A. scrip as well.” None whatever—
every boomster will agree to that.
* * » •
Tindall’s, Coolgardie, has had another crushing
—lOO tons going 16Jdwt. per ton. Not so bad if they
could shift the mine as they do Melb. suburban houses.
* * * •
Goodrich, one of the General Gordon pro-
moters, has been greatly shocked in London by the G.G.
crushing. This is sorrowful. Boomsters seldom recover
from shock.
* * * *
J. C. Auldjo has fallen foul of the Coolgardie
press for publishing the horrible truth about several W.A.
alleged gold districts, enumerating a number of mines
sold to Bull at enormous sums of cash, now closed down
after tens of thousands have been spent in vainly attempt-
ing to win gold in a howling wilderness. Two or three of
these places have reverted to the howling-wilderness con-
dition, from which they should never have been disturbed.
Auldjo admits it is not pleasant to wash dirty linen
in public, or to parade ugly ducklings, but, as the
instances before given had been regarded as strikingly
exceptional, he proceeds to enumerate a number of others
—giving the names of mines closed down, and of others
that, in the interests of decency, ought to close.
* * • *
O’Connor, Engineer-in-Chief for W.A., has
returned with a good report from three English engineers
re his gigantic water-scheme for Coolgardie and other
fields. They say it is practicable, can be carried out for
the estimate (2k millions), that a single line of pipes is not
too risky if made of steel, that corrosion can be prevented
by dipping in Trinidad asphaltum, that the pipes may be
covered or left exposed, and generally that there is
nothing to prevent the scheme being worked successfully.
Thestrataare against strikingan artesian supply—one bore
(down 3000 ft.) has hit none, and, though an enormous
amount of water is found at Hannan’s and other places
from 200 ft. to 300 ft., the indication at the lower level is
that, below it, there will be little water. That has been
proved correct in several cases. If this is the general
state of things, the water near the surface will soon
become exhausted, and the water-trouble will begin in
dead earnest.
* * * *
The writer is quite lost in the labyrinth of lodes
found in the Great Boulder mine, as reported to the
Eastern dailies. He has lost all count. There must be at
least 100 lodes, all very rich in gold and tellurides. The
Press is an ass in most things outside of society items and
politics, but in mining it reaches the zenith of asininity.
Bv-and-bv it dawns on the Kalgoorlie wire-hummer, and
then on the public, that, in nine cases out of ten, it is the
same lode which happens to have been intersected at
different places.
* * * *
A gorgeous boom tale from Tamboorah (W.A.)
is about the finding of a new reef, sft. wide, which goes
70oz. to the dish. It is added that the around already
opened up will yield IOOOoz. That is, it will yield 15
dishes. The reef is so far opened up that it is known to
be sft. wide, and vet there are only 15 dishes of stuff in
sight. Either the dish is large enough to hold a full-
grown rhinoceros or this is almost the worst-constructed
lie on record.
* « * ♦
Coolgardie: “The North Burgess mine, owned
by an English co. which failed to make it pay, recently
leased the mine to a party of three working miners who
immediately took out a crushing of ion tons; result,
7030 z. The Glenloth mine, also owned in London, and
let on tribute, is returning £lO a week to each man.”
Cold iron for Bull to chew.
• * * *
Bayley’s—a mine somewhere in Westralia—
708oz. from one ton of rich pyrites, sent ’Ome for treat-
ment. When the next ton will go, Heaven only knows.
• » • •"
Tvanhoe, W.A. : 1300 tons, 23500 z. “ This more
than completes the first ton of gold turned out by the
mine—which looks remarkably well. The upper ievels
continue to open splendidly, while at the 300 ft. level the
lode is sft. wide and gives an average of 4iSoz. per ton. It
has been averaging this for long past.” Why, then, didn’t
the crushings for a long time past average 410 z., instead
of a little over two ? However, the mine’s good enough.
It’s the wire-liar that’s bad.
• * * •
Westralian gold output for Sept.: 53,200 tons,
78,281 oz.—magnificent. East Coolgardie (or Hannan’s),
as usual, comes out far on t0p—33,8460z. from 14,917 tons.
Peak Hill takes the bun for tons crushed—ll 9 tons, 9150 z.
If the outside places will keep up their averages the out-
put is sure to be increased during the next few months
bv some of the proved and developed mines at Hannan’s,
whose output should reach 50,0000 z. a month before the
end of the year.
’* * • •
A. Rutter Clarke (Clarke and Co.), who has
been over to the West, will not allow that Coolgardie will
fade clean away. By-and-bye, he says, there will be a
lot of payable mines around there—mines which the
owners can’t afford to work at present.
* * * *
Cheerful advt. re Klondyke, and how to get
there, from Chicago Rkcord “ The commodious and
fast-sailing s.s. Portland leaves Seattle, Sept. 10, for Fort
Get There, St. Michael’s Island, Alaska, Mouth of the
Yukon River, making connections with the river steamers.
Passengers will be landed at Circle City, Fort Cudahy,
and Klondyke goldmines, on or before 15th June, 1898.
Fare, including board, one thousand dollars. Employ-
ment will be given, at remunerative wages, during the
winter, along the river, chopping and banking steamboat-
wood. For particulars, apply North American Trans-
portation Co.” Here is a guarantee to get there in nine
months, and a chance to get some of your lOOOdols back
by chopping wood.
* * * *
A once robust miner who recently returned,
life-crippled, from Klondvke, says the stuff is there all
right, but the winter climate means death—or clear-out!
In three years he saw 2900 burials. A golden charnel-
house 1
• * * *
Announced that Fearby, M.E., has been to
Klondyke, and is returning to W.A. “It is understood
that the properties he was specially sent to report upon
were pronounced utterly valueless.” You don’t say!
Fearby, Esq., is no doubt coming back to get out all the
gold alluded to in his W.A. reports.
* » » *
The Pinafore deep level find proves to be a good
deal of a fizzle, and the expected boom at Lefroy is in-
definitely postponed. T9e shoot of gold did not hold
out, and the stone is not too plentiful, but there is en-
couragement for further prospecting. That is the best
that can be said of the tremendous discovery. However,
the mine was pioneered and is run by plucky men who can
be relied upon to get the best out of it.
* * * *
A warning from the West Coast of Tasmania
“Sections are being pegged in all directions, and it
behoves buyers to use discretion.” The same old busi-
ness ; every boomer wants to put in pegs—it is cheaper
than buying the other fellow’s mine, and it is easier to lie
about your own mine than to work it. Working mines is
one thing, working the public another.


CL-
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
•:X'S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s-
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
W e l' a y carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DJLITIB JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK .STREETS,
Oppo ;ifce \
G.P.O. )
SYDNEY.
“ COUTO ” KOTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO - 6cl. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands , and beware of imitations,
W ATSO.VS WH ESK V.
SOCIETY
[?]lestin
COGMAG
“BOW HORSES ARE GOING IN
QUEENSLAND.
1ST INDIVIDUAL: “So you got that nag for
five bob, eh? ”
2ND INDIVIDUAL : "Well—er—yes. That is, I
paid four bob for him and a shilling
for the shoes! ”
Gov. Brassey’s absence from Victoria (on
a yachting cruise !) at the time when a general
election is in progress and Parliament has been
dissolved, has again raised the query, “Why
have a Governor at all ? ” On this occasion Chief
Justice Madden has had to perform the formal
duties in connection with the dissolution, while
the old man on the Sunbeam is fooling around the
coast in his beloved tub. If a Governor isn’t
wanted when there is no Parliament in existence,
and the very fate of the Government —his “ ad-
visers ” —is at stake, when is he wanted ? And
what is he paid for, anyhow ?
* * * *
The fancy-dress ball to be given by the
Brassey’s in Cup-week is “ all the talk ” in Melb.
social circles. The Governor, it is stated, will
appear as the Old Man of the Sea.
* * * *
In order to keep His Ex. in good health
while Premier Forrest was in the East, the Wes-
tralian Govt, sent Gov. Smith on a tour through
the agricultural districts. All the Westralian
survivors of prehistoric man turned out to wel-
come him, and built jarrah arches and hung
festoons of turnips across the local sidings to im-
press him with the resources of the Sand Patch.
H.E. was bored to death, but he is much chastened
in spirit since he first struck these shores. He
returned to Perth with a large earthy smell, a
rich complexion of mahogany-red, and some rare
specimens of vegetable products for the vice-regal
table. Forty-seven country Mayors and Js.P. are
now expecting K.C.M.G. by the next post.
* •* * »
By synodical resolution the N.S.W. Angli-
can parsonry have determined to entitle them-
selves “rectors.” This action on their part
appears to savor somewhat of arrogance, yet it is
one that will carry another interpretation. For
does not “rector” mean “ruler” and does not
“ ruler ” mean a stick—a term that quite realisti-
cally defines the average Church of England
minister ?
* * * *
The woes of the way-back parson. An
out-West Anglican, a popular man, found it
necessary to move on; and the best the parishioners
could do for him was to present him with an
address and issue a notice (this was in early Sep-
tember) that “ a grand bazaar towards payment
of the outstanding stipend of will be held at
show-time, May, 1898.” A newly-imported man
takes this one’s place. Why do we import our
parsons ? Often because the local man knows too
much to take the vacant billet.
F. : “A prospector returned
from his Papuan adventures, with
shaven head and fever-shaken limbs,
tells me tales that I believe as I listen,
but which would look Munchausens
in print. He travelled 1000 miles up
and down mountain-sides, and got 80
miles inland—as the crow flies. He
stood beside a river which, the natives
assured him, contained much gold;
said river ran at the rate of many
miles an hour, and rolling in the stream
were boulders as big as a bedroom.
The inland natives regard salt very
covetously, will give much trade for
it, and then eqt it ravenously, as if it
were sugar. Tobacco-smoking is one
of their national habits, i.e., not copied
from whites. The tobacco plant that
is native to the country is small and
weedy in appearance, but excellent in
flavor when well cured. The native
tobacco-pipe is more like a drain-pipe
than like a “ cherry wood.” It is a
bamboo 3in. in diameter and a yard
or more long, and, of course, quite
hollow. One end is closed, the other
open. A small hole is bored towards
the closed end ; in it is placed a spool
of tobacco leaves. The native applies
his mouth, or rather his face, to the
large end, and “ draws ” till the drain-
pipe is filled with smoke. The tobac-
co-spool is then withdrawn from the
small hole, and the company is in-
vited to share the contents of the
drain-pipe, each one ‘ drawing ’ out a
mouthful from the small hole. My
traveller nearly turned a camp of na-
tives from friends into enemies by
striking a vesta match. They thought
it was a bad case of lightning. The
jungles are so thick that the pros-
pectors walked in them for days with-
out seeing the sun. The tropical rain
wetted everything, and they had to
live on mouldy rice and flour. The
natives have a system of long-distance
messages, which are shouted from mountain-tops, a
man with a suitable voice being set apart for in-
telligencer, and he gives all the gossip of the day.
His shouted message is heard and understood
miles away.”
* * * *
The B.H. Prop. Co., after thinking over
the matter for a fortnight, decided to award to the
men who behaved so heroically on the day of the
outbreak of the fire £1 each. There were 130 of
them, exclusive of officers. Some of the men,
besides being stupefied and brought senseless to
the temporary hospital at the surface, damaged
their clothes —it was Sunday—hopelessly. Their
one consolation now is that they were not charged
for the oxygen that was pumped into them, or the
brandy that was poured down their throats.
Somebody writes to the local paper suggesting
that, as so many men have been thrown out of
work, but as fortunately, through the benefactions
of the company, most of them are now capitalists,
the present would be an opportune time to estab-
lish the long - talked -of irrigation colony at
Menindie—Broken Hill’s nearest point to the
river Darling.
* • * *
lie the decay of Silverton, N.S.W. Of
the eight “ principal ” N.S.W. towns mentioned
in Hughes’ “ Elementary Class-book of Modern
Geography ” (’96 edition), used in many local (es-
pecially R.C.) schools, Silverton is one, despite its
present absurdly reduced circumstances. Also
Parramatta is mentioned, but Gonlburn is over-
looked. Most British geographers seem to imagine
that Parramatta is the capital city of Australia.
Eidsvold (Q.) Reporter has
ceased publication, and the Burnett
electorate is now in the unique posi-
tion of having no newspaper printed
within its borders. The M.L.A. for
that district may feel inclined to con-
gratulate himself. Yet this extensive
electorate contains some of the finest
wheat-growing lands in Q., and is
marred simply for the want of railway
facilities. The once-prosperous gold-
fields of Eidsvold and Paradise are now
practically dead, and agriculture is im-
possible until some means be found to
convey produce to market. Gayndah
municipality (within the electorate) is
so decayed that a Chinaman even can-
not now be found willing to be elected
as an alderman, and the rates collec-
ted are insufficient to pay the town-
clerk’s salary. They have had, though,
a Chinese Mayor in that same Gayndah,
in the good old past.
There are still in prison seven men who
were sentenced for offences committed in the
v\ estern District of N.S.W. during the shearers’
strike of 1894 ; and two or three rather lackadaisi-
cal attempts have been made to secure a mitma-
,e sent; ences. Another is now proceeding ;
the Bourke Municipal Council has decided to sup-
port it. The ground relied on is that the ends of
justice have been served already, and that “a
more kindly feeling is likely to be aroused by tiieir
liberation. Certainly the last three seasons have
been depressmgly quiet.
* * * *
Not long ago, a Chinaman, unable to speak
a word of English, arrived in Bunbury, W.A.
from Perth with a ticket fastened to his coat
He was addressed-as live stock—carriage paid
to a prominent Westralian.
.* * * *
Here is something absolutely new. We
all know that ca,cchinating Minister Peacock has
ukased that sewing be taught in Vic. State schools.
WAITING FOR
IM.
Hallelujah Lass (to
title gutter girl who
has displayed “ a
voice”): “Why
don’t you come and
sing for God?”
LITTLE GUTTER GIRL: “ It’s manners, mum, to wait till ’E
asks me!”
Instead of the usual written exercises, one school-
marm, at least, has given fora “ horne-lesson ” an
order for each of the boys to make a penwiper.
Next week it will probably be a handkerchief to
hem, and when the half-yearly examinations
come on this will be the sort of paper (?)
1. Darn the accompanying sock.
2. Place three tucks on the garments marked A B and C.
3. Let out the waist of the petticoat with the black
stripes.
4. Patch the knees and seats of the knickers herewith.
* * » *
Periodically the Yic. State scholars pester
friends and strangers for contributions to the
Children’s Hospital. Collecting-cards are issued
by the teacher, who is credited with the sums
collected. If Minister Peacock were not so in-
sufferably “ loyal ” he might be persuaded to
abolish this system, which gives little real benefit,
and, while putting temptation in the way of the
youngsters, trains them to become hardened
cadgers.
* » * *
Thirty tons of empty bottles (35,000) were
put aboard steamer at Mildura Temperance Set-
tlement the other week.
* * * *
“ Lizard ” to The Bulletin :
I have awaited with interest the financial results of the
recent Sydney Agricultural Ground Gymkhana, at
which the local Very Nicest were so much in evidence.
The results are now to hand. Although a big crowd at-
tended, I am not surprised that the figures are not lamer.
I was one of a trarnfull who alighted at the ground, and
found that only two gates —admitting in single file were
open, making entry a slow process. Seeing a prominent
ground-official standing by, I suggested that udilitn nal
gates should be opened on the arrival of the trains, lie
Wotf ,
pi *<=■ >
t ,V
tfjSpW'fcii . ado r fd
fovjndl a§i vJ&oa,l'
knew a trick worth two of that, and said, “Just you
watch me shift some of’em!” He then opened a third
gate, calling out “Complimentary tickets this way-
The course of the stream was instantly diverted, and
only about a score of us were left to pay our little shil-
lings. Noble charity !
How mean the Nicest are !
* * * *
“ Gemini ” to The Bulletin :
A death occurred under chloroform, at Melb. Hospital
the other day. The doctor who made the post-mortem
stated that in his opinion the cause of death was suffoca-
tion, arising, he believed, either from a swelling near the
epiglottis, or from deceased’s tongue falling back whilst
he was under the influence of the anaesthetic. verdie„.
Deceased died from suffocation whilst under the influence
of chloroform and ether, properly administered. Now, in
the face of this evidence, was the anaesthetic properly
administered ? It should have been one of the first cares
of the medico who gave chloroform to see that the
patient’s breathing was impeded in no avoidable way,
yet the evidence goes to prove that the patients tongue
was, probably',- allowed to fall back, unknown to the
doctor, and suffocate him. And this despite the fact that
such accidents are common under a general anaesthetic
IF ENGLAND FOOTS THE BILL.
“It is seriously proposed to dispatch 100
mounted men to India to help in the frontier
trouble. The men propose to accept the same
rate of pay as their comrades in the British army.
. . . It is expected that the Imperial Govern-
ment will defray the cost of the passages to and
fro. ”
The Cape is proff’ring battle ships,
Our Lady of the Snows
Is giving England tariff-tips,
What shall we do ? —here goes,
Hang all expense—our offering
Is greater, grander still—
A hundred horsemen swift we bring
To join in Afghan slaughtering
(If England foots the bill).
Pause not to calculate the cost,
The Mother Country calls—
So let the angry seas be orost
Ere England’s empire falls.
Twice fifty men we freely lend
To help to burn and kill,
Our generous instincts have no end—
We’ll all our unemployed send—
(If England foots the bill).
Poor Canada dissolves in tears,
The Cape with envy pales
As loudly ring the British cheers
For loyal New South Wales.
Five score of soldiers, lank and tall,
We send to end the mill.
Why, hang it! they can have us all
(To draw our pay) and boast and brawl
(If England foots the bill).


CaledonianLiqueurWliisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33j- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and. Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane O'land.
■DOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed Eyes, Dimness of
Sight, Granulations, &o Recommended by the Lead-
ing Sydney Oculists. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney. Open all
Night—also Sundays and Holidays.
SoftCai)v/aS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through*
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/0.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. I*IKK JiliO til i.KS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
unless. precautions are taken to secure the tongue.
Where was the doctor’s acumen that he could not distin-
guished between suffocation and general anaesthesia ?
* • • A a
The Cairns (N.Q.) Yoshiwarra aroma is
getting thicker. The local council has actually
decided to draw the attention of the Col. Sec. to
the little brown woman, and to ask him to ask the
police to shunt the whole 37 of her—out of Cairns ?
No; out of “the main thoroughfares.” Public
talk and prints parade certain of the Cairns Cor-
poration as “ patrons ”of the 37. Here is part of
a Mayoral dissertation :
One might suppose that this petition, with its refer
encesto “ a crying evil ” and “the morality of the dis-
trict,” emanated from a Presbyterian Conference. But I
have seen photographs in which some of those whose
names are attached to that petition are represented
alongside naked prostitutes. ... I have been openly
accused of deriving a large income from these houses of
ill-fame. . .‘ . The properties I own in that quarter
are let on extended leases, and if the lessees let the pre-
mises to undesirable tenants, I don't see how I can inter-
fere.' It would make no difference to me were every
Japanese woman in the town driven away to-morrow.
Good Draper, good old boss ! Good Mayor l
Why should you for such scandals care ?
W hat matter tongue ? What matter paper ?
Or, how you drape her ? Or undrape her?
* * • *
Melb.: “‘Edward Trickett ’ has been
figuring on the religffius‘/playbills beside, the
‘Misters’ and ‘Esquires.’’’c'Now this villainous
distinction is abolished in Australian sporting
tanks, but religion must ever Vie a snob in the
hands of its shearers. Black Mr. Johnson found
that when he gave a pound to the Cause, he was
Samuel Johnson, Esquiah, half a-sov. fetched him
down to Mister Johnson, five shillings to Brother
Johnson, and one shilling to dat ole niggah John-
son. In England they never dared to separate
Australian cricketers with the label of Mister for
the Gentlemen, and plain J. Smith for the Player,
like Trickett on the Christian Endeavor platform.”
» * » *
It has come at last. rDne of the ‘ ‘ Great ”
Australian dailies has added a “Divorce Column,”
14 for 6d.—like the almighty banana. Illustrative
advt. :
BLISS—BLISS.—Sept. —, 1897 ; at the Supreme
Court, , bv his Honor Judge , Joyous,
eldest son of John Bliss, from Mary Ann, eighteenth
daughter of James M'Misery, of Cowbludgeree
Station. Mary Ann to take the children. (Adultery).
* * * m
The retiring president of the Christian
Endeavorers remarks, by way of encouraging
statistics, that there are 501 Christian Endeavor
Societies in Victoria, and that, as the result of a
rallying appeal to them on behalf of missions to
the heathen, they had—amongst the lot of them—
subscribed £llOO. That is to say, a little over £2
per society, or supposing, at a small estimate, that
each society numbers 40 members, 6d. per head of
Christian Endeavorer.. It seems very little to
lavish over the salvation of even the soul of a
heathen, but probably it is quite enough. The
name of the retiring president is Rev. D. Daley.
What is he doing that gallery ? But, then, they
run in all shapes.
* * » *
Lady’s opinion, overheard on Melb. tram :
“He’s of the class of snob who smokes very cheap
cigars, without removing the gilt band. Always found
such men impostors, my dear.”
• * * *
A popular church (or,
rather, “chapel”) institution
in Cornish mining settle-
ments in Australia—Long
Gully (Bendigo), Moonta
(S.A.), and South Broken
Hill, for instance is the
“ pasty supper,” which takes
the place of the elsewhere
conventional “ bun-wrastle.”
The Cornish pasty is fear-
fully and wonderfully made
of a hard crust encasing
chopped meat and “taters,”
with, in good times, a slice
or two of onions and fat
bacon. There was grumb-
ling the other night at a
Long Gully “ supper ” over
the awful predominance of
the taters, whereupon a wide-
awake politician jumped at
the opening with a telling
reference to dear meat, and
then, atone swoop, converted
the whole audience to an
utter detestation of the stock-
tax.
* * *
In Westralia last year
there were 15 more male
deaths than births. Which
is partly an eloquent testi-
mony to the germy condi-
tion of the Golden West,
and partly a proof that the
W.A. male has to scratch so
vigorously for a living now
that he hasn’t time to be
born.
Sydney D.T. advt. :
r IVE Snake, nine feet long, for Sale, or Exchange
-*- J for Pair Canaries. C. Lewis, Ourimbah.
Alas ! how many men there are who would like to
barter their snakes for canaries !
Somebody has been “having” Brisbane
(Q.) Courier “on toast.” A Saturdays issue
reported how an unusually interesting ceremony
was to take place in an Anglican church, with the
very-much -boomed Canon Stone-Wig 1 # (J3isnop
virginal, of Papua) as head showman, and a lot of
communicants as the. “dress-circle. It was to
be the re-admission into the church by special
arrangement of prayers, liturgies and whatnots,
invented by Stone-Wigg for the occasion, of an old
lady who had gone over to Home, and was now
repentant. The Courier didn’t seem to think it
odd that a big church should make Such a mortal
fuss over one troublesome old woman who didn’t
know her own wayward mind. Even when the
paragraphist went on to tell how Bishop Stone-
Wigg had sent the lady to the Roman authorities
to let them know her intention to desert back
again to the faith of her girl's pinafores, the
Courier swallowed it as quite a usual thing. Nor
did it strike the newspaper that people join the
Church of England, depart from it, and rejoin it
every week without any special prayers and
flummery having to be invented, and without
R.C. priests or anyone else being officially con-
sulted. Then the paragraph told (in other lan-
guage, of course) how the lady had gone to Father
Fouhy and told him he was a whited sepulchre
and connected with the Scarlet Woman and that
“THE BULLETIN'S" AMATEUR ART-GALLERY.
On a bush racecourse. The impromptu lock-up. Drunks handcuffed over chain.
she was once more free from idolatry, wax-candles
and all that sort of thing, and the Courier set it
all down as a passing event worthy of chronicle.
Not even when the par. wound up with the state-
ment that the special services did not come off
because the re-enfolded lady was in a hurry to go
and see a sick friend at Gympie (!), did the editor
realise that someone was “ pulling his leg,” but
solemnly put the whole narrative into his columns
—not as a contribution, but as a record of events
noticed by the staff.
* * * *
British Medical Journal, describing the
temperance movement as “a distinguishing feature
of the Victorian era,” remarks that it ought not to
be forgotten that, while drunkenness has decreased
among males, it has largely increased among
women.
C.M.Gr. : “ Was shown to-day by a Melb.
fruiterer a fine navel orange with, the perfect im-
print of a shamrock in a green tint in the skin.
Look d like a natural freak, but may have been
the work of an artful orchardist. ‘ Why don t you
show it in your window?’ I asked. What ,
gasped the shopman, ‘and invalidate my in-
surance ? ”
In a group picture of prominent Christian
Endeavourers in a Melbourne weekly, the face of
ex-champion oarsman Trickett is the only one that
shows any trace of spirituality. The others
mostly suggest only gross feeding, as if the first
Christian endeavour was to get away with masses
of meat.
* ♦ * *
Marriages are made in Heaven and paid
for on earth. A member of the C. of B. Assembly
in Melb. last week tried to secure the reduction
of church marriage fees from three guineas to half-
a-sovereign. The mover declared that existing
fees were so high that church members could not
afford to pay, and were forced to go elsewhere to
be married. The motion was lost, it being held
that the Church could not afford to extend its
blessings at less than three guineas a go. So
marriages made in Heaven will continue to pay
big profits to the importers.
T.D. : “A S.M. Herald article re the
gathering-in of stray dogs for destruction, does
not tell the whole truth. Civilians are authorised
by the police to hunt by night for curs at (I think)
half-a-crown apiece. They adopt a familiar
method—responsible for the fact that nearly all
the animals brought in are of the male kind. A
friend of mine recently pummelled a collector
whom he found trying to induce a valuable canine
to quit his kennel. These men lead their cap-
tures to the slaughter in batches of half-a-dozen—
and to-day I find five lost-dogs advertised for in
Sydney D.T.”
* * * *
Dan’l Cooper’s occupancy of N.S.W.
Agency-General suffused with the ruddy glow of
confidence the countenances of the Cornstalk
braves who pointed guns India-wards and de-
manded to be let off the chain. “He’ll pay half
our expenses out of his own pocket,’’ they
whispered. In the old Crimean days Cooper gave
.£lOOO, with the promise of £5OO per annum while
the war lasted, and no doubt he would bleed in
this case also all the more readily because of the
official position he temporarily fills.
* * * •
The Chinaman does not object to hanging
as an evil per se. It’s only the public exhibition
he demurs to. In proof whereof may be cited the
case of See Chong, lately condemned to death at
Bundaberg, who tore his shirt in strips and
hanged himself in his prison-cell. Several such
cases have occurred in the North.
» » * *
Rumor credits the Australian Star
people with the intention of issuing a Sunday
paper shortly. There are also rumors concerning
an evening paper from the office of one of the
existing Sydney Sunday papers.
• * * *
The wife of a high politician created
quite a scene on a recent train journey. The lady
became hysterical, and, rushing out of the carriage
at a stopping - station, made loud accusations
against people in general and her husband in par-
ticular. It is to be feared that the wives of some
eminent persons in this country give them a lot
more trouble than the affairs of State.
* • * *
How the trouble spreads. A mob of cattle
reaches a station on the Belyando, not a hundred
miles from Clermont. The mob is, of course, per-
fectly clean, and is so reported to the authorities.
As night falls, however, the cook has a row with
the drover, and, in the morning, a raging son of
spuds and suet rushes in to the nearest police-
station with a fist-full of cattle-ticks, and avers
that even the horses of aforesaid drover are
swarming with the pest. And so they were. But
for that little row those ticks would soon have
been down on the Darling.
• * « *
From time to time writers have marvelled
at the fact that corruption permeates almost every
Melb. institution, and the theory has been ad-
vanced that the air of the Southern city is fatal to
honesty—that the microbe of integrity cannot live
in the vicinity of the Yarra. This theory was
peculiarly supported at Melb. City-court the
other day, where a man was charged with larceny.
Seventeen years ago, say the police, accused ar-
arived in Melb. from a foreign land, and, though
previously his character had been beyond reproach,
he had not been there a month before he was sen-
tenced to five years for assault and robbery. Com-
pleting his sentence, he left Melbourne for Queens-
land, and, for the past 12 years, has led an exem-
plary life in the North. In an evil moment, how-
ever, he was tempted to revisit the scene of his
undoing, and, after three days’ inhalation of
Melb. air, he once more fell into crime. When
his present sentence of a month has expired, he
ntends, he says, to take the first train away from
he Queen City of the South and see it never again.
A WAR WHOOP.
I’m a gallant Sydney Lanceah, hot and eagah for the
fray,
I want to help Old Hingland in the East;
And, when the Queen is mentioned, my vociferous
Hooray
Sounds worthy of a Fat Man at a feast.
Hot and eager for the fray,
I am fairly on the slay—
“Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay ”
My song;
Hark ! the band begins to play,
And my soul is on its way
To the army at Bombay—
Bing-bong!
Like a beast in search of prey—
Bing-bong !
A curse for “ dam civilians ” if we only get afloat,
Their cackle cannot alter our intent;
Though the War Bill be defeated by an Opposition vote—
Well, at least we shall have slain the Government.
If we only get afloat,
We will swaggah round the boat,
Bound for latitudes remote—
So long!
Ere I cut a Mollah’s throat,
Sprinkle blood upon my coat
From a sacrificial Goat—
Bing-bong!
From a Soudan sort of Goat —
Bing-bong !
Wheeling o’er the whirling earth,
Whirling in the wheeling maze,
Pedalled by thejeet of mirth,
Paced by laughing hours and days.
Where will all the wheeling end
’Mid the whirling fancies’ snare ?
In fields and pastures new for him ;
Perchance—in sweet divorce for her.
Sept., ’97.
H. C. SHAW.
THE LAY OF THE LANCERS.
We thirst for blood,
We’d like a flood
Of gore.
Rude War’s alarms
For us have charms
Galore.
But, sad to say,
The foe we’d slay
Is far :
He has his lair
Long leagues from where
We are.
Six months we crave
The lance and glaive
To grip :
Two months of war,
And three or four
Of trip.
The savage foe
We’d like to go
And meet.
Although we hear
That he’s in clear
Retreat.
Each lance’s tip
We’d like to dip
In red.
We mean it, though
It’s true our foe
Has fled.
If they the spot
Have left, we’re not
To blame.
And so, you bet,
We’re bound to get
Some fame.
SPRING-SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing’ out and be happy !
The spring is at hand,
The grass green, and sappy
The trees o’ the land.
Sing, for the breeze is
Rustling and silky,
And toys with and teases
Long blossoms and milky.
The root in the juices
Unfrosted drinks deep,
The loving wave sluices
The weeds as they sleep.
Sing out, for the bees in
Their quest of wild honey
Are haunting the trees in
Green places and sunny.
Distant blue reaches
And green hills invite,
Green hills and long beaches
And roads red and white.
Locked waters are calling
With many gold voices,
Where tides gently falling
Make soft liquid noises.
Broad-spreading sun-glamour
Wraps blossom and stream,
Gold-tinting the armour
Of beetles that dream.
On wet rocks and ledges
Are massed starry mosses,
And painting proud ridges
Grow tiny pink roses.
Sing out, and let trouble
Another pursue,
It will burst like a bubble
And vanish for you.
Out, out on old Sorrow,
Who skulks in her sable !
Laugh gaily, and borrow
Gay laughs while you’re able.
If any care rankles —
Away I—and1 —and behold
Pink feet and white ankles
Or beaches of gold !
And surf that runs after,
To kiss clinging dresses,
And white teeth and laughter,
And naughty brown tresses!
RODERIC QUINN.


Callaghan Boots
wear. . .
We may be persistent in talking about
the long wear of our Boots, but then
the truth is in it, that’s why we keep so
persistently speaking about it.
Many gentlemen know that Callaghan Boots
give long wear, but we want you to know
too.
Gentlemen’s Lace Boots—
-17/6, 21/-, 23,6, 25/-, 28/6
Callaghan & Son,
395 George Street, Sydney.
e
® Od
® ©1
© ®
) ®
•Ujpl^K
QOOJ
fbitaiiiAM
)
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 5, 1897.
My I>kar Myke—
The naval hop at Garden Island, on Friday
evening, transferred the matter-of-fact depht into
a gorgeous ballroom. Dancing took place up-
stairs in the enormous sail-loft, into which guests
breathlessly arrived up a long Jacob’s-ladder,
made shipshape with tarpaulin and bunting, and
the angels were ascending and descending it all
the time, as many sitting-out nooks were arranged
near the water's edge. The interior fixings were
very bright, and included multifarious drapings of
the flag that braved ; also some highly-polished tor-
pedoes and cutlasses, and other harmless toys.
Bluejackets stood picturesquely about, holding
cardtrays and rope barriers, and everything
smacked of the briny. Fewer brass buttons
were among the throng than might have been
expected, as some of the ships are away. It’s
drawing near Melb. Cup-time, and they are due
at Port Phillip. It was a crush, and there were
bunches of girls left blooming alone round the
walls. Blondes were in the ascendant for gown-
ing and looks. The wife of one of the hosts was
plump and pleasing, bechiffoned in blue. A
matron, who usually scores in her original ideas,
looked one of the best, in a golden robe with vivid
sleeves. An elderly dame, with a silver bang, had
badly-matched back-hair. Head-ornaments were
varied ; stiff tortoiseshell daggers pierced several
knobs ; some had a simple flower skewered in and
tickling the wearer’s neck ; the fashion introduced
at the recent powder-and-patch ball, of having
little black feathers bobbing overhead, is spread*
ing —two or three were thus decorated, like a
miniature hearse-horse. One girl was topped with
a pallid flower-spray, like a wedding-cake. Tho
music was up-to-date, but the band beat loud and
fast, and was a lap ahead of the dancers from start
to finish.
It’s rather a staggerer to find that Mark Ham-
bourg doesn’t like Australia, and has every inten-
tion of continuing to stay away from this be-
nighted land when once he leaves it. He has
been telling anxious inquirers who seek informa
tion that the criticisms of his playing have disap-
pointed him —they were not discriminating enough.
On his farewell appearance here as a lion he
seemed to turn restive under the adoration-shower,
and evidently found the idol-pose a bore. The
brothers lately, under Sydney Moss’s guidance,
went Blue-mountaineering and did the Jenolan
caves, Jakoff very nervously until his brother
heartened him up with promises of water-picnics,
with games of rounders and other infantile
delights.
Gov. Duff’s neglected grave in Waverley Ceme-
tery has been brought into notice, and some
hideously practical person suggests that each
winner of the A..T.C. Duff Memorial Stakes, run
once a year, shall pay <£s towards keeping the
deceased pro-consul’s grave green. It was the
same sort of incongruity of ideas which suggested
a ball in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospice for the
dying, or for the victims of some sickening disas-
ter. The Taramung wreck brought out a sad-
colored festivity in Melb. some years ago ; the
supper-table was adorned with sugar ships wallow-
ing in seas of whipped-cream. The Dance of
Death !
At the S.A.O. concert last week the novelty of
the evening was a well-played orchestral suite by
the fashionable French composeress, Chaminade,
whose ballet music, until now unknown, proves to
be ahead of her over-rated drawing-room ballads.
She wants more room to turn about in than a song
allows her ; were she a press-woman, she’d be a
better leader-writer than a paragraphist. Many
of the honors were feminine ; the soloist was that
well-known songstress, Miss Josephine Deakin,
and the harpist rippled satisfactorily her impor-
tant color-giving trills in the Hungarian music.
The folk who suffer most at a classical sing-song
are the fathers who chaperon strings of musical
daughters. It would add to the attractiveness of
such a show greatly if concert-givers could plan a
waiting-room for fathers —a place furnished
plainly, with some packs of cards, and a little
whisky-and-soda.
The genius selected to annotate the S.A.O. pro-
grammes penned a feverish verbal obligato on
the principal item. In his wild struggles to ex-
plain the meaning of the music, he remarks : “ In
the allegro con brio a tremendous tragedy is
crowded into a few pages. Fate knocking at the
door evidently does not enter the house without a
fearful combat. The movement ends with a
crash.” These are gems culled from the saner
parts of the description, but he lets himself go
with a rush in the scherzo. “The middle of tho
movement is founded on a rapid passage for the
double basses fortissimo, which shakes the orches-
tra to its foundations, and might be intended to
describe the gambols of an elephant—but the
gamesome beast retires by degrees, and the noise
of his antics is gradually lost. The whole dies
away in a beautiful soft passage for the wind.
After this comes the transformation-scene, and
the composer mounts to Heaven in a chariot of
fire.” It is this sort of gushful idiocy that makes
ordinary common-sense persons ashamed to say
they like classical music.
Amy Sherwin’s admirers, though not numerous
enough to crowd the Town Hall on either Satur-
day or Monday evening, yet welcomed the song-
stress back very warmly, and handed up the usual
posies. as a guarantee of good faith. On Monday
Madame warbled from under a wall-paper frock
with billows of skirt and pretty purple sleeves
and fixings; she duetted with tenor Barton
M’Guckin, who came out without his voice. A.
Deane’s best effort was “ Thou’rt passing hence,”
in the Santley manner. A pianist with a super-
fluity of consonants wandered quietly on to the
platform and glided unobtrusively into Chopin.
His name is several sizes too large for him ; one
syllable would fit him better. All the vocalists of
this co. have the latest London style of singing
with a small piece of paper daintily held in front
of the waist; the old method of flattening down
an open music-sheet with a large, white glove full
of hand, is quite extinct among stylish song-birds.
Eight-Hours’ Day brought out some weird and
wonderful garments that are never aired save on
holidays. I saw a patchy girl in as many colors
as a half-finished rainbow working her way Moore
Parkward on her bike; she had a red hat, a shot-
green blouse, a brown skirt, black hose, drab
gaiters, tan shoes, and the bicycle face. At the
Athletic Sports the stands were fairly filled with
girls, many of them clad in the popular style in
which the native hue of gaudy silk is sickbed o’er
with the pale cast of grass-lawn.
Sydney folk have been divided by the departed
delegates into beggars and bounders. “ Sassiety ”
shunted them, and slumites worried them for
coin, and everybody was ready to rush a free feed.
The keen-eyed inspection of invitation pasteboards
going on ever since the Hawkesbury crush flurries
local pleasurers, but their complaints of discour-
tesy only made old Melb. stagers smile. In the
Victorian capital a rigorous examination of tickets
at a public shivoo has operated for years, and no-
body minds.
A forthcoming wedding is the great topic of
Bathurst just now. Alderman Simmonds and the
matron of the hospital will shortly become one’;
their united ages will tot up to considerably over
a century and ten. Also, in Sydney, a Minister
of the Crown is going to marry again. The bride-
elect, taller than her prospective husband, has not
yet entered her 20th year.
Lily Dam pier’s benefit at the Lyceum on Friday
afternoon was droopsome. Scattered parties of
girls decorated the d.c. and munched chocolates.
Some clapping and some flowers were evoked, but
nobody enthused. Mr. Dampier and his daughter
gave a fine reading of the trial-scene from “The
Merchant.” Lily is a good Shakespearian when
she likes : and has, but not recently, smiled and
strutted her way through Arden most brightly as
Rosalind. Now she has to take to bushranging
and the baekblocks instead, to help to keep the
family-pot boiling.
The “ Arts and Crafts ” exhibition opened with
a members’ day on Saturday. The sensation
picture of the show is undoubtedly F. P.
Mahony’s “Struggling Centaurs,” especially for
hopeless gazers who don’t know what it means.
Its chief defect, to my mind, is the underdone girl
in the corner, who ought to be put back in the
oven fora light browning. Julian Ashton's most
remarkable contribution is a pastel picture of the
sort of nightmare-woman you would probably
dream of after a pork supper and a visit to
the hospital for consumptives. “ Lovely
Woman ” is treated by most exhibitors in her
aged and decrepid stage : Alice Muskett’s
sad-faced mourner has already been hung in
Paris; an elderly working-woman with a past,
and the toothache, sits pondering “ Shall
I have it out ? ” The poster show repre-
sents the newest freak of artistic fashion
—the lengthy lancer at the lamp-post and the
beefy bull and some airy girl-figures look like
popular hoarding-adorners. Hall Thorpe shows
some etchings of local subjects ; the glimpse of
the synagogue from the corner opposite has an
Oriental effect, and in another the Centennial
Park griffin smiles Sphinx-like over hand-bills.
The brass-work is a bright feature, and mostly
done by women with whom hammering and tap-
ping ornamentally on brass trays and cups is a
fashionable occupation. There are some cabinets
of old china. Vice-regal cutlery has clattered on
the Worcester set shown by Mrs. Baynton, which
is older than N.S.W. and of a beautiful S&vres-
like blue,
A local suburban church uses music as a helpful
ecclesiastical side-show. The very Nicest sheep
pasture in that fold, and the authorities, to keep
them in the straight, narrow path, have hired a
silvery tenor and an expensive baritone, who,
dressed up in cassock and surplice, adorn the choir
every Sunday and swell thecollection. Thechurch
“as bylaw established ” is making great efforts
to reach the masses. It can’t do that with its
shovel-hat and gaiters on, and so has determined
to employ lay help, especially women’s work. The
evangelist is a common, uneducated person em-
ployed as buffer between the high and mighty
dignitary and the vulgar masses.
The high priestess of a temple of fashion in the
city tells me that this season has been uncommonly
brisk. Orders have poured in liberally for race
and ( garden-party toggery. The Nicest people
don t buy the most expensive clothes. Sydney
smart women rarely go beyond three-and-a-hal'f
guineas for a hat, and they get their money’s worth
in advts. in the “ Social Columns,” which faith-
fully describe every rag and flower-petal adorning
a leader of sassiety. But at every race-season fair
unknowns purchase elaborate and costly head-
gear, flaunt their bravery abroad for a brief
season, and haven’t even the satisfaction of read-
ing a description in print in hybrid French-
English : “ Mrs. X. looked charming in a sweetly
pretty plisse silk with floral chapeau en suite?’
The six-guinea millinery is worn by flaring persons
whose names Respectable sassiety-column writers
would shudder to pen, or else by well-gilt country
dames who, their town season ended, bury the
costly creations in a baekblocks band-box.
A high-toned couple, who went honeymooning
a short time back, have rather flabbergasted
tradespeople by showing that, like Mrs. Gilpin,
though on pleasure they were bent, they had a
frugal mind. They had stores sent on ahead to
the remote spot which they had selected for their
bridal retirement, and, at the waning of the moon,
they carefully went through the remaining odds
and ends, and wrote to the providers asking them
to check off all the surplus sugar, tea, ham-
knuckles and heel-taps in the oilman’s stores, as
per invoice, and credit their account with the
same.
A popular teacher of singing got married the
other day, The night of his return from a brief
honeymoon-trip, a few of his pupils determined to
give him a “surprise” serenade. Betaking them-
selves to his house, which is a short distance out
of town, they ranged up under his front windows
and opened fire. But, unfortunately, influenza
had deprived them of their only two “bassos,”
and the deficiency soon made itself noticeable.
This was too much for the artistic ear of the
'* serenadee. ” Throwing open the door, he gravely
took his place among the singers, interpolated the
bass at the proper place without moving a
feature, and, the part-song concluded, returned
indoors as abruptly as he came out !
Emulation of the boys in brown who marched
on to glory at ’Ome is now burning in many
breasts. The spread of militarism throughout the
country has developed martial leanings in a pro-
fessional man practising in a coastal town (gossips
a correspondent of mine). The hero, a short man
with a moustache like an angry tooth-brush, drills
his family every night; his poor, meek wife, two
tall daughters, and four small, short-legged sons
are marched round till they are ready to drop
from fatigue—when their commanding officer pre-
scribes and administers two spoonfuls of cod-liver
oil each and orders the regiment off to bed. When
this nightly exercise goes on an admiring crowd
of neighbors jostle each other on the front path
and hang on to the railings to get a glimpse of
the fun.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Probably the most brilliant first-night audience
ever gathered together in this blighted capital
greeted ‘A Royal Divorce’ on Saturday night.
Every seat in the stalls back to the last three rows
were reserved, and the d.c. had a fringe two or
three deep long before the curtain rose. When it
did rise it displayed Hawtrey as Talleyrand in a
high state of satin breeches and lace ruffles, with
the celebrated sneer (as pourtrayed by Ward in
the National Gallery) in fine working order. The
sneer, by the way, is the only convincing trait
about the princely cynic ; according to Wills, his
cynicism was as biting as skim-milk.
‘Josephine’ Ferrar enters early, wearing that
much-beparagraphed white-and-gold court gown.
»She sacrifices personal appearance nobly to
historical accuracy throughout the play and
wore her hair in dangling little ‘ bob ’
curls surmounted by a coronet like a frying-pan.
In Act 3 she displays a further zeal for arclueolo-
gical precision by sporting a weird hat like to a
square box adorned with blue plumes. Miss
Page’s appearance suffers, too, from the fact that
the Archduchess Marie Louise had brick-colored
tresses, and wore them in ‘ barrel curls’ over her
brow like piles of small carrots. An eau-de-nil
satin dress worn with an emerald-green velvet
train and a fascinating bonnet with blue flowers
and white plumes, however, recalled the fact that
Miss E. P. is a most elegantly-built woman and
knows well how to wear fine clothes. A
flourish of trumpets, a couple of bars of
‘ Partant pour La Syrie,’ four glittering
officers and a band of black-legged soldiers mark
the entrance of Julius Nap. every time. Julius
has very little to do when he does enter, but
stands round in characteristic Napoleonic atti-
tudes, and he stands round for all he is worth.
His frown alone must be a heavy item to carry
about, to say nothing of the stuffed chest and
fierce-looking top-boots. His really fine voice
and splendidly-repressed method, however, get
one show to assert themselves in the scene in the
inn at Gemappes. Harry Hill, in the curly-
brimmed hat sacred to comic opera, whirls his
passionate words of love so wildly at the Empress
that he calls Julius a ‘ corsed Cursican ’ for a
‘ cursed Corsican ’ every time. Linda Raymond
makes Stephanie a lovable little French girl, with
an Austrylian accent, who calls the cynic ‘ Museer
1 ally-wrong,’ as though he were a shipping-clerk.
“ In one Thornton play, a heavy mother in side-
curls and 1830 bonnet sent shivers through the
spectators as a sampleof sartorial sorrows in store.
Without an impressive profile, a woman in a ‘ coal-
scuttle ’ is as dead to the world as Diogenes in his
tub. The piquante snub-nosed belle, all fluffy
fringe and dimples, will assuredly topple off her
perch if the early Victorian fashion, now very
visible on the Block, fairly catches on. Pos-
sessors of high noses, smooth dome foreheads,
and sleek abundant hair will, in that case, have it
all their own way. Some people predict even
more radical changes as a result of the threatened
casting-back to the styles of V.R.’s dowdy girl-
hood. Curate-cult and Sunday-school teaching
and all the demure airs and graces pertaining
thereto, are already emerging from disuse and
dried rose-leaves. Only ‘ a fine figure of a woman ’
can carry off the ponderous garments affected by
our grandmothers, and a fine figure’ implies arms,
bust and hips of imposing design, dignified mien,
deep voice—goodness knows what else. The
‘good-fun girl,’ who swathed her angles in chiffon
and never left off laughing long enough for her
facial defects to be detected, has kept the demure-
Madonna-featured maiden out in the cold long
enough. Every dog should have his day. Mrs.
G- W. Lewis, the veteran actress, visited the
oalon the other afternoon in a genuine go-the-
whole-hog ‘ coal-scuttle.’ None of your cowardly
half-and-halves.
“ Amy Sherwin’s costumes at her three Melb.
concerts thoroughly * fetched ’ the women. At
one she sported ‘ a gloss of satin and shimmer of
pearls ’; at a second, a remarkable confection with
diaphonous heliotrope sleeves ; and at her third
concert—a matinee—a staggering robe of lemon-
color, with a huge picture-hat, and a black fan
and satchel. Curiously enough, the flowers pre-
sented at each concert matched the dresses.
“ One of Melbourne’s most comical sights is to
watch the scores of girls and women, note book in
hand, sketching any original ideas exhibited in
the window of a leading Collins-street costumier.
I he latter is furious, and the real fun of the whole
thing is to see him raving inside as the opposi-
tionists steal his designs. Everyday he threatens
to adopt the London fashion of frosted windows
but his better sense prevails against cutting oflf his
nose to spite his face.
There is still romance in marriage—in Africa.
Some months ago a Melb. girl went to S. Africa
to wed her sweetheart. Hubby met her at the
port and married her at once, and, beirur pncrnrrpd
on a contract, had to start for home right away,
first by rail, then by Cape cart. On the way one
horse went dead lame, and the result was a camp
under the cart. The couch \was comfortable, and
a blazing fire, and the hobbled horses munching
grass, and the myriad voices of the night quite
charmed the bride. Presently a horrid hyaena or
something came along and proceeded to make a
meal off the lame horse. The husband awoke and
emptied his magazine rifle at everything in general;
later on, he found that he had bagged both his own
horses, but not the wild beast. Next morning
started a 25-mile walk to the nearest ‘ town.’
When they reached their final destination the
delay had lost them the house in which they were
to have dwelt, and they had to pay .£1 per week
for a one-roomed, mud-floored shanty that made
the bride weep. Fortunately, his wages are 30s.
per day, and now she writes: ‘Dear Charlie is
building a house of our own.’
“At a Bachelors’ Ball, given in the Essendon
Hall on 1 riday, the badge of the hosts was a strip
of white satin with a trousers-button attached,
pome of the spinsters, getting wind of this novelty
before the event, declared it was indelicate, and
so, for the sake of peace and propriety, cloth-
covered coat-buttons were substituted in certai
cases for the bare-faced buttons that appertain t
the distinguishing garments of the baser sex.
“ Dentist Dillon shocked his many fair patients
hy dying very suddenly in Sydney the other day.
Very few knew of his occasional fits, and Mel-
bournites were astonished to hear of his demise.
A clever little daughter, Irene Dillon, is distin-
guished for high-kicking, and graceful pas-dc-seul.
ohe has high-kicked since the early days of
short-coating, and been hugely encouraged therein
by her lamented parent.
“At the \ice-regal fancy-dress ball His Ex.
will figure as a Courtier of Louis XVI., and Lady
Brassey as Marie Antoinette. The fiat has gone
forth that none shall be admitted to the show who
nave not effectually concealed their individuality
by hook or crook. All the visitors put up at the
gubernatorial roost, during Cup week, will follow
suit to their hosts and don court-dresses of the
same period, although some of them are as
different in style as a Greenlander from a Jap.
“The Rev. J. Puckle, formerly minister of
Moonee Ponds, Melb., where the main street is
named after him, will soon be a centenarian. The
aged shepherd has an unshaken constitution and a
clear brain. _ His son, a well-known identity of
Melbourne, is already quite an old man at the
early age of G 9.
“Two sassiety girls, daughters of a Collins-
street sharebroker, have put their shoulders to the
wheel to repair the family’s shattered fortunes,
and have opened (No, not a tea-room) a hat-shop.
Iwo doors below, the sister of a prominent mili-
tary man has started in the same line. The tea-
room craze is dying fast.
“George Robertson and Co. have published
in book form Rita’s articles on Cottage Cookery,
lately* running their course through the columns
of Melbourne ’Erald. The business eye of
G, R. and Co. perceived money in these whole-
some kitchen hints and criticisms as soon as they
began to appear, and the volume might have been
predicted by the forthcoming authoress quite a
long time ago. Rita doesn’t actually teach many
things to the experienced ‘middle-class’ house-
wife, but she fills a long-felt want in the way of
information for most Melbourne missuses and
gals, whose culinary thoughts are generally con-
centrated upon the frying-pan when not turned to
the manufacture of indigestible scones and un-
necessary cakelets
(Continued on page 15 ).
•Of ten cases heard in N.S. W. circuit-courts
on Sept. 30, no fewer than six were charges of
assault. Five were proved and the jury
failed to agree in the remaining case.
Messrs. Howard Smith and Co. announce
that the s.s. Barrabool will leave for Queensland
ats p.m. on Monday 11 inst., and s.s. Burwah on
Wednesday 13th, and not as ad vertised on page 22.
Cabled that “ Mr. A. H. Savage-Landor,
the well-known artist and traveller,” in attempt-
ing to reach Lhasa, the capital of Thibet, “ was
captured by natives and tortured. An execu-
tioner was just raising an axe to behead Mr.
bavage-Landor, when an order arrived from the
Grand Lama to prevent him from being put to
death. Mr. Savage-Landor was ultimately re-
leased by his captors, but, prior to this, was tor-
tured on the rack for eight days.” Which will
much amuse the people who were privileged to
inspect A. H. Savage-Landor, Esq., during his
j-jt t° Sydney, some years ago. How Parkes
did like to tease the unhappy man !
At Charters Towers last week some men
who were being lowered down the Day Dawn p.c.,
No. 3 shaft, in the bucket, were suddenly reversed
in direction, going up instead of down, were
crashed through folding hardwood doors, which
their heads and shoulders threw open, and had to
balance themselves and hold on like grim death
1000 ft. deep. Further, one of them,
xl. Millican, got squeezed between the bow of the
uj if* e ' t * ler P u hey or a cross-beam, and
had his right arm cut clean off near the shoulder ;
yet he managed to hold on in his place until slowly
lowered back to the brace—all the time balancing
himself on one side of the bucket with a cramped
left-hand clutching the chain, and a separated
right-arm inside the bucket between the legs of
two of his mates ! A few hours later, in the hos-
pital, Millican, with one arm gone, and his re-
maining hand lacerated and fractured in several
places, was chatting cheerily with his father and
guessing that he d have to learn to shoot left-
handed—for he was a crack rifle-shot.
The unanimity of that so-called public
* iti - State - schools question) meeting at
Melb., last week, was a lovely travesty to those in
the know, and the method by which that unani-
mity was obtained was an eloquent criticism on
the honesty of the religious crowd that ran it.
Ihe front doors of the Town Hall were kept reli-
gious y locked until the advertised opening time,
7 p.m. ; and when they were cast open then, the
general public of mixed opinions found every seat
in the hall filled with a white-faced, anaemic
crowdl which grinned in triumph at how it had
dished the other side by sneaking in per side door.
On the platform were the Elect; the speakers and
the Examples of Piety held upas a glaringcontrast
to the young men who had been educated by
the present godless system.” Among these
examples were a man who draws a big annual
income from houses of ill-fame ; another who
chipped the name of his dead child off its
tombstone after a boom-lawsuit with its god-
a- ■ r ii a , n< * , afc j * eas * * wo people who have been
officially bowled out m unpardonable breaches of
the r ood Adulteration Act. The keynote of the
meeting was struck by the sleek-haired Arch-
deacon Langley who said “lam willing to leave
the question to the parents of the colony to decide
but never will I consent to its being settled on the
votes of the young men already educated under
the secular system.” That is to say—“ Let us
pick the voters and we’ll leave it to the popular
voice.” Booh!


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £l/. s.
Catalogues Free.
m.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
375 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
IRA
EMAfl*
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Ex-Judge Windeyer’s will provided for the
cremation of his remains.
Ridiculous—“ His Eminence.” More
ridiculous—“ His Excellency.” Most ridiculous—
“ His Worship.”
The Sydney commercial man who has got
into big trouble (for alleged forgery, &c.) had a
salary of over .£l2OO a year.
Melb. : “The widow of lawyer Hughes,
of this city, is just demised in England. Daughter
of Samuel Phelps, tragedian.”
Keogh, M.P. (resuming speech inter-
rupted by dinner-hour): “Like the phoenix, I
rise again ” Gallery hack : “Yes, from your
hashes ! ”
How will it read ? “ Sir Francis Conway
Mason, M.L. A., C.M.G., late Chairman of Com-
mittees and Speaker of the Legislative Assembly
of Victoria.”
Gratifying testimonial from Wide Bay
and Burnett (Q.) News: —“Lady Brassey is a
most'affable lady, and gives very little trouble to
Mrs. Wilson, her hostess.”
Henniker Heaton, when last he visited
Sydney, said, rather sadly, that he was afraid he
would never see this country again. Yet, once
more he is on the water Australia-wards.
Warr, candidate for Footscray, Yic. : “I
believe in women. My mother was a woman, and
I have had three wives.” The women should cer-
tainly carry Warr into the enemy’s camp.
Chief Justice Darley will be eleven years
on N.S.W. Bench next month (November). Of
the Bench of that day he is the sole survivor.
Windeyer, Innes, Manning, Fawcett—all gone.
Sector : “ Mr. Wardell, architect of St.
Patrick’s, Melb., lives to see tho completion of the
interior, but the massive spires are left, perhaps,
to as remote a posterity as those of Notre Dame.”
Yic. Mines Minister Foster suffers fearfully
from that most baneful electoral chestnut re the
dog-tax, for the reason that he was once “dog
man ’’ in his district, and very zealous in collecting
fees.
Johnny Hoolan, M.P., in a fancy coat,
red rose in buttonhole, no vest, bright-blue shirt,
lavender cummerbund, white collar, plaid necktie,
and glossy shoes : “lam a work of art. I have a
soul, ”
W.A. Govt, has been credited with the
intention of erecting a statue to W. G. Brookman
at Perth. The Govt, denies any intention of the
sort. But why mot a Brookman statue at Ade-
laide ?
A Sydney Irish orator, whose historical
references are more ambitious than precise, thus
endeavored to drag Charlemagne into one of his
early “ spaiches ” : “ And now, ladies and gintle-
men, I need only allude to the great Charley
Magney himself. Shure, though the Frinch drop
a letter in their spellin’, he comes of the same
family as the Magneys of Woollahra, to whom
Oi’m related myself on the mother’s side, begorra.”
Westralian delegate Lee
Steere —originally, no doubt,
L’Esterre—was the only Syd-
ney Conventionist who pro-
duced a pedigree going back
to the Conquest.
Fully a dozen Maori-
land pressmen are now em-
ployed on the Sydney papers,
whilst the. D.T., alone has
five Tasmanians on its staff.
There are probably not more
than three or four Sydney
natives in all engaged in
general work on the dailies.
Reasons given are that men
from the comparatively small
centres of M.L. and Sleep-
a-Lot get a more thorough
all-round training; also, they
bring with them the energy
born of a cold climate. Like-
wise—and this is an irre-
sistible recommendation—
they are used to small salaries.
J. H. Young, Ministerial head of the day-
labor rule in N.S.W. Government contract jobs,
wanted a weatherboard cottage built for himself
on the Blue Mountains lately, and called for ten-
ders, like any other enemy of day-labor.
“ Love,” said N.S.W. Chief Justice Dar-
ley—punning on the name of an undiscoverable
witness—“never enters the Divorce Court.”
Which mild witticism is here recorded on the
ground that the Chief “ jokes wi’ deefeculty.”
It is told (in Bananaland) that William
Lane, of Cosme fame, is at present in England,
acting as immigration agent for the Paraguayan
Govt., at the same time whipping-in recruits for
Cosme. Is this living the life we heard so much
Boss bore Stephen Barker was smilelessly
relating to Melb. Trades Council how the Adelaide
Labor-party had got up goat-races to celebrate
Ben Tillett’s arrival. Whereupon Bilson, chosen
Labor candidate for Jolimont: “Did you com-
pete ? ”
Clever Ethel Turner’s children and their
ways are becoming very microscopic. In her last
two Windsor stories, the word “little” occurs 37
and 35 times respectively. '‘Little” is helped
out at intervals by “wee,” “small,” “tiny,”
“liT,” and “ ’ickie.”
The recent after-dinner observation of a
prominent Australian Q.C. in referring to the
wife of the restaurateur as “ petroleuse,” cost him
(1) a pulled nose in the presence of a large and in-
terested assemblage, (2) a neatly-written apology
which now hangs in the lady’s private office, and
(3) a cheque which clients, during the next few
months, will have to make good.
Dr. Evans was the roost learned member
of the first Vic. Parliament. He spoke of Queen
Anne, and a member contemptuously asked. “Did
you know her?” “Yes, sir; the scholar is con-
temporary with all time.”
Victorian Labor-leader Trenwith relates
that when he was returning to Australia after his
visit to England, his initials were affixed to his
chair in the saloon dining-room. His initials are
“W.A.T.” Some wag wrote underneath the
letters “ Tyler. ” Neat.
Melb. demise, wine-merchant Haig, who
was of some trifling note 30 years ago. He stood
up against John O’Shanassy a:i Panjandrum of the
Colonial Bank. Harwood’s song, in one of
Akhurst’s pantomimic topicals, referred to “ Big
John sitting on Haigs at the bank.”
N. : “Graham Berry’s family curiously
indicates his growth as a statesman. One of his
sons is, or was, a bush publican. The Madame
Berry mine relieved him from the necessity, even
as Premier, of sending his children to the State-
school. His clever daughters, of the second gen-
eration, as it were, had the advantage of a first-
class education.”
If a recent paragraph in London Truth
means anything, there’s some ugly connection
between the facts that, during the German Em-
peror’s recent yachting cruise, His Majesty
received a thumping black eye, and that, the fol-
lowing day, one of the vessel’s officers went ashore
and mysteriously evaporated—the official yarn
being that his bicycle had run him into the sea
and drowned him.
The new American Ambassador to Eng-
land, Colonel John Hay, should have a bad five
minutes with Queen Victoria, if the old lady reads
his just-published book, “ Castilian Days.” The
Kernel sneers at monarchs and monarchy when-
ever he gets a chance. Thus, for instance, does
he speak of King Philip 11. of Spain “He was
so true a king—so vain, so superstitious, so weak
and cruel, that it is probable so great a king never
lived.”
B. E. Minns, The Bulletin artist now in
London, and making a big mark in black-and-
white, was, at latest, engaged in illustrating half-
a-dozen ghost-sj;ories for Pearson’s Magazine.
Arthur Streeton had a studio in Chelsea, near
Minns’, and was just starting to paint. He had
some nice little things, Cairo figure - subjects
chiefly, but he was not well when in Egypt, and
produced little for the time he spent there.
Streeton seems to have dropped the idea of holding
a London show.
Gov. Lamington (Q.) either reads his
speeches, or gets them off by rote, and recites
them like a schoolboy “ speaking a piece.” When
H. Ex. (they call him “ Lambing ” now) gave his
public Jubilee dinner to all local M’sP., the Bris-
bane papers reported a very flowery oration about
Queen Victoria. It read well, and placed the
Governor as a top-form orator, so to speak. But
the delivery of the speech was quite another affair.
H.E. read it. At some more than usually loyal
aspiration, one of the guests interjected, or was it
a mere hiccough? That threw the orator’s eyes
off his MS., and it took him 2min. 33 l-ssec. to
find “the place” again.
NEVER MIND THE TUNE I
WHISTLIN' BILL (from Stockyard Flat, examining
sixpenny song-book) : "Thisun'V do, boss. ”
BOOKSELLER: “I can do you the same songs with
music for a shilling.”
W. BILL: “I know any gorsquantity of toons —
plenty fur this lot, anyway!”
Deai- Bulletin, —The remark about a man
having once been fined in Australia for calling
another man a Christian, reminds me that B. D.
Morehead, then a giddy wit of much demerit,
was once, in the eighties, called to order in Q.
Assembly for alluding to Aland, M.L. A., as “the
pious and holy member.” Morehead promptly
withdrew the remark and called Aland “ the im-
pious and unholy member ” instead. He wasn’t
called to order that time, which is interesting, as
showing that holiness was a thing that nobody
liked to be suspected of up Brisbane way in those
days of rum and boodle. - D.
At 20 yards.—Size of real target reduced to one-half.
At 80 yards.—Size of target reduced to one-half.
At 50 yards.—Size of real target reduced to one
fourth.
On examining the targets used in revol-
ver-shooting by Jack Hamilton, M.L.A., the
committee of the Queensland Rifle Association
declared that the 30yds. target also counted as 7
bulls ; so that the total made by Hamilton was 123
(and not 122) points out of a possible 126 : —At
20yds., 39; at 30yds., 42; at 50yds., 42. At 20
and 30yds. distances the target had bulls 2in. in
diameter ; at 50yds., the bull was 4in. in diameter
—the same size as in use at Bisley (Eng.), where,
however, there is no 30yds. distance. One differ-
ence between Queensland and English matches is
that in Queensland the 18 shots must be consecu-
tively fired, whereas in England the aggregate
of different distances is taken. Distances are
thus alternated at pleasure, which is a great advant-
age over consecutive shots. The feat of getting
two “ possibles ” in 12 consecutive shots is a world-
record of which Australia may be proud.
A story of Tillett. He wanted some
Birmingham strikers to follow a certain course,
and talked to them for two hours ; they applauded
him enthusiastically. He therefore felt perfectly
safe ; the whole crowd was with him. A ballot,
besides looking well, was quite safe. So one was
taken. Result—For Tillett (say), 1; against (say),
999. Tillett was astounded. One of them, how-
ever, explained things. “You see, we knew the
little beggar, and how he’d talk us into doing any-
thing he liked, so we just pledged ourselves before-
hand.”
Re the approaching visit to Australia of
Baron Ardilaun (another Guinness), the family
may thank Daniel O’Connell for their success in
the “ pig-brand ” trade. At an election in the
early thirties “old” Arthur Guinness promised
his support to O’Connell and broke that promise.
“Dan ” then advised all his supporters to punish
Guinness by boycotting his stout. They took his
advice, and, as the Dublin publicans were to a
man supporters of O’Connell, Guinness had to look
for a foreign market : hence the immense export
trade. Ardilaun is first-cousin to Chief Justice
Darley, who may have somethin ' to do with in-
ducing the ex-stout man to visit .his country,
A surprising fact is the number of silent
plutocrats contained in every community and
practically unheard of until their deaths make
known how the State has profited in probate. The
other day there died in Collingwood (Vic.) a local
butcher, John Pritchard, whose burly dungaree-
clad form has figured in his Smith-street shop
since 1856. Up to the time of his last illness he
had never missed a single day from work ; he was
on the spot at 5 a.m. daily to see that his men
were on time, and was the last to leave on Satur-
day night. Yet Pritchard left about ,£300,000,
and a few years back he was certainly worth
half-a-million. Ten years ago, when the local
Council thought of borrowing money, Pritchard
took its breath away by calmly offering to lend
,£lOO,OOO “on his own.’’ His stipulation for G! 2
per cent., however, ended negotiations. As the
owner of a couple of Riverine stations, Pritchard
seldom went to the saleyards, but whenever he did
he was noted for one peculiarity. If any other
butcher invited the crowd “across the road,”
Pritchard’s drink was always schnapps (sixpence),
but whenever he was the host he gave the guests
no time to talk but demanded “ Four beers ! ” (3d.
each) as soon as his foot was on the front step. Of
such often is the Kingdom of Cash.
Ihe Broughton Club, opened by Speaker
Abbott, last week, in Sydney, and intended as a
rendezvous for the cloth, commemorates an Angli-
can bishop who almost created civil war in
N.S.W. to prevent the head of the R.C. church,
or an v church but his own, being called Bishop.
Broug.iton was originally a Treasury clerk, and all
through life displayed a fine faculty for discerning
the drift of coin. “If the designs of Bishop
Broughton had been carried out,” eulogised
Speaker Abbott, “ this would have been one of
the best-equipped churches on this side of the
Equator.” That is, it would now have been self-
supporting and even rich from the rents of school-
lands.
Otto Brandon to The Bulletin from
Shepparton, Vic. :
About time some of the friends of Mrs. Barney Barnato
contradicted the untruthful and damaging paragraphs
which constantly appear in print about her. She is not
a sister of Alice Holbrook, she was not a barmaid, and
she did not leave Melbourne because she had made it too
hot to hold her. The lady who is now Mrs. Barnato was
one of two sisters—Misses Emily and Affy Bevan—at one
time engaged by Williamson, Garner and Musgrove, and
who afterwards (in 1889) went to South Africa with Emma
Chambers and Albert Marsh. Affy (who was of great
personal attractions, and was at one time much photo-
graphed by Falk) became Mrs. Barnato, and it would
much surprise any member of the Chambers co. (of which
the present writer was one) to hear that she was other
than a well-conducted, highly-respected girl.
Premier Seddon, since his return to Maori-
land, has developed some quite-English little ways,
writes one of his numerous enemies. His ola
bluff style of speech has been much modified, and
he now speaks deliberately and with careful
pauses ; also, he stops and addresses one and all,
even the understrappers who bring him docu-
ments, as “ sir,” “no, sir,” “ yes, sir.” Before he
went to England it was “ l)ick,” “Tom,’’ and
“Harry,” or “Brown,” “Jones,” and “Robin-
son,” with an “old man” or two thrown in.
However, when the Right Hon. gent meets one
or two of his old West Coast diggers and calls them
“sir ” there will be sanguinary language, and all
the Chamberlain veneer will peel in one act.
One of Queen Victoria’s sweet womanly
characteristics is her never-failing objection to
tobacco-sinoke. Nobody—including her late, very
late, husband and her nicotined eldest son—
was ever allowed to blow a cloud in any room
where she was likely to smell it. John Brown
was an al fresco exception to the royal rule against
smoking, but even that “faithful gillie’’ didn’t
smoke before her. When he was following V.R.’s
pony chaise in its slow and stately procession
around Windsor Castle or Balmoral district, John
invariably gave himself permission to light his
pipe. If, perchance, he came forward to swear at
the intractable pony Brown’s briar was smuggled
away somewhere in his Hielan’ costume —pro-
bably the pocket of his kilt.
Journalist: “Allow me to condense whac
demised Richard Egan Lee, the thinnest man
ever known to be alive, told me about the adven-
ture of the Wheeler Brothers. He said : ‘ I struck
Kyneton, and stuck-up Sands for a job. Says he,
“Just the man; I want you to do something in
your own style about Mrs. Wheeler, of the Cas-
TLEMAINE REPRESENTATIVE.” “ All right,” says I.
“Make it hot,” says he. “You be bound,” says
I. Then my leader went in, commencing “ When
a female baboon squats in a gutter, and slings
mud at respectable journalists, it is time to pro-
test.” Next day I was waiting for my screw,
lying under the fruit-trees in the garden, and
watching for a ripe plum to fall in my mouth. It
“TRY YER BREATH, SIR?"
V ? r -V warrr <. All of a sudden I heard Mrs.
Wheeler’s brothers chasing Sands round the office
and smashing thefurniture. “ Too hot for me ! ”
sa ys I, and I cut out of town.’”
Q. Meteorologist Wragge is not satisfied
with having definitely nicknamed the Almighty
the “Infinite Dynamo.” After dealing out
various smaller baptismal certificates, he has now
re-christened Him (or It ?)“ the great Ego Sum.”
This is retracking on the trail of the Hebrew
Why not break out into new fields ? The “ Great
Go Forth,” the “Pervasive Übi,” the “Infinite
Inertia,” the “Logocosm,” the “Sempivibrant ”
the “ Whatnot Is,” or beautiful appellations of
that sort ? All the same, Wragge had better look
out that the Almighty, or someone doesn’t re-
christen him, for playing chuekstones with the
names of the variant Joss. “ For yet they are not
three Josses but one Joss,” and a patent trade-
label is badly needed, to have force throughout the
world. How would “ Chiffon ” suit Wragge as
an alter-nomen ? “ Clement Wragge, the Eminent
Chiffon!” The meteorological ramasseur ! The
Remnant !


The Eye-sight measure per post by the in-
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraelough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraelough-*
“ TWO GOOD TKCIKTGS ”
. . Madb in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Stl IICC
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
For Soups, Fish, Chops, Steaks, etc., HOLBROOK’S SAUCE is the most DELICIOUS, the
CHEAPEST, and has the LARGEST SALE of any Sauce in the World. HOLBROOK’S
PICKLES are selected ENGLISH Vegetables, prepared in PURE MALT Vinegar, and can be had
in Onions, Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow from all first-class Grocers.
Agent for New South Wales: ... ... ... Mr. James C. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Agents for Victorias ... ... ... ... Messrs. Wm. PetNrson & Co., Melbourne.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the new Vetjetable Anti-Rat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLINE
LEGIST ERE U.
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
It is the only safe cure for CORPULENCY. It also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
according to directions. Males and females have lost from 15 to 20 pounds a month, and kept in splendid health.
Stout people who pant and grow red in the face when walking up stairs, up inclines, or attempt to run, get rapid relief.
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a course of this remedy.
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing" the fatty tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy and light.
PHYTOLINE
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entirely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
PHYTOLINE
can be obtained from all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, 35.,55.,and li’s.,
in tablet orliquid form. The largest bottles or boxes are equal to six of the small size
Business, Bobbery , etc .
Apropos of the Lucknow dynamite-bomb busi-
ness and of explosions at ammunition-factories, the agent
of a ’Frisco dynamite-factory (the man who is selling
dynamite in Australia at a shilling a pound or so to the
great disgust of the other dynamite crowd) says: “We
employ many Chinese at our works, but whenever there
is an explosion scores of fresh Chows are ready to fill the
breach. By George Washington, a dynamite explosion is
real business. When the mixing-house last went-up ”
[“went-up” is good]—“ seven or eight Chinamen went
with it, and the only trace we ever found of any one of
those Chows was the heel of one india-rubber boot. No
bones, blood, hair, or other horrors —only that one poor
little boot-heel.”
* * * *
The quietest Parliamentary enquiry on record is
that now being made into the circumstances surround-
ing the over-ruling of the decision of a certain mining
warden by a certain Minister of Mines. It appears that a
careless Government survey of a certain important mining
field left open a wedge of auriferous land between the
leases held by a certain very prosperous and well-managed
mining co. The local warden, recognising that the omis-
sion of this bit of land in the mining co.’s lease was due
to careless survey, refused to grant aleaseof the wedge to a
certain speculator, but the latter got the warden’s decision
over-ruled by the Minister, and the speculator now leaves
it to the co. to (Ist) either pay him an enormous sum
(£26,000) for the lease, which practically cuts their lode,
or (2nd) to force the Minister to back-down—hideous
would be the consequences thereof ! —or (3rd) get his
decision upheld by the Cabinet. A very, very interesting
case.
« * • •
Nearly two years ago, a shrewd Melbourne
solicitor lost from hissafe £2OO worth of diamond jewellery.
Instead of advertising his loss he lay low. He was
approached recently, by the thief’s go-between, to
“ arrange a recovery.” Price asked, £75. Gent One
astonished the go-between by pretending to have almost
forgotten the loss ! “ The stones were only paste, and
very poor paste at that,” but he wouldn’t mind springing
a “ fiver ” for their return, just for the sake of the
settings. It’s hard to believe, but the thief and his pal
actually fell in, and the lawyer got back his real diamond
jewellery for a fortieth of its actual value.
* * * *
A fifteen - year - old Melb. draper’s assistant
accounted to his mother for the sappiness of his boots
when he returned home one fine evening recently by
explaining that he had been hosing and walking on the
bulk of “the firm’s ” last season’s stock in their back yard
in anticipation of their next day’s clearing-sale of “ new
and fashionable goods just arrived ex. So-and-So, dam-
aged by fire and water, and to be cleared at a huge ioss.”
• * * *
A Bulletin correspondent on ‘ ‘ More Mercan-
tile Morality ” Tub Bulletin has written of a moral
merchant who runs six people on three 1 non-transferable '
annual railway tickets bv adopting the simple device of
having the tickets posted from place to place as required.
Thereis an Australian firm which works a much bigger
swindle than this. It deals considerably in (amongst
other lines) oils. Many of its shipments figure as ‘ kero-
sene ’on the bills-of-lading. Sometimes almost a whole
cargo is invoiced as ‘ kerosene.’ The cases, of course, are
kerosene-cases. The tins resemble kerosene-tins, and
have a little mineral oil on the outside. If you turn the
taps of most of them kerosene will run out—a little. But
just half the tins do not contain oil of any kind (except
fusel), nevertheless. They hold nothing but German
potato-spirit, on which (as alcohol) the duty is (say) 14s.
per gal. The kerosene duty was never over 6d. per gal. By
paying duty as kerosene there is a clear gain of £2l4s. per
case. And cases have from time to time arrived by the
hundred, so judge ofthe profit to the merchant. Thescheme
has been cleverly worked. The spirit is not sent alone
but mixed with genuine kerosene—tin for tin in each case.
The tins of spirits used to have metal tubes containing
kerosene attached to the screw-tops. This precaution is
now more or less abandoned. There is no longer much
use for it because a prominent Customs official knows all
about the little game. The profit does not stop at evading
THE LAND-TAX.
"I have received a communication from a large landholder
of the colony expressing his wish to pay his land-tax without
any delay."—Reid to reporter.
SHADE OF ANANIAS: “Here, George—here i s the
cake this time!”
duty on the spirit—which is worked up in Australia with
flavoring essences, some of it casked, some bottled, and all
sold as English and French w hisky and brandy. Well-known
labels (printed in an Australian town) are put on the bottles
—the writer has seen them being printed, and asked how
it was that English firms got their labels printed out here.
He was told that the spirit came in bulk. So it did—in
kerosene-tins. The firm is a most moral one and goes to
Sunday-school while the smuggled German spirit is being
doctored in its own cellars to delude Australian drinkers
of imported (!) brandy and whisky. According to Free-
traders, it is bettei political economy for us all to go on
drinking this cheap, smuggled, poisonous German potato-
spirit than to establish distilleries here to produce pure
brandy and whisky from genuine grapes and grain.”
« « * *
A Dunedin (M.L.) soft-goodsman, possessing
excellent gifts as an advertiser, but whose relations with
his employes are characterised by a certain want of
bountifulness, had a disagreement with his carter re-
cently, during which the latter expressed his feelings in
an undertone. ‘ ‘ Speak out,” said the boss, ‘‘ I don’t like to
hear people mumbling in that way.” “Yes, and get the
run I ’* retorted the carter. “No, I promise you you
shan’t,” replied the dealer. “ Well, then, I never in all
my life met such a rotten blankety blank as you
I” The soft-goodsman was stiffened for a moment,
and, despite his promise, sacked the candid carter on the
spot. Next day, however, when the latter returned to
fetch away some personal belongings, the boss relented
and told him to resume work.
* * * •
A new dodge to defraud the revenue has lately
come under the notice of the Sydney Stamp Office —viz.,
the giving of receipts marked “ Interim ” (with a view of
avoiding the necessity of affixing a 2d. stamp), and at no
later period issuing duly stamped receipts in lieu. An
impression also prevails in certain commercial circles
that a receipt “ on account ” need not be stamped, which
is wrong, the only exceptions allowed being money re-
ceived by Govt., money received for the purchase of
stocks and shares in banking and public co’s, laborers’
receipts for wages, and depositors’ hank-receipts.
* • *
Ed. Bulletin, — Re cyanide, .although you have
clearly stated the position of the Australian Gold-Recovery
Go. with regard to the application for amendment in
N.S.W., Victoria, and M.L., nothing has, so far, been said
as to the position in Westralia. Letters of registration
were granted here to the Cassel Gold-Extracting
Co., as assignees of the inventors, such letters having
the same force and effect as letters patent.
The Comptroller having allowed the amendment
in the English specification, leave to amend was
granted immediately on application at W.A. Patent-office,
it being held that the W.A. letters were solely dependent
on the Eng. grant. According to the variable Sep. Burt.
Attorney-General, this opinion is an erroneous one.
Further still, greater complications are looming. No
opportunity was given to the public to oppose the applica-
tion for amendment, and, as the provisions of the Act
apply in the same way mutatis mutandis to letters of
registration as to letters patent, the amendment cannot
be considered valid. Two or three g.m. co’s in the direc-
tion of Kaltroorlie refuse to pay royalty for the use of the
process, holding that the amendment is invalid. The
patentees are in a quandary.— Patent Agent, W.A.
* * * *
Nemesis has pursued nearly all the Victorian
coal co’s. which were floated and exploited by the land-
boom crowds. Eleven of them, with more or less shady
directorates,"have either closed down or gone into an in-
definite sort of liquidation. The four or five co's. still
afloat are almost the only ones whose directorates are
free from the ancient fish-like odor of the land-boom.
Rare instances of honesty being its own reward.
* * * *
A very smart personage, a marvellous salesman,
who had already sold to two different parties, fcr a sub-
stantial consideration in each case, the “sole” local
rights of his wonderful invention, essayed to trade
the same “sole” rights off for the third time in
the same city 1 But the game leaked out somehow, and
on the day he was to have signed up and received his
cheque the two first victims “ got the office” from the
intended victim, and whilst a detective (rigged up as a
clerk) was chatting with the swindler in the merchant’s
office, the merchant popped out, and returned—not with
the anticipated cheque, but with the other two sole
agents. Threatened with prosecution for obtaining
money under false pretences, he disgorged handsomely,
and is now seeking fresh fields.
» * * *
Possibly the game worked with the most profit
during the land-boom was that of the influential director
of many companies, who would shift all the cronk assets
of the institution with which he stood best, on to the
others in which he held only a small interest. An enter-
prising and pious Victorian has just discovered the appli-
cability of the principle to other commodities. His firm
was loaded up with a line of, say, bungholes which, being
of an obsolete pattern and practically worthless, were
quite unsaleable, so he recently sold them at cost price
to another shaky concern which he directs, but in which
the poor public hold most of the shares. If the latter
goes down the good man only loses a few hundreds as a
small shareholder, and meanwhile he saves a few thou-
sands by getting rid of his valueless stock.
A blackmailer (in the guise of a share-
broker) has just made three hauls from Custom
House officers who, he found out, had, contrary to
regulations, taken commission on the sale of shares
in a mine which they were floating svb-rosa.
♦ • * »
The latest Melb. swindle is only workable
by confederates. A nautical, weather-beaten-look-
ing chap offers —in strict secrecy —say 51b. of any
well-known brand of imported tobacco, duly labelled
and quite genuine, for half its value. Those who
are not above taking a bit out of the revenue, and
buy the presumably smuggled weed, are visited
next day by an official-looking gentleman, who in-
forms the victim that so-and-so has been caught
smuggling tobacco, and has given his (the victim’s)
name amongst others as a receiver. The victim,
believing No. 2 to be a Custom House official, is
only too glad to save a threatened expose by pay-
ing sometimes ten times the value of the tobacco
“to square it,” and the precious pair whack up a
handsome profit between them as the result. They
(the swindlers) buy their tobacco in the ordinary
way, and Tub Bulletin imagines that all their
victims will prefer to do likewise in future.
* * •
D. : “ A man whom I know finds it of
material importance, on shifting his residence, to
always move to a terrace, where he uses his utmost
endeavours to get his rent reduced below what the
other tenants are paying; having no family he
generally succeeds. After a few months he moves
again, rent six or seven weeks in arrears. Land-
lord generally lets him go scot-free under the cun-
ning threat of his tenant that, if stopped, he
will let the other tenants (he generally chooses
big terraces) know that he has been paying, say, 13s.
a week while they are paying 16s. The landlord
mostly always sees the force of the argument.”
* • * *
A result of the additional beer-tax in
Queensland is an agitation to let down the brewers
easily by lowering the import-duty on malt. The
brewers ! The brewers don’t care a rap about the
tax ; they are all right. They have raised the price
per hhd. on the publicans, and their troubles ! The
reduction of import-duties on malt would be a
mistake, since it is unmistakable that good
malting-barley can be grown in Q., a-nd local agriculture
needs all encouragement.
The brewer is top-dog always, beer-excise-tax or
no beer-excise. M. has £5OO, and is searched out by a
brewery and offered a pub. The incoming price is £750.
M. pays down his £5OO, and gives a p.n. for £250. If tha,t
p.n. is met, well and good ; if M. can keep up the periodi-
cal interest on it, it may be well and good. But the
moment he is in trouble, Brewery X. gets him to sign a
transfer of the license to , leaving a blank for any
name to be inserted. Then Brewery X. hunts around for
another man with £5OO, or more or less. Immediately
the latter is found, the blanks in the transfer are filled in,
and the legal “ notice of transfer” is at once advertised in
the local newspapers, &c., often without advising the cur-
rent licensee of the fact! Even if he denies to the Licens-
ing Court that he wants to transfer, the bench is with
Brewery X., for there is the publican’s signature to the
transfer, and—out he goes !
* * * *
A Molong, N.S.W., firm of auctioneers has dis
HIS FIRST DRUNK.
HIS FIRST DRUNK : " Got any warrermelons?"
FRUITERER: “No; watermelons won't be in for six weeks yet,"
H. F. D. : “ I'll wait."
posed of a flock of 5000 sheep no less than seven times
during the past six months, obtaining commission each
time. Recalls the Sydney brokers and the North Nytna-
gee scrip-game.
* * * *
Estimated that the late International Exhibi-
tion (Brisbane) will mean a loss of £3OOO to the company.
Joubert himself hinted at this some time ago in a Courier
letter, concluding, however, joyously : “It has been my
49th victory. I will go West and have my jubilee ” 1
* * * *
“Beautifully white diamonds have been found
at Inverell, N.S. Wales, and, from the rich yield of the
mine and the white color of the stones, great things were
expected. A parcel of many hundred carats came to
England, when it was found that they were so hard as to
be practically unworkable as gems, and I believe they
were ultimately sold for rock-boring purposes.”— Prof.
Crookes to London Royol Institution.
* • * *
The Perth Mint building proceeds deviously on
its way to incompletion. Again and again the work has
been stopped for the most flimsy of reasons. Meantime
the gold-yield is being merrily exploited by the banks
and shipping co.’s. At present not less than 2s. per oz.
of gold has to be paid to get it to Melbourne or London
for sale. The bank charges commission, the shipping co.’s
charge freight, the insurance co.’s “have a cut,” and the
railways aren’t quite out of it. Two shillings per
ounce on 300,0000 z. amounts to 130,000, and that is just
about the yearly rate that the Westralian gold-getters are
paying for having their gold coined at someone else’s
Mint. If the Mint has to be opened in Perth, there is
every reason to get it in work soon. Of course, the 2s.
per ounce is divided up amongst fat companies, and that
consideration, perhaps, excuses Forrest a good deal. Wes-
tralia is now exporting more or less gold, and is import-
ing sovereigns, thus paying shipping, insurance, and
banking companies twice over, when no expense is neces-
sary at all.
* * * •
The Westralian Mines Minister is between devil
and deep sea, as he must either offend the capitalist by
refusing exemption, or increase the number of unein-
ploj'ed by granting it. So far, the capitalist has the best
of it.
On June 30th there were 6070 leases current in
Westralia, with an area of 103,801 acres, employing 17,500
men, being about one man to six acres as required by the
regulations. As many leases have from 20 to 200 men em-
ployed on thenq by onlyallowin -five men each to3sooleases
-—a ridiculously low average— .here would remain 3470 on
which no men are employed at all. The return also shows
that for the half-year ended June 30th 265,3290 z. were
produced, equal to £l2O per man per annum, or about
£6O less than would be paid him in wages for the same
period ; and as the average yield of gold per ton was loz.
12dwt. 21gr., it would tend to show that in the future the
Westralian goldfields will not be above the average of
other fields in their output. Any superiority that they
-may have will be due to the large number of mines which
may be worked on the immense areas within their boun-
daries.
* * * *
“A Disgusted Shareholder” sends along the
alleged history of the Ernest Giles prospecting syndicate
to show why Sydney people are slow to plunge into
mining. If The Bulletin were worth a million it might,
publish the letter in full. The subscribed capital, £6OOO,
has gone, some of it in firearms and other equipment,
camels, stores. &c., some in salaries—even the secretary
got £lO a week. And some of it is missing. Three or
four leaders followed Giles, several mines were found, in-
cluding the Nellie Farren, which was supposed to have
been sold for £7OOO on a £5OO deposit. The deposit can’t
be found if ever paid. The beautiful prospecting and ex-
ploring equipment was recently sold in Coolgardie for
£l5O the lot. Several meetings, too, have been held in
Sydney, at which the management has had nasty things
said of it, and motions for the adoption of reports and
balance-sheets have been negatived. And in its early
career the show was regularly tipped every Sabbath as
one of the good things.
Correspondent-answer from recent Eng-
lish ladies’ periodical: “‘Broken-hearted’: No;
two hens are not sufficient to run with a cock. He
will require at least six.” Blest rooster !
Sydney D.T. “ Wanted ” :
L> EQUIRING, Young Lady, as Mother and Children’s
-TL HELP, must be good musician, able to teach
flute, good needlewoman. Address, A.R., William-
street Post-office.
The Emancipation of Woman —the Educated
Slavey !
N.S.W. “ Lawyer’s Clerk ” to Bulletin :
Plucked 1 That’s what you call it. But I call it a rob-
bing scheme. I stand for admission as articled law clerk.
Between us we pay in fees over £2OO. The examiners get
these fees. As the exam, is too stiff we’re plucked by the
score and must go back in a couple of months with more
fees. The examiners get these fees, too, and so on. Is
payment by fees the best for such exams. ?
Malvern, the one-horse Melb. suburb,
where ex-Premier Jimmy Munro hides his dimi-
nished head, seems to be suffering from a virtuous
son-in-law of that busted Rechabite. His son-in-
law, by name Balding, lately fetched a policeman
along to join with him in a crimson blush at
certain “indecent” pictures displayed by a local
tobacconist. They were just ordinary cigarette
advt. pictures, and nobody knew they were bad
for public morals until Balding and the “ bobby ”
brought them before the Malvern jaypays. More-
over, the Bench, which must have drifted into
wickedness since the decline and fall of Munro and
family, threw out the prosecution with profound
(ontempt, so Balding’s blush stands where it did.
“ WHAT PLICE ME?"
Passed through Port Augusta (S.A.) the
other day a man and his wife, with a two-horse
team, bound from Coolgardie to Bourke. They
put the journey down at 4| months, nearly three
of which have been consumed. Two goats formed
part of the caravan ; these and the horses were in
good condition.


MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, £c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Brisbane (Q.) Echo repudiates any insinu-
ation that it scissors The Bulletin for
“original” matter, and hints that some of its
“paid ” contributors are doing the palming trick.
Very probably, since the same page tnat contains
the protest also contains unacknowledged matter
from this disreputable paper.
S.A. Northern farmers are imploring
Govt, to forego Crown rents and give other assis-
tance ; and they send down a list of what they
call sample cases. Two of them : (1) “In Jan.,
I had 6000 sheep and have now 79 left. I
have lost 8 cattle out of 13, and 8 horses out of 12.
I have paid the Govt. .£lOO for shifting stock, and
have bought ohaff to the value of <£9o. I have
sown 120 acres two years in succession and reaped
nothing.” (2) “ I had no wheat in 1894, five bags
in 1895, nothing in 1896. I have lost 26 horses,
being all I had, and 32 out of 34 cattle. ” The
Govt, promises to consider the cases submitted in-
dividually. Altogether, if the reports really don’t
do violence to the facts, it looks like another case
of an industry beaten by climate. The same
thing has occurred in some states of America ;
a writer in the N.A. Review said that, owing to
insufficient rainfall, Kansas had lost 250,000
people.
There are Polynesian Sugar Acts in Q.
under which Kanakas are forbidden to work at
anything but “ field work ” in connection with
sugar-plantations, and cannot legally take employ-
ment in any service whatever outside of sugar-
farms. The Q. Govt, doesn’t care a rap for these
Acts. Kanakas are employed indiscriminately at
all sorts of work in S.Q. Every Polynesian in-
spector around the infeoted districts has chronio
myopia, and trusts to earn his promotion faith-
fully. The Kanakas, even if they barracked for
the white man’s wages, which they don’t, would
be preferred to white men. They are a curse to
the white wage-seeker, who seldom gets a chance
to be a wage-earner. If the Govt, didn’t know be-
fore —though it is clear that they must have known
—theyknownow how numerously bullock-waggons
are driven through the Polynesian Acts; for
Medland Mitchell, the man who succeeded in
getting a Minister of the Crown, a leading sassiety
lady, and several choice citizens fined for illegally
employing Kanakas, has given the whole pano-
rama away to the Brisbane press. “ Hundreds of
Kanakas,” he says, “ are employed without agree-
ments at all kinds of work.” within coo-ey, so to
speak, of Brisbane. The slave-loving Govt,
doesn’t move a finger, however, but leaves prose-
cutions to be undertaken by “ informers.” May
the Lord send along the “ informers,” and “ many
on ’em.”
When Queensland fir-ir-ir-ir-irst, at Fa-at’s 00-ommand,
Aro-o-o-o-o-o-ose to bind the nitrger’s chain,
This was the barter, the barter of that land,
And how-ow-owling devi-ils sung this strain
“ Hail! Kanakas, Kanakas are our braves,
Queensland ever, ever, ever shall have slaves."
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful oure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post freei or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
FKA'NZ JOSEF .
PIX.SDSIMEPI
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
\.OAS By*s
'AHOO
The Only Reliable Remedy
FOR
INDIGESTION,
Liver and Kidney Complaints.
NUMEROUS CURES
in Sydney and in the Country have been strictly in-
vestigated by the Press and proved genuine.
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
Post Free from
Loasby's “W&hoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
KIDNEY DISEASES
are quickly cured by
WARNERS SAFE CURE.
There are no diseases more prevalent or danger-
ous than those of the kidneys. They attack the
youngest; cause sudden deatli in middle, or des-
troy the peace and comfort of old age.
It is the function of the kidneys to take care
of the waste which accumulates during the pro-
cess of digestion, and which reaches the kidneys
by means of the blood.
If this waste is not expelled it clogs and inter-
feres with the action of the kidneys, soon causing
inflammation of the kidneys—Bright’s Disease—
and often-tiines Rheumatism.
The kidneys are the “filter ” of the human sys-
tem, and the moment the filter gets clogged and
filled with refuse and waste, the poisons pass
without hindrance, and carry disease in their
wake. The remedy that purifies and stimulates
the kidneys-—acts directly upon these delicate
organs-—is Warner’s Safe Cure. It allays inflam
mation, opens the closed ducts, the poisonous and
waste matter is rapidly eliminated, the blood is
again free and pure, and health returns. This is
the experience of thousands, and was the experi-
ence of Mr P. J. Hetherington, Deniliquin,
N.S.W., who says : “When suffering from kid-
ney disease, which caused intense pains in the
back and sides, and after leading doctors in Mel-
bourne and Sydney failed to permanently relieve,
I was thoroughly cured by using eight bottles of
Warner’s ‘Safe’ Cure.”
SIR HENRY IRVING
Prefers Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes to all
others. The bon-ton Smoke of the day—pure and
mild.
I ■'*
Oimj
103JNISI
IIMITUi
SuINVS
SANITAS
"SANITAS" "SAN ITAS
OUR TWO RECISTEREDTRADt MARKS.
"SAN ITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN.
disinfectant, ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEODORANTcombined.
'A PEOPLES HEALTH IS A NAT lONS WEALTH
THE SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED
L 0 BETHEL GREEN, LONDON. t. Q
ALSO
POWDER,
SOAPS,
Sulphur
(Fumigating)
Candles,
AND
ALL KINDS OF
DISINFECTANTS.
• ■ The list of' Sanitas ’ preparations is now so great
‘as to comprise a complete antiseptic and disin f ant
“armamentarium The composition of mostot these
“is based on ‘ Sanitas.' a deserved' y popular, pleasant,
"and moreover active compound.”
LANCET, August 24th, 1895, p. 5»1.
“How to Disinfect.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS , AND
THE SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
“A prominent Vic. church is much worrited
just now by the squabbling of its agents on a
foreign mission - field. Somehow, none of t e
women, brought up in this particular denomination
on porridge and the Shorter Catechism, fret them-
selves much over the doings of the heathen in ms
blindness. Failing the home - trained article,
damsels have to be got in from other sects, whic
leads to trouble. No one accuses the hirelings or
rescuing the perishing with the wrong or
doctrine, but, in their innocence, they taught tne
converts that smoking and salvation never went
together. The riot began when the he-missionary
arrived from the auld countree to superintend tne
mission wi’ a short black cutty in his mouth, and
no more objection than most of his brethren to a
wee drappie, ’ as a precaution against fever.
“From that moment, it was war to the knife.
The maidens told such blood - curd-ling tales or
their superior that a long-headed ex-bank-director
was sent from Melb. to see the combatants through
their trouble. He oame back strong on the side
of his brother man, but the ladies’ committees
here sniff at his evidence, side with their own sex,
and weep scalding tears over the budgets which
arrive by every mail treating of the Male Monster
--his bottles, his Godless company, his dear
dead wife, and goodness knows what else.
“Meantime, Melbournians interested in perish-
ing pagans hold back their subscriptions, on the
grounds that they never promised to support
‘fighting-cocks,’ as they rudely term the dis-
putants. Another section surmises that peace
might have been restored long ago if a wealthy
Victorian spinster, at the beginning of the row,
had not set off to the battle-field to be a sister to
those oppressed girl-missionaries.
“It is about time that the rather spitefully
paragraphed wife of a certain Australian Premier
got credit for her consistent self-respeot. The
snobs who held aloof from her when she was
nobody in particular found the worthy woman
quite indifferent to their advances when she
became somebody of importance, whereas her
less toney acquaintances of long ago are warmly
invited to remember that friendship improves by
keeping. There is no offence in the demonstrative
patronage of one who is too proud to be patronised
and too honest to feign forgetfulness of an affront.
“A development of the looal cycling craze is a
tandem ridden (in Collins-st.) by two bloomerod
ladies, followed by two ferocious-looking dogs.
“ Most people are surprised at Marshall Hall’s
condescension in consenting to conduct a mere
Liedertafel. Probably he regards himself, in his
r6le of a musical Messiah, as called upon to shed
his radiance on the dark places of harmonio
Philistinism whenever opportunity offers.
“Talkingof the Ormond Professor’s disapproval
of Hambourg methods, the worst of these
academic musicians is that their students would
need to be Methuselahs to give the system a fair
trial. On the other hand, the Prof.’s strong point
is the enthusiasm and energy he awakes in
his pupils. Many of them lock themselves up alone
with the piano, six times per day for 20 minutes at
a time, and sit agape with flattened tongues,
uttering strange guttural sounds like clucking
hens, or nasal notes suggestive of snarling dogs,
by way of exercising the whole gamut of the vocal
apparatus. At other times they practise yawn-
ing, or contort their mouths in efforts to use
the palate as a sounding-board, vide Svengali.
After all, unless you’ve got ‘ a fiddle in your kist ’
(as Scots say of people vocally gifted), a mountain
of work only results in the voice of a mouse.
Professor Marshall Hall, sad to say, iB still in
poor health.
“In street-crushes, policemen generally scruff
the smallest boy available, and tramp heavily on
the toes of disobedient old women. On the same
principle, perhaps, with all grades of criminals to
take an interest in, Melb. detectives lately com-
bined their talents to sheet her sins home to a
poor little palmist in the Eastern
Market. After letting her openly advertise her
silly, transparent little trade for ever so long,
offended Law fell suddenly upon the unsuspecting
Sibyl, and after gaoling her from Monday till
Thursday, fined her 405., in default seven days
imprisonment. It seems hard on the tearful cul-
prit when one considers that at most charity fairs,
and at nine out of ten church bazaars, a professional
palmist is hired to beguile the faithful of their
shekels. For “afternoons” and receptions, too,
hostesses retain fortune-tellers to amuse the guests
by reading their hands at so much per dozen.
Most law-breakers of this type are lone, lorn
females, ludicrously innocent and transparent in
their magic-methods. One particularly plump,
fresh-colored Melb. benedict, who went recently
to dip into the secrets of destiny, found the inter-
view embarrassing because the dark-eyed diviner
sat without speaking, glaring not at his hand but
his face through a large magnifying-glass. At last
she said he was a bachelor. He supposed she
came to this conclusion because she could discover
no traces of scratches, past or present; but his
wife, who disapproved of the proceeding when she
heard of it, thought the sallow soothsayer must
have wanted to spy out the secret of hubby’s
peachy complexion.
“ British provincials are less versed in the
catchwords and fads of the hour than their Colo-
nial compeers. At Jubilee time a party of Aus-
tralian lads touring in Dorsetshire were freshening
up a musty railway-compartment with eucalyptus
extract. An old lady fellow-passenger interested
in the unfamiliar perfume, sniffed so enthusiasti-
cally that one of the boys volunteered the inf or-
mation that the stuff was ‘ grand for microbes.
‘ Just what I’ve wanted all my life,’ exclaimed the
dame; ‘ insects are that bad in our part, and a
flga-bite on me is worse’n a wop’s-sting to most! ’
“ Conventionists and their womenkind are
hardly likely to have such a good time in Mel-
bourne, in January, as they had in Sydney.
Premier Turner is hardly disposed to spoil his
anticipated surplus by spending five or six thou-
sand pounds on junketting, and he would be horri-
fied at the idea of throwing away £lOOO on such a
disgusting orgy as the Hawkesbury River feed-
fight. Women had better stay away from Mel-
bourne in January, and leave the Conventionists
to work with as little indigestion as possible.
“ Miss Ethel Levien, Melb.’s prettiest brunette,
is at present in London working hard for the stage.
She is studying under Herman Vezin, who has a
high opinion of her ability. London people are
much struck with Miss Levien’s likeness to dainty
May Yohe.
“ I fear the photo.-zinco process is another
medium whereby man administers to the unholy
vanity of woman. Nowadays city photographers
are constantly on the look-out for that daughter
of Eve amongst their customers who will make &
‘ picture,’ and when she is discovered the fair
young thing is overwhelmed with a request to sit
in the interests of Art, and for the benefit of
humanity, and, of course, she sits, in draped
goods, holding a oalico lily or a stuffed canary,
and eventually wakes to find her ‘ picture ’ illumi-
nating the dull weeklies and labelled ‘Sweet
Dreams,’ or ‘Reverie,’ or ‘Will he Come?’ or
‘Summer,’or anything equally irrelevant, and
she is convinced at once ahd for ever that her
beauty is a danger to the peace of mind of men,
and a source of envy, hatred, and all uncharitable-
ness to women. Really the beauty of the pic-
tures (when it exists) is largely due to the re-
toucher —a negative virtue, so to speak—and the
block from the camera man’s point of view is
merely intended to lend verisimilitude to the bald
little advt. in the oorner: ‘ Photo, by Albumen
and Co. ’
“ Bereaved relatives forwarding some dear de-
parted, via steamship to the old folks at home,
nave to enter the consignment on the manifest
as ‘statuary,’ or ‘natural history specimens,’ to
spare the nerves of the crew. ‘ Ada Cambridge/
in one of her Australian stories, when the colossal,
ginger-headed hero, who crops up in all her books,
is accidentally shot, varies matters by exporting
him to his ancestral vault in a leaden coffin encased
in a huge packing case labelled ‘ Grand Piano ! ’
Once upon a time, a Queenslander, importing
a consignment of heavy books ( received his
packet in a bad state of repair and with a
statement written in pencil on its wooden
cover, signed by a number of stevedores to
the effeot that they believed the contents to be
‘ cold meat ’ and had ill-treated it in retaliation for
the supposed deception. Now that man always
packs weighty volumes in casks, which are not
likely to call up ideas of corpses, and, more-
over, can be rolled, if the lumpers don’t relish
lifting them.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Da. : Nom-de-plume is neither French nor
English. Why not “pen-name ?” P.S. : Sketch un-
available E.W. (M.L.): Too daily-papery Red
Page: Try again, after a long, long interval for reflec-
tion. You are not Sappho the Second, but you might be,
say, Sappho the Sixteenth G. : Send along the four
girls who “ ask nothing of life but love—a man’s love —
not even marriage and a home of their own.” Tell ’em
to ask prettily and await results .... J.W.R.C. : Will
publish anything—if you make it interesting. Besides,
you are writing to all the papers. Tub Bulletin doesn’t
want letters that are in all the papers .... Jembo : The
mining spieler is a man who makes the acquaintance of
mine-owners, obtains specimens on the pretence that he
is going to London and will probably get their mine off
with others he has in hand. He collects many specimens
which he quickly dollies; then he “ clears.” This game
has been played throughout Westralia .... Jl. Burk. :
Will use I.D.A. : Needs better handling J. Lan. :
Have already dealt with P. of W. incident. “Tel.”
spirited, but weak in places, and verse awkward. Should
write less and polish more Lictor : Falls flat
E. St. : Bulletin wouldn’t have any use for a 16-
storey effusion, even of the very first water. Yours isn’t
quite of the last water 1 R. Hap. : Yarn good material,
but needs compression and point. Par. used Seldon
Ray: Up to the mark.. Buckenboura: “Matilda
Maude” will just squeeze through .... Qui Vive : “ Inva-
lid’s Ode” very sick. Announcement that sea-air im-
E roved your health isn’t rendered any more startling
y being made in hum-drum verse W.M. : Next week.
Tara : Too like other things already printed T.W.:
To reprint the advts. would be cruel. The poor Woman
is surely mad —as madly vain as the politician Ezron :
A good story, but not characteristic. The lawyer’s repu-
tation in Parliament and on the turf (where they soon
size one up to a hair) is that of a man who is as honorable
and generous as he is clever. A rough diamond, but not
“ off-color.” W.G. (Al.-st.): One will do for illustration.
P’familias (Melb.) : Third and last verses too doddery.
Re-write, and send again P.S. (Bondi): Won’t do
H. Blake : “ A Grievance ” ; you are. .. J.G.D.: Why,
you throw more offensive mud than the other fellow I
E.K. : Both lots received N. (Tas.): Not bad little
things of the sort. Should certainly find a publisher
A. Braoh : Don’t take any stock in translations, unless in-
trinsic merit hits us violently R. B. Hoffmann : Pretty
inanity, embodying a flatly false conception N.A.P.:
“Only suppose”—that we are “ not onj” E. : “The
woman who won’t know how to talk” isn’t any greater
desideratum than the poetaster who won’t know how to
scribble M. 1.: Strengthen last lines and send again
J.W. : The fact of your being an unoertifieated insolvent
of another provinoe does not affect you in your present
locale—except to the extent that your old creditors can
at any time swoop down on your assets under a trans-
ferred judgment Drioka : Your dissertation would
make Bulletin’s cover blush yet a rosier red. Try some
more godly print F.W.H.: Rings fairly true, but poetio
license won’t run to your gross liberties with grammar.
“Tore" as a past participle won’t do, even to make a
rhyme H.A.J.: Pretty deoent work; but stoushing
the wrong man is too antique an incident P.C.F.:
“ Born Strategist,” tame ; “ Idyll,” affected and pointless.
Hinemoa: Same dreary old yarn ; ravishing loveli-
ness—marriage wicked first-love with compromising
letters—little bottle—“ cold and dead ! ” Stronger hand
than yours wanted for such well-threshed material
J.K.O. : To hand W.J.0.: And do you really think
that prefacing anything (or everything) with “on dit"
necessarily damns it? Surely everything depends on what
the on dits are ! (2). Scotty and M'Cooey are quite differ-
ent people E.A. : Surely Luke the Liar from the Palmer
has reached Klondyke. But if he hasn’t left Australia he
may be assured that his specialty is in good hands
0.5.: Impossible for the Englishman to enter into the
Australian’s feelings, or vice versa F.: “Is there no
society which will prevent cruelty to crayfish? A dozen
tangled crayfish stretching their claws in the sunshine
upon the footpath outside a fishmonger’s shop probably
suffer all the tortures of the damned.” However, the
crayfish get level with their natural enemy, man, after he
has introduced them to his digestion J. Henderson:
Some edge, but no point Kobar :We “won’thave any-
thing to do with her waving locks,” either W.P. :
Get more go into tbe finish. A.A.A. : Can’t ship
that bullock Nix : Promising, but hardly up
N. : The Christian Endeavor is a Wesleyan manoeuvre
D.8.G.: “ Beale ” a bald horror. Bathe its head gently
in dilute copper-oxide C.D.C. : Thanks R. L. Wood-
ward : Sport sharp and suitable .... F. Herbert : With a
few leaks stopped, will just about float—under changed
name, though 0.8. : If, as resolved by the assembled
Anglican bishops, it is the duty of people living in Eng-
land who derive income from colonial properties or securi-
ties to contribute to the support of the churches’ work in
the colonies, it follows that they are equally bound to
contribute to the support of the schools, police, law and
other establishments of the State out of which t hey draw
the whole or part of their living. Thus do their lord-
ships justify an absentee-tax J.F.G.(W.A.)Thanks.
Old Pal : Never likely to be anything more than a “ novis
at the game.”. T.T. : Bulletin has to flounder through a
Dead Sea of just such verse; conventional prettiness with-
out emotional force or intellectual value . May : “ Great
Joke Train ’’too heavy for yourengine’s hauling-power ....
D.L.H. : Twenty-five per cent, below B. value. With
practice you should wipe out the difference F.
Bennett: Yes; but only when the “literary merit”
sticks out all over. Yours is only visible in spots
B. : Katoomba had better look to its laurels. A couple
who would spend their honeymoon at Boggabri, would
go to Thargontindah for Xmas holidays ... Belar : But,
you see, the man who made the offer was probably
related to the girl. He is of the same name J. Drum :
Lilty and lightsome, but we’re dead tired of the fatal
“wattle-blossom.” A.A.A. : Romances of the hen-
roost do not thrill our soul Stella C. : Eros is dead —
we’ve just‘slaughtered him D.H. : Tinpot tinkle
C.M.A. : Of old the widows of N.S.W. Supreme Court
Justices got pensions ; not now J.A. Pat. : Please call.
Cleric: Excellent story Dunburra Swell Ball :Of
no interest except to people who know the local Cholly
and Johnny and the adjacent bank chappie .....Cun-
jevoy : Thanks R.S.: Not certain, but don’t think so.
J.G. : May use A.E.S.: “Damper” declined.
Damper underdone H.C. : Don’t see any’ points about
“ Nesowa” as a name for N.S. Wales. “Nesowa” is an
obvious and logical contraction, but you don’t want a
name with a good reason for it—only one that is handy
and sounds well. No one quite knows the reason for
suoh names as Asia, Prussia, Spain, Italy, and many
more, but they answer well enough. There is plenty of
visible reason for names like “ the United States of
America” and “Western Australia” and “South Aus-
tralia” and the “Northern Territory of South Aus-
tralia,” but they are clumsy horrors. You would pro-
bably make the latter into Nortesolia J.J. : Yes
L.H. (Melb.): Thanks. ... D. M‘l. (Gladstone): Many
thanks. C.W.: Notice that Solomon, junior, was too
dirty to go to school E.N.D.: Have to leave something
out for want of space, so left you out. Sandgrubber:
“Times are hard” is correct. H. Anderson (Christ-
church) : Can’t supply any information about the “ Sou-
venir.” We never even saw the alleged thing M.D. :
Howl received Quartzite : Many thanks. Good item.
Wickham : Moral: When you propose to insure, and to
suicide immediately after, always select an office with no
suicide clause in its policy. Information supplied to in-
tending suicidesat this office Goreygoona : “The Lord
made Adam out of clay, and put him up against the fence
to dry.” Query: Who made the fence? Well, there
wasn’t any fence, so Adam fell down and never
got properly dry to this day. ... Protection : (1) So
far as we know, the oost of living in Sydney is
a trifle higher on the whole than in Melbourne.
(2) Meat ranges from 7d. per lb. downwards
H.O.H. : Better not call that Queensland baby “ Myee”—
which appears to signify several things U.R. : Yes, but
Swinburne is “ginger” ; Henry Kendall was dark-haired.
S. Oat. : Nothing in it; cynicism evidently not your
line Geebung : “Burried” accordingly—deeply unre-
gretted M.E.W. : Only caterwaul .... A.G. (W.A.):
“ A part like my own can very few play.” That’s so—in
the way of verse-atrocity’, anyhow Own Heathen : No,
thanks W. M’Ghie : Real live yarn; sorry too discur-
sive for Bulletin. J.V.P. : A thin little ditty of
violent mash L.A.A. : It is difficult to make anything
new out of the subject. And you don’t try.


SCRIPTURE LESSONS IN STATU
SCHOOLS.
JWSMOFSTRATION in the town-
hall.
<?<r/ f'njf pe-as ou.s **
en~7A. n.£/&■ s f~/‘c 7/te— >**•/< ta.f~tort S ixre. p*
etcTfe •)*i &Z
A~~ cAtsLreA. Triers *
/**■•* .
f'
// o'*'
1 , -
I I
'Tie quetrfcion&Ttfie wisdom oF*bor-
HlpWing as Sir George Turner proposed, ex-
-11 gusively within the colotiy. It lumted esr
• DjendiUire of capital in developing the natlt
,^‘Sj
Pand annually from abruad ™ qu i te
Jjltious—something like i: 120,000,000. he b,-.
m ', d “ r , f - ed, *» t '0u We should
CIJ L,Si d ,' larger proportion of the'
i 2<WPttaI„JHSSP TL reprueentoS. " * •
|" Mr.2o/..M.L.F)\
\r/l' nc frac/out J Vbviid
be So d/%/oj/a.l
O.S ~70 cZjmints A
~iAa./~ 9 ,.
W •
d^ lcS "„ t e aS^
"teolng T to" aife'tfie people at this election to
'Jet me kncAv exactlv what the position is
'that X occupy. I do not ask for
: a ny. blind • adherence to everything
■ I propose, but 1 do say that the
Government ought to know that they hdvc
at their backs a body of -loyal supporters—
a body of men who are prepared, m fair-
ness und justice to their constituents or
tl* Government a loyal
®
e
-'5V 1 . J° r
P f*'
r t>/
£ 1 „4* i B» .
<5 e " \y* ,if
I VtV
<>Y
u> I'V
\ - r
OKANGE aWorIeII
V-EO'.UIXY OF ORAUGJB PROCES-
-?10> T S. "
SOME TEST CASES.
MELBOURNIANA.


THE CHURCH 'CONGRESS.,
JEEDERATION 0F TH E CHIRCHE§;
**And new, Commandant, how are things going
with the Army” asked a “Daily Telegraph’’ re-
presentative of Commandant Herbert Booth
LONDON, Wednesday Night.—The BrnfiG.
roe William and the Empress of Germany
£re about to pay a visit to Jenisalom.
A committee has been appointed at Rookwood
for the purpose of forming a brass band for the
suburb.
.A
<eS V o> e
A''
**V«
G * V
yf* s '
V
A //
\ /Krck-M- V'"' 1
lia.d hettir
Youat-c about “
> Sty Jjere■
’AFFAIRS IN EGYPT.
STONING OF BRITISH TROOrS
HEAVY /SENTENCES ON EGYPTIANS
LONDON. Wednesday Night.—Heavy sen-
tences have been passed upon the Egyptians
who were arrested for throwing stones at a
detachment of British infantry near Cairo.
THE TUG AND THE WHALE.
Aa the outcome of the collision with a whale off the He»ds,
" S ‘ l) ' T ' THE WHALE HEARD FROM.
“ Hullo ! Whet’s been and happen’d 1 ”
Said the dolphin to the whale. >
“ Why I met a tug this momin,
And it trod upon my tail.
I won’t take that from no one,
So I ramm’d her with my mug—-
Well, I didn’t know ’twaa loaded,
But yer ort ter see the tug 1 ”
,^Colonel’*'Waddell’**'letter to the General hav-
•irig*t)een duly delivered, was sent f>ack with a
memo. t» the effect -that the General would b#
glad' to know whether the men would be
prepared to accept the Imperial rates of pay
while ou active .service. The letter was prompt-
ly returned to headquarters with Colonel Wad-
dell’s endorsement to the effect that he was
•ijuite sure the men would agree to those yaj.es
(OPENING OF THE BROUGHTON’
CLUB.
Joseph Abbott’., was satisfied that ;
the lad.es o*ne Church would h»;e no antipatoy
f there was at least
! frequent withouTaiiTfear of getting into uusenn.
Mr. Reid
It was not the cases of genuine distress that t
Waylaid the Federal Convention delegates ini
Mrcquarie-street, ' t
was the professional loafer, and the sooner they
could earmark that ruffian the better. (Applause.)
The doughty Colonel thinks that our fellows will be able to
do this sort of thing at the current rates—they will undercut the
Swhtis but not Tommy Atkins.
Mrs C ancle • “Been at the church-club, indeed 1 I
caTteU thaUyou the elaborate way »
which you took off your boots m preparation for
bed ! ’’
FAR-REACHING CONSEQUENCES.
F*ofessional : “ Look 'ere. All this fuss comes
along of you blokes as worked the Federal
delegates. You’ve killed the purfesh, and,
what’s mote, you-ve put back Federation for
another 20 year 1 ’
CURRENT “HOPS."


A young lady named Annie Looney, who
recently ran amok with a revolver at Feilding
(M.L.)i appears to have made a holy show of the
local police. One cop says that he got within 10
yards of Annie, but she threatened to shoot him,
so he went away to get his horse and his revolver
with a view to “riding her down”—he intended
overwhelming the girl with a charge of cavalry.
The other policeman says he saw Miss Looney
blazing away promiscuously at the universe and
intended capturing her, only she got behind a heap
of bricks. Under these difficult circumstances
both policemen stood off while Annie fired at
sundry school-children, the local doctor and the
baker’s horse, and plugged the population gene-
rally. Two bystanders ultimately captured this
gentle cow-girl, and, during her trial, she got out
of the dock and smote a barrister once on each ear,
and also banged him across the back with a chair.
By the time she was quite done assaulting the
barrister, the long, slow arm of justice hauled her
off and put her back in the dock again. Maori-
land is commonly credited with having the most
gradual and deep-thinking police-force in Austra-
lasia, and when it isn’t fast enough to prevent a
prisoner spanking a barrister in court it does seem
rather gradual.
Italy, the country from which Consul-
(General Corte wants Australia to import the
peaceful agricultural laborer in large quantities,
seems to keep the whole world supplied with
assassins. It was an Italian who murdered Presi-
dent Carnot, of France ; another Italian butchered
the Spanish Premier, Canovas del Castillo ; and
the latest news is that a man from sunny Italie
has been laying for President Diaz, of Mexico.
Diaz is about the most picturesque indi-
vidual in modern politics. Of the little
band — Juarez, Diaz, Gonzalez, Ortega, Comon-
fort, and a few more—who started, in 1861, the
hopeless-looking war of Liberty, and who, after
four years’ hard fighting, upset the old clerical
tyranny, and confiscated the vast church property,
and mashed up the great Holy Roman domina-
tion, Diaz was nearly one-half and Juarez
was the other. Gonzalez, Ortega and Comon-
fort were mainly fierce, bull-headed fighters and
nothing more. When the great French invasion
followed, Diaz was the man who licked the
first French army, and he was in at the
death by breaking-up the last hopes of the Im-
perialists in the Five Days’ battle outside Puebla.
In the three years which lay between these two
events, he fought with grim persistence against all
manner of odds ; and when Puebla was at its last
gasp, and the walls crumbled down and the garri-
son lost heart and went and hid itself in a cellar,
Diaz stood in the breach alone with one big gun,
and faced a storming-party single-handed. As
President he covered Mexico with roads and rail-
ways, created a system of universal compulsory
education, abolished brigandage, gave absolute
freedom to the press, paid up arrears of the public
debt, and generally resurrected the sleepy land of
Anahuac. Among modern rulers Diaz looks like
the one who should be safest from assassination,
but the average Italian seems to plug everybody
promiscuously.
Gov. Buxton appears to be the worst-paid
pro-consul in Australia. Nominally, he gets
■£1000 more than Ger.vd Smith, but the latter
potentate’s private sec., A.D.C., and other
hangers-on are provided with salaries by the
State, and several other contingencies, totalling
much over <£1000, are treated as extras. Buxton
gets .£5000, but no extras. Lamington draws
.£5000, but Queensland pays his private secretary,
A.D.C., and orderlies, gives him .£500 extra when
touring, £500 for uniforms, and £300 for the rent
of a country residence. Victoria pays £7000 and
no extras to the massive Brassey ; while Hampden
manages to put away £7000 plus salary of private
secretary, and £1580 for general odds and ends.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
R ■ I
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
EL.LIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY
1
If you Cough take
Geraudels
PASTILLES.
These Pastilles, in tubes containing 72 each, to be had of all Druggists and Storekeepers.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate on White Metal,
cut glass, 15/6.
Flowered Earthernware, 20/-
o’c. Tea Spoons and Sugar Tongs, 12/6.
Pure Silver on White Metal.
Other patterns, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-
m
v!-
Sugar Scuttle and Spoon.
Pure Silver on Britannia Metal,
10/6.
Other styles, 20/-, 25/-
Butter Knife.
Pure Silver on White
Metal,
2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-
Pure Silver on Hard White Metal.
Dinner Cruet - 6-bottle, 32/6 ; 4-bottle, 21/
Other styles, 38/6, 45/-, 50/-, 70/-
Entr4 Dishes (pair) —that is, 4 dishes—pure Silver
on Hard White Nickel Silver, 57/6. Exceptionally
cheap line.
Egg Cruet, Pure Silver on Hard Whit •
Metal, 32/6; Chased, 35 -
Splendid Value.
Bread Forks.
Pure Silver on
White Metal and
I’earl, 10/6. Other
•style, 5/-, 7/6.
Biscuit (Pure Silver on Hard
White Metal), 10/6. Colored
Floral Dalton Ware, 15/-, 20/-
Salad Bowl and Servers (Pure Silver on
White Metal), 32/6, 35/-, 40/-
Oak, with Servers, 18/6.
Handsome TEA and COFFEE SET (Pure Silver on White Britannia Metal, <£s ss. ; other styles, <£2 10s., i>3 10s., <£4 10s.
All the above Silvei-plate we guarantee first quality English make, at half charged by other Jewellers or Ironmongers,
our display Mind—
Call and
see
A. SAUNDERS, Jeweller & Silv/ersn>itl),
815 George-street (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY (ONLY).


SPECIAL NOTICE
The NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
£6 15 0
7 16 0
8 16
11 0
Note Our Special Price List :
i Spring Sulkies, Stick Seat •
3 „ Sulkies, Solid Seat, including Silver
Dash Rail and Lamps ... _
3 Spring Stick Sulkies, including Silver DaU.
Rail, Splashboards and Lamps ...
Bent-Shaft Sulkies, with Lamps ...
Any of the above sulkies painted or varnished, ana
trimmed in best rubber duck.
Double-seated Buggies, including Lamps £2l
Abbott Tray Buggies, trimmed in real leather
throughout, as illustrated 25
Ladies’ Park Phaetons, including Hood and
Lamps 26 10
NEW SOUTH WALES CAR R! AGE CO
Brown Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
0 0
0 0
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOB
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as' desired.
H. JOHNSON & 00. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY PROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
po YOU SHAVE l
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s.; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d , 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
IVIcGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh st., Sydney.
Sj\'" eis’iLU/tj
* ** « »>
SPiCIAU
WLI.
2..N8 I, IWJS m
mm.
H
H
H
H
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
deseription,'cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
O WARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
(AWARD'S Organette,s, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete,' from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWAhD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (i tone), from (id.
to 1 guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
|| OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones. Tambourine,
I Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
b
H
e
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
IT
OWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Sligle and Valve Trombopes, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Tbe Leadir>2 Pipe.
gbd
Wholesale Depdt:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
n€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
COMFORT
N WALKING.
f.
Wefßm’s
rife
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS*
[t softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/14, of all Chemists.
M BEETHA.M & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne ;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, l>y
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31, 1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE——
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “ Premier ”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers i » ls - »»
Cloth Bound Books » * IUU
SENDTHIS
TOr rORTION
GHTSOAPf
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or
b« obtained by application to f. V lTK%lz^ O i\o?, B^UGE S TO^
CIGARS FREE
i!iiiiiiiii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniir,
up
iiiiimiimm
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS EOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney. -
mum marvellous il l BSTIRI
*
e/S>
I
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growtti of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
M
m
Vc
wm
52
Bead the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
Melbourne, August 1, 1897.
Dear Sir,— Your Hair Restorer has had a marvellous effect on the growth of my
hair Twelve’months ago my head was quite bare—bright and shiny ; to-day it is covered
with a fine crop of hair. I shall ever be grateful to you for the excellency of your
treatment. —Yours faithfully, J.F.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT. I
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. Gd.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
103 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
*
ay
;
•=*
%
n
■
.V
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
TJnited Typewriter & Supplies 00.,
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE-Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LAUNCESTON— Hedeey Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper.
Send for particulars
London School Board has over 100 in Use.
of i ree Trial.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar 3NT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproductionof thecolony, oomposed ofwildplants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you '
Read this letteii and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joseph son's Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known. ...
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will finq
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30,
Baron Berzilius’=
■ —Buclrn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronio
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the publi: to
state that I have been suffering for many year 3
from weakness of the stomach, so called lIS DI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complain!)
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest; Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW'S YOU'LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumb'er of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
tak€> ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it. .
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisf y
the cravings of nature and create a desire for foo 1
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur*
nassed.
H CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydney.


King Billy needs no tablets ,
His fame is known too well ,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The RECORD still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
YOU GET IT.
Granuma beats all other meals for Porridge.
HCW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Assets - “ £38,513,664.
PURELY MUTUAL.
The Chief Offices for the Department of Australasia
HAVE BEEN REMOVED
—FROM —
BOND STREET CHAMBERS
—TO—
Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City ami Coun'ru
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Groorge Streot, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
, plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted bv
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held tit the Atietitm liooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE
‘ ora CHIEF,’
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
EROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
They call it steal-rails.
Toorak electorate is by no means exclu-
lively composed of the haw-haw crowd its name
would imply.
N.S.W. Labor-party entered Parliament
waving the banner with the strange device, “ One-
man-one-billet.” Where is that banner now?
Puffy believes that his scheme to fetch
Parkes into Victorian politics was frustrated
through Parkes blurting to Sydney newspaper-
men.
At a recent Melb. suburban election meet-
ing when two of the “ gentler ” sex came to fisti-
cuffs on the platform, betting on the event was
out short by trie turning off of the gas.
MORE THAN SUFFICIENT.
MR. O'BEESE : “What first drove yer ter drink,
Battler? ”
BATTLER : “ My wife wuzer temp’ranee orator."
“ These wretched Australian colonies will
be independent in a few years. They are a mill-
rtone round our neck.”—Letter by Disraeli, 1858,
quoted in Lord Malmesbury’s “Recollections.”
Q. Labor-member M‘Donald: “I don’t
■ee the hangman on the estimates ? ” Boss Tozer:
Out of consideration for the feelings of the hon.
member, I had it put among the incidentals. ”
Premier Seddon denies that he is after the
M.L. Agent-Generalship, and says he will not
leave his party “till he can leave it with honor.’’
Well, what would he leave it with if he left it now ?
A.N.A. President Toucher has resigned
his billet in Vic. Income-Tax Office, and will con-
test Ararat electorate against that veteran nuis-
ance, M‘Lellan. Toucher has strong democratic
leanings.
Staughton, M.P. (Vic.), is the squatter
and funny-man of the Opposition corner. He be-
lieves in Freetrade for everything except explo-
sives, one of his constituents being in the gun-
powder business.
“ After all, high wages for the workers too
often mean only opportunity for more drink.”
Teetotal utterance in Melbourne, where electors
are asked to vote for teetotal candidates inde-
pendent of every other issue.
Vic. Trades Hall is mightily offended with
Deakin, and one of its ex-presidents (Bishop) is in
the field against him. This contest will embarrass
many a voter, for, singularly enough, Deakin has
a reputation as favorable as that of Gillies is un-
favorable, though they were both concerned in
the same boomeries.
According to a Brisbane wire, Higgs, of
the Worker, wants the local unemployed to go
straight to the Government and demand “ Bread
or Blood.” But the Anglo-Saxon is a patient,
law-abiding individual, and no one takes him
seriously when he demands Blood. The one
decent chance of Blood that the Queenslanders
had was in the great shearers’ strike. They were
strong enough then, if they had had a good old
revolutionist of the Peruvian filibustering order to
lead them, to sack Brisbane and hang the Govern-
ment on a sour apple-tree, and they didn’t even
hit one policeman a bat on the nose. The law-
abiding habit was too strong for them.
The Age has three labels for candidates
this time—“ Ministerial,” “Freetrade,” “Oppor-
tunists. "
The veteran Longmore (Yic.) has been
politically much threatened of late ; sometimes
threatened men live long.” A paper in his con-
stituency recently chronicled 26 candidates for his
seat.
Very properly the new Q. Land Bill pro-
vides restrictions against the employe of a lessee
being allowed to select on his boss’s run. That is
the flimsiest form of dummyism known to Aus-
tralian land-grabbing science.
N. : “Hypocrisy underlies the whole of
the Vic. Bible-in-Stato-Schools business. This
M’sP. do not believe in
the Bible. Ihey are forced to pretend they do,
and so the whole position is false.”
Bananaland grows painfully sober. Pro-
duction of proof spirits for the last year was down
to 102,190 gals., a decrease of 3286 gals, on pre-
vious year. Wine has declined to 170,733 gals, as
against 238,208 gals, in the year preceding.
In Q. Assembly, in committee on the
Estimates: “ Mishur Shairm’n—hie! I shay
zhere’s too —hie—many pleesh mashtrates, too—
hie—many, many, many—hie ! An’ zhay orterbe
—hie—cut down, cuddown, cuddown!— hic-ic!”
The tick vanguard advances slowly and
irresistibly southward while the rearguard dis-
appears from the north or, at least, the north-west.
Very shortly the North will find it necessary to
quarantine the South—thus combining protection
and vengeance.
Premier Turner says nothing about re-
ducing the revenue tariff on tea, rice, eto.,
which is only a tax on consumption, a tax that
falls on the poor man in his poverty. But the In-
come Tax, whose only incidence is wealth, must
in mercy be reduced.
F: “Ip the Australian Federal Consti-
tution, compromise on ephemeral matters like the
adjustment of finance can be justified, but com-
E remise in the essential principles that will be
anded down to posterity is only comparable to
compromise with honesty.”
How the Q. Fat-Man bursts through the
Factory Act. The Act allows overtime to be
worked 52 days in the year. Fat-Man doses his
hands with all their legalised overtime right off
the reel, and sacks them ; gets fresh hands and
gives them the full dose right off ; sacks these and
gets a third lot, and so on until six times, which
works out the year.
An eccentric medico has been canvassing
Korong (Vic.) electorate on shanks’ pony. He
carries a gaudy rug across his shoulders, likewise
his best clothes in a parcel, and when, in the
course of his pilgrimage, he has to camp far away
from the haunts of men the fiery politician de-
livers spirited addresses to an audience of ghostly
gums. He is a supporter of the Turner Govt.,
but favors the abolition of the duty on axle-boxes.’
The Australian swashbuckler of every
nationality recalls, when he girds up his sword
and coughs, the posse of comic-opera troopers—
“ The gallant troopers, here we come !
The guardians of your house and home 1
But by a most unlucky fate,
We always come too late—too late ! ”
The Soudan heroes too late ! The Fiaschi
Italians too late ! The Maniaehi Greeks—too
late!
Miles': “ I saw the last detachment of Eng-
lish soldiers leave Melb. per ship Corona. The
momentousness of the occasion was
impressed on me. I thought ‘ Eng-
land is a fool.’ Do you think—well,
you don’t that any hanky-panky
interchange of troops, between the
bellicose Chamberlain and the feroci-
ous Turner can bridge the hiatus ? ”
The first section of the Natal
Alien Act—that which excludes im-
migrants who cannot write out and
sign an application in some one of
several languages—is merely a
change on the old fraudulent
literary test to which Austra-
lian policemen were subjected
in the early days. The would-
be bobby learned to write
his application and name
as a drawing-exercise, and
not till the ranks were full
of such impostors did the
authorities drop down.
The Labor Exchange
movement (a late American pill
to remove obstructions to the
millennium) is beginning to make
its appearance in Victoria and S.A.
An Adelaide Labor paper is publishing
articles on the subject; and in Vic. the
PiOle of the cult, a loosely-constructed
but thoughtful book called “The Trials and Tri-
umphs of Labor,” is being discussed in Labor and
Socialistic coteries. The basis of the notion
appears to be a paper currency based on barter, a
sort of legal tender “ warehouseman’s certificate.”
Right to the end of the Convention Han-
sard failed to credit Glynn with being a
member of S.A. Parliament. S.A. members
of Assembly, by the way, call themselves
and are called Ms. P.—not Ms.L.A. N.S.W.
Hansard apparently regards the M.P. affix
as the exclusive right of members of the
English Commons, and so described them, along
with the Tasmanians, as Ms.H.A., giving to
others the ordinary M.L.A. title.
AT THE N.S.W. SOCIETY OF ARTISTS' SHOW .
'<SnCt (eL-V,
<"E Introduce you to tfil \C|rls
J- "AJaw ! _ J'o, \
Too youf\9 !* \ /
Wit_L NOBODY WAIT
ITo HEAR. ME PLAY
The V^iiSTuAje
AAAI D
+•#tKv.sMu.iNo Maid
■ftE ' SpißH'of the Plains
Fp/V^c^v
I^3'
of
a*LyDY*
'Lord kip mt !'|
_s;r‘ >»;/
k£up (jurcKl' (
mdS
InJiv Mjj
\v\ UijfiXy -
■»" Jcifi
’ O/\S_ yo /vyarvy ?
i 6 JV*
There is fair promise that the new session
of Maoriland Parliament will be mostly ear-chew-
ing and Donnybrook fair. Big John M'Kenzie,
who officially put his feet in it all the time of Sed-
don’s absence, has been asked several dozen times
already to explain the curious Bushy Park job, and
he has merely roared and breathed an indignant
spirituous breath on his questioners. The validity
of the insolvent Ward’s re-election is also to be
questioned, and the rumor that that agile specu-
lator will be again offered the Treasurersnip means
more trouble. But the principal row centres
round Lands Minister M‘Kenzie. That elephan-
tine public lout is the evil genius of the Seddon
Government, and in his own capacious Scotch
manner he has done more damage during Sed-
don’s absence than is ever likely to be repaired.
THE GREEN-EYED MONSTER,
MR. SOFTHEAD : “Here's sixpence, Bobbie. Now,
tell me why your sister wouldn't see me when
I called yesterday?”
BOBBIE : “ 'Cause there was a feller up there cuttin’
her corns.”
It is announced that in determining the
question whether Govt, should go outside N S W
to seek a successor to the late Chief Railway
Commissioner Eddy, “ some consideration will be
given to the feelings of members of Parliament.”
iie who hesitates is lost. Premier Reid is hesi-
tating.
Premier Reid announces that the N.S. W.
Local Government Bill will be introduced before
the present Parliament .expires. He also alleges
that his last Local Govt. Bill would have been
passed “only the Opposition killed it.” The
official Hansard reported that Reid himself re-
fused to go on with the measure because the Labor-
party carried an amendment somewhat restricting
the municipal plural property-vote. But probably
Hansard had been drinking, or else Lyne suborned
it to put the matter in a false light.
M.L. Government’s promises for the new
session include an eight-hour law for factories, the
referendum, a system of State fireunsurance, an
extension of the law for the acquisition of big
estates for closer settlement, encouragement of the
industry, and, “ if finances permit,” an
Old Age Pension scheme. The Seddon Govt, may
ma, ny faults, including the irrepressible John
M'Kenzie and the desire to invite out the Yorks,
but, all the same, this is the straigh test democratic
programme presented by any Australasian Govt,
this year.
The Turner Government’s programme in-
cludes one-man-one-vote, extension of mallee
railways, act to prevent the sale of bad or adul-
terated food and drink, an industrial conciliation
law, a loan conversion scheme, a measure to pro-
tect homes from seizure under mortgage, a per-
petual leasing system, the resumption of large
estates for closer settlement, a coal-mines bill, and
a number of other items. There is nothing large
or sensational in it, but it covers a multitude
of small, dry, tough problems which have been
long neglected.
Consider the hopelessness of the agricul-
tural Sandgroper. Between 1885 and ’95 the popu-
lation of W.A. increased threefold, prices were
high, and the demand for all kinds of produce
enormous. And ;n that period the area under
wheat declined from 29,000 to 21,000 acres ; under
barley, from 6000 to 2000 acres ; under maize, from
1 , acres to 54; oats remained stationary, and
only potatoes and hay showed any increase. The
whole area cropped by the tired Sandgroper in
1894 was actually less than that in 1886, before the
boom started and brought 120,000 new customers to
his door.
Mclnerney, who is opposing Graves for
Delatite (Vic.), announced himself as a Federal
Parliament candidate. “ Don’t you think the
bist min should choke their modesty and come
forward ? ” he asked a Melb. journalist. “Of
course/’ was the reply. “ I think so too,” said
ir C iV T? therefore Oi am goi ng to announce my-
S iu * s an A.N.A., but preserves the ances-
tral brogue. Once there was a rumpus as to his
being Australian-born—but he produced an affi-
davit from his mother stating that he was born
at Eaglehawk. It was reckoned that she ought to
know, and the matter dropped.
So far every Freetrade candidate at the
Victorian elections, bar Murray Smith, has ex-
plained that he is prepared to leave the fiscal
question to the Federal Parliament, or that he
recognises the time is inopportune, or that he
regards the tariff as an evil, but realises that it is
required for revenue purposes and so is prepared
to let it alone, or that he is prepared to sink his
private opinion in deference to the will of the
majority, or that he isn’t a Freetrader at all, or
else he has dropped the fiscal issue out of his speech
altogether. The lonesome Smith seems to be the
one willing fighter of the crowd.


HEART & HAND
BRAND
gpg
OTTO
ESTABLISHMENTS .
THE LADIES'^!
V
FAVOURITE 1
W-h
FASHIONABLE IN STYLE
ELEGANT IN SHAPE
EXCELLENT IN WEAR
•• - v ► « ■ ? * '*** ' V * L'„. t -
V'W' - V? -•’ r ‘ •sr3 r *
< and in of *At
EU ROPE AN 0# AMERICAN
cftttiiiiiWKlß
EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
And also at his Branches in the City, Suburbs and
Colony.
&
4*
%
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
, Outvie every effort for the production of (
\ natural perfumes. h
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
Streep
w
LNTE
1886.
1 Complete Files Bulletin —1884,
Apply, A. 8., Bulletin Office.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the l)omain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. QUIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION
TO AND FBOM
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT.
Tickets at specially low fares
will be issued at Sydney and Suburban
Stations to all Main Line Stations, Menangle to
Albury inclusive, by the undermentioned Special
Train, available for return up to and including
THURSDAY, 4th NOVEMBER, 1897, but pas-
sengers can only travel by the trains specified,
viz. : —From all stations beyond Goulburn by up
mail train. Passengers from stations Harden to
Yarra inclusive may also travel by the 4.20 a.m.
mixed train from Harden on Mondays, Wednes-
days, Fridays, and Saturdays. From all stations
Goulburn to Menangle inclusive by any train ex-
cept the up mail and up Melbourne express trains.
Return Tickets at Specially Low Fares will also
be issued TO SYDNEY from all Main Line
Stations, Albury to Demondiille Junction in-
clusive, by Special Train leaving Albury at 5.35
a.m., and from stations Murrumburrah to Men-
angle inclusive by Special Train leaving Murrum-
burrah at 10.50 a.m. on FRIDAY, 22nd OCTO-
BER.
RETURN TICKETS at 2d. per mile first-class
(minimum 10s.) and Id. per mile second-class
(minimum 55.) will be issued from stations on the
Main Southern L.ne to stations Goulburn to
Mi ttagong inclusive by the above Special Trains.
These Tickets will be available for return up to
and including FRIDAY, sth NOVEMBER, 1897;
but passengers can only travel by the trains speci-
fied, viz., to stations Menangle to Goulburn in-
clusive, by any train except the 7.15 p.m. Mel-
bourne express and 9 p.m. mail. To stations south
of Goulburn by Special Train leaving Sydney at
8.50 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays
only. Passengers for stations between Goulburn
and Harden may also travel by the 9.30 a.m. train
from Sydney on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays,
and Saturdays.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
Pubicatlons.
Geo. Robertson & 00.,
361 & 363 Georgk Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy' Leather
Good*. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English & Colonial Celebrities
Under the Distinguished Patronage
of His Excellency Viscount Hampden.
LEAGUE OP N.S.W._JWHEELMEN.
CHAMPIONSHIP MEETING <$
AGRICULTURAL GROUND. SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, 30th OCTOBER, and SATURDAY, 6th NOVEMBER, 1897.
£5OO FRIZES £5OO VS Sydney Wheel Race, 2 Mile Handicap, value £3OO.
Race Committee—W. E. Corben, X. H. Barkell, Fred. Hawley. Single Fare to Competitors travelling by rail.
PROGRAM ME.
The Race Committee reserve the right to alter the programme, or to postpone the meeting in the event ol un-
favorable weather or other causes.
First Day—Saturday, October 30, 1897.
Second Day—Saturday, November 6, 1897.
ENTRIES FOR ALL EVENTS CLOSE SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1897.
No Entries will be received under any circumstances unless accompanied by Entry Fee. No exception will be
made to this rule in the case of international or intercolonial visitors.
. . Do not leave your Entry till Last Minute . .
For further particulars and conditions see Race Bills. All communications to be addressed to
FRED. HAWLEY, Secretary, Wynyard Lane, SYDNEY.
m
VICTOR
VioIioS-
PALING & 00. have a superb stock of over COO instruments,
including best models of Celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
ACito Harps.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete
tyotitb NarrpopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordcoos & CopcertipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
atiitars & tyaodolifyes-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machint
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStoQS & PolypbooS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Bafyd iQStrdipeQtS of all kii)ds
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, anc
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TERMS.
338 George-street, Sydney.
WATCH THE
PERFORMANCES
OF THE FOLLOWING CRACKS WHO
WILL RIDE
J
:
1
THIS SEASON.
J. PLATT BETTS
W. MARTIN
J. MEGSON
R WALNE
J. GREEN
C. B. KELLOW
H. REYNOLDS
C. BARDEN
M. PORTA
K LEWIS
A. J. BODY
A. A. MIDDLETON
E. PAYNE
J. CARPENTER.
Note. —We don’t make one tyre for the racing man and an-
other for the public. It cannot be too clearly understood
that Dunlop Roadster Tyres are made of the same material
on the same principle and by the same hands asTthe Dunlop
Racing Tyres used by the above Riders.
TIERE IS Ont!l ORE OOICITS: THE BEST.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. LTD,,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at)
Swanston-sfc., Melbourne;
King-st., Perth;
Franklin-sfc., Adelaide;
Litchfield-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Writes Mr. G. F. Carlton, Secretary
Nannine (W.A.) Hospital Committee
Ed. Bulletin, —Be Nannine Hospital, your correspon-
dent of Xlth Sept, misrepresents matters. The Hospital
Committee were not consulted re the site, that matter
being attended to by the local Board of Health, who had
the site altered from the one chosen by the Govt, archi-
tect. The Committee, who at that date had no locus
standi, fought hard, but. could only compromise with the
local Smell-men so as to shift it a few chains farther from
the graveyard. Neither battery is nearer than J-mile—
one S.E. and the other S.W. from the building—and as
the prevalent winds are from the east, the sound, if
heard at all, will only be a humming noise, not at all
suggestive of the undertaker.— Geo. F. Carlton, Secre-
tary Hospital Committee, Nannine, Sept. 20, 1897.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Money to Lend.
FITKTIIEK HIIXCKI) KITES,
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.IV.
MONT DE PIETE
D & I CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch-262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every .£1 to £lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
-
X
Reginald A. F. Murray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian.provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
X
Medical.
X
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.,
can be COMPLETELY CURED by
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace :
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Fitzroy-
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain any relief from others,
was completely cured by me 15 months ago, and
has kept in better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
yvas cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs. Nlcholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
Acknowledgments.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago and double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried doctors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
I was very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief from the first
supply of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since 1 saw you last.
Heleg Kxstrom, McCracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Dear Sir, —I wish to thank you most sincerely
for having cured me of Sciatica, having suffered
most acute pain for a long time, but, under your
Remedy, I am glad to say that I have completely
recovered. It is now 17 months since I saw you,
and I have not had the slightest return of the
pain—one week’s treatment having quite cured
me. If reference to me will assist any sufferer to
try your antidote, I shall be glad at any time to
tell them what it has done for me.—Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. T. Hughes, 29 Stirling Street, Kew,
19t.h August, 1897.”
“Dear Sir, —In grateful testimony to your skill
for having cured me of a very painful attack of
Rheumatism. I suffered great pain, having the
joints swollen. After a short while under your
treatment, I completely recovered. It is now over
three years ago since 1 was cured, and I have kept
well, being 64 vers of age. I consider your anti-
dote the marvel of the age for suffering humanity.
-Yours very truly, Professor W. T. Lamont, Ven-
triloquist and Entretenir, 4 Condell-street, Fitz-
roy, opposite Town Hall, 23rd August, 1897.”
Mrs. Laura Sunderland, 80 Bell-street, Fitz-
roy Rheumatic Fever, six months in bed, 12
months on crutches, joints stiffened and useless.
After six weeks’ use of antidote joints completely
cured. Can do all household duties, and has not
used either crutch or stick now for over 12
months.
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick : —Rheumatism 10 years, years
on crutches, and for two years had not walked at
all ; all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless ; life made miserable ; case pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Under
my remedy, contractions come out. Can walk
without aid of crutch or stick; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me-after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica,, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. I
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any colony, £l*
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU OET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited .
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company 's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es )., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M. L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rpHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Aotl890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,702,522 17 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 47,477 2 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,786
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: 11. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... ~ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY ... „ 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors ;
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4..50u,000
J’aid-up . .. ... £2,974,801 I Os.
Directors:
Hon. Janies Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Surgoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
. London Office: 1 Bishops*/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhal! Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Conjpaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
T — United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital. . .£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st. , Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Moreing & Neal, eta Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
ree on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Derwent, Thurs., October 7, 5 p.m.
-Tyrian, Saturday, October 9, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tuesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
ESPERANCE Bay
Derwent, Thurs., October 7, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, October 9, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tuesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERA.LDTON
Buninyong, Tuesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE i
maryboroucj-
ROCKHAMHTv). '
Julia Percy, Thursday, Oct. 7, 6 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, October 9, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, October 12, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACICAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &e.
Leura, Saturday, October 9, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 16, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CIIItKENT FAKES TO ALL FOKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH St SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
■ ® by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
THE . .
Universal Land & Deposit Bank
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874,
37 Victoria No. 19.)
Registered Office : 250 Ritt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
William Newcombe, Esq. (Chairman); Ernest A. Bonney,
Esq., L.S. ; E. C. V. Broughton, Esq., J.P.
TO (NVESTORS. —Debentures issued at 3 and 5 years’
currency. Interest, 6 per cent, and 7 per cent, respec-
tively, payable quarterly or half-yearly. Fixed deposits
to limited amounts—l 2 months, 5 per cent. ; two years,
51 per cent.
This Company did not suspend payment or re-construct
in any way during the building society smash of 1891, or
the bank panic of 1893. The Company buys and sells
land on easy terms, and the success that has attended its
operations is proof that there is scope for a well-managed
concern, and security for investors.
Ernest C. V. Broughton,
Managing Director.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, Melbourne L ’
Melbourne ()re Testing & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
(Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. l^lbotiri)?.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 GreBham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mall Steamships of the above Company wil
be despatched as follows
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* , , , ** ioojuuo. Tf ill iLUVL uu t
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
,i e t . er,llsfor Passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, Parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Faresjind Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney) Tues-
day, October 12.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney) Tues-
day, October 19.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, October 12.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, October 19.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
October 16.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
•S. Allinga,
October 12.
Tuesday,
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., I.td., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI, Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
the popular passenger line.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday" Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation., Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamer was built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare—London, £4,7 ss. ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne: or
GEO. WILLS 6i> CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
FORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON. DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner. 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


STEWAKT DAWSON & COS
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments^the Finest in the World.
Inapproachable Variety. ValOe. WooderfGl Selectioi)-
The most rbcherchd and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
First in Elegance.
412 George-street, and
First in Business Resources. First im. Popularity.
Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2s.
WMMMMMMM
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £6 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
B|in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, 55
Smaller Sizes at ±'2o to £4O.
WKHKgmmsß
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
m
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
2
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
Si
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s.; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; f-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
7Min„ £1 Is.
ladies’ ALBERT, Oct. Gold, £2 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, Sot. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
r-j r;
Very Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
Tnis design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
I!
m
m
*
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in,, £2 10s.; 14in., £3 ss.
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
ms -
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold, £8 10s.
tfi
I
m
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct, Gold, £3 3s. ; laefc. Gold, £5 10s.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ct. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
9ct. Gold, £1 15s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 16a.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, LI Is.
15ct. Gold, LI 17s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £i 10s.
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, L 2 5s
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
B%in. by £s 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling- Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 689.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 ss.
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
m
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d
Hk>v
4
m
■■lllllilffig!
No. 587—Gold BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
M
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
A.ny of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE. —The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS, have never been approached.
Dver Twenty Thousand Pounds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishments are a complete constellation of brilliancy and a panorama of artistic show. Everything NEW, ELEGANT, and
if UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound.
Greorge-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne


PacJzets
Of
*
w
LIEARS
CXIR,
fi/ALH-
PURE
/dIUD
nufacTured by
PAY£RN£ SW ,
Is.
Humber
- • (America)
Simpson
(Lever. Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
• . 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
The shorter of the Sisley sisters doesn’t look much more
than 15 off the stage, though, as a matter of fact, she is
about three years old ir. On the stage Miss Olive S
appears to be quite a woman. The elder sister, Barbara!
■ v f t , 20 ’ s ? tbe J[ are probably the youngest and
pluckiest damsels that have ever undertaken to run a
dramatic recital on their own in a theatre at Melbourne,
or anywhere else. In being: able to book Caulfield Cup
niarht for their one consecutive performance at the Bijou
they are lucky. J
Dear Bcllktis,—That Tasmanian barrister who burst
forth as a Dickens recitalist at Melb. Athenaeum Hall, a
while was a rather awful instance of misplaced
energy. With no real sense of humor or vocal ability to
interpret the characters he tried to represent, the
neglected stranger had seemingly been drawn into mono-
logue entertainment” by his “wonderful memory.”
remaps he was so unlucky as to hear the old original
Grossmith give a Dickens recital in the long ago. One
good professional monologuist makes a number of bad
amateurs. Given the very ordinary power to photograph
words upon the mind, any man who hears a successful
reading of Dickens from memory is tempted to make an
effort in the same direction. Being tempted, he is bound
to tall, unless the faculty of self-criticism steps forward to
save him—the faculty of realising his failure as an artist,
lhats what keeps millions of would-be actors from taking
to the stage. Bobbie Burns talked of the gift to see our-
selves as others see us as though it were a rare endow-
ment, whereas it is common enough up to a certain point
m human nature. The average person can't be per-
suaded to run the risk of appearing ridiculous on a public
platform.— Collins Street.
Lilian Tree will probably rejoin Bracy.
JRe the G V. Brooke leaflet lately published by printer
M isrally ° f Geelong, it seems that the statements con-
tained therein, or thereon, were gathered from an old
Australasian authority—“ Tahite ”by name. But isn’t
H time that the drowned tragedian’s bones were de*
oentlv buried and forgotten ? The babbling of the Brooke
begins to make The Bulletin’s head ache.
,« M . u r . Un ?, : “ Tani . bn,lr Major,” 100 nights ;
Uncle Tom s Cabin, 80; “ Sign of the Cross” third.
, aud j ence . when you are on trial, is a
forest of North Poles. — Olga Netiiersolr.
a . L. was i? a stage-box when Maeready acted Julian
Wife.’ In the dying scene a little
super, caught him. Mac. whispered, ‘D n you, hold
U^_"® ad “P.’, ‘ D——n L ou ’’ retorted the supe., ‘ hold it
up yourself . and let it down with a dump.”— Memoir.
" Why don t you hiss?” “How can I, when I yawn?”
. . A ce rtain high-kicker was so absent-minded that she
held up her leg as a signal for the tram.”
“The Reverend Fitzclarence, son of William IV. and
Mrs Jordan, of my profession, got the rectory of Maple-
durham. At a ball he asked me to write him a sermon.”
—r anny Kemble.
F. R. Woodhouse, a Sydney tenor, dilating at Brisbane
on the wonderful advantages of “correct breathing” as
being the key to singing : “ Any man who can speak can
sing, if he once learns how to breathe, and the physical
benefits are enormous. Why, when I first started to
learn how to breathe, I gained five inches in chest-
measureipent in a few months ”
An English paper alleges Gladstone was stage-struck, as
a ■ V °m l u '” a P> and ff° es on to argue how much finer he
would have been as Hamlet, Joseph Surface, Sir Affable
Hawk—or Archbishop of Canterbury-than as Premier.
Snazelle, in his “ Tales of a Traveller,” testifies to the
excellence of the Firm’s comic opera shows. “Their
scenery was always superb, and was recommended by the
names of such artists as Gordon, Brunton, Goatcher, and
bpong The artists imported were always of the best,
and the grand and long training in such a school has
brought many a fine singer to the front. The climate is
so tine, the atmosphere so bright and clean, that the
voices are nearly always in good order.” Which reminds
Ihe Bulletin that plump Courtiee Pounds used to snort
indignantly at the lack of Australian admiration for
chorus-singing, which would get double encores from a
London audience.
“The Captive Soul" cantata, by Miss Woolley, of
Sydney, has been published by Novello. The Musical
News, in recommending the work to the attention of
choral societies, sheds tears of joy over the brilliant effort
received from over the sea. The music is adjudged melo-
dious and stirring, unconventional oftentimes in character,
and not lacking in dramatic intensity.
The cinematograph views of the Corbett-Fitzsimmona
fight were reeled off at the rate of 29 to the second
apparently. ’
Vandani, in the last St. James’ Budget, writes that the
German Emperor, in Princehood, wanted to marry Car-
lottaGrosse, a singer, and abandon his right to the throne.
Tbe " his grandfather and his mother showed him 12
photos. of princesses, among whom he could take his
choice.
,■£.? importation, who has not yet secured the reversion
of Ohas. Ryley s mantle—probably because he has not had
a chance to appear without trousers—was once approached
by a Melb. weekly paper for an interview. The Thespian
potentate-in-embryo that is to say, in pants-modestly
ffSu T*. hat * he - would wa,t until he d ‘ d somethin^.”
Ihen I m afraid you’ll never be interviewed,” said the
slave of the midnight gas, pleased to score off such an
easy one. Another actor of the same co., who played a
small part, even smaller than it was written, succumbed
to the interviewer, and, amongst other things, remarked
that he once played serious parts at “ ’Ome,”but awoke one
da.v to the fact that he was a comedian. After playing the
first fortnight of his Australian engagement, and seeing no
signs of a “ boom” setting in his wav, be began putting
on airs, and said he didn’t care if‘he ever became a
favorite or not. Whereupon a smart “colonial” girl
standing near by : “ Plenty of time, dear boy ; nobody
knows you’re here yet.”
Mdlle. Georges, once the greatest French tragedienne,
had charge of the umbrellas at the Paris Exhibition of
arlslan w bnian box-opener, Ouvreuse, told Bern-
hardt that was what she would come to. Bernhardt •
Quand Mfime.” (Her motto).
Haresfoot: “The Edouin family, as children, consisted
of Eliza, Rose, Julia and Willie, assisted by Charles and
John, who were men. Eliza, the cleverest, died voung
in Australia. Rose is Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis. Julia, always
petite, married in India, and is dead. Willie is the Lon-
don comedian. Mrs. Edouin Bryer is the widow of
Charles, the right name of the family having been Brver
John married Tilly Earl.” 1
.P an „ ?. ood thin £ c °me out of Nazareth? Not
after Niobe following “ The Sign of the Cross.”
Not one man in a hundred survives after
having both legs amputated—so say the surgeons
Mr. Alt, railway station-master at Colo, N.S.W.
who was run over by a train and suffered double
amputation, has been discharged from Bowral
Hospital “cured.” By the way, Parisian savant
Hr. Keclus advocates abolition of amputation ex-
cept in most hopeless cases. Whatever the extent
or gravity of the damage, he never, under any
circumstances, amputates the injured limb, but
merely wraps it in antiseptic substances and
swathes it like a mummy, leaving nature to
separate the dead from the living tissues. But
before doing this, he shaves and cleanses with
ether the surface round the damaged part, and
irrigates the injury freely and thoroughly with
hot water at 140 deg. F. He tells the French
Congress of Surgery that by so doing he has a far
lower death-rate than where amputation is prac-
j.se .•. Hot water is antiseptic, is an excellent
dimimsher of bleeding, helps to compensate for
the loss of body heat due to the loss of blood, and
is a powerful aid against traumatic shock. Lastly,
this process preserves far more of a limb, and pro-
vides a more workable and useful extremity than
an amputation stump can ever be.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The first act of Melbourne racing carnival, due
at Caulfield on Saturday, ought to clear away a good deal
of the smoke that is hanging around the big handicaps at
present. The Caulfield Stakes has a number of popular
fancies among the entries (including the Derby horse
Amberite), and the Stakes, although only a £2OO event’
is sometimes a wonderfully straight guide to punters. On
the other hand, it. is sometimes a delusion and a snare.
If Amberite be a really first-class three-year-old, he can
win this w.f.a. race, and, if it is to produce another great
surprise, perhaps Sam, Cook will furnish the surpriser in
Hypnotist.
n The ' v >% r thinks that Aurum can win the
fi? i Gjujneas (it is not a very reckless prediction),
i tlainault is sufficiently big and ripe to capture
the Debutant Stakes under a penalty. But guesswork re
the chances of a crowd of interested two-vear-olds is
dangerous. Adelaide judges count on Staffa taking the
loorak Handicap, whereas the writer would sooner make
a book on that exciting mile jostle, and lay agin’ allofem.
As for Caulfield Cup chances, the market, at
shows nothing clearer than 100 to 7 on
the field and 100 to 3 against outsiders, which amounts to
a warning that the public will do well to viiit a week
before investing their hard-earned beans in any direction,
lrent seems to he the one undeniably genuine candidate
thiisfar. The writer expects that a number of reasonable
fancies will presently form in favor of Trent, Rosella,
Devon (perhaps), Foliage, Mischief, The Hypnotist, Vir-
tue, Luster, Amberite, and one from W. R. Wilson’s little
lot. The first day at Caulfield should certainly give a
turf-adviser ” something solid to go upon, although it
wiU not alter the fact that Caulfield Cup “tips” are
almost invariably knocked into contempt by the result.
Auraria, the heroine of two years ago, is certain
to show up for the weight-for-age races at Fleniington.
Ihe mare, improving rapidly, may be her old self again
in three weeks time. And, by the wav, Burrabari, who
ran third to Auraria and Hova for a Melb. Cup, is said to
be in a fair way to recover his lost “ form.”
* * * *
The Sydney galloway, Watercolor (Niagara—
Cerise and Blue) surprised Melbournians last Saturday by
making an easy win at the Hunt Club races, Flemington,
of the Melton Handicap Flat-race, starting at 15 to 1, and
beating a field including Zero, Malto, Devoted, and Paul
1 ry. At same meeting the First Sapling Stakes was won
by Vigorous, followed home by Cocos. Both colts arc by
Abercorn, and were bred at Kirkham.
* * * •
At Flemington Hunt Club meeting, on Satur-
day, the disappointing Key won the Narre Warren Stakes
—and was solidly backed by the right party. This flying
filly must have a say in Caulfield Cup
* * » »
At Warwick Farm, on Saturday, J.B.C. was
made a hot favorite for the Hurdles, but failed to get a
place, and Crysalite won easily from Larrikin. Mr. “ Bill ”
Forrester surprised the crowd by winning the Pace Welter
with his 8 to 1 chance, Unison ; and Jack Horner made an
easy victory of the Auction Stakes. Eleven youngsters
started for the first two-year-old race of the season, and
““I? commission being placed for Kelso’s Essex (Sweet
William—Myall Queen), the public followed the lead and
the colt started at even money. Essex won easilv from
Long s Glonosa, by Far Niente from Gloria. Quadrat was
made favorite for Warwick Farm Handicap, and 100yds.
from home was fighting it out with the Epsom winner, Robin
Ilood, but. the Carbine colt, Raven’s Plume, coining at the
right end, disposed of the pairand won bva length from the
fav onte. Rosalind at 4to 1 was favorite for the Farm
Stakes, and entering the straight looked all right, but she
faded awaj’, and Tripos at 8 to 1 won by a couple of
lengths from Town Clock. On the second dav the well-
performed Alaska was made favorite for the Selling
Hurdles, but was passed on entering the straight bv
Aboriginal who eventually won by a length. Unison was
picked by the public for the Empire Handicap, hut the
Jeweller gelding, Town Clock, beat him home. Mr. 11.
C. Whites fine colt Phillip was made favorite for the
Demonstration Handicap, but finished a length and a half
behind the unbacked Australian, by the Australian Peer
W. Kelso’s Ryde (Splendor-Young Rosabella) was made a
big pot for the second two-year-old race, but Fasti'dious
(Niagara—Dainty) made most of the running, and cleverly
won by a head. Unison was again made favorite in the
Convention Handicap, and won easily from Myee.
Hyde’s “ reversal of form ” in the two-year-old
race at Warwick Farm, had it occurred amongst the ponies,
wou.d not have gone without enquiry. On the first dav
his stable companion, Essex, started favorite, and Ryde
absolutely friendless, ran amongst the last division On
the second day, with Essex out of it, Ryde is made
favorite and only beaten by a short head.
* • * #
Dear Bulletin,— lf “ Professional Sport ” finds
it so easy to get gcod prices about each horse from Ikev
Moses through the effects of competition, he can make a
good living by backing every horse in the race. On his
own showing, he only needed a capital of £93 to back all
oin« hor f, es ln i , Kat) dwick Plate to win him either £99 or
£lOO. More than 6 or 7 percent. ; not bad interest for
half-an-hour 1 He says he could have backed the field thus :
44 to 55 against Holbrook.
80 to 20 „ Projectile.
90 to 9 „ Fucile.
90 to 9 „ Newman.
Looks pretty doesn’t it? Now, I’ve been to many race-
meetings, and tried to bet nice and safe like that, but
couid never manage it. Wish I’d been at the Randwick
Plate. ‘ P.S. says the public benefit when a favorite
wins, not when an outsider pays an enormous div. (on the
tote, presumably). The public in general mav not win in
the Jatter case, but some few members of the public un-
doubtedly do win. On the other hand, how do the public
fare when that same outsider wins under Ikev’s book-
making system ? Very badly indeed. There are'probably
fewer on it (on account of the shorter odds), and they
don t collect the “ enormous div.” the tote would have
paid them. The machine doesn’t jump on its top-hat and
call for fizz when a rank outsider wins.—Widgkheb
* * * •
This year’s Melb. Cup promises to be a lively
betting race. Positano and Wait-a-Bit, both “good
things on best form, will be very questionable quanti-
*‘es/?r n 6 "i« X m hree Y ee H S .’ now that the y are scratched
for the Caulfield event. Also J. Wilson, jun., holds a
strong hand with Virtue and Alabaculia, and the intern
tions of W. R. W llson are wrapped in mystery.
The Millers, seldom dangerous in big handicaps.
Luster 68 ° wlnning thia y ear ' s Caulfield Cup-with
• * * .
Admirers of Wait-a-Bit are beginning to doubt
whether the son of Malua is a brilliant finisher. In the
Newmarket Handicap, and again in the September Stakes
at Flemington, the other Saturday, the Ballarat candi-
date ran like one that can’t raise an extra sprint when
called on in the last 20yds. Perhaps Anwin has made a
mistake m taking Wait-a-Bit too early to the fore and
trusting to the horse s stamina to keep him there, instead
of holding him back for the “ Malua rush.” But has he
inherited the paternal rush ?
• • * *
At Aspendale Park races, Sep. 23, Olaf started
at 8 to 1 Marshal Niel at 5 to 2, and Summer at evens^
At Wren s Collingwood tote these horses paid the extra,
ordinary sums of £4, £6, and £4 12s. to Is. Certainly
unusual prices, but fancy Ikey Mo paying 120 to 1!
* * * «
A “contingency” sale and a moral. When
Curzon ran second for the English Derby, Tom Cannon
sold him to Baron Hirsch for a bigf cash price and a con-
tingency of £5OO to boot the first time he won. Curzon
proved a duffer, and, after the baron’s death was sold for
almost a song. Two years later he won a little selling-
race, and was auctioned for 115 guineas. Promptly Can-
non swooped down on the baron’s estate for his £6OO con-
tingency, and got it too.
“ ,f ea y astonishing how the clever division
rail in. A pony partnership bore this out at a recent
Dip pony meeting-, when they backed their gee to win a
pot of money, and then allowed the race to start without
giving final ” instructions to their jockey. It appears
their standing instructions are “ Never try unless told to
a .° 80 J an d, as each one thought the other had told the
riclet the splosh was on, the lad rode to instructions, and
nad all his work cut out to hold his mount back. It was
hard luck.
' * « .
Much disappointment was felt in Sydney swim-
nung circles when the news was cabled that Jack Hellings
had been beaten in the 100yds. amateur championship,
swum at London. Hellings was clear at 44yds., covered
m 25sec,, and at 76yds. was a yard to the good from
Derbyshire, who led Tyers by a yard and a-half. Hellings
then seems to have mulled the final turn, and Tyers,
making his effort, won by six inches, Hellings and Derby-
shire a dead heat. Time, Imin. 3 3-5sec.
* * » a
The weather for the first day of the Australasian
Championship Sports meeting, held on Sydney Cricket
Uround last Saturday, did not promise fast times, but
Stanley Rowley managed to rattle off 100yds. in lOsecs.,
equalling VV. T. Macpherson’s N.S.W. amateur record.
Jn the 220yds., on the second day, in perfect weather,
Rowley again equalled Macpherson’s record—of 22 2-5secs.
JN.b.W. won the championship with six first places ; M.L.
second, four ; Victoria three, and Queensland two. The
attendance was small on both days, but it must be con-
fessed that, except to enthusiasts, a sports-meeting is not
lively enough to compete with the many other Sydney
public-holiday recreations.
* » • •
Mr. Sam Hordern left an order in England for
a 22-footer to compete in the next interprovincial race,
the meeting of an English boat with our cracks will be
an interesting event. Sydney used to believe it stood
alone in re boat-building and handling, but recent meet-
ings with Brisbane boats have quite upset this idea.
• * • *
Towns and Wray, the two Australian scullers
now in England, have been haggling for a match, but as
only a second in the start to be allowed was the bone of
contention, it does not look as if the two mean business.
People who ought to know reckon that Towns is a very
cunning individual who, so far, has rowed his races with
the object of more work ahead. As to the respective
qualifications of Towns and Wray, watersiders who should
know aver that Towns is far and awav the better man ;
some reckon him another Stanburv. * Barry, who was
beaten by Towns, has now challenged Wray for £100.
* * * *
The first cricket century of the Sydney season
was secured by the consistent young plaver, L. W. Pve,
playing for Central Cumberland against Carlingford and
Hornsby. He scored 136 run out.
* * # *
L, Vic. W. Brassard of £5 a week falls to A. C.
Forbes, the sturdy M.L. plugfjer, whose facial resemblance
to the tfreab and only Bilmartin caused the crowd to hail
him as “ Little Bill.” Unplaced in the mile event, won
by one of Joe Melon's usual outside swoops, Forbes
carried off both the ten and the five miles, leaving all the
Australian cracks standing at the sprint. Bananalander
Walne, hero of last year's cycling, ran nowhere in any
event, and the foreign contingent—Martin, Green, and
Reynolds—didn’t consider the prize of a fiver a week
worth the trouble.
With this trio and a coterie of cycling’ press-
men was Platt-Betts, the English crack, who had
arrived from Ome that morning. Bstts is even more of.
a “ take down ” than the great Zimmerman. About
5ft. 4in. high with a smooth cheek, the holder of all the
world’s records up to 30 miles looks like a youngster of
15 or so, and when he gravely informs you that he has
brought his wife with him you stand aghast. Mrs. P.-B
is a pretty little woman—very delicate-looking and in
strong contrast to her youthful hubby who is at present
hog-fat and obviously out of condition.
It was just a few days before he left England
that the little man reduced the mile to lmin. 37 3-5sec
and, with the speediest man extant on their own tracks’
Australians will at last be able to guage their abilities
with those of the dearoldmotherland.
With Betts came Ainsworth, five-mile amateur
champion of England, who lias given amateurism best in
view of t he big cash prizes of this glorious empire beneath
the Southern Cross.
After being practically tested by the L. V. W.
Biassard charity-meeting on Saturday, the Melb. Friendly
Societies’ cycle-track proved itself almost perfect. The
saving clause is necessary, because the exposed position
of the place makes every breath of wind felt with full
force ; otherwise, the track is a cycling heaven. The
surroundings, however, are as yet very primitive.
Despite Saturday’s wretched weather, the ground held ali
it could, and the reserve could have taken few more
The grand-stand is an open structure 1
About time the cycling authorities exercised
better supervision over the crowd of “battlers” who
rush the arena on the Press-nod. On Saturday, there
were a score of alleged journalists whom nobody knew
and no less than three leery-looking individuals were
lording it as Bulletin representatives, and promising
everybody “pars.”
* * • *
How universal is the everlasting orange-and-
green feud ! According to latest rumor, Vic. League of
Wheelmen is beginning to divide itself somewhat over the
matter !!! It, is openly stated that one councillor, an
able official last season, has been left off all committees
owing to his not being of the “ right color.”
* * * •
Bilmartin is in Melbourne, and possibly may be
heard of in connection with the Beeston-Humber people
The plugger was mounted on a Humber when he landed in
Australia.
* * • *
Re amateur cyclists, and bikes as trophies. The
amateur governing bodies of Vic. and Queensland have
forbidden the thing. They, however, have a still more
pernicious system, viz., the open-order one, which enables
amateurs to obtain money in lieu of prizes. For instance
A. wins an open order value £5 5s. He is supposed to
select a trophy to the value, which is duly inspected by
an official and paid for. A. happens to have a friend in
the jewellery line, selects something from his stock, and,
after inspection, the selection is returned to stock and
cash handed over to A.—less a small discount for the
trouble. A sample of every-day shamateurism.
Phil Fargher, one of the successful Kolapore
Cup Bisley team, has a safe seat on the council which
controls rifle-shooting in Vic. The meeting at which he
was elected had a proposal before it that all competitors
should appear at rifle-matches in uniform. This idea of
the shoddy militaires on the council was denounced by
Fargher as a dodge to introduce the military koo-too.
Every man in uniform would have to salute “every
whipper-snapper of an officer” —and salutes would take
up the time meant for shooting. The meeting went fran-
tic with delight at this championship of the mere rifle-
man, and Fargher was hoisted to the council —much to
the disgust of the imported persons upon it.
* * • *
Pd. Bulletin, — Re the Corbett and Fitz-
simmons Vitascope. Of course, the uglier man won.
Beauty means balance, proportion, all-round develop-
ment, and general capacity. Success means specialisa-
tion, development along one line, lopsidedness, and
deformity. Elegants, like Brockwell and Donnan, are
less successful in cricket because they bat partly on gene-
ral principles, not devoting themselves wholly to the
special needs of each ball. Cramped players, like Darling
and the English Brown, get there at the pinch. The
graceful man is often the second-best man never the very
best. So much movement has to be made to secure grace-
fulness, which the direct-action man eeon anises. Same
in polities, same in science, same in philosopl,\. Compare
the “ efficiency of the highly-finished Gladstone with
the crude Abe Lincoln, of the mellifluous Drummond
with the crabbed Darwin, of Edwin Arimld with Herbert
Spencer. Keats said that “ First in beauty should be first
in might.” But biology has developed much since Keats’
time.- Compton.
* * * *
A pathetic bicycle story from Vic. Western dis-
trict. Brown hung up his machine to a log trough, in
front of a pub. on the edge of a wilderness, and went in
to take a drink. While he was drinking, a teamster,
watering his horses, shifted the machine to the verandah.
Presently the cyclist came forth, scattered one startled
glance, found his machine missing, anil a strange rider
slipping over the crown of the hill 100yds. down the road.
The bicyclist suspects every man. Brown sprang upon
the bike on the verandah, and started after the thief at a
Bill Martin gait. The other rider, looking back, saw a
scorcher charging down upon him, and. scenting a chal-
lenge, humped his back and set sail for the setting sun.
But Brown was the better man, and came up with the
other on a down-grade, and, filled with blind liny,
charged the petty larcenist like a hull. Two men and
two bicycles mingled in the dust of the road, and pre-
sently the riders rose up out of the ruins and the dirt,
and began a wild fight, in which both were battered
beyond recognition, and which only terminated when the
teamster arrived, and sat on Brown’s head whilst he con-
vinced him that he had been riding bis own mad ine all
the time. Bikes removed to nearest hospital ; bikers
still in lint.
* * * *
The disqualification of Vaughan, who finished
first in the recent Scott-Morton road-race, should have a
good effect on such long-distance events. Last year’s
“ towing was so glaring that the present race was run
“unpaced”; yet some competitors had friends on tan-
dems awaiting them in certain spots, as well as outside
bikers who “for fun” measured pace with the racer.
Vaughan’s excuse is ignorance. By taking the track he
did he got ahead of the leading bunch as they were going
round by the proper course; not knowing' that anyone
was ahead of them, they fell into the loafing tactics of the
average cycle-racer until they made the final sprint and
the desperate finish up-hill between Jackson and G Car-
penter was a terrible sell for the former when he found
another man had come in 7min. previously.
The Jackson awarded the race is “ Newhaven ”
Jackson, who ran away with his Austral heat last year,
and who has been consistently winning races in’ the
countiy ever since. Jackson’s time was 9hr. 51min. 9sec.,
last year’s with pacing being 8hr. 40min. 15see.
* * • •
Some recent remarks of The Bulletin on old-
time peds have received strange confirmation by a late
mail. Bacon, England's champion ped., lately tried to
beat Jack White’s record for five miles, and, though
paced by bikes and foot-runners, failed hadlv. He trained
specially for the distance, whereas Whitens record was
accomplished in the course of a much longer race.
Indeed, it is certain that had the referee not told him to
stop as the race was won, White would that day have
altered all records up to 10 miles, which distance he must
have accomplished well within 50min
• * * •
Dr. Gresswell lately told the members of Mel-
bourne Board of Health that chewing - gum con-
tained 15 per cent, of “utterly indigestible” paraffin
wax, and that it ruined the health of its consumers. The
Board decided to request the City Council to prosecute
all vendors of this seductive poison. If the Council com-
P"« \ vltl J, request, sly chewing-gum shops will pro-
bably be Melbourne’s next commercial development.
The superiah correspondent-person : “ Ranjit-
sinhji is reported to be getting £2500 for his share of the
book about cricket. It comes as a blow to the svmpa-
thetic public that Ranji should he reduced to writin* r for
a livelihood.” The scribe had evidently taken accurately
bis own literary measure.
* * * *
Ch. Towers produces perhaps the most ferocious
footballers on earth. Huge, hulking fellows most of
them, with about as much science as a bull-elephant,
they usually win their game by disabling or mortally
wounding their adversaries.
* * * *
Sailorman Ball, wno made such a ludicrous ex-
hibition with Peter Felix in Sydney, has been giving the
Yanks a similar experience in ’Frisco. He was pitted
at." one Baker, and made just such another show as
with Felix until the referee ordered him out of the ring.
Jack Valentine, erstwhile Sydney amateur boxer,
has turned professional, and is to meet Billy Edwards in
South Africa. Edwards beat Mick Dunn, a well-known
Sydneyite, a clever boxer, but one who, when in Australia,
always had sense enough to know when he had sufficient
of a good thing.
* * * *
Vic. rowing will receive fresh stimulus from the
recent Yarra improvements, whereby the river has been
transformed from an evil-smelling, meanderim' creek
materially narrowed by the frequent carcases of dead
animals, to a straight, broad expanse of water capable of
accommodating five or six competing crews " Where
Brander’s ferry was, the stream now is fully double its old
width, and the sharp old “ Baths corner ” has been sup-
planted by a gradual sweeping curve. There will still be
two slight turns in a mile course, but three-quarters of
the distance is a straight line whereon oarsmen may
spit chips under the very eye of Gov. Brassey on his
verandah.
* * * .
Brisbane’s newest social institution is the
Queensland Sporting and Athletic Club, organised bv
Theodore Wood, who has been nearly all things in his
time—from Imperial bureaucrat to editor of reform
t 3 \ lordly squatter to insurance-drummer.
An, what a time there was at Waitemata plantation
Maryborough, in the good old days when Theodore W
was a bloated sugar-planter ! Already most of Brisbane’s
most influential flesh-and-blood human beings (The Bul-
letin isn’t talking of saints) have signed Wood’s list and
Dowridge s athletic hall has been leased. “ The Black
Diamond ” will be general manager.
♦ * * *
The champion glutton for punishment among
Austraban pugs is Jim (“ Ironbark ”) Burge, who invari-
ably won his battles by allowing the other man to punch
bis cast-iron head until his hands were useles- Once
being trained for a fight in Melb. by Peter Newton, Jim
was attacked by a violent headache, and, alter several
curative efforts, he suggested that Newton should “ deal
it out ” to him and make his nose bleed. This the trainer
conscientiously did until a soreness of the knuckles
warned him to desist. In desperation he lifted on hieh
an Indian club of several pounds weight, while Bur"-e
held his nose in position. Just as the weapon was about
to fall, the iron-man changed his mind. “ No Peter ” he
cried, “ ye’d better not. The club ain’t mine.”


Piles and How to Cuke them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
Found in S.W. Queensland that the most
effective of all rabbit-poisons is pollard mixed with
livers of rabbits which have died of chicken-
cholera. Also, the rabbits desert the burrows
wherein bunnies dead of chicken-cholera have
been placed.
According to the N.Y. Mutual Life’s
Australian organ, “ Mr. E. P. Field, our well-
known and esteemed Sydney Metropolitan agent,
intends to leave for London by an early mail,
having been accredited to the new branch office,
where we have no doubt he will be even more
successful than he has been in Sydney.” Mr.
Field is the well-known herculean barrister who
some years ago gave up an excellent practice for
the purpose of becoming an amateur evangelist.
Editor Wallace Nelson, of Rockhampton
(C.Q.), advised a querist that plenty could be done
with the Australian youth if he “only had for a
grand nationality a fraction of the desire that he
now has for the horse, and the bike, and that other
article which exactly represents the present politi-
cal value of his own head—the football bladder.”
AVhereupon the Northern Miner arises to
remark that, “ if Mr. Nelson had played football,
he might now have weighed list, instead of 7st.;”
adding, as a rider, “ Footballers are not the only
people who have wind in their heads.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
o*°
RED BIRD.
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd
Australasian Branch — 64 Kino St., Sydney.
Aoknts and)
Dicrors j
Everywhere.
Aobnts and
Depots
EVERYWIIKRK.
Somk cycles are cominsr down in price—that is, the
kind in opposition to RED BIRDS. The refined con-
struction of Red Birds is not found in other cycles,
notably their Adjustin'? Alignment Bottom Bracket
and their little Oil Bath Bearings, which make the
Red Bird the fastest wheel on earth.
\VM. MARTIN’S celebrated mile in lmin. 19 3-sseo.
is a sample of their easy winning qualities.
One of the great features of the new Red Bird is
its bottom bracket. It is a triumph of modern skill
in cycle-building, and is a feature as far ahead of
bottom brackets in other cycles as the pneumatic tyre
is ahead of the solid. The two cups which form the
bearings are turned from the finest grade of steel pos-
sible to manufacture. They contain ten 5-16 balls.
Each cup is threaded to a steel sleeve or barrel which
adjusts inside the bottom bracket proper, and is held
in place by two bolts. With the bearings it is only
necessary to oil same about twice a year, as they are
thoroughly dust-proof and oil-retaining, the balls
running in a continuous oil bath. With OTHER
CYCLES it is almost impossible to get a perfectly
true chain alignment, whereas the chain and the
bearings, with the aid of this most important im-
provement, can be adjusted to 1-Iouoth part of an
inch.
Rkad what Ilarry A. Witton, of George-st., Hay-
market., City, has to say of his lied Bird cycle :
“The Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.,
“ City.
“ Gentlemen,—The Red Bird lijrht roadster cycle
which I purchased from your representative some
time ago is, without doubt, the grandest specimen of
the cycle-builder’s art that I have ever had the plea-
sure of possessing. Having just completed a trip of
over 1200 miles, via Goulburn, Cooma, Delegate,
across the Snowy River thence to Bairnsdale, Sale,
San Remo, I’hilip Island and Melbourne, returning to
Sydney via Albur.v and Cootamundra, therefore 1 con-
sider I am in a position to thoroughly judge the
quality of ydur machine. This trip was in connection
with my position as Roving Deputy of the Indepen-
dent Order of Good Templars, and in that capacity I
have called in many towns out of the general track of
Melbourtie-to-Sydney riders, and had a chance to test
Red Bird quality on the unfrequented tracks along
the route. My machine came through without
trouble of any kind, not even a puncture. Your cele-
brated Electric tyres are fit companions for the other
good qualities of your wheel. I can now understand
why it is said the Red Bird never requires repairs.
Yours very truly,
(Signed) HARRY A. WITTON.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE C'ltESt.'E.NT,’* situated C3l
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GKO. W. ELLIS.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUKKNSLAND,
should note that the
. • Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms. .
G. FOX, Proprietor.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(|Jolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. t&T Everything fancy but the price.
Englishs American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
0
MACK LIN
HENLEY
ORIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD; also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Waning. Is. 3d.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an ‘ i a/i per pi a i *
Duplicate parts always in stock. IWlrtnlHL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia :
J. F. MCDERMOTT.
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
o
VER 05,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
(SRCVILLC
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4sin.
Tread, and Hygienio or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(Sretfillc TCirocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY:
108 King-street, NEWTOWN.
TDe ACME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“DOWKEDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Vnd GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
UN
AFT€R
months of waiting we have at last received some shipments of the famous DUNLOP Cycles,
consisting of Racing Models only, but we are promised consignments of Roadsters by an
early boat.
There is certainly no other cycle that has attained a world-wide reputation such as the
Dunlop Cycle has secured in the few months it has been before the public.
The manufacturers of the Dunlop Cycles did not leave anything to chance when setting
out their plans. The ruling idea from the start was, “We must build the best bicycle evei
made.” To do that it was necessary to secure the most skilful designers, best machinery, able
mechanics, and reliable material. Having command of ample capital, there was no late i in
these respects, and the result is that the public is constantly being astonished to heai o
more wonderful records made on
“DUNLOP” CYCLES
WITH DUNLOP TYRES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
393 George Street,
SYDNEY;
139-141 Elizabeth
Street,
MELBOURNE;
RcNnr.E Street,
ADELAIDE;
Hay Street,
PERTH;
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE ;
Christchurch,
Dunedin,
Charters Towers,
Warrnambool, &c
32
1
4
™ in ONE HOUR
Had never been accomplished on any style of bicycle till J. W.
STOCKS, mounted on a “DUNLOP” CYCLE, accomplished
the stupendous feat of riding 32 miles 448 yards within the 60 min.,
on the Crystal Palace track, London, which
. . IS WORLD’S RECORD! . . .
Rookwood Cemetery ; R.C. chapel. Priest per-
forming last rites over deceased footballer. Ist Mourner :
“ I say, Bill, wat’s ’e savin’ ? I can’t understand a word.’
2nd Ditto: “Shut up, yer fool— that’s real Irish ’es
(peakin’."
* • • •
“F.”: “The word ‘punter’ is generally used
half-apologetieally. Thackeray, writing 40 years ago, in
the ‘Four Georges’ without by-your-leave ‘Charles
Fox, a dreadful gambler, was cheated in very late times —
lost £200,000 at play. Gibbon tells of his playing for 22
hours at a sitting, and losing £5OO an hour. That in-
domitable punter said that the greatest pleasure in life,
after winning, was losing.’ ’’
• * * *
Doesn’t look as if Sandow has it all his own
way. Cyr, the Canadian athlete, has recently lifted 1 ton
llicwt. 1 ton 124 cwt.; and 1 ton 18cwt. 441 b.! And
this without “ harness ” or contrivances of any kind.
• * • «
He was doing the purse-trick in a second-class
railway-carriage, i.e., putting three sovs. in a purse and
selling the lot for AT. Somebody laid a well-advertised
detective on to catch him. The D. said he thought he
could as he was a strange spieler and would not know
him. He sauntered into the carriage just in time to see a
farmer taken down. The D. handed the artist a sovereign
and took the purse ; opening same he found three sovs.
“Gentlemen, I can assure you the game is quite fair;
good day.” Then the D. whistled himself into a first-
class carriage.
■» • • •
Cabled that the Welshman, Michael, has, at
Boston, U.S.A., covered the marvellous distance of 26
miles, less 101 yards, within the hour.
• • • *
Several Vic. professional cyclists are rejoining
the amateur body. The general reason given for apply-
ing for reinstatement is that they can do no good with
the professionals. One applicant bluntly stated there
* was too much cronk work going on for him.”


< p
fee#
v-w
eiu^
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE CONSTIPATION.
mfeilll
FOR SAW-GULLETING, PLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING, 1
Tlae Tanite Co.’s 1
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
BKTG-INrEERS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OF Uim MTEXEST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “WORDS OF
WISDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Thousands have been
PERMANENTLY CURED after trying all
other means. If you have been humbugged and
disappointed, write to-day tor the Book and 5000
testimonial letters, posted FREE, SEALED and
WITHOUT MARKS.
Address —
DR. IRVING CO.,
Corner HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
) Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
“Father” Abrahams, the Melb. Rabbi, has
been celebrating the Jewish New Year by a series of
special sermons, the first being termed ‘The Moral
Ledger. 1 The intelligent printer on one of the
dailies turned this into the Moral ‘ Lodger, 1 but
little harm was done. The public knows that the
age of miracles is past.
That Melb. dame who appeared as respond-
ent twice in the Divorce Court in two years took
good care that the public should miss none of the
factsof thecase.andaccordinglyadvertisedboth her
marriages in the dailies on the date of hearing of
the last petition. She poetically instructed the
second husband, who had been the co-respondent
in the prior case, that “she had served him as she
served the first ; he could go to and do his
worst.” In these days of dissimulation, a littl e
candor like this is refreshing.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Q. Govt, is shutting down on comprehen
sive endowments to hospitals. The rate has been
£2 for every „£1 subscribed anyhow. In future,
the same duplication will only be paid to “ bona
fide contributions given by individuals 11 ; no sums
raised by balls, entertainments, automatic medical
batteries, etc., will be subsidised. Boss Tozer
gives this out as something new. Why, up at
Thursday Island, every pearling -and
most of him is black, or brown, or yellow—is com-
pelled by law to pay Is. a month —the Customs
department take it from the wages due, getting
first bite, so to speak—to the local hospital, and
Govt, some time ago stopped its subsidy to that
levy.
The Fijian is dying out. The epidemics
of civilisation-cwm-Christianity are the cause of his
extinction. So at least says S.M. Herald, who
with the next breath observes that, from the mis-
sionary point of view, Fiji is the greatest triumph
of the century ! Cadmean sort of triumph ! Eh ?
Some eighteen hundred years ago a carpenter
with the gift of prophecy explained in vigorous
speech how the missionary would act; also how
said missionary’s work would pan out —sea and
land compassed to make a proselyte and the pro-
selyte once made rendered twofold more the child
of hell than the missionary. Yes, than the mis-
sionary ! Irreverent carpenter !
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MAONIVEN & CAM MUON'S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers.
| What Queensland M.P. dares to move a
, clause in the Land Bill to debar M’sP. from acting
I as agents for persons before the Land Court ?
Was that a laugh ’ Is the game, then, too profit-
able to be readily relinquished ? On this, and a
nearly analogous matter, a Bulletin correspondent
writes:—
Should not M’s.P. also he prohibited from acting as
counsel in law-courts? Perhaps the cases are not even
distinctly alike. But, look you, what a glorious purifica-
tion of Parliament it might lead to ! The democracy might
say “No, we will not be so unjust as to disable lawyers
from taking seats in Parliament,’’ but the repute of our
Parliamentary representatives must be so far above
suspicion that we enact that no M.P. shall be allowed to
act as advocate in any court called upon to administer the
laws which Parliament makes! How many six-and-
eightpenny men, or how many variously guinea-ed barris-
ters would try for Parliamentary honors under such a
system ? A beautiful way to expurgate Parliaments !
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillar ins!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. <>tl.
Sole Agents :
m
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
Medical.
THE drum"
'N POSITION I
PeafQesS
AND HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s COMMON |
SENSE EAR DRUMS I
Relied
Relieve all conditions of Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill fails.
The only Scientific Acral Sound Con-
ductor. Safe to wear, comfortable,
invisible, no dangerous wire or metal
attachment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book—Free. J.
Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CUBE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. SAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
rp o LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY
Sydney, May 19th, 1897.—1 hasten to thank you and tell
you what a splendid treatment I have found it; am now
quite well. Three months ago I tried it as a last resource,
dreading an operation, which I have avoided. —M. J.R.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents ; Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
vamfficndtt/rl&CocecL
Contains more digestible nourishment than the finest Beef
Tea. Por Breakfast, Luncheon, or Supper, it is unequalled.
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING) & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
NTSERHAT
{Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THIS WORLD,
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
A'T'IVfINNV a'TOS
ssixxoa ao SNomut
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2- eacli.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and EIVERPOOE STREETS, SVDJfEY.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONaT& IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANCLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
3
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
STYLE NO. 14.
£9 9s. CASH. £lO 103. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine,
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Pood is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The A
Drug Co. Sydrey; and by leading Chemis.
straiian
_S <Scc., everywli
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
1 British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


HEIFLIR, ZR^SSHVUTTSSEIISr
' The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tlje ALFALIHC HCRBAL (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe oase of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, whioh I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Heir Rassmussen. — Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHaM.
A. Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R«ssmus»en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you 'hat
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. * UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. hkkbr, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Buit in writes later:- “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the-Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Haqerman (my husband;, 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herhalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rai-mussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERYIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady's Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmusses, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that ion
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithful: v
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidnes's
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
845 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9/3/97.
Dear Sir, - It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could he felt from the outside, and which- com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W. A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends. —Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long he spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9,1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that tlj
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Live!
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
■■ Ifected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. lam willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
1 1 uly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMTTSSEN’S ALE ALINE REMEDIES.
i AWARDED,
mm gold
55HS
EDALS
lUii
\
ALFA LINE PILLS
CURED 100.000 TOR THE BLOOD t. NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutelv free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cute
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERR RAS-SMUSSEN’S
REM DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any. ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be tfiven FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or c ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Inter co lonial
Branches:
Melbourne —150 Bourke Street.
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers —Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


A TASMANIAN MIRACLE.
PARTIAL PARALYSIS AND WHOLE
PROSTRATION ENTIRELY CURED.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS CREATE A
SENSATION IN HOBART.
(From the Hobart Clipper.)
Henry Dixon Clarke, a native of Hobart, Tas-
mania, tells a story of a cure effected by the use
of the now famous Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, which in its marvellous details proves
the adage that truth is stranger than fiction.
Twelve years ago he fell from the scaffolding of
a building in course of erection in Collins-street,
Melbourne, and was taken to the hospital in-
sensible. He recovered and was sent home. The
next morning he was too stiff to go to work, and
resolved on resting awhile. The next day he was
worse, and in addition to feeling feverish and
unwell, he was seized with twitching pains in the
back whenoverTie attempted to straighten himself.
These increased in virulence, and were accom-
panied with intense pains in the head. He lost
the use of his left arm, and partially that of his
left leg, as well as feeling a numbness all down the
side, extending from the shoulder to the region of
the abdomen. Electricity was tried amongst
other things, but without relief. So much was ho
insensible to outward agencies that he could bear
the application of the battery to any degree with-
out feeling it. To use his own expression, “ You
could jab a needle into my arm and I could not
feel it.” He was given up as a hopeless paralytic
by the medical fraternity of Melbourne after he
had spent his last shilling in trying to get better.
He then resolved on coming over to Tasmania at
the request of his relatives in the faint hope that
the climate might perhaps give him relief. But
years dragged on, and his sufferings were without
end. “ I thought,” said he, “ frequently of
COMMITTING SUICIDE
rather than continue to be a burden upon my
friends,, for my miserable plight was exceedingly
depressing, as well as painful. I found relief in a
sense of the word by sitting on the verandah in
the sun ; but when I saw my friends go past to
work, it only made me the more miserable, for I
was always a very active man. There are not a
few who remember the pale and wretched object I
was, seated in the verandah of my mother’s house
in Macquarie-street, and many can testify to the
marvellous cure which took pl'ace. I got hold of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and took
four boxes of them. One morning I found I could
lift my arm quite easily. It all came on in the
night, and then I began to feel better right off.
Tn about a week from when the change set in the
pains had left me altogether, and I cannot describe
to you the relief I felt both in body and mind. A
fortnight later, and I could walk about and eat
well. I had another sensation then, which was
new to me —the feeling of hope. Only those who
have passed an ordeal like mine can tell what that
actually means.”
“ What doctors did you have to attend you ? ”
“ I would tell you, but perhaps they wouldn’t
care to ha.ve their names mentioned in a case like
mine, which they turned up as hopeless. But I
spent in all .£l7O, and being then a beggar, came
home to die. Now there is no fear of my being
reduced to beggary again, and as for dying, I’m
not going to throw a seven yet for a long while, I
can assure you. lam going to work next week
round at the West Coast —a job a friend got for
me—so you see what Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People have done for me. I say—and I say
it advisedly—and all who know me say so too, that
it is the most marvellous thing of the kind that is
going. You are welcome to make what use you
like of this. I can tell you lam heartily thankful
for my recovery—more than I can describe to you.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People havo
cured paralysis, locomotor ataxy, rheumatism, and
sciatica ; also all diseases arising from impoverish-
ment of the blood, scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general mus-
cular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,
all forms of female weakness, and hysteria. These
pills are a tonic, not a purgative. They are genuine
only with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People, and are sold bv chemists and
storekeepers generally, or the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine'Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, will forward, on
receipt of stamps or post order, one box for 2s. Ltd.
or half-dozen for 15s. 3d.
TATTOO OTT ■
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IJJ THREE COLORS,
Black, Heel & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker's name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool-marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney:
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide.
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Meib.
m
SUN
FREE— ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin String’s, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s; Zither Banjos, 75s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ chargts. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
QNftOHf) MO-IiOH
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT,* CO.. LONDON 1
rjIHE LAST OF SIX.
PEIQE-1..; Per POST, la. Bd.
Amusements.
JJXHIBI TI ON B DIIDING.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8.
SUCCESS !
SUCCESS 1
SUCCESS !
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
And this has been achieved by
Prof. NORTON B. SMITH,
EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS,
The Greatest Horse Trainer since the days of Rarey.
Who nightly astonishes and delights crowded house* by
his extraordinary feats of horse education.
All WILD and VICIOUS HORSES handled FREE OF
CHARGE.
The Wildest and most Vicious Horses yield to the
Professor’s Scientific and Humane System of Horse Educa-
tion. Unanimously pronounced by press and public the
Greatest Horse Exhibition in the World.
FUN. EXCITEMENT. INSTRUCTION.
Doors open 7.15 ; Exhibition at 8. PRICES : 3s, 2s, Is ;
Children half-price. 3s seats may be reserved at the
Exhibition Building free of charge.
Persons desirous of having horses handled apply
NAT. BEHRENS, Manager.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
Wo undertake to GIVE a Silver Watch
of magnificent value, Lady’s or Gentle-
man’s, to every reader of this paper. Our
list price for this watch is 50s. ; but, as
stated above, to readers of this paper
who carry out the conditions below,
We Charge Absolutely Nothing.
We are constantly receiving testimonials express-
ing delight and satisfaction at the value we give.
THE ONLY CONDITIONS
we impose are, that you should send us the correct read-
ing of the following Rebus, enclosing stamped addressed
envelope for reply. And that if correct you will purchase
one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains.
REBUS:
A S.L.D S*LV»R W.T.H
I G«*N ,F I GU.SS
R*G*T & B.Y A CII**N.
Address : The Manager, The English Watch
& Jewellery Co., No. 9 (2 Floor), Post Office
Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney; and 33 and 35 Old
Exchange, Adelaide ; or Courier Vestibule, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
Business Announcements.
A BOON to SYDNEY.
V/E
FOUR
o
X
Ou\
5T
BY THE
Centennial Insect pnuider.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
Bale Grocers.
BAXTER MFG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
T TAVINO PUItC HA SE D TWO EDUCA~
-*-*■ TION A L LIBRARIES, numbering4B4o vols.i
containing the best editions, also keys to Mathematics
and Classics used in all Universities, Colleges and Schools,
attention is drawn to Teachers that they can procure any
book at nearly half-price— namely, a ss. book for 2s. od.,
posted 35., and so on in proportion ; also, 515 Noveis
(Colonial Library) by the best authors. Cost 2s. 6d. My
price, 1/6. Posted. R w SKINNER,
. . The Noted Second-Hand Bookseller . .
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
PERA HOUSE, SYDNEY (Corner King and
York Streets). Cable trams to door._
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. W. F. Clitherow.
Commencing SATURDAY, 9th October.
LATEST LONDON SENSATION, THAT POWERFUL
AND REALISTIC DRAMA,
“Sat/ed iron) tb*
STRONG COMPANY. MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
PRICES—Dress Circle, 2s ; Stalls, Is ; Pit, 6d. Children
half-price.
gALON CINE M AT OGBAPHE,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE NEW ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A POSITIVE SENSATION.
OVER TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND VISITORS
TO DATE.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 a.m. Onward.
J. MAC MAHON.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the Direction of the Messrs. MacMahon.
THE POLICY—PERFECT PRODUCTIONS AT
POPULAR PRICES.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
THE HUGE SUCCESS,
“AT DUTY’S CALL.”
STARTLING PRICES—2s, Is, & 6d. Plan at Nicholson’s.
EK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 8 NIGHTS. SATURDAY MATINEES at 2.
The Musical Comedy,
“Tbe Frgpcb Maid.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. fST" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, sydn e y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45., Geo. R. Sims’
Celebrated Drama,
‘ IN’ THE RAKTBIS.”
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
As NED DRAYTON (his Original Character),
Supported by his Powerful Dramatic Company.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box plan at Elvy & Co's,
George-street. M. MARCUS, Acting Manager.
ALACETHEATR E, S Y D N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Managing Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Most Popular Entertainment in Australia,
CHAS. H. HOYT’S Masterpiece in Musical Comedy,
“A BUNCH OF KEYS.”
Including such artists as George Lauri, Marietta Nash,
Addie Conyers, Lottie Moore, Fanny Liddiard, Willie
Freear, and many others.
Prices—3s., 25., & Is. Plan at Paling & Co., George-st.
NextMatinee Performance, Saturday, at 3.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Re-appearance of the AVO LOS—3 in a New Act.
Continued Brilliant Success op
Mr. CHAS. DILLON Miss DOLLY ELCON
TOM WOOTWELL. FRANK LEON.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices —2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
IJIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Managing Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
The HAYTOES. The SELBINIS-8.
The Queen’s Jubilee Cinematograyih Pictures
POPE & SAYLES. J. W. WINTON. ALLF.N & HART.
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON,
and the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, & 6d. Plan at Allen’s, Collins-street.
Matinee Peiforinances every Wednesday at 2.30 u.m.
JJRINCKSS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVENING, at 8. MATINEES, WEDNESDAY, at 2 p.m.
The Romantic, Military, Spectacular Drama,
“A. Royal Divorce.”
Written by the late W. G. WILLS, Esq.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box plan at Menzies and Allan’s
Musio Warehouse. Day tickets at Bentwitch’s.
•jftIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST 3 NIGHTS! FRANK THORNTON.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) Last Night of CHARLEY’S AUNT.
The Sun never sets on Charley’s Aunt.
Friday, Bth October, Once More, with all his Goods and
Chattels. THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
POPULAR PRICES ! Dress circle and reserved stalls,
3s ; stalls, 2s ; family circle, Is. No early doors.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under Management of E. G. Cooke and G. M. Welty.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS!
—of—
The Marvellous Veriscope Reproduction
OF THE
FITZSIMMONS-CORBETT
Great International Boxing Contest for the Championship
of the World.
PRICES AS USUAL. Doors open at 7.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches and Links.”
REAL IVORY. QUITE NEW, NOVEL, AND UNIQUE.
Lioks-
Silver Mounted 4/6 pair.
Gold 13/6 „
BroocbeS.
Silver Mounted
Gold „
Post Free.
4/6 each.
13/6 „
99
©
New Gold Scroll Bar Brooch
Plain, extra strong 7/6
With Name or Motto ... 8/6
Gold Opal Ply Brooch.
Latest Novelty, 11/6.
*
£
»-•••
r
m
*
m
CURB CHAIN AND PADLOCK BRACELETS
9 Carat Gold-
-25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
16/6, 20/-
Children’s—
15 Carat Gold—
£2 10s, £3, £4, £5
Children’s—
-37/6, 42/6
ENGLISH HALL-MARKED, HIGHEST FINISH
All Secured with strong Safety Chains.
NOTE Our Only Australian Address -
Our Prices for,Watches and Jewellery
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
are Unapproached for Cheapness in Australia.
Lake George South Mines
(To be registered as a No-Liability Company under the
Companies Act 1890.)
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each,
of which 50,000 Shares are now offered to the publio at
4s. per Share ; 30,000 Shares, paid up to 45., are retained
by the vendors, and also 20,000 Shares fully paid-up.
£5OOO will be placed to the credit of the Company, free
and clear of all expenses whatsoever.
Provisional Directors : Reginald A. F. Murray, F. 0.5.,
London, late Government Geologist, and President Vic-
torian Chamber of Mines; Alex. Oliver, Ti e Grange,
Domain-road, South Yarra ; Wm. Bell Jackson, Mer-
chant, The Rialto, Collins-street, Melbourne ; G. Geo.
Crespin, J.P., Merchant, Queerest., Melbourne. Legai.
Manager; (To be appointed by the Board of Directors
when constituted.) Bankers : The Union Bank of Aus-
tralia Limited, Melbourne. Solicitors ; Fink, Best and
Hall, The Rialto, Collins-street, Melbourne. Brokers :
A. Oliver, 100 Queen-street, Melbourne; Clark and
Robinson, Adelaide.
This company is formed for the purpose of ac-
quiring those sections contained in mineral lease
applications 85 and 86, comprising an area of 120
acres or thereabouts, situate Captain’s Flat, New
South Wales, and to the south of the Lake George
Mines, as shown on plan. These sections comprise
the southern* extension of the high metalliferous
deposit or lode known as the “ Champion,” now
being worked by the Lake George Mines Limited,
the outcrop of which can be traced through this
property from end to end.
The accompanying plan of locality indicates
approximately, pending official survey, the trend
of the lode, with its northern and southern exten-
sions, as per reports attached.
The ore bodies, as exposed and available for
stoping in the parent company’s ground, are for
magnitude unequalled in any part of Australia
(vide the Argus special report on Lake George
Mines Limited).
From the accompanying reports it will be seen
that the “Champion” lode traverses this com-
pany’s ground from end to end, and this same
lode has been proved in the Lake George Mines
Limited for a depth of 500 ft., for a width of 42ft.
—its metallic contents being gold, silver, and cop-
per in highly payable quantities.
The district is particularly favored in other
respects. There is plenty of available timber,
water, and the necessary materials for fluxing—
matters of grave economic importance in mining.
Attention is drawn to the special reports of ex-
perts on this property, and to the proximity of
these sections to the Lake George Company’s
ground; and possessing, as it does, the “Cham-
pion ” lode, its value cannot be estimated. The
£1 shares in the parent company are now worth
725. per share, representing a capital value of over
half a million sterling.
REPORTS.
James S. Hawkes, Esq., constructional engineer
to the Lake George Mines Limited, reports, under
date 22nd September, 1897, as follows :
“ I have examined the properties held by you
south of the Lake George Mines Limited, and beg
to report that they are, in my opinion, on the
direct line of the ‘Champion lode’ of the Lake
George Mines Limited, and that the said lode tra-
verses the property from end to end. There is a
massive and well-defined outcrop, in some places
over 20ft. wide, and there can be no reasonable
doubt that this will develop into one of the most
valuable properties in the district. The foreground
furnishes convenient sites for the machinery and
working plant, and though I have not had the op-
portunity of taking levels I am sure that, from the
general lay of the country, water can easily be
brought on to the ground from Ballinafad Creek,
a short distance away.—Yours faithfully, James
S. Hawkes, C.E., Constructional Engineer Lake
George Mines Limited.”
The Argus special correspondent, reporting on
the Lake George Mines Limited (vide issue 20th
July, 1897), writes ;
“ At the Lake George Mines the pyritic lode
(the ‘ Champion ’) has been proved for a depth of
500 ft. and for a width of 42ft. Three parallel
lodes traverse the ground with a north ana south
course. As the true foundation of a rnine’B pro-
sperity is the extent and value of the ore to be
dealt with, these sections must be looked upon as
of the utmost importance. I never saw so much
ore opened up in a new mine before, and 300 men
could be put on to stope to-morrow. The venture
is certain to be a success, its probabilities are very
great, and its possibilities stupendous. A close
inspection was made of the northern and central
sections of the ‘ Champion ’ lode.”
The lode referred to by the Argus correspon-
dent is identical with that traversing the sections
which this company now proposes to acquire.
Captain John Batty, late manager of the Koh-i-
-nor Gold, Copper, and Silver Company (now Lake
George Mines Limited), reports as follows :
“Lake George Mines, 23rd September, 1897.
“At your request, I have visited and inspected
the south blocks, and find them to be in a very
pood position and in mineralised country. There
is a large outcrop traversing north and south
throughout these blocks; and, from all appear-
ances, I can confidently recommend this property
as a very valuable one, if properly prospected.
(Signed) John Batty.”
Hugh M'Neill, one of the original prospectors of
the district, and late manager of One Better Com-
pany, Swamp Oaks, reports as follows :
“ Captain’s Flat, 22nd September, 1897.
“I beg to furnish you with a report of the pro-
perty held by you at Captain’s Flat. The lode is
outcropping from one end of the property to the
other, bearing almost due north and south, and I
have no hesitation in saying that it is the con-
tinuation of the ‘ Champion ’ lode of the Lake
George Mines Limited, and I am also of opinion
that the ‘ Copper Creek ’ lode junctions with the
main lode on your property. In this latter
opinion, I am supported by most of the practical
men in the district. I consider the property a
very valuable one, and this is more than confirmed
by the fact that large numbers of blocks are being
taken up south of your property, and on the same
line of lode. —Yours faithfully, Hugh M ‘Neill,
late Mine Manager, One Better Company, N.S.W.”
Shares will be allotted according to priority of
application, and early application is necessary, as
a large number of shares are already applied for.
Plans, prospectuses, and all information may be
obtained from the brokers to the company.
ALEX. OLIVER, Queen-street, Melbourne.
CLARK and ROBINSON, Adelaide.
FORM of APPLICATION.
To the Provisional Directors
LAKE GEORGE SOUTH MINES.
(To be registered as a no-liability company.)
I hereby request that you will allot me
shares in the above company, and I enclose the
sum of £ , being the amount in full per
share ; and I hereby agree to accept same or any
less number that may be alloted to me, in accord-
ance with the terms of prospectus, and to sign the
rules of the company when called upon to do so.
Name in full 7
Residence
Profession
Number of shares
Date.
.Signature.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Have received ex Duke of Sutherland,
Polynesien, Hawke’s Bay, and other
steamers, a further
X3B PACKAGES 138
making 655 Bales and Cases of New
Goods to hand this season.
Newest Fabrics and Latest Styles and
Novelties in all departments.
Finest Assortment and Lowest Prices
in Queensland.
Inspection and Comparison Invited.
Samples, Price Lists, and Fashion Plates
post free on application.
FINNCY, ISl€S & CO.
HELM'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
suoplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
WI«IHAK>KS
W uici>iEi:s.si:iis ax «*
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
vari. tv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquitrnolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs’
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles’
HAir Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, ScalDets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order r.t lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
OSO A 082 George Street, Sydney.
SI^NETpa^ETTIS
,®wws>j«Hja
i«
h\i\
>
(bl
> O
r’tifrMi
/■. a'?
r 1 ’<•
S*J
CL?
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS .
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smolcing
here."
German Tourist : “ Zen vy ? You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
“He enjoyed the subtle aroma of the
woman, compounded of powder, orris-root, and
lovely skin.” — Ladies’ Novel.
Remarkable how station - properties in
Western N.S.W. are being federated, as the result
of rabbits, bad seasons, bank smashes, mortgages
secured to purchase freeholds, and other things.
Almost a majority of stations consist each of two
or more holdings ; and, where stations are still
nominally separate, they are often worked under
one super., from the same city office. The latest
amalgamation is that of Mundi Mundi and Poola-
macea, both of some historical interest.
In a Richmond (Vic.) court, a few days
back, a witness acknowledged that he “ didn’t
believe there was a God.” Thereupon that learned
theological authority, the clerk of the court,
stopped short with the microbe-infested volume
in his hand and told him that he “ was like the
brute beast.” This sort of phrase is a favourite
one with the mild and gentle pietist, but when
one comes to think of it, does anyone really know
for certain what the brute beast believes or disbe-
lieves ? Judging from history, a great many sin-
cere believers have been beasts. Also, if a man
is to be judged by the company he keeps, is it
better to be an unbeliever like the harmless
necessary cow, or,a believer like the Borgia fa?nily
and the lately-hanged Sheehan? That Richmond
witness missed a beautiful point. “You are an
unbeliever like the brute beast,” said the official
snuffier. Obvious answer: ‘ ‘ And you are a be-
liever like the brute Butler.”
This knocks even the visiting-card of Frank
Farnell, M.P. of N.S.W., into a cocked hat. From
the Business Directory of the Port Douglas and
Mossman Gazette (Queensland) we learn that Mr.
Connolly, P.M., is also—
Water Poliee Magistrate, Sub-Collector of Customs,
Land Commissioner, Land Agent, Gold Warden, Mining
Registrar, Mineral Lands Commissioner, District Court
Registrar, Petty Debts Registrar, High Bailiff, Deputy
Marshal, Deputy Sheriff, Electoral Registrar, Clerk of
Petty Sessions, Harbor Master, Shipping Master, Shipping
Inspector, Inspector of Fisheries, Inspector of Stamps,
Inspector of Distilleries, Inspector S.S. Islanders, Savings
Banks Officer 5.5.1., Registrar Births, Deaths, and Mar-
riages, District Receiver in Insolvency, Agent Curator In-
testacy, Agent Curator Insanity, immigration Agent,
Paymaster to Treasury, Receiver of Wrecks.
Also he figures in the paper as President of the
District Hospital and as a member of the com-
mittee of the School of Arts. If he were only a
doctor and an undertaker he would be a township
in himself.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
“Rolf Boldrewood” is one of the most
experienced police-magistrates in Australia. Yet,
in his “Sphinx of Eaglehawk,” this is the sort of
evidence he allows to be given for the prosecution
on a murder-trial—the prisoners being defended
by the best criminal lawyer in Australia. One
of the Crown witnesses, examined by the Crown-
Prosecutor, says :
The night before, the deceased had been playingeuchre
with the three prisoners. . . . He didn't know that
two of the prisoners had been tried for murder before,
and the other had served a long sentence for robbery
with violence. If he had it mightn’t have made much
difference. People didn’t mind these things on a
diggings. . . . They wanted him to stop . . . but
he wouldn’t. Something he saw the night before fright-
ened him, I expect.
After a start like that, the author, in his descrip-
tion of the remainder of the trial, should not have
relapsed into mere fiction. What really happened
was that the prisoners were put in the box by the
Crown-Prosecutor, and severely cross-examined.
The Judge having summed-up, His Honor’s de-
liverance was then subjected to a fearless and
scathing criticism by counsel for the defence in his
address to the jury, who thereupon, without leav-
ing the box, by a majority of 9 to 3, found a ver-
dict of guilty against the before-mentioned witness
for the prosecution. The prisoners having been
discharged with a caution, the guilty man was, in
accordance with law, at once deli vered into their
hands and summarily executed.
A Boon to Sufferers.— A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
A little girl of four was looking at the
picture of the ballet-girl on The Bulletin back
cover. Suddenly she exclaimed “Oh, mother,
how disgusting!” and then, after a thoughtful
pause, “but how stylish!” The ruling spirit
showing early.
ISISiS3i3
.'WVYro
G-O TO HELL-
-IGOLANU for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. fid.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY k THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St,
Sydney.
Afsiles
w
-FOR-
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR .NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
3
iSvoii.vi»y! ,
-J° 3^V/-.3<gl
3? SoloMW'XvO
SaWpoM
ra°j*l!o __<«
rg oi
WVpfiSJ
MELBOURNE.
MTy POST FREE y-&»
WATCHES-CLOCKS- JEW/ELLERY-BiRtHdAY*
Weddii\lg z Christening Presents
H NeWMAIV|-1755177-FH?ARFtH St.
OPPOSITE G:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts*
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druit't-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
jQodalla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
| —{odalla 'Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
j-godal la Sams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name Of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
839 SUSSEX STREET, SIDNEY.
David graham g go.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
(a'Otl'liKD’S — H —
—K — SCiitiOgS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOE.
Cellular Clotlaing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at ifl
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron
ohitis, distressing cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject t«
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any 7 good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking 7 two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, m3 7 appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all m3 7 friends.—
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. ,1 ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its disiinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ Ifl were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best rec-ommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing- we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOB
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
03H113
Aiisva
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - J5l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every, district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS ,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
NcrtfoOS Weakness . . .
AND -I-;:-
Ccrebro-Spioal Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power. .
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention l this paper when writing.) vS. v -


Jjdams’s Hotel and Marble gar
and
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
().
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
Hotel and Cafe have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone'72B. WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian DepAt. 484 GeoFge-strcet, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Haps burg- Pianos. You may obtain the very latest o 1
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers
prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as .compared with-buying them from dealers
i ho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany
the hammers are covered with best felt, and aro rivetted. The sounding-board, which is thi
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at al
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
ba.Bs wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANO:
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks ol
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Framcuf homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hamburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
:n the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
obtaining and developing to the voice. We take dsk of loss in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South \Vale3.
SHAKE THE BOTTLE !
HUNTER’S KURANDA
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
PURITY.
PAPAIN.
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
in
this
New Sauce,
it being
A Purely Fruit
and
Vegetable
Condiment.
Medical Annual, 1897.
Page 203. ‘‘ In the treatment of dyspepsia
dependent upon deficient secretion of the
gastric juice, Stewart ‘ Philadelphia Poly-
clinic,’ July, ’96) speaks strongly in favor
of Papain given in a liquid form. The
results obtained from this artificial digestive
are far more favorable than those which
accrue from the employment of pepsine and
hydrochloric acid.”
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
finkler on papain.
After giving the result of a number of experiments, Finkler goes on :—“Papain,
therefore, shows a more energetic peptonising power than pepsine, and especially so when
the proportion of the liquid to the albumen is small— i.e., in the proportion of concentra-
tion in which food generally exists in the stomach and intestines. The great variability
in the quality of the commercial pepsine (some of which, under the most favorable circum-
stances, do not peptonise more than 20 per cent, of the albumen of the meat) gives Papain
( Paw-Paw ) also the preference, as it is always made of one uniform quality.”
Hunter’s . .
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from the following Wholesale Firms :
' * i
John Barlow & Co. - - Haymarket, Sydney.
John Connell & Co. - - Kent-street
Dalton Bros. - Pitt-street
ALSO AT THE
Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Pitt-street, Sydney,
AND SHORTLY FROM ALL THE LEADING RETAIL GROCERS.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Tractio
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS
Portable Railwa
locomotive* ,
and
Trucks of all Gang-
MINING. MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, Ac., Ac.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
11 * Al> COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKISS, COLONIAL Manaof.u.
Also Representative for th. 6 “THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE
u
5000 Miles
1
1
m
sjNe
■CIGARETTES
AREftHsUMEPYEARiy
I V* (uj, o 'UUi.
i
AGENT for the following
Poker MacbiQCS-
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES.
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for the “ Victory ” Hairdressing Chair.
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
rohacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
m- Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HATMAEKET, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice Deli cion *to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Tam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction it the in U m uons given an
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the at tide, and can recoin-
me«dll&ho»«k^r.(^e^lr.^u^M.^U^|r|paraM n oJa|ogc™™i.<,.voU 8.1n,l B .ln,l
BoUAj.nl. for N.w Roith W.U.: TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and I.IVBRPOOL. STREETS. SYDNEY.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- each.


Spring BOds l)aV€ BOrst
MARK
A RIOT OF LOVELINESS.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
ll£(«Wto£P
by tl)e
7*£i>lCAL*
Wasb’Ogtoo H.SoOI &Co.,M’sp.s.,
THE PITT STREET DRUGGISTS,
Hold a Large and Varied STOCK of GOODS in General,
and DRUGS in particular.
Do You Doubt It?
You need not. We run no one-horse show ; it is the LARGEST
RETAIL DRUGGIST STORE ON TERRA FIRMA.
Of course, you believe us!
Yes ! we are not jesting. But our business is run upon solid lines, at a
large outlay. WE ASK FOR SUPPORT.
Inquire of Your Grocer for
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, at 6d. per tin. Take no other,
and do not be persuaded tl ..b any other brand equals ours. It is
not in the same running.
SPARTAN TONIC, the invigorator of the age, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
YAALA, for INDIGESTION. 2/- per bottle.
SOAPS, SPONGES, PERFUMES, &e.
Prescriptions Faithfully Compounded. Correspondence Invited.
158, 180, and 288 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
Oh.urob.-atreet, Parramatta.
“The Last of
Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING
Phi* Post. la. 3(1.
A Zealot in Labor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The creek was hacked and mangled out of all
semblance to a sylvan rivulet.
The ruin effected looked like the work of many
men. The muddy, yellow stream had been
diyerted from its course several times within half-
a-mile, and all along the banks were torn down,
great cuttings made, piles of gravel heaped up,
dams built, and races dug. But the ravisher was
there— a lone man gouging his way into a bank at
the head of the flat where it met the hill, looking
a mere midge amongst the destruction he had
wrought with his two good hands.
“ Humpy ” Bannon was puny and weazened and
old ; he had a hump between his shoulders, and
no intelligence to speak of, but he had the spirit
of a little red ant, magnified to suit his size. He
loved labor, and he had chosen Grim Creek as his
vineyard. From a miner’s point of view, Bannon
was the discoverer of Grim Creek.. He it was who
prospected it and found gold in it, and he
was exceedingly proud of his field, although it
was a starvation hole at the best, and rewarded
him for his tremendous labors —digging, shovel-
ling, puddling, cradling, wading in water, and
grubbing in sludge—with a few wretched weights
where ounces would have been poor pay. But
Humpy never thought of leaving. Wet days and
fine found him smeared with clays of many colors,
struggling in a wet shaft or delving at the banks,
full of enthusiasm, without resource, without
horse-sense, but all grit.
“ Leave the creek ? ” he would say in answer to
the advice of casual visitors. “ Why, where’d I
go ter?”
“ Well, there’s some good gold gettin’ at Black
Cap, an’ I hear about somethin’ worth prospectin’
ten miles out by Double-TJ-Hell.”
“Bah! Stringer! You don’t catch me leavin’
the Creek for a hole like Black Cap. Why,
some’r them city minin’ men’d snap it up soon’s
my back was turned.”
It was a favorite superstition of Old Bannon’s
that some one from the city was always prowling
about in the hope of securing his latest pitch on
the Creek.
“ Jumpt/m show, Humpy ! Why, there is not
gold enough in a mile of it to yield a peanut.”
Bannon couldn’t restrain his temper when the
creek —his creek —was disparaged, and at this
point always became incoherent between extrava-
gant predictions as to the fabulous richness of the
wash he was going to cut presently and insulting
reflections upon the intelligence of the maligner,
and he would fall to working again more fiercely
than ever, jigging his old head the while, and
chummering bitterly.
How he did graft! Little, and skinny, and
aged, and ill-fed as he was, he cheerfully faced
mountains of labor, and wore them down by sheer
pertinacity—shifted them by faith and works.
What wonders of toil can one determined man
perform in a year ! To know you must see the
man struggling amongst the evidences of it, with
the works of his hands piled up about him, and
the man’s sole master must be a belief, sane or
otherwise.
Humpy’s faith in Grim Creek was transcendent;
that the creek gave him no justification mattered
not a scrap. He lived in a little bark hut, com-
fortless as a mia-mia, on nothing in particular;
he dressed at work in a worn shirt, patched ex-
travagantly, and deplorable trousers and boots, and
he wound lengths of sugee about his shins. His
hat, a battered boxer, a gift from a sympathetic
selector, had a big hole fore and aft—driven to
extremes, he had once run a handle through it,
and used it for a ladle when cradling—and the
whole costume was cemented and frescoed with
the grit and clay of the unspeakable creek.
The old man never had a mate, he never wanted
one. He designed all sorts of hare-brained, un-
workable contrivances in the shape of dumb-
waiters and cranks, and feed-pipes, and sluices, to
overcome the difficulties that hamper a lone hand,
but through disappointments and dangers and
endless tribulation he struggled on, and turned up
regularly every Saturday afternoon at the. log
store on the Piper-road with his pathetic little
packet of gold and his long, familiar story of the
good day that was coming for Grim Creek and
the surrounding district when he finally “ got on
to it.” . , ~
A few of the farmers and selectors m the dis-
trict, thinking that possibly, by reason of an
unlooked-for contingency, Humpy might some
day “ get on to it ” and boom the place a bit,
helped with gifts of food and old clothes that to
him were as good as new, One or two, from pure,
wooden-headed good nature, visited him at times,
especially on Sundays, and sat with him in the
sun or in his smoky hut, and let him talk to. them
by the hour about his creek. Next to grafting in
the creek like a tiger, nothing pleased Humpy
better than to prattle about his work, and invent,
and lie, and rhapsodise to a sympathetic audience.
Tom Hughes was the old digger’s best friend.
He had secured a selection in the locality of Grim
Creek within the last six months, built a hut upon
it, and settled down to take life as easily as a
selector can who observes the covenants. Hughes
was a hatter—a big, hairy man, physically slow,
mentally alert, with a golden faculty of extracting
amusement out of anything and everything, from
the capers of his waddling terrior pup or the soli-
citude of a motherly hen to the foibles of his
fellows. Hughes enjoyed Humpy Bannon enor-
mously. He cultivated him. . He would sit and
study him by the hour, ponderous and apparently
as grave as a fat frog between meals, but with a
soul full of laughter. “Humpy ” reminded him
of an ant that he had once seen attempt to shift
Mount Macedon. The ant thought the mount
obstructed its view, or felt that it had a call; any-
how, Tom kept track of the insect fora week, and
neglected his duties to watch progress, and when
he left the ant was still going strongly. Now,
here was this other midge ripping up the face of
nature and tearing at the bowels of the earth
after something he didn’t really want and wouldn’t
know how to appreciate. Wifeless, childless,
without a taste superior to mutton and bread or
an aspiration above the puddling-tub, and with
very few years of life before him, he worked from
daylight to dusk, moving mountains, and grew
radiant describing the treasure he must win some
day. Yet ten shillings a week would have satisfied
his needs, twelve would have embarrassed him
with riches.
Walking along the creek one day, Hughes came
upon the old man clambering out of a prospecting-
hole on a rise. He was dripping wet, and coated
with mud ; day was in his hair and his ears, and
the dirty water ran from him as he stood. _ Humpy
was too busy for conversation ; he seized the
windlass-handle, and began hauling with terrific
energy. There were two buckets on the rope
one a kerosene-tin, the other an ordinary water-
bucket. Humpy landed and emptied these, and
then, lowering the rope into the shaft again,
began to fish about. Presently he hooked another
bucket, and brought it to the surface. After fish-
ing once more he landed a nail-keg. Then he
proceeded to let himself down again, sliding on
the rope.
“What’s the little game, old man?” asked
Hughes as the dripping head disappeared.
“After a bit o’ wash here. Tremenjis rich, 1
think,” answered Bannon up the shaft.
“But it’s too wet; you'll never be able to
bottom, workin’ her alone.”
“ But I will, though ! ” .
Further comment was deferred by the pit-pit of
the old man’s pick in the wet hole. Tom Hughes
hooked the nail-keg, and put in an hour or so at
the windlass, and was rewarded later with
Humpy’s confidence. As usual, the little, man
was on the eve of a discovery that was going to
revolutionise the district, and bring a big town
humming about their ears on Grim Creek in less
than no time. Hughes was a better miner than
old Bannon, and knew the latter was hustling
after a vain thing, but he offered no advice, un-
derstanding that it would be wasted, and remem-
bering that it was Humpy’s policy to go and find
out for himself at whatever cost of sweat and
patience.
Humpy did bottom that hole, and scraped up a
prospect that promised about ten weights to the
load to a sanguine man, but the water, was up
within three feet of the surface next morning,, and
eight hours’ vigorous baling had no appreciable
effect. The claim could not be worked without a
diving-suit and apparatus.
So Humpy went apart and thought. He wasted
little time in speculation, and presently took a
bee-line from his shaft to the foot of the rise, 250
yards off, and commenced an open cutting. His
idea was to carry this narrow cutting into the hill
on a level as long as he could throw the dirt, and
then, when the sides became too high, to tunnel to
the shaft, and so drain the ground he wished to
work. This represented about a year’s labor to an
average man working decent hours and in modera-
tion. It was an utterly fatuous and foolhardy un-
dertaking ; as far as it was possible to judge, the
ground would not pay for the working, let alone
compensate for this gigantic “dead horse ” ; but
Bannon did not calculate—he worked.
On the occasion of Hughes’s next visit, he found
Humpy pegging away industriously, in his cutting.
He had covered a good distance in the shallow
ground.
“ Well, old party, what’re yeh coursin now ?
asked Tom.
Humpy explained between blows.
“ (?efi-ruBalem but you do lick ’ell an all! ”
Tom proceeded to explain the difficulties of the
job and the ridiculousness of it, but the digger’s
under-hand pick was going busily all the time,
and at last Hughes seated himself upon a log, and
overlooked the toiler in silent enjoyment of his
wonderful courage, his dunder-headedness, and
the comical little ape-like figure and quaint tricks
and turns of the man.
Humpy persisted, and as the weeks wore by his
cutting extended and deepened, and at length he
was forced to take on another contract. It was
necessary to get the water away. He felled trees,
and split palings, and laid down a bo;: drain all
along the cutting—a wonderful drain, represent-
ing much time and trouble. He timbered his job
where timber was needed, and continued as before
eating his way into the hill, and as he progressed
his pride in his work increased. The cutting was
trim and true ; Humpy bestowed the most loving
care upon it, and Tom Hughes brought all the
strangers he came across to inspect and ad-
mire it as the one spectacle of Grim Creek, and to
gaze upon Humpy and wonder over him. And
whilst Tom stood aloft eulogising the digger with
something of the air of a showman, and amiably
explaining his humors and eccentricities for the
pleasure of these strangers, Humpy hammered
away eagerly on the job below.
“He ain’t got common sense about minin’,”
Hughes would say; “ have you, old man ? ”
Humpy, with his pick driven to the eye in the
wall before him, would turn up his puckered,
tanned, hairy face with the aspect of a venerable
mandril, and damn his friend—hide, bones, and
soul —as the selector went on :
“ But in a tunnel or a drive he’d work any man
I ever knew stone-blind inside a week. Wouldn’t
yeh, Humpy?”
More profanity from below.
“See, he’s built for it. Them shoulders was
built fer pokin’ round in low black drives an’
muddy tunnels, but he’s wasted fer want’ve horse
sense. He’s a blessed steam-engine whirling away
like blazes, but doin’ nothin’ that matters a hang.
Look at him ! He’s the only man in Australia that
likes work —he’d rather be workin’ than drinkin’ —
an’ he’s only happy when he’s clayed up to the
ears and sweatin’ quarts.”
Sometimes a visitor dropped Humpy a half-
crown or a shilling, and often a settler or farmer
gave him help ; but for all that tie was compelled
to leave his cutting now and again and go fossick-
ing in the creek for a pennyweight or two, and
then he was given over to a great discontent.
Whilst he was working in the cutting it preserved
its spick-and-span appearance ; when he was away
dead leaves accumulated in it, and Monaghan’s
sheep sometimes destroyed the symmetry of its
edges, and that affected Humpy as dirt and litter
about a room irritate a good housewife.
But as time passed the great work progressed,
and at length the tunnel had been opened out, and
was being driven towards the shaft. It was the
most elegant of tunnels, with a beautiful entrance,
and carefully squared throughout, and it went in
and in until at length, when Humpy was within a
week of his goal, there came jangling up the
creek one day a mounted policeman. The officer
of the law examined Bannon’s hut carefully, and
tossed things about and turned the place upside-
down with the placid insolence power confers
upon most men; and then he rode to Humpy’s
cutting, called the little man into the light of day,
handcuffed him, and led him off.
The charge was sheep-stealing. There was no
doubt of Bannon’s guilt: one skin, with the brand
on it as bold as brass, was found doing service as
a rug on his bunk, another, quite fresh, was
tacked up in his shed ; and the best part of a fine
lamb was rescued from his pickling-tub, and pro-
duced in court. The spirit of the early squatter
still survives in the particular and express abomin*


“ From the moment a young man lands in
Maoriland, his features begin to alter, and his
nose especially tends to become broad and aqui-
line.”—Dr. Louis Robinson, in Blackwood’s
Magazine.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Ngvvman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Boys?
IF SO,
Our Suitable Suits
a Strong at Knee and Stout
at El, bow, to (it 8 to 12 years,
HALF-GUI N EA,
are well worth seeing at
Hordern Bros., Pitt-strest (Only)
(Economy is Nature’s first law).
P.S. lb N.B.—We have also School Suits at a Crown (55.).
GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS.
Beauty Fades.
The diseased and disordered conditions which
soonest mar and most quickly efface beauty are
those which, effect color. As the liver most of all
has to do with purity of the blood stream, so the
slightest derangement of this great organ registers
tit; if
*5 II in/Hi
r
It
it effects in the skin, and behold the flower of
beauty fades.
The only art that can restore natural color and
replace sallow skin by the flush of health, is the
art by which the liver may be helped to sift out
impurities from the circulation. This secret is an
open one in the formula of Gould’s Tiny Tonic
Liver Pills. This great liver specific more quickly
and naturally than any other preparation in the
world will re kindle the ruddy glow when yellow
skin and liver spots have smothered beauty ; and
if Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills could never be
used for any other purpose, this virtue alone would
entitle them to a place high above any other
single preparation in the world.
Severe Headaches Cured.
“ St. Woodburn, July 2nd, 1897.
“ To E. A. Gould, Sons & Co.
“Sirs,—My mother, Mrs. Phillip Bale, has
taken Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills for head-
aches which have troubled her for the last nine-
teen years, no remedy giving relief. Gould’s Pills
were used, and after the third bottle she found so
much benefit from them that X am going to try
them, for, like my mother, I have suffered from
severe attacks of headache. Xam enclosing stamps
for a bottle, which you will please address as
above. —I am, yours &e., Florence Bale.”
READ THE FOLLOWING WORDS OF PRAISE
FROM A NEWCASTLE RESIDENT.
Hopeless for Doctors!
Easy for Goulfl’s.
A WELL-KNOWN MUSICAL CONDUCTOR-HOW HE WAS
CURED.
(From Newcastle Herald.)
A remarkable case was brought under our notice a few days ago (says the Newcastle Herald)
of a leading musician in Newcastle, who, through constant strain of teaching and conducting the
Victoria Theatre orchestra, was allowing his system to get so low that he would eventually have had
to give up his profession. The gentleman in question—Mr. W. D. Barry—is conductor of the Vic-
toria Theatre orchestra, and general leader and conductor of most of the first musical organisations of
Newcastle, and resides at 4 Noster Place, off Wolfe-street. Mr. Barry is 33 years of age, and a highly-
respected resident, born in Newcastle. Interviewed by a reporter a few days ago, he said he had been
a great sufferer from indigestion, stomach and liver troubles for a long time, and has been under some
of the best physicians without receiving any benefit.
“ How long since did you first commence to suffer, Mr. Barry? ” inquired the reporter.
“Oh, it was years since my suffering first commenced, but it was only during the last
12 months that it became
I moved from my late resi-
healthily situated —to where
closely confined to teaching,
cise, and hence the results,
and my liver and stomach
have an aching pain in my
of tingling sensation—and at
numb. The circulation in
I suffered with a dry cough,
lung trouble, until the doc-
I could not sleep. I would
hours I would get restless,
and walk about ; so that you
very refreshed in the morn-
chill would come over me.
get worse and worse, and
m
Z r
f i
ry&aitik
acute, and at that time
dence on the hill—which was
I am now, and being so
&e., I got very little exer-
My digestion got very bad,
got out of order. I would
back and right side —a kind
night my legs would get
mv fingers got very bad, and
I would have it that it was
tor told me it was my liver,
go to bed, and after a few
and would have to get up
can judge that I did not feel
ing. Again a cold, clammy
My digestion continued to
after my meals I would feel
as if my clothes were too tight across my chest, and I felt as if aboard was pressing down on it.
At times I would get a shooting pain in the left shoulder, and an aching pain up my left side which
would extend to the ear, and a beating sensation would take place. Well, I continued this way for
nearly 12 months. ”
“ Did you consult doctors, Mr. Barry ? ”
“Yes, I was under the best doctors in this town, and got no permanent relief.”
“ Were you recommended Gould’s Pills then ? ” inquired the reporter.
“Well, in the first place I saw them advertised, and then I heard so much about them that I
decided to give them a trial. I bought a bottle from Hart and Firkin, the chemists in llun‘< r-street
and taking the pills I found they did me a great deal of good. Continuing with them, t lie pa ns in my
back and side left me, I slept well, my appetite returned, and T am not subject to’those distressing
pains after my meals. In fact, I feel better in every way.”
“ Has it been long since you first commenced taking the pills, Mr. Barry ? ”
“ I commenced about three months ago, and I followed out the directions very closely and took
as much exercise as possible, which facilitated the working of the pills.”
“ You know, Mr. Barry, it is our intention to publish this interview.”
“Well, sir, you are at liberty to publish my statement. Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver bills have
done me good, and I can thoroughly recommend them to anyone suffering as 1 did.”
An Obstacle to Beauty.
FACE PIMPLES AND HOW THEY MAY
BE CURED.
A SYDNEY GIRL TELLS HOW SHE
CURED HERSELF.
A young lady of Cainperdown, Sydney, says
that her face was a mass of pimples, and she
thought they were incurable, but was persuaded
to try Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills, and now
she recommends them to her friends. A letter
received from her, referring to the same, reads as
follows:
“Messrs. E. A. Gould, Sons and Coy.
“ Sir, —I am very glad to state that Gould’s Tiny
Tonic Li ver Pills have cured me of face pimples
after I had unsuccessfully tried a, number of reme-
dies. My face was one mass of pimples for over 12
months, and there is nothing more unsightly,
especially for a girl of my age, than to have her
face covered with these little sores. I tried a great
number of remedies as I have sard, but nothing
seemed to do me any good until I was induced to
try Gould’s Pills, which cured me in a short
time. lam very pleased to have this published
for the benefit of any other girls who might
be troubled in the same way.”
We may add in conclusion that pimples are
often caused by an overheating of the blood, and
the matter formed in them is often turned to a
grub, or worm, and these worms become black,
and are embedded in the flesh and have every ap-
pearance of gunpowder burnt in the flesh ; and
there is nothing so mortifying to a young lady of
eighteen as to have her face full of pimples, as
she imagines that everyone she meets is looking
at her pimples.
11IJ
3A
IHO
m i
To cure black heads and
pimples, take Gould’s Pills
as directed and wash the
face thoroughly with a good
soap.
Cure Constipation, Piles,
Fulness after Eating, Dys-
pepsia, all Liver and Kid-
ney Troubles, Debility,
General Weakness, &c., &c.,
and they are also a specific
for pale and sallow com-
plexions, female irregulari-
ties, heart palpitation, short-
ness of breath after slight
exertion, pain in back and
side, and when used after a
heavy meal has been eaten
they takeaway that full and
disagreeable feeling.
Obtainable from Chemists
and Storekeepers generally,
or from the Australian
Branch of the E. A. Gould,
Sons and Co., Box 1204
G.P.0., Sydney. Price, 2s.
Gd., or half a dozen for
14s. 3s. Postage paid.
ation of sheep stealing manifested by our virtuous
and humane judges. "The sentence was two years.
Tom Hughes tried hard to preserve Humpy’s
cutting from destruction, and kept a careful eye
on his hut, but, walking down the creek one day,
twenty months later, he came upon the little hid
digger standing surveying the ruins of his gr -at
work. The sides of the cutting had tumbled in,
the tunnel was down, and the drained ground was
worked out. Humpy was smaller-looking and
more shrunken, and ten years seemed to have been
added to his age.; he was bent nearly double,
and vvas bleached a deadly dough-color ; his limbs
trembled as he stood, and he snivelled miserably,
like a,boy. No greeting passed between the two
men.'
“’T" as three fellers from Melbourne done it,”
said Hughes, indicating the cuttings.
“Damn ’em ! ” snapped Bannon.
“ 1 tried hard to stop ’em,” continued the
selector. “ I explained it was your job ; 1 argued,
an’ pleaded, an' preached, but ’twasn’t no good.”
, Tom had also fought the intruders, singly and
in a bunch, and had been severely manhandled for
his kindness ard consideration, but he did not ex-
plain this.
“ Hows’mever, ’twasn’t worth a cuss,” he added
eagerly. “They skursly knocked out tucker, an’
only hung on jest from pure villainy.”
This was a lie : the young men had done fairly
well out of Humpy’s claim, and had taken to town
with them when they left sufficient gold to run a
month-long bender of the most virulent and
dazzling .description.
“Damn ’em ! ” said Humpy again.
“ Better track up to yer hut, old man,” Hughes
said. “You'll find it in order. You can spell-oh
till you pick up a bit, an’ then you can get down
to graft. You’ll be all right, you know.”
“ Yes, yes,” grasped Bannon with a feeble re-
turn of his old fire, “there’s somethin’ above the
fork I’m goin’ after. I’ll have to turn the creek.
B’lieve there’s some ten-ounce stuff there.”
Hughes had to lead him to his hut, and attend
to him for a few days, but presently Humpy was
out and about again, with pick and shovel, pot-
tering weakly here and there. Once Tom found
him struggling to clean out the old cutting. By-
and-bye he started making great raids upon the
hills, digging aimless holes, and throwing up
heaps of dirt anywhere. Two or three times he
was discovered lying helplessly by his work. At
length the same policeman came trotting up the
gully again, and once more Humpy Bannon was
led away. This time he did not come back. He
finished his days performing extraordinary feats
of labor with a little wooden shovel at Yarra
Bend, destroyed in mind and body by 18 months
of comparative peace and rest and comfort in Her
Majesty’s gaol.
EDWARD DYSON.
The Price of Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is nothing in life that is worth a wish but is
bought with the price of blood,
Be it cru-hf d from the heart or distilled from the
mind, in the marble courts or the mud.
There is never a slave who can bind his so il to
the social creed and its ban
Who is worth, in the time of a strong resolve, the
curse or the claim of a man.
For we know that the world is a bitter world, and
we live in the way we know,
And gather the strength of the strongest so d for
the weak to the wall must go ;
And few there are whose philanthropy believes in
that same old wall,
And, but for the praise of the sons of men. that
few were as none at all.
For the strength of life is in bitterness, and weak-
ness lies in love;
And the world weeps well for the kindly souls
with its eye on the few who shove :
For the scornful mind in its scorn is strong though
that strength may bring self-hate,
And the weakness won by its over-strength arrive
at the last too late.
Were it not for the scorn and the satire deep, and
the world's keen irony,
A doctor’s den of disease and death and a weak-
kneed race were we;
And the fight for Self, though it bears its curse,
has a strength which defies defeat,
While the tardy thoughts of benevolence are
drowned in its own dream-sweet.
’Tis the thoughts for Self, and the fears for Self,
and the deeds of the selfish throng,
With the hand of steel, and the heart of steel, and
the voice that is stern and strong
That have made the world, and the world is made,
and for why should we complain,
For it well may be were it once unmade it were
worse remade again;
And the coward mind is of all things mean, for ’tis
such that will bring disgrace,
And decline to death in a pallid woe of an erst-
while lusty race.
’Mid the doubts of men, and the tears of men,
keen-visaged Intensity
With a deep-souled eye, and a firm-set mouth,
saith—“ Such [ say .shall be ! ”
Till the thoughts that she thinks with a silent
strength, and the acts that the world ne’er
saw,
And the deeds that she doth in the midst of death
are the Universal Law !
N.S. Wales.
W. M. FLEMING.
Treas. Holder (S.A.) is also a pulpit-
thumper. He availed himself of Sunday on
Sydney-side to assure a Wesleyan congregation
that he and W. T. Stead are of one opinion on the
respective merits of religion and politics. “With
true religion” (that is, his and Stead’s), he banged,
“ there would be no need for politics.”
A Night Alarm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was after a heavy circuit-dinner at . The
hotel was more than crowded at this particular
time, and a number of the leaders of the Bar and
a few of their clerks had to content themselves
with such accommodation as the “long room
upstairs ” could afford.
In this huge apartment some lay on the table,
some under the table, some on couches, improvised
from a row of chairs, others again on the carpet —
where they might. All were more or less ready
for bed ; a few, in fact, quite overcome with sleep,
for it had been a hard day, and, so far, a wet
night . . .
Convenient enough as a “shelter-shed,” the
room was absolutely minus wash-stands, chests
of drawers, dressing-tables, and clothes-pegs. But,
so fagged was the general crowd that its members
were only too happy to kick off their boots, roll
up top-coats for pillows, “ prick for the softest
plank ” (as “ Jack ” hath it), and so, to sleep—
But, there was one dignitary among them, not
a judge, yet he travelled with a secretary ; and,
like Knight and Squire after the battle, they lay
beside each other on the cold ground. The Knight
was round and portly, the Squire lean and bony,
thus exactly reversing the conditions of Don
Quixote and Sancho Panza.
Late ! and the breathings of the “ Bar ” were
almost apoplectic ; stentorian snores woke all the
echoes of the heavily-corniced ceiling ; but there
was, for all this, one who found sleep impossible.
This was our Knight.
He was in positive, corporal pain. . . The
colic of Gil Bias on that eventful night in the
robbers’ cave was a fool to it—for Gil Bias’ colic
was a “put-up thing,” and with the ulterior
motive of escaping from the place where he was
confined ; whereas the Knight’s pain was in
earnest.
The Knight was a lineal descendant of a long
line of Irish kings, including Malachi that “wore
the collar of gold that he tuk from the proud
invader.’’
“ Marjoram ! ” cried the Knight to the Squire,
“ Marjoram ! Mr. Marjoram ! For Heaven’s sake,
quick! Have yez such a thing about yez as
matchuss ? ”
An interrupted snore, far more aggravating
than the completed article by reason of the catch
in the waist of it . . .
“ Are yez a week, Mister Marjoram ? ”
“ Ye-ye-yes, sir! What—ever —is—the—matter
—sir ? ”
“ 00-00-00-ach ! Oh ! my dear Marjoram, tis a
doyin man Oi am ! Oi didn’t loike to distorb yez
at first—ach !ah ! O’m round an’ round this dtvil
of a colly-sayum building, an’ the jooce a door can
I foind—nothing but winddws, winddws every-
where, an’ stumbling over dead corpses. Oi must
have a docther, look-at, at wannst —Oi’m swelled
to a balloon.”
“ No, sir ; can’t And my things in the dark.”
“Pfwhat! Not aiven matchuss! Why don’t
yez kape the matchuss in under yer peelow ; yer
coat Oi mane. Ah, wirra, wirra ! the saints be
merciful to us, ann the divil a match !
• • • *
Soon we heard the sounds of heavy “ stocking-
feet ” pounding along the floor. “ Oi’ve gottum
now, annyhow, ann there’s sure to be matchuss in
me britchuss paw-kutts. A-A-A bad scran to yez !
the divil a wann 1 'Tis a lost man lam entoirely.
Annyhow, Oi can puttum on in the dark.”
* • • •
Noise as of a man wrestling* into a garment of
B ° m ® Borfc ... a deep groan ; and a roll-over on
the floor ... a weak voice almost feminine
in its timbre ”: “ Marjoram 1 Mister Mar-
joram, mee dee-or Marjoram, ’tis a—doyin’—man
—oi—am. . . .”
Voice of Marjoram from beneath a pile of other
people’s ulsters : “Yes, sir!”
“Yessir! yes, sir! is it mawkin me yez are,
ann you niver draming of getting up! Hoy!
Marjoram, Oi say . . . come ! give me a houlfc
of yer hand ! ’tis all too late now for the dawk-ter.”
“Oh ! I trust not, sir.” And the voice of Mar-
joram is heard distinctly now that he has kicked
off the ulsters. ... A terrific cry, such as the
“ proud invader ” must have given when Malachi
wrested the collar ’o goold from his unwilling
neck. “Ah ! Ach ! Marjoram, mee deer bhby !
Oi tould yez oil along, the lasst hope was fled. . .
Oi’m swelling, swelling, swelling . . . nopeen
now, an that’s a moighty badd soign. Swelling,
Marjoram, swelling loike a big balloon ! ”
“ Calm yourself, my dear sir. I will try all my
pockets again, though I feel sure there can be no .
matches there.”
“ Ach ! bad scran to yez. Miserable crayture !
don’t yez aiven smoke ? . . . M-M-Mar-joram !
Mar-joram ! Marjoram ! Oi’m feerly bursting ! ”
“Fancy, sir, all fancy.”
“Fan . . . pfwhat? Whoy ! mee britchuss
that fitted me as aisy as a peer of glov’s lasst noite
—won’t meet round me now by a futt! ”
Marjoram, who by this time has found matches
in someone else’s pockets and struck one—“ Bless
me, sir ! if you’ve not been trying to pull on my
trousers all the time ! ”
( Curtain.)
X.Y.Z.
Melbourne is to be the head-quarters of
the Belgian South Polar Expedition, and the Bel-
giea, which sailed for the south at the end of last
month, comes on to Hobson’s Bay. She should
be leaving for the Pole just after the Yic. elec-
tions, when frozen-out politicians will be looking
out eagerly for a warmer climate.
Queer advt. from the People newspaper
(Wexford, Ireland): —
GLORIOUS NEWS.
rPHE Catholic Bishops of England, headed by his Emin-
ence Cardinal Vaughan, will make a pilgrimage in a
tody to Canterbury in September next. To free the
Parish Church from debt before their arrival, help is
earnestly requested. Every donor of Is. 6d. will be pre-
sented with a richly indulgenced Rosary beads that has
touched the Sacred Relics of Saint Thomas, or an ebony
brass bound Crucifix specially blessed for a holy and
happy death. Please state which you prefer, and mention
this paper when writing. Weekly Mass at the Shrine of
Saint Thomas for all benefactors. Address:
REV. RICHARD POWER, P.P.,
St. Thomas’s, Canterbury, Kent, England.
June 1, 1897.


DEBILITATED BY HOT WEATHER.
TIRED OUT AND ILL.
Tonics (so-called) do no good, but Ayer's Sarsaparilla builds up and restores to health Ms)
J, (tough of Cape Town, Cape Colony, who sends his portrait and writes as follows:
*
ms
m-
m.
'A
f,
HUt
1
wmm
(n
f
//'
w
\\
\»
m
“During the past summer the extremely hot weather made me seriously
01. I lost all appetite, could not sleep, was incapacitated for work, and
suffered from severe pains in the head. I tried several tonics, but they did
me no good whatever. A friend, who had been similarly affected, told me
to take Ayer s Sarsaparilla, as he had done. I followed his advice, and
soon began to regain my strength, and after using three or four bottles my
health was completely restored.”
Very many people suffer from the effects of a prolonged season of warm
weather in the same way as did Mr Gough. Their blood becomes thin, food
distasteful, and life is positively burdensome.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
makes new, pure blood; restores strength and vitality, and has been the
salvation of thousands who, prior to its use, were, as they expressed it,
both tired out and worn out.”
See that the name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla-is on the wrapper and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Hass., XT. S. A.
Leading Hotels.
EMPIRE HOTEL,
l*if< and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CKMTR.ALLT SITUATED,
Terms:
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 lGs. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE ami QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
ef City. I' irst-class Board and Residence .£1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
QUEEN’S HOTBI,
T^~,T^" r 'L t L M ? rkct ail(i Kent Streets SYDNEY.
( late of , Westralia.) desires to inform his
? d . ,he > r . eneral , Public that he has taken the
above Hotel and intends to conduct the same on first-
Mass lines. Good ..ocounnodation for travellers.
“ BULLETIN ” PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SrX, by Ernest Favenc; price
1/-; posted, 1/3. '
■ c
THE GRAND CENTRAL
§PPOSITE B.P.Q.
THE tfRANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E STOYE, ’
Maxaobk. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
•KOLMO IV
aavoa: ao
SHooa
JjJOTICB TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
i-m TI^? LK o GEORGE HOT EL, opposite st
Kilda Railway Station and Cable TramsT Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week
TATTERSALL’B MOTET.
FUhdera-st., Townsville *
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
T'OM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends nnA
SALPs^rTo^v,;, 1 !" “ nd «» TATIEIt
Travel liefer I oif accou nt°oM ts" cen
beinar opposite the wharves—and its nresti™
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors Oood° At?
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is esUbhlh^L
DRINK NO LONGER WATirn , ,
Kmitiei" 6 -!? Tim^thy°r^' S thin °
AT
Lyoos’ Hotel,
South. jßriaTbane
tß,tw ~ n VlCTo^sD^roN M ) EU!OUE -' n! *
“ Worth a Quinta a Boa,”
♦♦♦♦♦
gEECHAirS
« • -FOR ALL-
Bilious & Herrons Disorders
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion.
Disordered Liver, and Female Ailments.
OVER 6.000.000 BOXES SOLD YEARLY,
Beecham’s Gough Pills
STAND UNRIVALLED FOR
Coughs, Asthma, Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, &c., &c.
In Boxes, 9|d., Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions.
The Is. l?,d. box contains 56 pills.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
It is Efficacious, Economical, Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and
is a Reliable and Pleasant Dentrifice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists , for ONE SHILLING.
Pkepabed Only by the Proprietob—
Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, England.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
4
12-
BOOK OF JNATILKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced teles, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and un bridged, illustrated, post free, 1,6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is- by
post, is 3d. ’
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edi’ion, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koc>, post free, Is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Mkrkik England, by post 61.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s ; post, 28 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpursrated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted hook, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mai pin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Amativkness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd,
Maria Monk, lg Cd; post, Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 8d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou s Harem, post free Is 6d!
Short Stories op L«vk and Frolic, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works op Rabklais, faithfully translated from
the French, 422 pages. Full-page illustrations by
Gustave Dor<s. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One's" Self, posted Is Cd.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
liie Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
’l'K j 6 t,r ' t ‘‘ £B “nd- deceptions with cards explained
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is • Dost
free, Is 3d. ’ v
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveltness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest, information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
II
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieap Stools: Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
— »♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦+ »♦ ♦
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE is.
per Post, Is. 3d.


* Qubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
P(ibec
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
/-THE-'
Ballet <sirl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-*
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest*
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) P(in)pii)g Ei)gii)€ Company.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN
WORTHINGTON
TRADE- HARK-
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Slept in. Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
BT - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grandmedicines have not oeen
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, unit greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON 'TEA.
Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The Fli
35 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBJUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
JAgentß Bverywlaere. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
m THREADING PIPE.
5^
KR* uS '
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINARY
STOCK.
THIES
OSTER PfITEDT HDJUSTRRLE DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cut off from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s Baking Powder _
X
INSOLVENT ESTATE
—OF—
X
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS..
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut slock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
6 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
1 10 10s, reduced £3 17s fid each, complete.
. 7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £6
each, complete.
fit. , • i • a • l l .11
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price t'2l, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
8 Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £O, reduced JU2 7s 6d each, complete.
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced 1 4 15s each, complete.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price £l6,
reduced £5 5s each.
6 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very best quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 15s.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
BoQQifygtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and ail siijiilar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Boi)Qii)gtoi)’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver. „ _
Is. a Box.
