

MoE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid's London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
M The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107
Street, Sydney,
a>i-
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
<y
K
0*
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MAILT*
Oj
*A«O
E. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE A Co,,
85 Pitt-st, SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ri ston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, quarts 10s, pints ss.
GLENLIVET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart 5s 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE FOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, GBORO^wd^MAEKBT
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 65.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
Before vijifinj the Of/ wile fo the Manager for
of Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRI9BA.KTE.
Under Distinguished, Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANM,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
T ZEE IE
(aros^OorHotel,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDNETr.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
/
-,
THE
Built of Nickel Steel. They never require repairs.
Manufaotcbbd
BY
THE
GOOLD
Bicycle Co.
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
(MELBOURNE.
Depots-! ADELAIDE.
I WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
Use “Pioneer” Sole
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ABS
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
168 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery: Lane Cove River.
:
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
is wan - Lamp
V-
•SWAN
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TBS EM a m
United. Electric Light
Co,, Ltd.
Australasian Branch—l 6 Carringfeon-street,
WYNYAKD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Poverty Pointers!
Tour Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBA.RT.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
*
A. c. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Prose and Verse by BuLLEfiN writers; Is. 3d.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Shouu) Stat at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Comer LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
of City. First-class Boara and Residence <£l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day. \
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUY '
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
I OP'' ALL CHEMISTS.
nls.w. aqbkts': Messrs, ELLIOT2TBS3I, Wfe?
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd. , Hobart.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR is.
The Bulletin
'V/.oi 18«— JNq, 01#y
| (Saturday, July 24, 181)7.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George roburtson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S .'TORIES (from The Bctllb
tin ; price, Is. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OL' 1 REGIME (new series, from Tui
Bullutin), by Price. Waning ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
AIOS ,YN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; price, 2s. 6d.
posted, 2s. tOd.
Write to us for any Boole or Magazine you want.
A. G. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
“ riIHE BULLETIN” PUBLICATIONS
A GOLDEN SHANTY; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Waning-; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT
Is now to be strictly enforced. No more Sunday trading, no more sales of any kind—bar
tram tickets, one can purchase them as usual. The law can prevent smokers from buying,
but it cannot prevent them from puffing
CAMEO CIGARETTES
So don't be caught napping. Make your purchases on Saturday night, or you will put la U
miserable Sunday without your favorite CUf^EOS.
THE RED PAGE.
This by request. (It appeared in a book oalled
' Among the Flowers and Other Poems,’ Belfast
1878. J. Churton Collins, reprinting in his recent
‘ Treasury of Minor British Poetry,’ writes : ‘ In
the original the last verse runs “when love is
done." I have taken the liberty to substitute
“gone” for “done,” feeling sure that “done”
must be a misprint ’ —a quite unnecessary feat of
editorial impudence.)
LIGHT.
The night has a thousand eyes
And the day but one ;
Yet the light of the bright world dies
With the dying sun
The mind has a thousand eyes,
And the heart but one ;
Yet the light of a whole life dies
When love is done.
F. W. Bourdillon.
» * * *
Some time ago it was pointed out that many
valuable books had been lost or stolen from Sydney
Publio Library. The other day the collection—
a national heirloom —was dispersed a little further
by the sale of about 5000 volumes for J>219—or a
little under Is. per volume. Many of these books
were comparatively worthless—old Parliamentary
papers, pamphlets, hand-books, and so on ; but a
number were among the most important examples
of literature relating to early Australia—‘the
eyes of the Library,’ in fact. (The phrase cer-
tainly applies to Surgeon White’s ‘ Journal ’—the
author’s own copy was sold; to Bennett’s ‘Wan-
derings’; to Kotzebue’s ‘Voyage’; to the 1809
edition of Cook’s ‘Voyages,’ in seven volumes;
and to many more rare books of the kind
which in a few score years, as population in-
creases, will be almost priceless to Australia. A
complete list of books sold should be obtained by
Parliament.) The scandal iB not diminished by
the fact that among the books sold were some
bequeathed by the late Mr. Justice Wise —a dis-
graceful breach of trust. These were deliberately
signed and stamped with the library stamp
authorising sale, so no pretext of accidental error
can hold —if accidental error were possible to men
with any book sense. The management of the
Sydney Public Library is attracting attention in
so many ways that a public enquiry into its
methods and results seems urgently needed.
* * * *
John Cordy Jeaffreson, whose ‘ Lady Hamilton
and Lord Nelson ” has been issued in a new and
considerably-altered edition, is a literary hobbyist
with no qualifications for historical enquiry. By
dint of studying the ghost of Lady Hamilton by
and large, he has been fascinated as every man
who studied her by and large was fascinated in
the flesh. So the whole duty of a biographer, as
announced by John Cordy, is to whitewash his
subject in accordance with conventional ideas;
and John Cordy has done his duty nobly. Occa-
sionally the whitewash slops over upon Nelson
—who occasionally needs it, even according to
unconventional ideas. Not that there was
anything particularly blameworthy in his
connection with Lady Hamilton — except
maybe his taste. But Nelson’s was a
sailor’s taste —he liked his women big and
blowsy, and (luckily for Lady H.) was not too
particular about the delicacy of their sentiments
or the size of their feet. Jeaffreson enquires how
many children his heroine had; and dubiously
decides on four—two by Nelson, and two from
alien sources; but ‘ no discreet biographer . . .
would like to state positively the precise number
of her children.’ Enquiry as to the number of
Lady Hamilton’s lovers is even less satisfactory.
WasNelson the forty-first? or the four hundred and
first ? The Lord knows ; but ‘ Pass ! ’ murmurs the
judicious John Cordy Jeaffreson. The valiant
biographer finds that in the transfer from Greville
to Hamilton—one of the most curious transactions
of the kind recorded—the lady was animated only
by the noblest notions.
Nobody who knew the space for sir william
lady intimately would
ever dream of suspecting
otherwise. And the in-
telligent biographer finds
that Sir William H anil-
ton, diplomatist and anti-
quarian, was convinced
(doubtless by his know-
ledge of the lady’s past)
that Nelson’s presence in
his household was due
merely to a pale-green Hamilton’s subtle smile.
Platonic affinity, or
thereabouts. If you have any acquaintance with
Sir William, and look carefully into the marginal
space, you will catch a fleeting glimpse of Sir
William’s subtle smile.
• • * *
‘ George Egerton’s ’ new book, * Symphonies,’ of
right belongs to the ‘Keynotes ’ series which she
commenced ; but the ‘ Keynotes ’ series is marked
at 4s., and ‘ George Egerton ’ has so much
evanescent reputation that her publisher judges
the public will pay for ‘ Symphonies ’ 5s. or 5s. 6d.
—according to the bookseller’s conscience. Any-
one beginning acquaintance with ‘ George Eger-
ton ’ had better buy ‘ Keynotes ’ or * Discords’ at
4s. The ‘Symphonies’ are played in precisely
the same key of woman’s sex-impulses, and the
playing seems to have less force—or it may be
only less novelty. The author’s faculty of keen
observation and brilliant picturing continues to
make her stories readable ; but somehow the
bloom is off the literary rye of the Woman Who
Talks About It. Curious, is it not? how few
Women really Do compared with the vast number
who courageously Talk About It.
Some little items—
Mrs. Oliphant, who died the other day, was a weaker
‘George Eliot.’ She had ‘George Eliot’s’ oatholio cul-
ture without her capaoity for philosophic generalisation:
her skill to tell a storj' without her power. Among Mrs
Oliphant’s many novels are two or three interesting, and
none memorable.
H. G. Wells' new collection of magazine tales, ‘The
Plattner Story and Others,’ is a very readable lot. For
weird imagination perhaps Wells’ most prominent con-
temporary rival is a young American—Robert W. Cham-
bers—who writes even more uncannily, though with
somewhat less invention.
A statue of Guy de Maupassant by Raoul Yerlet was to be
exhibited at this year’s Salon. ‘ Figaro ’ gives the follow-
ing description : —‘ Upon a circular bench of stone, abovB
which stands the bust of Maupassant, is seated a young
woman, whose left hand holds a half-open book, “Notre
Coeur.” Charmed by the story, the reader .... is
lost in a deep reverie. Would she like to have been the
heroine? Is she thinking of the author? One does not
know. But she dreams, and will make others dream.
Her right arm rests gently upon the back of the bench,
and one can almost hear the heart beating beneath the
admirably-modelled breast. The figure is very fine, the
drapery excellent. Below the skirt appear the crossed
feet.’ After the Salon, the statue will be placed in the
Parc Monceaux.
‘ Rolf Boldrewood ’ must prize money highly or reputa-
tion lowly to attach his name to suoh rubbish as ‘ My
Run Home ’ —just issued by Macmillan and Co. The
book, which hashes and elaborates dull diary mems.
hardly deserves journal print, let alone reprint.
P.A.: ‘A recent “Bulletin” insinuation re the unspeak-
able naughtiness of Shelley’s “Laon and Cythna ” is
hardly well founded, for a modern divoroe-case can give
the poem points and a beating. No doubt Shelley's
original plan of making the lovers brother and sister was
rather strong, but it took something pungent to appeal
to that diseased imagination of his, which, unlike his
“ Skylark,” knew so much of “ love’s sad satiety.” The
worst feature of the poem is that the lovers spent their
honeymoon in a cave, and for weeks never washed them-
selves or changed their clothes, not being able to carry
trunks on the one coal-black steed which bore them away.
I wonder how some of Shelley’s gushing maiden admirers
would like to spend the first four days of their honey-
moon on the rocky floor of a oave without food, and be
satisfied when Laon, returning from a foraging expedition
with some bread whioh be stole from a crazy woman’s
hut, fed them sumptuously on bread and water ? The
poet doesn’t say how stale the bread was, but I hardly
think the crazy woman could have baked that morning,
as she was too busy raving around the dead bodies of her
ohildren, which strewed the floor in various directions.’
* * * *
‘ The Well-Beloved,’Thomas Hardy’s recently-
published story, was serially issued in 1892. It is
almost as far from the palpitating romance of his
earlier method as from the tense realism of ‘ Tess ’
and ‘Jude.’ And it is a book which will hardly
help his reputation : it is too faint in treatment
and vague in impression—mere summer-lightning
of literature. The author hints knowledge of
this in his sub-title : ‘ A Sketch of a Tempera-
ment.’ Plot: a dreamer of elusive feminine
ideals meets her who nearly approximates his
most permanent ideal : engages to wed, and flies
to pursue another approximation who captures
his momentary fancy, yet cannot hold it. The re-
linquished A vice—is it not a pretty name?—
marries and dies, leaving in her stead another
Avice whom also, twenty years later, the Idealist
covets —for her mother’s grace he sees in
her. Disappointed, he returns after other
twenty years—a man of sixty—to find that
a third Avice has bloomed and grown to
charm him as her grandmother charmed. He
stretches his hand, and a third time the Ideal
eludes him. Nothing remains but to end in death
a lifetime of regrets. It is prettily, fancifully,
artistically told ; and the type-moral of the story
is rightly left as an emanation, an iucense-breath,
instead of being crushed into crude words. The
scene is the isle of Portland, and the intrusion of
local custom-traditions—as the ante-nuptial ‘ prov-
ing’ of a wife’s capacity, still common among
Lancashire operatives and others—adds to the
book’s quaint flavour.
» * * *
‘ The Well-Beloved ’ is for the elect of Henry
James and Meredith to dream over : a fantasy
rather than a solid fact of letters. If mere force
were desired, indeed, the theme would have
seemed more forcible in shorter clothes : Maupas-
sant has so dressed a not dissimilar idea in ‘Les
Soeurs Rondoli.’ The current cheap translations
of Maupassant are so eagerly gobbled in Austra-
lia that many people must have chuckled over
Pierre Jouvenet, Parisian, who yearned to cap his
culture by making acquaintance with the artistic
masterpieces of Italy, and journeyed hopefully
one spring-time ... as far as Genoa, where
Francesca Rondoli held him till his holiday ex-
pired. And a second time he set out to
realise his dreams of Venice, and Florence,
and Rome . . . and at Genoa Carlotta Rondoli
claimed him till the last moment before
return. ‘But,’ says the gallant fellow in one of
Maupassant’s inimitable endings, ‘I still reckon
on going to see Italy one of these days—always in
reflecting, with a certain anxiety not unmingled
with hope, that Madam Rondoli has two more
daughters.’
* * * *
Maupassant has ‘inquietude d’espoirs’;
and ‘ mingled ’ was first written above, and struck
out to get the effect of the double negative—one of
the loveliest effects in literary English. There is
a delicious example in the first two sentences of
‘Ginx’s Baby.’ ‘The father of Ginx’s baby was
Ginx. The mother, by a not unexceptional coinci-
dence, was Mrs. Ginx.’ That nectarine ‘not un-
exceptional ’ touches one almost as G. W. L.
Marshall-Hall is touched when he falls on her
‘quick-panting bosom scarce conscious,’ and sears
with burning lips her ‘emulous hungering mouth,’
and enthrals with strong limbs her ‘weak-yielding
frame that is shaken with shuddering bliss,’ and
so on, and so on, to adjectival infinity.
* * * *
Mr. Marshall-Hall’s ‘ Hymn to Sydney ’ is by
no means so bad as untutored Philistines allege.
There is not very much force in it, or very much
novelty, and the bard has occasionally the aspect
of an embodied hysteria bucked from a verbal
nightmare ; but phrases like ‘the azure effulgence
of high - storeyed heaven’ leave a reasonable
Svvinburnian taste in the mouth ; and verses like
For joy is for aye beauty’s follower, even as stars
By gleams on waste waters are followed, as blossoms by
fruit,
Spraying fountains by rainbows, and night by soft dews ;
nothing mars
The gentle ooncordanoe of Nature’s sweet low-voicM
lute
Whioh breathes through the heart as faint airs through a
forest of pines,
Till it quivers and throbs, like their leaves, with strange
melodies scarce it divines.
are good to see and remember for a little while.
The real scandal of the poem is that it purports to
hymn Sydney, and apparently (for it is too wild
and whirly to declare anything certainly regard-
ing it) darts suddenly away from the subject to
hymn another girl altogether—lrene, possibly;
and Irene has already had as much incense as any
mortal girl’s altar will hold. This is not fair to
Sydney—who can complain, besides, of the gum-
tree and the Chinaman’s garden which slander
her in the frontispiece. It would be better to con-
vert the picture of the poet playing the flute to
his goddess (or gnawing a bone and refusing to
give her any : she looks sulky, and these depres-
sionistio sketches are so vague) into a frontis-
piece for the ninth edition.
* * * •
The author of ‘ Ginx’s Baby,’ Edward Jenkins,
to whom reference was being made when a meteor
fell across the track, has just published ‘Pan-
talas,’ a satirical commentary on the way in
which England treats her poverty problem.
Jenkins’ criticism is futile enough, since he is
content merely to echo condemnation of existing
agencies for reform. Like ‘by-and-by,’ ‘ damn ! ’
is easily said. So the value of ‘ Pantalas ’isas a
mental stimulant, not as a mental food. Inciden-
tally Jenkins emphasises the truth that the Sal-
vation Army is a vast sweating-shop, where the
last atom of force is screwed out of mental or
physical weaklings employed at starvation wages
—in the name of a most merciful God.
* * * •
A rather hasty perusal finds no mention of the
Salvation Army in the new volume of Justin
McCarthy’s ‘History of Our Own Times’; and
such a remarkable excrescence on the corpus of
superstition and charity was surely worth a para-
graph. But the omission is characteristic. McCar-
thy, claiming to be a historian of England, has
little or nothing to say of the social condition of
the people of England during seventeen moment-
ous years. To judge from a passing reference to
‘those terrible problems of social life which so
many writers of later years have been thrusting
under our eyes with futile persistency, as if we
could possibly settle them in any case,’ it looks as
if McCarthy deliberately refused to bother his
head about social conditions. The philosophy
which consists in declaring that the worst
human ills can’t be mended, and that there-
fore it is a waste of time and energy to
try and mend them, is certainly a comfortable
philosophy for well-to-do people. As Mr. Jenkins
points out, ‘ the sublimity of egoism is to keep the
system free from shudders.’
• * * •
But in truth, McCarthy’s attitude to all ques-
tions of sociology is that of a languid dilettante.
In his earlier volumes he forced himself to take a
little thought for the state and prospects of the
less prosperous classes by whose blood and sweat
the communal edifice is cemented ; but his heart
is not in such matters. Omar Khayykm’s bread
and wine and verses sum the constituents of
Justin McCarthy’s felicity (there is no evidence
at hand to show that he wants a lady to sing
be-dde him). He is attracted by politics, but
rather by the personal and intellectual combat
than by the result—though all but all the value
of politics is in the result. For the rest,
McCarthy has a good deal of an Irishman’s
patriotism, and all a cultured Irishman’s love of
art and letters. Science does not interest him ;
and the new volume is blank as to scientific pro-
gress since 1880. So that as a ‘ history ’ it is mis-
named. It is really a gossiping chronicle of the
course of British politics as viewed by a clever
Irishman, with occasional remarks on literary
and artistic figures as they pass from the scene—
a pleasant commentary and pithless.
• * » *
Compared with the elder volumes, this is flatter
and duller. There is less vitality in the author,
and less vivacity in the book. In those elder
volumes McCarthy employs the method which
any brilliant journalist would employ in dealing
with contemporary life. His literary style,
modelled on Macaulay’s, is terse, clear, and vigor-
ous. It lacks a good deal of Macaulay’s epi-
grammatic glitter, and something of his strength
and fulness. Yet McCarthy’s history, less clever
than that of his great predecessor, is no less
entertaining. One’s interest never flags. If
there are wanting passages of transcendent power,
the book yet reaches a level height much above
mediocrity. The pictures of noted individuals, in
particular, are portrait gems. They are limned
with a few sentences that make the presentment
strikingly vivid ; and the panorama in which they
stand is displayed with a skill hardly less attrac-
tive.
* * * *
The new volume maintains the method, but
more feebly. It is less terse, less clear, less
vigorous, much nearer mediocrity. The author has
taken slighter pains, or possessed seanter energy.
His impressions are not so strong, his pictures
not so brilliant, his criticism not so valuable. The
artifices of style by which he holds or creates
interest were sometimes obvious: now, they are
occasionally irritating. Formerly the reader was
rejoiced by felicitous touches of wit or imagery.
It was clever, for example, to say that in 1834
China’s prayer to Europe was that of Diogenes to
Alexander, ‘ Stand out of my sunshine ! ’ It was
clever to compare Russia’s seemingly inconsistent
Turkish policy to the course of a sailing ship
which now tacks to this side and now to that, but
has a clear object in view and a port to reach all
the while. It was a pretty thing to say of
O’Connell’s varying eloquence that as a shadow
runs over a field so its impression ran over an
Irish assemblage. No such memorable allusions
give point and charm to the new volume.
» * * *
This comparison, of course, is inevitable, and
inevitably depreciatory to the fifth volume of ‘ A
History of Our Own Times.’ Positively, the
summary of English and Irish politics from 1880
to date (Jameson's raid is discussed with a
grave imitation of the best historical manner)
is often interesting, and rarely admirable.
(Ireland naturally gets more than its share of
space; and McCarthy is not concerned about
Scotland or Wales or ‘ the colonies and depen-
dencies’). The personal appreciations, too —
though colored by the author’s intimacies—are
readable. ‘ The dignity of History ’ has seldom
had a more agreeable mocker than Justin
McCarthy.
• * * *
The thirteenth volume of ‘The Yellow Book’
has two or three nice drawings—notably a glimpse
of ‘Winter Evening on the Clyde,’ by Muirhead
Bone; and the literature improves somewhat on
recent issues. A story by Ella D’Arcy closes
well; but this piece of verse, by Stephen Phillips,
is the most impressive item of the contents —
THE QUESTION.
Father, beneath the moonless night,
This heavy stillness without light,
There conies a thought which I must speak :
Why is my body then so weak ?
Why do I falter in the race,
And flag behind this mighty pace ?
Why is my strength so quickly flown?
And hark ! My mother sobs alone !
My son, when I was young and free,
When I was filled with sap and glee,
I squandered here and there my strength,
And to thy mother’s arms at length
Weary I came, and over-tired ;
With fever all my bones were fired.
Therefore so soon thy strength is flown.
Therefore thy mother sobs alone.
Father, since in your weaker thought,
And in your languor I was wrought,
Put me away, as creatures are ;
I am infirm and full of care.
Feebly you brought me to the light ;
Then softly hide me out of sight.
Now sooner will my strength be flown.
Nor will my mother sob alone.
My son, stir up the fire and pass
Quickly the comfortable glass !
The infirm and evil fly in vain
Is toiling up the window-pane. •
Fill up ! For life is so, nor sigh ;
We cannot run from destiny.
Then fire thy strength that’s quiokly flown . . .
Hark! how your mother sobs alone !


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN.
A
X
YoCiog
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactorv. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
Shysical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
ledical work post free on application.
Dirt. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DB. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-. 127 Redfern Street,
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
REDFERN.
LADIES!
Don't Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than d£l ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
““of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
AddtCb3 “MEDIOUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
pS R ICORD'j
TSSt* 40^0 ? i|f E '
The only Infallible Remedy for WEA KNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of lt!s, or four quantities in one for HGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope .
Agents for Australasia —Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £ 1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
“ABorij PljySiciao.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
vour best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tir,ed, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life j if you are suffering fiom these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands j our trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general healt h. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can he truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of anj’ institution in Austialia female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles. .
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, J11.1t.C.5., ling.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this I’ackr.
HULKS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
i Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Leg-ally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
|®“ medicines sent securely packed
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
208,
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FULL t>IRECB(S£»
ENCLOSED, ,
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4'6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
SULPHUR PILLS
Effective.
An U puRmER BL °° D
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
Tbs <Slory of tyao !
STRENGTH AND VITALITY.
Dr. GEO. WALSH,
The MOST SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST in Australia,
may be consulted at his PRIVATE DISPENSARY on all
CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN &
BLOOD DISEASES.
YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED MEN, who by
their own acts of imprudence or folly suffer from lack of
energy, impaired vitality, loss of memory, pains in the
limbs and bowels, sunken eyes, tottering gait, who are
weak, debilitated and unable to perform life’s duties pro-
perly ; imbibe natural nerve force and power by my
Urethral Treatment and without exposing their miseries
to an unsympat hising physician, who does not study and
consequently does not understand these cases.
OLD MEN who now find the penalties following- their
transgressions, indiscretions or over brain-work, may con-
sult with assurance of speedy relief and a permanent cure.
Blood and Skin Diseases, Kidney, Bladder and Liver
complaints, Heart and Lung troubles treated successfully.
married men and those about to marry, who
dread their weakness or incapacity, or whose blood is
loaded with impurities transmittable to their offspring,
should consult DR. WALSH without delay.
Varicocele easily and quickly cured without operation.
Write for particulars. ,
“The Bright Side,” a valuable Illustrated Medical
Work on Brain and Nerve Exhaustion and its Cure by the
only pleasant, safe, and certain method exclusively my
own, sent sealed eight stamps.
Before confiding your case, consult Dr. WALSH,
L.R.C.P & S., et L.M., legally qualified Physician
and Surgeon, registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Australia, and New Zealand, and one who has
made diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs a life-long
study, hence to him the sufferer can look with full and
positive assurance of restoration to health and vigorous
manhood ; call or write for absolute proofs of success.
Consultation by letter or in person free and invited.
Send to-day for the “Bright Side,” it will interest you.
Sent sealed for eight stamps. When immediate treatment
is desired, send complete history of case and £l.
DR. GEO. WALSH,
83 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
mllE LAST OF SIX (collected stories by Ernest
I Favenc), Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having- comp'eted his New and Centrallv-situated
JElectrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 I■!]izabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, ftc.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of Gd. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skm diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D FI. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in winch you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical,
PERFECT MIHIOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
\\J EAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly anrl
” permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain 3’our vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist, l’atients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In piiblishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
TCf
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S. A. writes “ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been ' a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
m
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and vmte this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAIIY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whab
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, whicli lias been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over i 200
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong-,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like 1 was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ha FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac.
b 3


T ATTERS ALL’S
PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
CANTERBURY PARK C. July 31.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
Address
shares in the above.
SPRING H.
14tli August.
50,000 Subscribers at 5>
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Subscrilbera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
..shares in the above.
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Sulbscribex s at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
—shares in the above.
Name.
Addi’ess.
MELBOURNE C
November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, JST.S.W.
List Closes 25th September. 116,000 S':ares at £1 Each
116,000 Saar.-s at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
valued at £10,065
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
Empire Hotel, Temora ... ... ... valued at
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra ... ... ... valued at
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc. ... ... ... valued at
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse) ... ... valued at
Union Club Hotel, Junee ... ... ... valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead or
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF —
City ai )d SiibGrbaij
Freehold - Properties.
100*000 Shares of ss* Each*
Ist Prize.—Terrace Houses, Glenmore
Load, and large Dwelling-House, Value
Woollahra ..’ £8,500
2nd Prize. JI ouse and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars applp for Prospectus.
For ful§ particulars road our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts Stiitcd.
Perhaps yon are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a peuchan
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILAb,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can
see the occasion for bothering about PLI Sri ana
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you're almost a Quaker, though not quite, ana
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “ youth at the prow and pleasure at tne
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Mats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
flnthony Hordern& sons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
' c '
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
j in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
/ ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
SANTAS
COPYRIGHT BOOK
How to Disinfect’
s E N T r R EE
The San it as, C 9 L s j
BETHNat Green
LONDON
* tUSScJU. UUQSA&DS SK-Sd
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Acknowledged
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Spec : allty.
“ Tales of the
Convict System.”
It must be rather hard to keep out of gaol
n the N.S.W. country districts. According to
Sydney D.T., one Smith, at Yass, has just got
two months’ gaol for being “ a suspicious person. ’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. 6«1,
11 I’ll Try It.” Sole Agents ; The Retv.lt.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 Goorge-st., Sydney
Positively the Best Dbessing
EQWMRS^ftiR
W
.(
a
cr-
FOR
PRESERVING Sc BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAEEENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Son. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, \y. C
Specially prepared asa Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE'S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautify' tig qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina. Patti writes: "I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard DAIAIHET D
without Eggs. rUff UtR
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can he obtained wherever
__ Tinned Fruit is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS bv HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from =£3 3s. each.
8 MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 little Collins Street,
ivrEXjjßoxjuivrE.
Every Variety of
TEA. !
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
*3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH, li
t ranid,
am
PfD
THB
6 r*ii xxxx 9
G\ ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
I" Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them m use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
‘ . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price [si ng ] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, 30s.
Reoistercd and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOtIDJI ILL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d.> & 11- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
Delicious to Plum Puddiug. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam larts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given arc
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom
““ d it to sgjgjiy Jaggs' fig&js
Sole Agents for New South Wales: TM-LOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EVOE BACCHE!
From pole to pole the wild Isaiahs cry
A curse upon the earth ; with yellow eye
They glare upon the wine-jars and the balm
That lifts our feet from paths of misery ;
And, furious that the sons of him enjoy
The Wine-God’s ecstacies that never cloy,
Shake in our eves the terrors of that pit
Where the fire b'urneth yet doth not destroy.
Still, though the crying of the saints endure
That hunt and harry us our ills to cure,
The rosy current of the grape runs yet,
We know the pleasant present is secure.
Just as the sea slides in upon the land
And smooths the furrows of the wrinkled sand,
So shall the God ye worship with this cup
Sooth all your sadness with a gracious hand.
The wisdom of an older day’s renown
Was wont with wine to wash its sorrows down,
Drink to the dregs the cup of each glad day,
Beneath the shadows of a roseleaf crown.
So let the ravings of the fools rebound
On their dull heads—great bombs of empty sound !
Lie still, and watch the gurgling amphora
With mellow laughter fill the air around.
MACHETE.
SONNET:
FOR THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN'S SAKE.
“If thy hand offend thee, cut it off. It is better for
thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands to
go into hell.” —Mark 9, 43.
“ In the resurrection they neither marry nor are given
in marriage.”—Matthew 23, 30.
Whole will I enter Heaven, or not at all;
I’ll keep my hands, though I should fail of
wings.
Is Heaven a place of maimed and sexless things,
Whose chiefest glory is—they cannot “ fall ” ?
No ; men and women, strong, majestical,
Full-facultied and free, shall taste the springs
Of life supreme—the larger life that brings
The higher joy, the mind more rational.
Maimed manhood, by the harsh Mosaic law,
Might not God’s earthly dwelling-place go in :
How, then, shall such in peerless glory dwell ?
Must fleshly pruning cure the spirit’s flaw ?
Then, rather than a Heaven of cripples win,
I’ll go, full-membered, cheerfully to hell !
M.L.
T. LIDDELL KELLY.
PELAGIA.
Glad captive, wooing while I win,
Across all borders let us float:
Come close, and let my lips drink in
The clinging moisture of your throat —
Light dew, that signals Love’s distress,
But drives away his burning drouth :
I lean above your face, and press
The aching corners of your mouth.
Your cheek against my temple crushed,
Your breath at riot on my eyes,
Dear dainty body hunger-flushed,
What are you under your disguise ? -
One sob struck from a silver bell,
One flaming star upon the night,
One perfect, passion-tinted shell,
One quivering rose of warm delight.
Once Aphrodite, love-distraught,
With sharp and sudden sigh was torn ;
Her scarlet lips a moment caught
The fragrance, dropped, and you were 1 c rn.
But this was—when ? Long ages sim e
Proud Alexandria knew your face ;
For you it was the stranger prince
Sold Gothic pride to Greek disgrace.
And even then you were not young,
When under porch and peristyle
The song that of yourself you sung
Went lilting down the lazy Nile.
What rivers have not echoed it ?
The ruined Rhine has often told :
Through Ganges valleys temple-lit
Its drowsy melody has rolled.
Or in some quaintly-carven ship
Where blue Assyrian helmets shone,
Its tune has trembled on your lip
Beneath the walls of Babylon.
And all those ancient lives of yours,
Those mystic lives, that came and went
Along the western battle-shores
Or in the poisoned Orient,
I know them flashing round us now
And firing you with subtle art,
I hear them beating on my brow,
I feel them crying in your heart.
I, even I, beneath their breath
Am backward borne : along with these
I tread the classic path of Death
That winds across the centuries.
Vic.
WYVIS.
DISCONTENT.
To shatter slumber with a stirring horn,
To goad the laggards on a long ascent,
To mate with man, till thunder-thoughts are born,
To shape the forces in a people pent—
Thy missions these, most noble Discontent!
The giant gyves of despots’ old constraint
Burst from thy frantic limbs. Thou dost present
Ever more fields to soldier, sage, and saint.
Thy gifts not always are the gifts we paint;
We seek a shining good through long unease,
Which jeering Fate forbids. What plea for
plaint ? , .
When hopes, fore-doomed, to vast and virgin
seas
Lure a Columbus, unsought lands arise ;
And phantom stars may tempt us to the skies !
N.S.W.
CECIL POOLE.


Society.
Australia 17 D
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■ WIU€ Ij L
m Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
»v,- . „ . *♦♦♦♦♦♦ ♦ »♦♦♦»»•♦♦»»»♦♦ ♦♦
JOSEPH ABBOTT^ Esn*" ’ Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
J T WALKER THOS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.;
ALliimt, Rsq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Accumulated I*Fiinrtc. 1 *Fiinrtc. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
The nAmSus f Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
or the One Year 1896 (after making unusualty large reserves) amounted to £128,797.
—_ _ yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
■ Head Office s 8 7 FITT STREET, SYDNEY.
_____ ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ffi 7 j
k:: i-rssissaa-ifjsgrn? B -: 5
IS I
B
. ...
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
REM€MBER! . . .
The Record Watch of the
Record Reign
IS THE RELIABLE
. . WaterbGry Watch-
IR-CXA-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES,
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:*
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manaoer.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Loodoo at)d TailoriQg Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS
Suits—4ss. to 90s. Trousers— from 12s. 6d. to 255.
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M. BAUMARSHE Manager
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Ss Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
menfc
Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought, again for the same money.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY
TEETH FliOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
THE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Te eth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of BridgeworJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—-We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
King-3t., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615. '
Qodalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
I —Codalla fctac on.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
Qodalla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
—lt having come to the knowledge of
‘dia Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
bears the brand of the company.
JOHN SHEARWiN,
Wholesale Agent,
239 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors .have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10/- per niirht TWO
DINING BOOMS. Boarders, 30/- go £3 38. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chaibman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896— divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£917,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street* Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
! Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
A _ _ Accident
Ueean Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W M Millan, M.P., A. W. Mekks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynb ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. j. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
C. ELIDRIDG-e & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Togs n>ore In)ported Leaf
tbag all tbe other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yafyke? Poodle. S ht Dar s and Aromatic
w . .Bright. surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS.
Cbaippioi).
The Choicest Bright Out and Plug.
Copqtieror.
New and Old. The Working man’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€l)t€l)l)ial
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Tinported). The Club Favorite MoilOpo'e
Rothschilds Bonanza— 4 Havana and Ameri-
can Cigars retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Voi. 18.—No. 910.
SATURDAY, JULY 24, 1897.
Prick, 6d.
THE TWELFTH OF JULY DISEASE.
GRANDFATHER CASEY (outside the crowd): “ Sure, Mr. O’Hooligan, it’s a pity we’re too ould to be in it!"
O’HOOLIGAN : “ But it’s proud min we ought to be, Mr. Casey, to think our bhoys are in it—ready to fight for what they know nothing about."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for thb A ustralians, ”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where, required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But w
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
ds Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fml — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland unit be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special' Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 24, 1897.
The Sydney City Railway.
A few weeks ago the Sydney city railway
difficulty, after many years of delay and
conversation, seemed practically on the
verge of settlement. Since then some un-
expected opposition has arisen, and the
difficulty looks scarcely so near settlement
as it lately appeared. On two or three
matters connected with the trouble every-
body —or nearly everybody —is agreed ;
everything else is chaos. The Redfern ter-
minal station is too small, is eminently
dangerous because of its smallness, is obso-
lete and badly arranged, and is almost out of
the city in any case. Most of the great
cities of the world have railways running
right through them and one or more—some-
times a good many more—stations in the
city itself. Sydney has just one city station,
and it, by a paradox, is not in the city, and
lies a good way from the business centre.
Even though it can be shown that there are
other places as badly situated in this respect
as Sydney, that does not make the present
arrangement one whit less inefficient. And,
even supposing it should be demonstrated
that a city terminus isn’t essential now —
which is impossible—the fact remains that,
with increase of population, it must become
essential. Also, if it would be a costly work
to construct now, which is admitted, it is
certain to become more costly, through the
increased value of property arising from in-
creased population, later on. Consequently,
there is every reason why it should be made
and made at once, while property and ma-
terials are cheap, interest low, and work
urgently wanted, and before a huge butcher’s
bill, arising through some fatal accident in
the Redfern death-trap, conies along.
♦ * * *
The fact that a new terminus should be
constructed in the heart of Sydney is sup-
ported by so much convincing evidence that
nearly everybody is agreed so far. Almost
the only objection to the work is the wail of
the country politician to the effect that there
are many neglected regions in the backblocks
which want railway facilities much more than
the already favored metropolis. This state-
ment is perfectly true, but it is also wholly
irrelevant. It seems reasonably certain that
the city railway will pay working expenses
and interest on its cost, and that being so,
it should be constructed. If any backblocks
line can give equally good assurance to the
same effect it should be constructed also.
The fact of the city railway being con-
structed will not cause any other district,
which would otherwise have had a line, to go
without. The country can afford to build
every line which will pay working expenses
and interest on cost. The great difficulty,
approaching to impossibility, is to find dis-
tricts where a railway will do these things,
and there is a ghastly list of New South
Wales lines which don’t pay interest, and
very often don’t pay working expenses either.
• * * *
The site of the new central station is the
matter about which the real controversy
rages. The Government and the Depart-
ment desire to annex a portion of Hyde
Park, and plant the new structure about the
top of King-street. This will be almost the
exact centre of what is now the business por-
tion of Sydney. It will be adjacent to almost
everything that the Redfern station con-
spicuously lacks. The bill for compensation
between Redfern and the park will be mode-
rate, as there is comparatively little private
property in the way, therefore a great part
of the stupendous compensation swindle will
be avoided, and the local landlord will not
loot the State to anything like the extent he
usually does. It is only a part of Hyde Park
which will be required at present, and, as the
population of the city is constantly diminish-
ing, through the steady exodus to the
suburbs, the park, it is claimed, is by no
means so essential as it once was. More-
over, the Railway Department, in considera-
tion of getting the park gratis, undertakes to
provide, in lieu of it, a public pleasure-
ground in some other locality, where it is
possibly more urgently required. Finally,
as there will be few compensation questions
to settle, and very few buildings to pull
down, and hardly any engineering difficulties
to contend with, the new station could be
got ready sooner, if built on the proposed
site, than if it were placed in almost any
other part of Sydney. These are the main
features of the case for the Hyde Park loca-
tion, and, when they are all added up, they
make a very good case indeed.
* * * *
The case against the proposed King-street
terminus, however, looks quite as good or
better ; it greatly depends on the point of
view. The statement that it is only "necessary
to take a portion of Hyde Park is plausible
enough, but Sydney is still young, and there
is no possible reason why its 400,000 in-
habitants should not increase by-and-bye to
4,000,000 or even twice that number, and no
amount of provision will prevent a further
enlargement being necessary some day—
possibly before many years are past. If the
railway terminus once gets into Hyde Park,
it will assuredly spread over the whole of
that area sooner or later, and if the people
of Sydney are not prepared to sacrifice the
whole of it the scheme had better be dropped.
Also there seems to be no guarantee that the
new pleasure-ground to be provided in ex-
change will be anything like a fair equivalent
for the one sacrificed. And, in addition to
these considerations, the site itself, good as
it may be, is not altogether the ideal one
that it is represented to be.
* * * *
The most notable argument against it is
that the scheme now favoured apparently
implies the permanent abandonment of all
idea of an extension to North Shore. The
King-street site is too high to make a
continuation to North Shore possible
by tunnelling under the harbour—at least
as railway matters are now understood it
certainly seems so. To carry the line straight
across by means of a bridge would involve
crossing the harbor at a place where the
width is very great, and thereby incurring
enormous unnecessary expense, and it would
also mean that the access to Circular Quay
would be seriously blocked. Yet, in spite of
all the expert opinion that has been advanced
to the' contrary, the demand for a railway
connection with the other shore will almost
certainly be imperative—some day. Sooner
or later—probably a good deal later—North
Sydney will be a good-sized city in itself, and
for its large population the primitive method
of communication per ferry-boat will be en-
tirely obsolete, and so absurdly inadequate
as not to be worth mentioning. Then the
extension of the railway from King-street to
the only convenient crossing-place at Miller’s
Point would necessitate an enormously ex-
pensive resumption of one of the most ex-
pensive portions of the city—a portion which
would then, probably, be a great deal more
expensive than it is even now. If there is
ever to be a direct railway connection with
North Sydney, it is obvious that the line
should run between George-street and Dar-
ling Harbor, so as to point as straight as
possible for the only suitable crossing-place.
And, as there certainly will be need fox-
such a connection as soon as the population
has so increased as to completely outgrow the
existing means of communication, and as the
population has all the time there is to
increase in, The Bulletin regards this con-
nection as a thing that must come, even if a
host of railway experts held the contrary
view. The question is not one of railway
science, but solely of population, and a rail-
way expert is not necessarily any better an
authority on questions of population than
any other man. Therefore, the railway ex-
pert’s opinion in this matter is of no greater-
value than any one of several dozen or hun-
dred or thousand other opinions.
* * * •
To carry the railway between George-
street and Darling Harbor would involve
engineering difficulties from which the other
line would be free, but as the question of
communication with North Shore will cer-
tainly refuse to be buried, these difficul-
ties will have to be faced in any case—
some day. Perhaps by that time engin-
eering science may have so far advanced
that the difficulties will be much less
formidable than they are now; on the
other hand, it may not. Going on the west
side of George-street would mean the
destruction of much property—most of it the
ancient and mouldy kind of property which
much requires to be destroyed for the good
of the city’s incorporated soul. Also, unfor-
tunately, it would mean a good deal more
expense and more land-resumption swindle ;
on the other hand, the King-street idea almost
certainly means that the heaviest part of the
expense is only postponed ; for how long it
is postponed no one can say. The case for the
King-street route is based partly on a desire
for present economy ; partly on the yearning
of the property-holders about King, Eliza-
beth, Market, Castlereagh and other ad-
jacent streets for the unearned increment ;
partly on the desire of many people on the
line of route to sell out to the Government;
partly on the fact that the site is un-
doubtedly an admirable one at present ;
partly on the other fact that the matter has
been brought to its present advanced stage
only after infinite difficulty, and that to re-
open the whole question would mean another
indefinite postponement. The case for
the other route is based on a desire to
preserve the beautiful park from destruc-
tion ; on the desire of a different set
of property/- holders to sell out to the
Government; on the yearning of people in
the vicinity of Wynyard-square and York-
street after the unearned increment; on the
fact that that would also be an admirable
site ; and on the desire to keep in view that
extension to North Shore which will some
day be essential, and for which the King-
street scheme makes no provision. As nomem-
ber of The B olletin proprietary lives near the
railway, or has any property to be resumed
on either line, and as this paper has some
equally good enemies who will profit which-
ever scheme is adopted, it sums up the
case in an unbiassed spirit, and leaves it
there. If any method could be devised of
doing the extensive resumptions on a
decently honest basis, it would vote straight
for a site somewhere adjacent to Wynyard-
square. But, in the atmosphere of grease
and boodle, and tip and palm-oil, which now
surrounds the whole question, it is difficult
to imagine anyone even looking for an honest
basis.
Re Patents.
Mr. W. J. Spruson, a Sydney patent expert,
thus addresses The Bulletin :
“ Gambler’s ” reply to “ 0.” resurrects some old argu-
ments. It is not unfair that a patentee should pay fees
to reimburse the State the cost of affording protection for
his invention. The best method is to charge a small fee-
say, two or three pounds—on the grant of the patent, and
also periodical “renewal” fees during the term of the
patent. In that way, on the one hand, inventors would
be induced to exercise their ingenuity and to give the
public the advantage of their labors, by the prospect of
obtaining a share in the profitable results of them ;
whilst, on the other, unprofitable and “ dog-in-the-
manger” patents would be weeded out, for patentees do
not pay renewal fees when their patents have not been
worked, or when they have not received any profit from
them. Official records in all countries in which renewal
fees are payable show that only a small proportion of
patents survive their fifth year. Free patents would
involve an enormous cost in'working the Patents Office,
and there would be a tremendous number of speculative
and useless patents applied for. The writer knows three
men in Sydney who would each apply for a dozen patents
monthly if they had no fees to pay,‘and not one of their
inventions would be worth a copper to the community ;
still, the State would be at the expense of providing a
staff to deal with their applications. The worst method
is the N.S.W. one, where patentees are charged a single
application-fee and no renewal fees. Of course, if the
N.S.W. Patent Office published as it should do—the
vast store of valuable information now hidden away in its
manuscript records, it would not show its present annual
surplus of three to four thousand pounds. N.S.W.
patentees are virtually taxed to produce this surplus, and
get little or nothing for it. The primary service to be
rendered by the Patents Office is to give the public the
benefit of the knowledge brought to it by patentees. In
N.S.W. there has been no adequate attempt to do this
since 1884; upwards of 5000 specifications remain unpub-
lished.
* * • _* •
How can a patent be opposed to public policy in
the sense implied by “ Gambler ” ? A patent can only be
held for what did not previously exist—wherefore it takes
nothing from the public ; it does not Impose any obliga-
tion on the public to adopt the thing patented —where-
fore it does not tax them. If the public wish to use an
inventor’s creation, should he not share in the advantage
they reap? The “working” condition in patents is
ineffectual and absurd. It is retained in very few modern
laws, but is yet a hobby on the Continent. * Compliance
with the working condition in European patents is a
costly formality, and benefits the public not one whit.
What is “ working ” ? Working may be nominal or actual.
If nominal, it is a mere unpractical show. What is
actual working? How much must a patentee work
his invention before it can be said that he has
actually worked it? Take a few instances. An engine-
driver invents an improvement in loco, boilers. Should
the law force him to build a locomotive and buy a railway
to run it on ? Or should it let things slide until a rail-
way co. chooses to adopt the invention? If the former,
the condition can never be performed, and, therefore, the
law virtually would say that an engine-driver shall not
have a patent for an improvement in locos. As the rail-
way owner never does the inventing himself, the law
would, therefore, practically decree that patents could
not be held by the inventor of anv railway appliance, for
a patentee cannot work any railway appliance unless he
has a railway to work it on. Take the case of a mill for
rolling arnior-plates. How would a patentee proceed to
work that invention in N.S. Wales? Again, a man in-
vents a torpedo, or breech mechanism for ordnance, or
something in steamship construction. How is it possible
then for him to “work” anyone of these things? The
working must be done by the parties concerned in the
use of the thing, not by the inventor. It is the inventor’s
part to show the way. The public then have the oppor-
tunity to work his invention, or to do without it, as may
best please them. Let us go to the other extreme. A
man invents and patents an improvement in tobacco
pipes. He has one made and uses it himself. Is that a
‘‘working'?” If not, will “Gambler” say how many
pipes he should smoke, or how many persons should
smoke the one pipe in order to effect a sufficient working?
If he says that ten pipes should be made and sold to ten
smokers, then why not ten locomotives to ten rail-
way owners, or ten steamships to ten steamship
owners ? It is not practicable to require more than
nominal working, which, when possible at all, is a farce.
The compulsory-license clause is a very good thing to deal
with the “dog-in-the-manger” patentee. It is justified
by the argument that the ultimate object of granting
patents is to improve the arts, manufactures, and trades
of a country, by inducing persons of an inventive capacity
to exercise their ingenuity and produce novelties with a
view to introducing and developing trades and industries.
* • * *
" Gambler ” complains about “the roundabout rigma-
role of the English Act.” What is he complaining about ?
He does not tell us. When he says he w'ould tax profits of
inventions, he is again proposing something entirely im-
practicable. How can such profits be ascertained ? They
may be approximately reckoned in a very small percentage
of cases where the invention is a definite and separate
entity. But very few patents are of that kind. A large
proportion of patents in commercial use come to be
adopted because they make the article to which they are
applied more marketable, but no definite part of the
manufacturer’s profit can be called royalty. The State
had better let the exploitation of patents alone, for
patents are not a class of property which may be advan-
tageously nationalised. State interference in the direc-
tion of resuming patents would mean log-rolling extra-
ordinary. “ Gambler ” should confine himself to concrete
cases for a basis for his arguments. When “ some costless
force” of which he dreams is invented, it will
be time enough to legislate in view' of such an
extraordinary circumstance. But as we are yet some
distance from the Millennium, it is just as well to
postpone troubling ourselves about the details of such
legislation.' The mere production of motion seems an all-
embracing idea, but it really covers only a very small area
of the inventor’s and laborer’s fields of work, which are
more particularly occupied with the transformation and
utilisation of energy and the production of effects not re-
quiring the utilisation of motion. Even if we had a cost-
less method of producing- power, the occupations of only
a fraction of the world’s laborers would be affected, and
for most, if not all of these, new avenues w-ould be opened
up under the new conditions so created.
I cannot attempt to deal at length here with the great
economical problem which the use of machinery has
opened up. My own impression is that if the past
multitude of inventors and patentees had never existed,
and the Stone Age still survived, there would be just as
many discontents and unemployed amongst us as
we have to-day, if not more than we have, whilst we
would have none of the advantages and conveniences, all
flowing from inventive genius, which make decent and
civilised life possible. A diatribe against inventions is
logically applicable to the man who contrived the pick,
the spade, the knife, the hammer, the chisel, and the
needle; but this aspect of the matter is usually overlooked
by the narrow-brained economists who do not realise that
wants are created by the opportunities to fill them.
There are no wants just now for the things which
the next generation will invent, but when those
things are invented, the world will want them,
and men will be employed in supplying the new demand,
who otherwise might walk about idle. “Gambler”
instances the linotype, and quotes the immediate result
of the introduction of that wonderful machine, presum-
ably as a reason for its suppression. If he is logical hie
should also denounce the type-founding machine, the
paper-making machine, and the cylinder press. We must
look further afield than “ Gambler ” does to discover what
is the ultimate result of labor-saving devices. Surely he
will not attempt to tell us that more labor would be em-
ployed to-day if the three machines I have mentioned did
not exist. How many men were employed in the printing
trade when types were cut in wood and impressions pulled
in a lever press ? Have printers lost work by the intro-
duct ion of labor-saving devices? On the contrary, there
are now a thousand men employed in that trade for every
one there would be if we had only the appliances of three
hundred years ago. Every day we hear that if railway
freights could be cheapened, new industries might be
founded in the interior and labor employed which is now
idle. Would the cheapening of overland transit then
decrease the demand for labor? Lastly, what does
“ Gambler ” mean by a “rational system of patents ” ? I
do not say that we have in N.S. Wales even a moderately
good patent system, but “ Gambler ” seems to have a
grievance also against the English system. If it is as well
founded as the grievances he expresses, it is probably npt
very serious.—W. J. Spruson.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Land Tax Muddle.
The decision given by N.S.W. Supreme Court
in the recent Land-tax action puis the God-
fearing Ministry in several kinds of a tight
place. The law, as laid down by Judge Man-
ning, is that the Laud-tax Act requires the
assessment-books of the province to he com-
pleted before any money can be demanded from
the tax-payer ; and that, as they have not been
completed and are not likely to be for a long
while, no tax is due, or is likely to come due
until some very remote date. As a natural
corollary, the .£150,000 or so already collected
has been collected illegally, and unless Judge
Manning’s decision can be overruled, which is
eminently improbable, the only resource is to get
theassessment-books completed in great haste, or
to pass an amending Act with all possible speed.
Failing that, it will not only be practically im-
possible to collect any more tax, but the people
who have already paid will raise a howl for a
refund, which bowl will be practically irresist-
ible. There should be very little difficulty in
passing the amending Act, but meanwhile the
deadlock is a beautiful advertisement for tlie
aggregate intelligence of the Ministry. There
are four lawyers in it, yet not one of them
dropped to this ghastly mistake when the
measure was under consideration. The error
was so conspicuous that quite a number of
lawyers and laymen and various papers, in-
cluding The Bulletin, pointed it out over six
months ago, and it was also so conspicuous that
the Equity Court found it at the very first
attempt. Yet apparently all the legal talent
in the Ministry couldn’t see the flaw even when
it was pointed out, or else the Ministry in
general lacked the foresight to set about
remedying it before the deadlock took place.
This episode should make the tax-commis-
sioners feel a ’ittle better. A few weeks ago
they were heavily sat upon by the Attorney-
General for employing outside legal talent
while he was available, and considering where
the outside talent led them in the matter of
the 'income-tax arrears, all they could do was
to take the remarks that were made as peace-
fully as possible. Now, considering the much
worse hole which the Attorney-General and
the other legal members of the Ministry have
got into without any outside assistance, the
Commissioners probably feel that things are
about square. The present situation is some-
thing unique in the way of blank stupidity.
Low Prices, Depression, and Borrowing.
Premier Turner, in one of his London
speeches, ascribed the present depression in
Australia largely to borrowing. Whereupon his
brother-Premier, Reid, of N.S.W., took an
early opportunity to contradict him, and
alleged that it wasn’t borrowing, but “ the fall


of 25 per cent, in the value of products ”
within the last few years which caused all the
trouble. G. H. Reid, whose political economy
js weak, and his finance awful, and his arith-
metic beneath derision, apparently didn’t see
that he was saying in other words the same
thing as Turner said, while alleging that the
thing which Turner said was incorrect. There
has been, roughly speaking, a fall of 25 to 50
per cent, within the last quarter century in the
values of the goods produced by Australia, and
there has been, through various causes, a very
similar fall in the values of the goods which
Australia doesn’t produce, but buys from other
people. If this country didn’t owe any money
to any foreign creditor the fall would matter
nothing, or next to nothing. Wages, rent,
and interest would probably be 25 per cent,
less on a rough average, but as the reduced
sum' of money would buy the same amount
of goods as the larger sum did before
the reduction, nobody would be any the
poorer. The exported goods which formerly
fetched, say, 10 millions would now fetch only
7\ millions, and the imported goods which
formerly cost 10 millions, would only cost 7£
millions, and barring some temporary disloca-
tion of trade no one would be any the worse.
The borrowing curse, however, puts things in
quite a different aspect. When Australia sends
to England £30,000,000 worth of goods per
annum, and gets back £15,000,000, the differ-
ence goes to pay interest at the rate of £15,000,000
per annum on public and private borrowings.
A drop of 25 per cent, all round in values
means that the exports only fetch £22,500,000,
while the cost of the imports goes down to
£11,250,000, consequently, instead of there
being 15 millions left to cover interest there is
only 11£ millions. This means that Australia
must pay up the other 3f millions, which is
dead loss created by the decline in prices.
The rate of interest on public borrowings
has also gone down since 1870 or ’75, but
as the loans floated then were at a fixed
rate of interest for a fixed number of years
this country as yet has gained no benefit worth
speaking of from the fall. Reid’s statement
that the “ depression ” arises through the fall
in prices is true; the other man’s state-
ment that it arises through borrowing is equally
true, for the fall in prices would have made no
real difference but for the borrowing. Reid,
being himself a persistent borrower, didn’t like
the way Turner put it, but though lie put it
differently he said exactly the same thing.
-
The Theory of Mine Accidents.
Judge Murray has been appointed a Commis-
sion to inquire into and report upon the whole
subject of the frequency of accidents in Broken
Hill mines and open cuts ; and he has already
begun his work. He is to ascertain what class
of operations, if any, are particularly unsafe ;
wherein the present regulations fail ; what
regulations, if any, ought to be substituted or
added ; whether more inspectors are required ;
and to travel into various other byways.
About the most feasible-looking theory sub-
mitted so far to account for the frequency of
accidents is the simple one that, all round, the
mines are working at too high a pressure,
Mining could be made as free from danger as
ordinary pick-and-shovel work—if you could
get a mine rich enough to stand it, and a pro-
prietary philanthropic enough to allow it.
Bub in order to make bigger profits
out of rich ore, and to bring poor
ores within the pay - limit, operations
are pushed further and further in the
direction of danger. Deep shot-holes are
put down instead of shallow ones ; wide stopes
are exposed instead of narrow ones ; sides of
open-cut quarries are undermined so that the
overburden will fall away instead of having to
be blasted ; ends of long steel-wire winding-
ropes are changed while the bight hangs down
the shaft, supported on timber, instead of the
whole thing being hauled out of the shaft;
“ bottoms ” of holes from which the explosive
is supposed to have blown out are used as the
beginnings of new holes ; and a thousand other
labor-saving devices are resorted to. Theoreti-
cally, there is hardly such a thing as a non-pre-
ventible accident. Ask a mine expert—manager
or workman, it doesn’t matter which—whether
a given operation is safe, and he will probably
reply, “Yes, from a mining point of view.”
Which means that it really isn’t safe, but
that for the sake or in the hope of getting
profits the co. allows it, and for the sake of
getting or keeping in work the sub-
mits to it. It is a matter of extreme diffi-
culty to say where what may be called
legitimate risk ends, and the illegitimate
begins: no Commission, whatever valuable
light it may be able to shed upon more or less
local details, can be expected to satisfactorily
dispose of this larger problem. The miner may
claim that as he has to accept big and still
bigger risks he ought to be paid higher wages ;
but the owner has the reply that if the big risks
are not taken at the ordinary wage the ore
will not pay to handle at all. His reply has
been so convincing that at length practi-
cally all risks are, by the inevitable levelling
process, now taken without special payment.
At one time working miners sought to get some
few special risks specially compensated—work-
ing in wet shafts, for instance. But even this
provision is now generally disregarded on most
mining fields. If the miner did, as a rule, get
compensation for extra or special risks, he
might be reasonably expected to make special
provision against accident, fatal or otherwise
but as he doesn’t get special compensation he
doesn’t, as a rule, make special provision.
In fact, following what seems to be a
pretty general rule, the riskier his work
the more prodigal he is of his pence. And
because profits are largely dependent upon
risks, and because the miner is not generally
compensated for the special risks of the calling,
it is arguable that mine-owners should be re-
quired to at least co-operate in maintaining a
fund for the relief of those who suffer from the
special risks of the industry. There undoubt-
edly are many mines which could not be worked
were not large risks accepted. As it is, these
mines do not return enough or more than enough
to pay the ordinary wages. But, on the other
hand, there are mines which, while still paying
only the same rate of wages, might be profitably
worked with far less risk ; and, seeing that the
miners swell the profits by accepting risks
without extra payment (unwritten industrial
laws preventing any differentiation), it doesn’t
seem utterly outrageous that some of these
extra profits should be taken to help provide
something like an equivalent in cash to pay the
price in flesh and blood which the industry’s
special risks demand.
Put It Down to the Drink.
Butler was duly butchered last week, in
Sydney, by the noseless minion of the law, and
he died a penitent member of the Wesleyan
persuasion, with the hope of a blessed resurrec-
tion in his soul. According to his ghostly com-
forter, the Rev. George Lane, he left an
affecting message behind him, in which he
“ put it all down to the drink ” :
The next time you see your Sunday-school children, Mr.
Lane, tell them from me that I, too, was once a Sunday-
school scholar in a little English village, and drink has
brought me to this. ,
This is the voice of warning which rises from
the grave of the Glenbrook murderer, and, on
the strength of it, Rev. Mr. Lane invites
everybody, with renewed fervor, to swear
off the beer when it is brown and be a new
man. Still, the voice isn’t quite so convincing
as it sounds. Very few men, looking back on a
moderately long life, can tell exactly what it
was which made them become murderers, or
accountants, or burglars, or preachers, or ham-
shop keepers, or teetotallers, or Buddhists, or
hangmen, or anything else ; a man generally
becomes what he is through countlesa causes,
direct and remote, working together, many of
which causes he is wholly unaware of. Not
one man in 1000 can say honestly that his whole
life turned on any one cause. Butler possibly
thought drink was the reason of his downfall
because he was attended by a parson who held
forth to him on the horrors of alcohol ; if he
had been attended in his last hours by a wine-
and-spirit merchant he would quite as pro-
bably have ascribed his downfall to the Sunday-
school. Simply because all criminals are
attended in their last hours by parsons,
and none of them by wine-and-spirit merchants,
the Drink doesn’t get a fair show in their
dying speeches; if the condemned were
habitually visited and comforted by publicans
probably a large proportion of them would die
stating that they had gone down-hill through
the gloom and Calvinism and sulphur and
brimstone of their early Christian teaching, and
had been kept away from the right path by the
dreariness of pastors in general. Moreover, it
was easier and pleasanter for Butler to ascribe
his crimes to drink than to mere greed and cal-
lousness and indisposition to honest labor;
every man naturally passes on the blame, and
Drink is as handy a thing to pass it on to as
anything else. Butler, so far as all the evi-
dence goes, was distinctly a sober criminal.
The drunken criminal does his crime suddenly
while he is.drunk. Butler beguiled his vic-
tims away with the ingenuity of a clear, cool
head, and shot them with a steady hand
—not a hand that wobbled through the
fumes of alcohol. A drinky murderer
would have muddled the elaborate plans
which Butler had to carry out. Almost all
great and skilful criminals are strictly sober
men, because it needs a much clearer head to
compose an elaborate crime than to compose a
sermon. Peace, Wainwright, the poisoner
Bertrand, and Deeming are a few casual
examples ; so are Matthias Larkin and the
other pious Melbourne swindlers who ran the
boom ; so is almost every other reasonably suc-
cessful criminal. The theory that it was Drink
which made Butler the hardy ruffian he
was, which made his hand steady and
his eye reliable so that he potted his
victims with absolute accuracy every time,
is wild absurdity, according to all parsonical
theories as to the effect of liquor. Butler’s
story is simply this : he was a Sunday-school
scholar, a sailor, a soldier, a drinker, a miner,
and many other things, and either the Sunday-
school or t he drink, or the sailoring, or heredity,
or something else led him to become Lee
Weller’s murderer. But the Rev. George
Lane, as a good teetotaller, suggested to him
that it was the Drink, or Butler thought it
would fit the mental bias of his ghostly com-
forter to say it was the Drink, and in his last
attempt to shunt the responsibility on to some-
one else he told the Rev. George Lane it was
the Drink 5 so it stands at that.
A Kerristian Exemplar.
A Melb. newspaper discussion on “The Sign
of the Cross ” was opened last week by one
Rev. E. Isaac, president of the local Baptist
Union. The Rev. Isaac merely referred to the
Firm’s show as something which the writer
wouldn’t go to see, and his epistle was, for the
most part, a hardshell Baptist advt. of parsonic
self-righteousness and conceit. In the beautiful
words of this holy man :
The question for the Christian minister, and, indeed,
all who profess and call themselves Christians, is not can
I ko to the theatre and receive no harm, but will others
who are perhaps more prone to temptation than I follow
my example and escape unscathed? Will not the sanction
and approval which my presence gives act as a con-
venient opiate to the consciences of some who are anxious
to justify theatre-going from a Christian standpoint? It
seems to me that if I attend the theatre at all I throw the
weight of my example in the scale of theatre-going
generally.
A question for all who don’t profess and call
themselves conscientious opponentsof William-
son and Musorove, penny nap, intoxicating
liquors, dancing, Sunday excursions, and horse-
races is—what proportion of the civilised world
objects to theatres on principle ? The number
of redeemed mortals who shrink from the
thought of setting foot in a play-house can only
be guessed at through church-going statistics.
Religion of the Baptistioal and Wesleyanic
order is represented by “ regular attendants at
Divine Worship,” and these—according to the
shepherd’s own lamentations—are a small per-
centage of the population, growing smaller
every year. The grand total of regular theatre-
goers, occasional visitors, and adults who would
go there sometimes if they were not in a chronic
state of hard-uppislmess, is probably 50 times
greater than the snuffling minority which
suffers from a conscience on the subject. A
portion of the public stops religiously
away from wliat is called frivolous en-
tertainment at the theatres. “ The Sign of
the Cross ” was specially designed to catch
the “ serious-minded ” crowd—but probably
not more than two per cent, will absolutely
refuse to sample any kind of stage-play what-
soevei*. In short, Rev. Isaac, living and
preaching in a small world, magnifies his own
importance to a ridiculous degree, after the
manner of petty local potentates in every line
of business. As for his pride in his particular
ability to walk unharmed where other angels
might fear to tread, it is such a hideous illu-
stration of Baptist faith that The Bulletin
suspects some artful theatrical manager (other
than the Firm) of having secretly incited Isaac
to give himself away. Frank Thornton or
Bland Holt incited him by circuitous means
to write his delectable letter, in order that the
community at large might begin to turn against
“ The Sign of the Cross ” and despise the
Early Christianity which . has resulted in
Baptist Unions and the Nonconformist con-
science,
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent, “J,”
argues quite logically re the cyanide patent
question, but, unfortunately, when the pre-
mises are unsound the more logical the argu-
ment based thereon the more false the
conclusion. If the cyanide people were seeking
simply to correct a “slip in their specifica-
tions” “ J’s ” contention would he unanswer-
able, as it was to enable patentees to do tin's
that the Act was passed. But the cyanide
people did not make any “slip ” —they calmly
claimedgwhat they didnof invent—what has been
known for 30 years, viz., the mode of extrac-
tion of gold from powdered ore bj 7 any solu-
tion containing cyanogen. This claim the High
Court of Appeal in England held to be bad
on the ground I have Btated, and the object of
the proposed amendment is to substitute for
the present invalid, drag-net claim a definite
one for a certain specified solution. Should
this amendment be permitted, in lieu of a
patent which has been held by the highest court
of law in the Empire to be bad, the cyanide
people would be granted what is practically a
new patent, affecting the treatment of the
whole of our low-grade ores. Under these cir-
cumstances the N.S.W. Minister for Mines is
doing nothing more than his duty in instruct-
ing the law officers of the Crown to oppose
the application.—Yours, Arthur Griffith,
Sydney, 18th July.
Premier Seddon comes out of the Jubilee, so
far as the cabled information shows, about the
worst of all the seven Premiers. They all
grabbed hungrily and shamelessly at whatever
title was going, and in this one matter Reid
showed to the worst advantage as the man who
had declared most distinctly that lie would
never take a gewgaw under any possible cir-
cumstances whatever, while Kingston and Sed-
don, as two other avowed Democrats, were very
close up. Turner, who never advertised him-
self as a Democrat or a man who scorned gauds
with a lofty scorn, took his decoration with a
better grace, and the other three were avowed
Tories, to whom titles came as a matter
of course. Also, the three Tory Premiers
didn’t lose caste when they drivelled about
Imperial Federation, because everyone knew
they were built that way and they never made
any secret of their Imperialistic leanings. As
regards the four to whom the democratic party
pinned its faith, Reid, Turner, and Kingston
appear to have given neither grovel nor rash
promises nor professions of abject loyalty in
return for their gauds, and Seddon was the
only one who showed signs of a tendency
to wobble after strange gods, and to truckle
to Joseph Chamberlain and the Imperial
Federation party generally. Possibly the cable
did him an injustice, but he certainly looks
like a man who lost his head badly, and grovelled
foolishly ; and the Maoriland National Ass has
already begun to speak kindly of him, which is
valuable corroborative evidence. Turner would
have come through the business more respect-
ably than anyone else, but for the pathetic tale
of how he shaved off his quaint, crescent-
shaped billygoat in order to mash or otherwise
impress Queen Victoria, and took drilling-
exercise on board ship, and “ waved his hand ”
in the Jubilee procession. The story of that
stout, elderly, spectacled solicitor incessantly
waving his hand to the Empire in general will
stick to Turner for a long, long time.
Melb. Argus says: “ The singular delusion is
often encountered that Freetraders cannot pos-
sibly regard with favor manufacturing growth.
No allegation can be more preposterous. Free-
traders fully recognise that a multiplicity of
occupations is essential in a well-organised com-
munity, and that the aspiration after a strong
manufacturing element in the national economy
is in every way laudable.” The Freetrader in
a new country has no desire to crush native in-
dustries, it is comforting to hear. He simply
dumps mountainous masses of imported mer-
chandise in the path of the local manufac-
turers, and says : “If you can step across those
obstacles without assistance, bless you, my
children ! If you can’t, you must go upon the
land and earn profits for the importer by the
sweat of your brows.”
Canterbury Times (M.L.): —
In Her Majesty’s Privy Council, as now constituted,
there may be discerned the eerm of that Imperial Council
which Federationists see to be the necessary concomitant
of a closer and more formal union between England and
her colonies. The Premiers of Canada, of Cape Colony,
and of the seven colonies of Australasia have been called
to the councils of Her Majesty, and have thus been
granted a position of honor and responsibility in the
affairs of the Empire. The Premiers, and the colonies
whom their elevation is meant to honor, have every
reason to feel highly gratified that the Queen’s advisers
have chosen this method of recognition, rather th;in the
bestowal of meaningless titles and tinsel decorations,
which confer no honor, typify no dignity, and are by the
bulk of colonists regarded as worthy only of ridicule! As
Privy Councillors, sworn to advise and assist the
Sovereign, &c., &c.
This is probably as good a fashion of explaining
away Dick Seddon’s title as any other. But
the seven Premiers haven’t been “ called to the
councils of Her Majesty,” for the Privy Council
doesn’t give any good advice to Her Majesty
nowadays. Despite their being “ sworn ” they
don’t either advise or assist the Sovereign.
Their title is as meaningless and as tinselly as
a*K.C.M.G-ship, or any other slab of orna-
mental woe. It doesn’t typify any dignity now,
though it once did. There is no “ responsi-
bility ” about the position, and its honor is a
matter of opinion ; also there is no “ germ ” of
any Imperial Council, or any imported microbe
whatsoever about the business, for the F.C. is
an old institution that is dying out, not a new
one that is growing and developing. The title
of Right Hon. is as strictly an ornamental
honorary cheese-plate hung on the owner’s
stomach as any other gewgaw, and no amount
of explanation can get away from the fact that
all the seven Premiers grabbed unanimously for
all the meaningless title that was going. And
may the Lord have mercy upon their political
souls.
Minister Gould, speaking for Minister Car-
ruthers in N.S.W, Parliament on dummy-
informers, said that it is the practice of the
Lands Department, when a man discloses that
he has played the dummy, to forward his state-
ments to the Crown Law officers, with a view
of prosecuting him for perjury if those officers
so advise. Later on the Minister said he should
not feel inclined to shield self-confessed per-
jurers. The informer is the ne plus infra of
civilisation. In barbarism he is chopped up if
his one-time friends catch him, and sometimes
he fares as badly among the new friends he
tries to serve. A Minister is on pretty safe
ground, therefore, when he girds scornfully at
the pariah. Nine out of ten hearers will
applaud. The tenth may, however, ask
why, if the Law shield informers of
one class, it should not shield those of
another ? If a man who has done his share
of a murder or robbery turns Queen’s evidence,
the Law shields him. If he has conspired
under oath with others to perpetrate a felony
of the ordinary brand, and he chooses to give
his associates away, the Law not only protects
him, but often actually rewards him. Why,
then, is this minatory Ministerial message
issued against the land-dummying informer?
It is well-known that the foul-smelling pool of
land-dummying has been lately stirred, and
that, to the surprise of many, pseudo-selectors,
north, south, and west, have shown a willing-
ness to “ give away ” their squatter bosses. Is
the Minister’s message, then, a menace ? Any-
way, these potential witnesses are admonished
thereby that they may be prosecuted for their
initial perjury.
- - ♦
In the N.S.W. Mines Dept.’s annual report
there is every year included an elaborate state-
ment of the number of men killed in the mines
of the province. Upon these figures are based
tables which purport to show the percentage of
men killed and injured : and these figures again
are accepted universally for purposes of com-
parison with the statistics of other industries.
The fatal accidents have hitherto been thought
to be pretty correctly stated, though the few
people on the inside have known that when a
miner dies some time after the occurrence of
his accident, the circumstance is often allowed
to pass officially unnoted. But even this sec-
tion of the statistics is now more seriously dis-
credited. Replying in the Assembly the other
night to a questioner, the Minister for Mines,
said that there had been eight fatal accidents
in B.H. mines since Sept., 1896 ; whereas local
authorities insist that there are 14 more or less
mangled corpses to be accounted for in that
district. The Minister continued that there had
been 27 other accidents in the same period ;
whereas the Miners’ Association, which includes
about half the total number of workmen,
declares that its books alone show that in the
period referred to 80 men have received acci-
dent pay at Broken Hill, and 13 more at the
neighboring Tarrawingee. Officers of this body
further assert that'not above one-half of the
accidents have ever been officially listed. In
the metalliferous mines of the United Kingdom
33,200 persons are employed ; there were 37
fatal accidents last year, involving 40 deaths.
The proportion of fatalities to persons employed
there was thus one in 830. In the open-cuts
and quarries of the U.K. the proportion was
124 in 112,829 (one in 910) ; in the collieries,
notwithstanding some big disasters during the
year, it was 1025 in 692,684 (one in 686). In
the Broken Hill district for the last eight
months alone the proportion has been one
in 410. The figures prove two unpleasant
things—one that the proportion of accidents at
Broken Hill is excessive ; the other the unre-
liability of the official figures of the N.S.W.
Mines Department.
“ Le Juste Milieu ” addresses The Bulletin
re a Police Court incident lately referred to in
these columns:—
At Melb. Police Court a man was sentenced to three
months for theft, or fraud of some kind, and Panton,
P.M. ,took upon himself to endorse the prisoner’s business
references to that effect— -i.e., the magistrate cancelled
his certificates of character up to date. Was Mr. Panton’s
act an injustice to a dishonest man, or a performance of
duty to the commercial community? The spoiled refer
ences were calculated to land the bearer in a billet where
a character for trustworthiness would be essential to his
engagement; therefore, they were now false in the light
of his proved dishone-ty. The magistrate had a right to
protect society from imposition. On the other hand, it may-
be said that the prisoner was entitled to the benefit of
any- good character he had acquired previous to convic-
tion. But was he entitled to capture, on the strength of
his bygone trustworthiness, real or supposed, a billet
which other men, who have never gone wrong at all, are
hungrily seeking ? There are the unemployed, as well as
the employers, to be considered in a case like this. Where
honesty is asked for, unsullied honesty should take pre-
cedence of the tarnished article. In the competition for
precedence among clerks in distress, all anxious to enter
the office that offers a means of living, sympathy
for the poor devil who has brought himself to grief
should surely be set aside in favor of sympathy for
the poor devils whose trouble is undeserved. And this
apart from the question as it affects employers. Then
have a right to get what they' consider the most desirable
clerk, according to the references submitted, therefore
the reference which suggests unimpeachable honesty in
him who has subsequently been impeached and sent to
gaol, is a fraud upon the employer, as well as an injustice
to the rival candidates. Yet, how is a clerk, stripped of
his references, to rise again from the dust if, as seems
probable, his former employers refuse to repeat their good
opinion of him in writing? Must he starve? Panton,
P.M., might reply that better men are in dire straits,
and their erring brother must go for just what he is
worth in the clerkly labor-market.
8 By making all the seven Premiers Privy-
Councillors, Chamberlain simply divided them
into two classes—the weak men who were pro-
foundly grateful because they got the same title.-
as the strong men, and the strong men who were
mad because they only got the same titles as th*
weak men.


FRANZ JOSEF . . .
PILSENKR
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT s
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084,
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company :—
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life ;
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years,
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance •policies apply to the Manager, at the
Company's Building, Martin’s Place, Sydney, or at any
of the Branch Offices —
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
lij Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Thomas A. Edison, the great ipventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only J 212, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
YOUR IDEAL
Should be lofty—it cannot
be too high, for the higher
it is, the higher you will
get, in approaching it. . .
The “IDEAL” Portrait
Co. is, of course, only a
name, but it is a particu-
larly appropriate one,
because the Photographs
turned out are ideals of
what Photographs should
be. They are of the finest
and highest quality of por-
traiture, and correspond-
ingly low in price.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,''*
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- Igy
ment in Permanent Bromide or f * /O
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras )
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS. 0
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “My Friend from India. ”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Royal “ The Pauper.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Sign of the Cross.”
Royal. The Flying Jordans.
Opera House Rickards’Variety Co.
Rotunda Prof. Norton B. Smith.
Colonel Olcott, one of the boss apostles of
Theosophy, dropped in casually upon Sydney last
week, and lectured very affably on his faith. The
Colonel revealed himself as a very stout gentleman
with the most benevolent countenance on record,
a smooth, waxen skin, a creamy-white beard
streaming like a cataract of beneficence down his
vasty chest, a pair of dreamy blue eyes, and a
gentle voice. He is the sort of man that any lost
dog would go home with at first sight. As an ex-
pounder of the large, soft, overwhelming creed of
the Theosophists, the Colonel is a reasonable suc-
cess. There is nothing bony or angular about
that creed. It falls softly on the hearer like 2ewt.
of boiled sago pudding, and adapts itself to cir-
cumstances. It is so comprehensive that almost
any kind of religionist can get into it without
much conversion, and it is generally understood to
have come from Asia, where all the gentlemanly
creeds do come from. Anyhow, no creed that
came from any other place ever amounted to any-
thing, and no prophet, from Moses to Malachi,
Micah and Mahomet, who wasn’t an Asiatic
prophet, ever prophesied worth tuppence.
All the same, the Colonel’s religion hasn’t
come to these parts to stay. It is too
mild, and soft, and benevolent to catch on per-
manently. The Anglo-Saxon likes a creed that
bites all the way down ; something that he can
procesh about now and then, and throw bricks
about, and over which he can do some tall shoot-
ing at the heathen in his blindness. Also he
wants good, solid, well-defined damnation in it.
A creed which is mainly a fat, mild, brotherly
muddling with the Infinite isn’t in his line.
* • • •
The present writer has heard a good many
Theosophists on the platform, and is personally
acquainted with one—a long-haired dreamer, who
always has eight dogs walking behind him (it is
only a man with a kindly soul who is ever followed
by eight dogs, and when eight dogs go after a man
it generally means that he is too kind to wholly
damn anyone, and then he has to take to Theoso-
phy or go without a religion). And, despite all
these lecturers, and much Theosophical literature,
and the eight dogs, his attempts to grasp the big,
undefmable faith with Karma in it have been as
ineffectual as an attempt to flatten out soup with
a hammer. But he likes the Colonel all the same,
and regards him as a pleasant, honest, kindly
fentleman, with both hands full of Chaos and
nfinity and Soul, and things like that, and, at his
worst, he is a great deal more consoling than most
preachers that one meets. And when he gets on
a platform and dreams affably about Buddha and
various other bygone prophets, and about the old
faiths which sprawl loosely among the old Asiatic
temples with the snake in the basement, he is
very agreeable company for an idle hour, and
quite as good as being asleep.
** * *
On Saturday night “My Friend from
India ” is to be produced at Her Majesty’s, with
Alma Stanley, Paulton and George Lauri in the
cast. The “ Friend,” which did a rather successful
season in Melbourne, is on for one week only, as
another new co. is due on the 31st With the “ Gay
Parisienne.” In the meantime the “ Night Out ”
is getting along to excellent business, and
Mathieu’s four daughters make a noble effort
every evening to go to bed publicly on the stage,
till the eruption of the inebriated architect breaks
in on their innocent repose.
* * *
Maggie Moore has decided to cut short
“ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins,” after a two weeks’season,
and a new comedy-drama with the gruesome title
of “ The Pauper ” is to be staged at Sydney Royal
on Saturday. This paper parts with the twins in
a rather regretful spirit. They were two bright
scraps of draggled humanity, and Mrs. Quinn pur-
sued them among some very interesting scenery;
moreover, the play, despite its thinness, was a
pleasant little thing with a nice, large dog in it,
and at a more prosperous time should have paid
the gas-bill and left a decent margin over. But
another hard frost appears to be settling on
theatrical matters in Sydney, and the necessity for
a continual hustle probably makes the untimely
sacrifice of the twins unavoidable.
** * *
Signs have lately been accumulating that
the Farley co. will not be of much longer duration
at Sydney Opera House, and now its demise is
announced for Friday night. Meanwhile, the
rather attenuated audiences don’t grow any
larger. The management has certainly given
very good value for the very moderate amount
charged at the door, but there appears to be
no great demand for old-fashioned operas and the
melodies of bygone days. So good old Mephis-
topheles lifts up his bass note of denunciation in
the presence of many empty seats, and Jules
Simonsen is damned very unobtrusively. There
are rumors about a new management trying
its fortunes in the luckless cavern above the
public-house in - Y ork-street.
** * *
The Flying Jordans give their last per-
formance at the Lyceum to-night, and then
that theatre relapses into darkness. The Cri-
terion also continues closed, and the luckless Elsie
Adair Co. has scattered. An effort is being made
to raise a benefit to Miss Adair, who deserves one,
if only for the bright smile with which she faced a
vast number of difficulties, and the dazzling set of
teeth which she revealed in the presence of very
hard circumstances. Unluokily, she wasn’t long
enough in Australia to become generally known,
and Sydney has very little to donate just now
except its land-tax paper.
** * *
The three Hayters, who created a good
Impression in Melbourne, as mentioned in sundry
back numbers of this paper, join the Tivoli crowd
on Saturday, the “loose-legged comedian” moving
on to make room for them. Jimmy MacMahon’s
reliable cinematographe is alive and prospering at
the old address, and the Polytechnic show in the
same line of business appears to be doing well in.
King-street. Which ends the chronicle of a
rather barren week. A week when the only
novelty in the show line is a benevolent colonel
from ’Murka lecturing on a hazy Buddha who died
25 centuries ago is not exactly one of dazzling
thrill.
** * *
The return of “ Charley’s Aunt ” caused a
Senuine rush to Melb. Bijou on Saturday, for the
rst time since long, long ago. Seeing that the
first Australian appearance of the same spurious
relative, in the same theatre, didn’t excite as
much rush as was expected at tne time, the crowd
last Saturday may be largely attributed to popular
prices. “ Charley’s Aunt ”is now on offer at an
alarming sacrifice, and the winter sale will
probably continue for several weeks. The lively
demand for this durable article, which has achieved
a longer run than any other comedy of French or
British manufacture, reminds The Bulletin that
it was made in Germany. Frank Thornton is
less fleshy and more unmanageable than the Aunt
of three or four years back, and the performance
altogether seems madder than ever. The company
that kept the old joke going in Sydney recently has
taken to itself a new Kitty, in place of Miss Sea-
broke (who seems to have retired for the purpose
of issuing writs), but all the other people are as
before. Also, the aforesaid change in the cast
makes no difference to the general effect. There
is a fresh young air of juvenility about Miss Bessie
Rignold, Herbert Terry, Miss Poole, and the
damsel whose deceased father left her all the
money he had won from Thornton at cards—and
juvenility is the principal qualification expected of
them in this case. The cheerful colonel and the
bona-fide aunt from Brazil are distinctly valuable
items, and even old Spettigue has the negative
virtue of seeming to feel some of the pain that he
inflicts upon his fellow man.
** * *
“ The Sign of the Cross ” is in the third
week of an unquestionable triumph, &c., at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, and the management truly
states that the entertainment “ makes you think !
think ! think ! ” A Bible-preacher or two, and
several other equally absurd persons, have been
writing what they think, think, think to the ac-
commodating daily press, and the thoughtful
advt. was doubtless a good thing for the Firm’s
handsome show up to a certain point. But at time
of writing it seemed rather advisable for the
correspondence to cease. An uncalled-for
individual had chipped in with the sugges-
tion that symbols of the Cross were unknown
to Early Christianity, and the uncalled-for
testifier seems in accordance with facts as far as
they can be arrived at. When the “Sign of the
Cross ” came into the religion, early Christianity
went bung, arid Mahomet presently rose to protest
against any further embellishments of the original
faith. Wilson Barrett, of course, took his Cross
situations from “Faust,” where Valentine is in
the habit of stiffening the Devil by showing him
a sword-handle. No matter. There will be another
matinee massacre of the saints on Saturday.
** * *
Howard Vernon persists in carrying on a
spirited comic opera season at the Alexandra,
although it is clear to every kind of understand-
ing that the enterprise can't prosper. The Bul-
letin would say some kind things of “Madame
An got ” and the new tenor, J. E. Shepherd, if
this journal’s good word could possibly affect the
decrees of Fate. It couldn’t, however. Argument
with Fate is a mere waste of time.
*# * *
The last of Bland Holt’s dramas has
grown more acceptable on acquaintance, as the
result of increased exertions by the company and
an impressive improvement in the behavior of
the hydraulic lift. After eight solid months of
uninterrupted struggle between Walter Baker
and the powers of darkness, during which period
the hero has disproved half-a-dozen false accusa-
tions of undue familiarity with the spinster who
went astray, it is difficult for “ The Cotton King ”
to strike the weary newspaper chronicler in
a fresh place. Everything that happens
in this drama is an attenuated reminiscence of
some previous atrocity, as it were ; but for the
very occasional visitor “ The Cotton King ” is
possibly a thrifty novelty. Anyway, Melbourne
Royal will be crowded to-night (Thursday) and
to-morrow, when Bland Holt’s record reign must
reluctantly terminate.
** * *
Allan and Co.’s experiment with Wednes-
day afternoon Chamber Music Concerts, at Melb.
Athenaeum Hall, promises to lead to a perennial
entertainment on the lines of “Monday Pops,”
which have long been a feature of the London
season. The Allan concerts (directed by clever
little Benno Scherek) are just a little too long and
classical for philistinic taste; an instrumental
trio, even by the tuneful Schubert, contains
rather too much padding for the concert world in
general, and it seems a pity that the works of
the great masters can’t be edited by a more
vulgar-minded musician, such as Arthur Sullivan.
But these programmes, light in their way r are
likely to grow upon people who have been accus-
tomed to taking their music in smaller doses. The
good stuff is appreciated when it gets good treat-
ment. Scherek, George Weston (violin) and
Hattenbach with his ’cello, are the principal
artists engaged on instrumental piecework, and a
couple of vocalists, selected from Maggie Sterling,
Gladstone Wright, James Wade, Madame Wieder-
mann, Miss May Brookes, and others, contribute
songs at each concert. But why are “ high-class ”
songs so very unexciting ?
** * *
On Saturday the Flying Jordans, together
with the lovely vision who trips upon a cobweb,
and the rest of the show from Sydney will appear
at Melbourne Royal.
* * *
Mark Hambourg and his younger brother
Jakoff, who plays a violin almost as effectively as
Mark punishes a piano, will appear at Melb.
Town Hall on Thursday (22nd), and for a few
nights thereafter. John Lemmone is managing
artist of the Hambourg Concerts, and the show
promises to boom.
** * *
The Haytors and Phil Newbury are retir-
ing from the Opera House programme forthwith,
but the Selbinis will continue their performance of
impossible deeds upon various bicycles, and bits
of bicycle, until further notice. Carl Hertz is
dividing his time this week between Geelong and
the Athenaeum Hall, where he will take two sor-
rowful farewells of Melbourne on Saturday. After
which the wizard is to tour in a sou’-westerly
direction and reach Perth sometime before the
middle of August. Professor Norton B. Smith
appears to have settled down to a successful horsey
season at the Rotunda, in Bourke-street. The
supply of untamed steeds is increasing in fury, so
the publio may one night be treated to a sudden
death of the low comedian ostler. This bullet-
headed myrmidon is required to stir up the
(quadrupeds’ feelings by walloping a drum, and
if, perchance, he were to meet with a fatal acci-
dent in the discharge of his awful duty, a good
many people would congratulate themselves upon
his peaceful end.
At Poverty Point .
Annoyed by plaj'-going priests in Westminster, Cardinal
Vaughan has ukased that none are to go. Manning said
that from the grand opera to the penny gaff all theatres
were alike. However, it is understood he abated his ire
in later years.
Miss Alma Stanley desires it to be known, with reference
to a recent Bulletin paragraph, in regard to the mono-
logue “ How it Happened,” recited by her in “My Friend
from India,” that the monologue in question was
specially written for her by the late George Fawcett Rowe,'
in 1883, under the name “ Our First Kiss,” under which
title it has been played by her in England and America
from time to time ever since.
Melb. : “Bishop Goe and Archbishop Carr both advise
their clergy not to patronise “ The Sign of the Cross."
One set goes, the other doesn’t. Superfluous to add
which.”
Haresfoot: “ The actors and actresses in ‘ The Sign of
the Cross ’ must retort by going to church. The whole
lot, ballet and all, ought to file next Sunday morning into
the Anglican cathedral, then take a turn at Marshall’s,
Bevan’s, Rentoul’s, and so on. How sweet it was when
pastor Marshall buttered up Bentley, and Bentley with
his whole ‘ Rob Roy ’ cast, the blue cheeks and the blue
feathers, came smugly to kurruk next Sawbath 1 But this
will do when ‘The Sign’ biz., now booming, begins to
flag a bit.”
Viator : “ Miss Adair’s illness makes me think again
whether it is worth while for professionals to go to what
is called the East. Troupes are decimated, and it is
almost a regular thing to meet there with such disasters
as Jinkins’s and Godfrey’s, in Westralia. Oh, the horror
of an illness in the East! Then, even those who com-
paratively escape are apt to get a hammer-blow on good
constitutions.”
Captain Fred. Thomas, of Maoriland, the only whistling
ventriloquist in these parts who can lay over YVinton, has
left the land of the awful Scotch Sabbath, and is looking
for a wider field for his talents in Australia. The captain
—this paper doesn’t exactly know what he is captain of —
called in at The Bulletin office on arrival, and did some
hair-raising varieties of sample whistle, so the writer
speaks with authority.
A matinee performance at Melb. Princess’s for the bene*
fit of Vic. Infant Asylum yields £l6O, and the all-wool
pietists of the city and suburbs gnash their gums over
“The Sign of the Cross” as a Satanic manipulation of
Keristianity intended to beguile souls from the churches.
Charity doesn’t cover the other fellow’s sins.
One Melbourne parson complains of a diminution in
“the plate” since the outbreak of “The Sign of the
Cross.” The sanctified indulge in a bob seat in the Prin-
cess’s gallery, and pay for four sermons with shirt-buttons.
This narrows down the issue between church and stage to
the vital point, the fight for the standard—coin.
“The Sign of the Cross” cost the Firm at least £2500
to put on the stage.
Gov. Buxton has only been once inside Adelaide Theatre
Royal, and that was to an amateur performance.
“ The Hermit’s Bell ” performance at Melbourne Bijou,
the other week, was interesting as a revival of charming
French music that has doubtless been cribbed from by
many a modern composer. What is the age of this old
pioneer comic opera ?
, John Watson—he came along, the other day, to stage-
manage the Firm’s new' musical shows—is the third mem-
ber of the family to accept an Australian engagement,
and he was near to being fourth on the list. Miss Mar-
garet Watson, a blonde younger sister of brunettes Eliza-
beth and Henrietta, had a business offer from George
Musgrove a while ago. G.M. wanted her specially for the
Christian boy-part in “ Sign of the Cross.” Most people
must be feeling pretty sorry that the young lad v didn’t
seize the opportunity.
Lucia Harwood, one - time an ornament of George
Rignold’s co., was divorced by her husband (King-Hall) in
London, the other week. Lucia must really be getting
quite old enough to know better. She played one of the
young princes in the original Lyceum production of
“ Charles 1.,” about four-and-twenty years ago.
Mrs. Bland Holt’s part in “The Cotton King” was
created in London by gigantic Alma Stanley, which ex-
plains certain allusions to the physical strength of the
character. Mrs. Holt’s appearance (on the programme) as
a “ Female Hercules ” is mystifying.
Norton Smith, the horse-trainer now' at Melb. Rotunda,
has been running his show around the world these last six
years, or more. At Glasgow, on one occasion, he drew
the record “ gate ” for an open-air entertainment. 11,000
odd people paid to see him tackle a notorious stallion
named Charlie that was said to have killed four men.
After a few attempts to add Smith to its list of victims,
the animal was subdued—for that evening, anyway.
“Skipped by the Light of the Moon,” as played in
America and Australia, was a pirated show. G. R. Sims
wrote it, under the heading of “ The Gay City,” without
musical embellishments, and one night, when “The Gay
City” was being performed in an English provincial
theatre, a young American took it down in shorthand.
The pirate interpolated sundry ditties, changed the title,
and sold the little piece to a ’Murkan actor, from whom
John Gourlay, so the story goes, derived the Australian
rights. Years afterwards the pirate went back to Eng-
land and had to make a full confession to G. R. Sims.
They settled the trouble amicably. The original piece
had been worth very little to the author ; the alterations
had improved it, so he took possession of “Skipped,” as
it stands now, on payment of a modest sum.
Bland Holt’s only terror is lest the supply of horse-
drama should run out.
At Melb. Exhibition Building, the occasional license to
sell strong drink expires at 7 p.m., seemingly. This sort
of law is made and enforced chiefly in the interests ol
somebody who isn’t General Public. By what right does
a privately-owned theatre run its own grog-shop at all
times, whilst a national building has its value discounted
by being compelled to conduct the evening shows on
lemonade principles?
Paradis : “ Miss Ferrar’s and Mr. Knight’s idea of a
pious expression is turning down the corners of their
mouths, and looking as sick as ducks at thunder. Why
not exultant?”
Haresfoot: “ Met Dampier in Melb. to-day. I saw his
first Australian appearance, Melb. Royal, Mephistopheles
being the part. He had come from Manchester, where
he succeeded Irving, as leading man, Irving having
followed Henry Neville.”
Surcingle : “ Melb. Cyclorama, that is to say, where
the Paris Cyclorama used to be, is occupied by a horse-
tamer. The obvious destination of this vast Rotunda is
to become a permanent circus, like Hengler’s in the
English cities, the middle floor being taken out. Fitz-
geralds will do hugely there.”
Brisbane Saturday night “pops” have unearthed a
wonderful male soprano in young Jarman, aged about 12.
Syria Lamonte, onetime of the Australian ’alls, is said
to have accepted a South African engagement for three
months at £35 a week, plus a benefit which will be worth
£250. Humph 1
Melbourne friends of Moulton, the musical constructor
of “ Lelamine,” are announcing that the young man in-
tends to take his opera to England straightway, and put
it on first at Manchester, because Manchester is more
critical than other places, and will therefore be quicker to
appreciate a great work. Seemingly, the theatrical
managers in every city are waiting for an unknown com-
poser to come along and “put his opera on”—at their
risk. And Moulton, with his forefinger to his brow, finally
decides to give Manchester the first treat.
Two rival attaches of a stage lady, and not a very youth-
ful goddess at that, waged a gory war on her account
some short time since. The trouble originated on the
Melbourne “Block,” where A. (connected with
the profeshun) struck attache 8., a long-haired actor
of slender build, for daring to resent an insult to
their mutual friend. 8., in preference to retaliating on
the spot, with a fair chance of being top dog in a brief
rough-and-tumble, imprudently challenged his foe to a
“ scrap ” on the Yarra bank, behind the boat-sheds
There the warriors met, two hours later, accompanied by
seconds, referee, and timekeeper. They squared-up with
due regard for melodramatic effect, and exchanged sicken-
ing thuds upon sundry places for nearly 10 minutes.
After which the battered champion threw up the sponge
and went into close retirement for a fortnight. It was
hardly a case for sympathy, except from a purely sporting
point of view. Had the wife of the defeated one been
present she probably would not have washed away his
blood-stains with her tears.
The gossip goes that one of Oscar Wilde’s jobs in Read-
ing priscn was patching-up dilapidated Bibles and prayer-
books —and very good work he made of it. The Import-
ance of being Earnest ! He attended religious services
every da}', and was so attentive that the chaplain wasn’t
certain whether Wilde listened out of contrition, or “ only
out of politeness.” There was another reason—he had to !
Young Stanley Moses, a Windsor (N.S.W.) boy, took
first prize with great distinction for the violin at Brussels
Royal Conservatoire. He is now 18 years old, and has
been three years in Brussels, where he is a pupil of Pro-
fessor Ysaye. While in Sydney he was a pupil of the
veteran Poussard.
Dear Bulletin,—There is another and quite „ different
way of looking at Marcus’s offer of marriage to Mercia in
the “ Sign of the Cross.” It isn't funny. It doesn t pre-
sent the least resemblance to Bland Holt proposing to
Mrs. B. in a melodrama. Also the lady doesn't make a
gratuitous confession that she loved Marcus “ from the
first moment that she saw his legs.” The situation is per-
fectly reasonable. Mercia is a highly-strung woman with
an absolute belief in heaven and hell and eternity and
various other things. As a woman she loves the hand-
some Prefect with his clanking armor, and his jewels, and
his fame, and, among other attractions, his courtesy and
his kindliness of heart. Marcus makes love to her, but
the idea of the Prefect of Rome —the second man of the
empire—desiring to marry a plebeian girl, and a criminal
to boot, is about as incredible as if the Duke of Norfolk,
or some other British patrician, offered to marry any
attractive little Cockney seamstress who was doing three
months in gaol. Therefore Marcus’s love-making only
stamps him in her mind as a libertine of a very ordinary
sort, and Mercia’s hero, with his pomp and his jewelled
mail and his-other glitter, gets down into the dust.
According to her creed he is Lost, and will fry
on the bars of the hereafter for billions of ages. And
when he makes that incredible offer of marriage, which
is the only really ridiculous thing in the play, Mercia
gives way to an outburst of perfectly natural joy. The
man she loves with her illogical womanly soul
isn’t the coarse libertine she took him for,
therefore, according to her own simple, Early Christian
logic, he probably, or at least possibly, won’t be eternally
damned after all. And, whereas she was going, a moment
before, to start for the heaven that she believes in so ab-
solutely (in her own foolish, Early Christian way) with a
conviction that her hero will never get there, she now
starts with a knowledge that he is much more of a hero
than she imagined, and she may meet him in that
legendary region, after all. To the person who recognises
Mercia as a highly-strung visionary the situation is per-
fectly logical and intelligible; to the person whose sole
philosophy is leg, of course, it isn’t. But it is an ab-
surdity to imagine that legs were the attraction then that
they would be now. In those days the male legs of all
the vast Roman Empire were more or less available for
public inspection, and legs were probably too common to
excite any-interest worth mentioning. And the attempt
to look at everything from the undressed-leg point of
view, and to consider everything in a leggy frame of mind,
is a dreadful weariness.—T.


CYANIDE
OF POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
SYDNEY—63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO
The KOEIISTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
IE 3 rice - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crasher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST.. SYDNEY.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND
Refreshment Rooms
STOCK
ONLY
RAILWAYS
(under contract)
sir im
PBIIIER’S pskes.
.4ns. |
.Reps. (
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
. Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; Peel-st., Adelaide.
MONEY - ORDERS
ISSUED BY THE
CHEQUE BANK , Ltd.,
ARE CHEAPER than ORDINARY Money
Orders, and are Cashed by 25,000 Banks all
over the World. Apply for Handbooks.
JAS. MABCOLM, Gen. Agent.
135 Pitt-etreet (near G.P.0.)
The Simpson guckboard.
Easier than a Buggy, Stronger than
a Dray, No Vibration as in an ordi-
nary Buckboard, High Driving Seat,
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easily. It’s a Buggy, it’s a
Waggon—it’s both.
Simpson’s Patent Jump-seat Sul-
kies, ‘‘Town and Country,” “ Over-
lander,” “ King o’ the Road ” (pole
and shafts).
SIDNE ¥~SIMPSON,
Newtown, Sydney.
Perth— Robt. Wolfe. Geraldton— A. Meadowcroft.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A.
THE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double Bedrooms,
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Musio Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From 4s. to Bs. per Day.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank reports that the
Aalf-year ended June 30 shows a loss of £25,425, com-
pared with a loss of £1607 last half and a profit of £10,021
for the half ended June, 1896. The loss is partly
apologised for on the ground that the reduction
of deposit interest did not come into force till
31st March, and partly ascribed to certain rearrange-
ments which caused nine months’ interest on the Govt.
London deposits to be crowded into one half-year. Still it
would appear that the Q.N.B. has already saved nearly
enough by three months reduction of interest to the local
depositor" to cover this* extra payment to the Government,
and that, reckonirig.things on the same basis as last half-
year, its profits are something like £20,000 less, which
means a sudden drop at the rate of £40,000 a year. The
bank expects to save £112,000 a year by reduction of in-
terest, so it appears, on the present basis, that a very
considerable part of that beautiful margin is gone
already. Out of the available £70,000, or so, per annum-
assuming things get neither better nor worse—the
Q.N.B. has to accumulate enough to pay off nearly
£1,600,000, which is nominally written off the amount of
the deposits, but which is to be liquidated gradually out
of profits, so by present appearances it has a long road to
travel, and its prospects are considerably worse than they
were.
Capital has been written down from £928,527 to
£453,886, but otherwise the balance-sheet is practically
unaltered. Said balance-sheet promises to be rather
a difficult affair to manage. Nominally, the bank writes
about £1,600,000 off its deposits, and apparently it wants
that amount badly to write down its securities to present
values. But as it undertakes to pay the amount all the
same—only out of profits instead of assets —the £1,600,000
still remains some kind of a liability, and can’t well be
dropped out of the balance-sheet. If it isn’t dropped and
the assets are written down, the sheet will show an ap-
palling shortage, and, if the assets are not written down,
the sheet will look square, but will be admittedly quite
unreliable. On the other hand, if the assets are written
down and the balance-sheet is squared by leaving out the
aforesaid liability, it will again be quite unreliable. So
far, things appear to be made evep by leaving the securi-
ties at very nearly their old value. The cash and
other liquid assets have improved somewhat during
the half-year, but the writing-down leaves the Q.N.B. a
very small concern, with £454,000 capital, of which no less
than £287,000 consists of “ premises, furniture, and
stationery.” This leaves it with £167,000 of its own
money to trade upon, which is remarkably little for a
concern that has about £1,600,000 of liabilities to pay out
of profits some day or other.
Next balance-sheet should give some distinct
idea of the Q.N.B.’s prospects ; the present one is too
confused to show anything very definite, except the loss
of £25,000. Six months ago manager Ralston remarked,
proudly, that the then loss was £1607, “ but if the new
scheme had been in operation there would have been a
profit of £54,611.” It now looks as if there would be
nothing even distantly resembling that figure. Several
other banks have made similar statements in the past,
but in every case the unaccountable slump in profits rose
up voraciously just at the wrong moment and swallowed
the apparent saving, or most of it. On present appear-
ances it really looks as if the Q.N.8., after saving
£112,000 a year interest, might not have a very much
larger margin of profit than it had, on paper, three years
ago.
m * * *
The Bank of North Queensland keeps moving
slowly but steadily in the right direction. The half-year
just ended shows a profit of £2003, as compared with
£1717, £1702, £llB2, and £1736 for the four previous half-
years. There is no dividend—the profits only amount to
2 per cent, per annum, despite the improvement—but
added to previous balance they make £9368 to credit of
profit and loss. Since the 1893 trouble the B.N.Q. has
written off 150,000 capital and about £12,000 of reserves
to cover losses, and if there is no reasonable prospect of
further depreciation it is about time it started a new
reserve-fund to replace the very humble one of £3OOO which
went down in that historic crash. Considering that the
North Queensland’s entire ourrent liabilities to the public
are only £269,000, its cash reserve of £99,ooo—equal to 37
per cent. —looks needlessly solid. If it invested £20,000
of this in Government securities, the dividends would
make a very valuable addition to profits. There is a con-
siderable increase both in deposits and cash reserve, but
still the B.N.Q. is a very limited affair, and though the
exceeding smallness of its liabilities as compared with
capital makes it eminently safe it doesn’t look like being
a gaudy source of wealth to its shareholders for a long
while to come. Also, in view of the continued low rates
of interest, the experiment of taking £50,000 of deposits
for 10 years at 4J4 per cent, looks about as dubious as it
did a year ago.
* * » •
The Bank of Victoria, one of the few recon-
constructs which pays its 4J4 per cent, to the bitter end,
has a reasonably prosperous result to show. The half-
year’s profits are £17,877, as compared with £17,928,
£15,068, £20,631, and £19,863 for four previous half-years.
A dividend of 5 per cent, to preference shareholders
absorbs £10,419, and the remaining £7458, added to pre-
vious balance, leaves £46,378 at credit of profit and loss.
If the profits were spread over the whole capital, they
would equal rather over 2J per cent. —not much, com-
pared to the regular 10 per cent, of a few years ago, but
very good as matters go nowadays. The Victoria has now
paid off 60 per cent, of its reconstructed deposits,
and hopes to wipe off the rest within a few months.
The large saving in interest thus effected, how-
ever, hasn’t increased the net profits to any ex-
tent worth mentioning; apparently, “depreciation”
has swallowed up the saving as fast as effected.
The cash and liquid assets (61,670,000) equal 28 per cent,
of the liabilities to the public, and the business show’s a
steady improvement all round, so the position is good
enough, though not quite all it might be.
One notable fact is that the Victoria has just
forfeited a large batch of shares for arrears of calls, and the
sum paid on them (£61,238) has been promptly swallowed
up in writing off depreciation. This reveals the ominous
fact that, despite the writing-off of £250,000 reserve fund,
the depreciation was not entirely provided for after all,
and seeing the board has been going along peacefully
paying dividends to preference shareholders, and saying
nothing about this £61,000 of losses unprovided for, thei 8
is evidently just a possibility that there are other losses
still unprovided for about which it is also saying nothing.
Anyhow, considering the still precarious condition of
business, these 5 per cent, dividends seem very doubtful
poliev. Since 1893 the Bank of Victoria has earned
£174(031, and has paid away £127,653 of this amount in
dividends, leaving £46,378 as the entire accumulation.
It even paid three dividends to ordinary shareholders.
There is no reserve fund as a provision against any new
losses, and, in view of the £61,238 of further depreciation
abovementioned, this cheerful lavishness looks wholly
unjustifiable. The system followed by the Royal of
Queensland, under which a quarter of the profits must
be placed regularly to the reserve, is one which a good
many other banks would do well to follow.
* * * *
The Queensland Deposit Bank, which got into
difficulties in ’92, and was in some further trouble in ’94,
is again reconstructing. This time it isn’t nearly so en-
thusiastic about its absolute solvency, and bursts (if that
is the correct word) in a minor key. The Deposit concern
wrote off half its capital some time ago and called up ss.
a share —the whole amount available. It now states that
it owes £80,257 to depositors and other creditors, and has
£69,000 of assets in hand, so, apparently, the other half
of the capital is lost also. The call is expected to make
good the deficiency and pay everybody except the miser-
able shareholders, who will get their reward Hereaft ir.
Meanwhile, the Deposit Bank wants “ more time,” and
proposes to pay the depositors (£74,000 worth of them)
in 19 instalments between Feb., 1898, and Feb., 1917. Also,
it desires that interest shall be reduced from 41 to 3 per
cent, as from last Feb., that payment of interest shall be
suspended for 22 years, the whole amount to fall due in a
lump in Feb., 1919, and that no compound interest shall
be payable. This sort of proposal would have only led to
derision and road-metal a few years ago, but the Aus-
tralian depositor is a perfectly tame animal now, and will
feed out of the hand. The news has been broken to him
in so many different instalments that he can stand almost
anything by this time. The Q.D. Bank, by the way, “ re-
serves the right ” to pay off all the deposits at any time.
This is mentioned, presumably, lest it should rush at its
depositors with the money at an inopportune moment,
when they hadn’t anything handy to put it in.
* « * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Melb.),
comes out only moderately well with a half-year’s profit
£1756 compared with £1779 last half, and £1702, at
June, ’96. The usual 5 per cent, dividend absorbs £l5OO,
and the balance (£256) added to amount previously on
hand, makes £4770 to carry forward. This, as usual, is
cutting things very fine, especially in view of the fact that
the Od. still puts in its £14,000 of preference shares,
and £lB,OOO deposits on the dilapidated Australian
Deposit and Mortgage Bank, at their face value.
Whatever they may dev elope into ultimately, the fact
remains that, just now, these alleged £32,000 worth of
assets are only worth about 618,000, and they may never
be worth any more—they may even be worth a great deal
less. If the difference has to be written off, it will make
a huge gap in the reserve of £40,000, and if it is proposed
to cover any possible loss by accumulating £256 per half-
year out of profits, the co. has a long road to travel.
Meanwhile, the balance-sheet, by ignoring this large de-
preciation, doesn’t represent the actual state of affairs
any too accurately.
* * * *
Reader: By way of further information about
the N.S.W. Distillery Co., The Bulletin now discovers
that Mr. E. Viles’ connection with it ceased on November
14, 1895, Mr. F. E. Fox being appointed secretary in
his place. At that early date—nearly two years ago—
there was talk of winding-up and other troubles. The
cash collected up to then was £451, and as £350 had
already gone in expenses, there seems to have been
mighty little left to start any distillery with. After that
meeting the N.S.W. Distillery Co. goes right oyer The
Bulletin’s horizon, and where it evaporated to this paper
is as vet unable to discover.
.* * * *
In a tired sort of way Hobart citizens rise to
protest against Premier Braddon’s syndicate-mongering.
What started them was a cable stating that Braddon had
arranged with Siemens Bros, to give them certain water
powers for the generation of electricity in Tas., and that
he had made some other Jubilee promises regarding rail-
ways. These things are looked on as a sort of an infringe-
ment of Tasmania’s bargain with the Great Western
gridiron syndicate ; hence the howl. Braddon is certainly
a firm believer in private enterprise : Director of the
Anchor mine, proposed ditto of Waratah-Zeehan railway,
local director in the Hobart Tram Co. monopoly, and pro-
bable ditto of the Great Western Railway syndicate, is a
fairly big load for a Premier to carry.
* ♦ * *
Be Melbourne’s emptiness : Despite the number
of houses vacant, it is hard to find a sanitary one for a
small family, almost all having been built regardless of
health considerations—everything has been sacrificed to
economy.
* * * *
S.S. : “I have long wondered at the extra-
ordinary number of insolvent Yic. railway men. Brief,
but convincing, explanation from an intelligent porter.
“ Y’see,” he said, “stokin’ an’ engine-drivin’ is such dam
thirsty work! ”
* * * *
One of the biggest of Australian softgoods firms
pays the princely sum of 4s. Bd. per week to young men
(not little boys) for the first year. No overtime is paid.
And they must be well-dressed, well-educated, and
honest !
» * * *
Stated that a big syndicate is again nibbling at
the completion of the S.A. transcontinental railway on
the land-grant system, offering the conditions of employ-
ment of white labor and the handing over to S.A. Govt,
after five years. Kingston, who was opposed to the idea
last year, has been interviewed in London.
* * * *
Launceston (Tas.) is showing the way to other
Australasian cities in the matter of electric light. A most
complete and up-to-date plant has been erected at a total
cost, including all initial expenses, of £75,000. Water-
power is the agency used to generate the electricity. At
present only 500 h.p. is developed, but the water is
capable of generating 1500 h.p. in the summer and 2000
h.p. in winter, and even this can be increased by a further
expenditure on weirs. Cost of maintenance, including
interest on money borrowed, provision for sinking fund,
and all reasonable allowances for wear and tear, is
£6OOO per annum. Against this, £3OOO is received from
private lighting, and a book allowance of £lBOO made for
street lighting, which was the amount formerly paid the
Gas Co. The difference, £l2OO, is made up by a slight
increase in the general rate. Electricity is rapidly dis-
placing gas both for light and power purposes, and the
likelihood is that in less than a year the new system will
be entirely self-supporting, and thereafter will be a sure
source of revenue to the council. The light traverses an
area of 3J4 square miles, whereon a population of 18,000 is
distributed—a population and area akin to North Shore
(N.S.W.). If a scheme of this kind can be a success in a
comparatively small place like Launceston, it should be a
splendid thing for Sydney. In the Cole and Grose rivers,
on the other side of Richmond, there is ample water-
power to generate electric light for every establishment
and house in the city and suburban area (population over
400,000), and power for every factory and workshop in the
same locality. This was practically the scheme of the
notorious Australian Rights Purchase crowd, and if the
Sydney civic powers don’t take hold of the matter the
shindykite boomster will be again working it for all it is
worth.
* * « *
Broken Hill exports for the half-year included
£320,439 worth of concentrates, as against £237,148 in the
preceding half-year. But in the export of crude ore
there was a fall from £284,895 to £211,967—due to the
collapse in the Junction recently ; the Junction had, up
to that time, been by far the largest exporter of crude
ore. The total value of B.H. exports for the half-year
was £1,022,692, against £893,964 in the corresponding
half of ’96.
• * * *
Ballarat of N.S.W. Substantial Govt, aid has
enabled this show to bore into what looks like a payable
run of wash, and a main shaft has been decided on. Is it
a condition of the contract that the co. return the Govt,
money out of the first gold won ?
* * * *
The public has long wearied of the monotony of
reading of the sales of so many tons of copper from the
Great Cobar mine, N.S.W. At last the returns of the
last six months’ run are published : 33,400 tons of ore pro-
duced 1307 tons of copper, 65270 z. gold, and 15,5160 z.
silver. Approximate value, £90,000. Working cost not
given, but it may be taken that it is less than half the
proceeds. Averages : Copper, a shade below 4 per cent.;
gold, a little under 4dwt.; silver, about Joz. to the ton of
ore. The copper average during the last six months has
been brought down about 1 per cent, by the quantity of
poor ore left in the old stopes and now run through to
cheapen smelting. Great as has been the enterprise of
the tributors, the mine has been proved quite big enough
to stand more than double this output, and the chances
are it will not be long ere this is accomplished. It is
asked why the market value of Mount LyelJ is about ten
times that of the Cobar mine. That is quite unanswer-
able.
* • * *
Another N.S.W. mine sold and got the money
—most others reported sold never get it. The Witney
Green, a few-miles from Lucknow, is supposed to be on
the Lucknow line of lode. Every mine within many
miles of Lucknow is supposed to be similarly situated.
Cash £14,000 and some 5000 shares in the new co.—an
English one. A rich surface show ; some 20 tons crushed
for 200 oz. gold. Impossible to say from amount of work
done how long the mine will last.
• * • *
Another Bull-owned mine in N.S.W. closed
down—the Golden Gully—for reconstruction. Many
do that, but few reconstruct. When this mine and plant
were sold to clear off debts some of the shareholders were
furious, and, when the new co. was formed in London,
many nasty insinuations were made. It has cost the Eng-
lish co. upwards of £20,000.
* * * *
A few weeks since, when it was learned that
Govt, intended cutting a road from the Beacon gold-mine
(Upper Bucca, near Coramba, N.S.W.) to the main Coff’s
Harbor-Coramba road, many predicted that as the side-
cutting (nearly three miles) progressed a reef was almost
sure to be cut. Many fairly good reefs have been located
within a few miles of the Beacon, and as the, surveyed
route followed the side of the ridge across the creek from
where Tajdor discovered the Reward —now Beacon —the
road-work looked like a good prospecting venture. How-
ever, in that three miles of cutting not a leader was cut!
The same holds good on the miles of cutting around the
range between Coff’s Harbor and Coramba. Can any
Bulletin reader say whether, in the history of the con-
struction of the hundreds of miles of roads across ranges
in N.S.W., any payable reef has been discovered? If so,
where? Between" Laura and May town (Q.), on the old
Palmer field, the road for miles passes through what were
once alluvial claims; but there the claims were worked
first—the road followed.
* * * *
Terrible were the experiences of the recent Ger-
man exploring party led by Ehlers into the hinterland of
German New Guinea. The explorers had to cut their way;
were drenched by almost continual tropical rain ; were bled
and wounded by countless leeches, and had then the
pleasure of finding their wounds invaded by insects whose
eggs in a few days turned into red maggots ; grass and
leaves formed their food for days together, until dysentery
supervened ; and, to crown all, the hapless leaders, while
floating down-stream on a raft, were drowned. And now,
who’s for Papua ?
* • » *
Latest Papuan joke. At Woodlark the gold-
bearing country is mostly clay, and consequently very
boggy. Also, the Woodlark miners are a thirsty race . . .
wherefore all the way to Busai empty gin-cases have been
placed six feet apart, and the traveller bound thither-
wards has to jump from one to the other.
* * * *
A special correspondent has furnished Sydney
D.T. with an excellent account of the gold prospects of
New Guinea, which those still contemplating going
might well read : “ Large mining syndicates may be able
to find a field for superfluous energy and cash, remunera-
tive, perhaps, at some future date, and now and then
some lucky individual might drop across a golden pocket
—who can tell ? But, though I cannot of course form an
opinion of the actual mineral wealth of Papua, I can
judge the difficulties of looking for it, and the small man,
I honestly believe, will at present not stand the least
chance of rewarding himself for the many inevitable
hardships and losses and terrible risks he runs. It is
easier for a camel to walk through a needle’s eye than for
a poor man to get into Papua.”
* * * *
And this is how the “ little ” man fares in
Papua. 34 miners returned per s.s. Merrie England,
three-fourths of them sick ; #nly six paid their fares back,
the rest being destitute. All came from Port Moresby
—whence, they say, there is no chance of getting into
the Mambare country. The Merrie England brings news
that the bodies of two men were found on the Vanappa
track. Evidently one tried to bury the other, and while
in the act fell dead.
* • • *
The joys of latter-day squatting. A well-known
Northern pastoralist despatched a mob of 311 bullocks to
Townsville a month ago. Ninety beasts arrived safely in
that sultry city, the remainder fertilising the roadside
with tick-burrowed carcasses. Yet out in the West the
pest is comparatively innocuous and bids fair to dis-
appear.
*** - *
Mt. Morgan has now paid d£4 Bs. 2d. per share.
But, alas, some people gave £l6 for them years ago.
* « * *
Gympie for half-year, 25,000 tons for (roundly)
35,0000 z. Divs., £56,000; calls, £40,000. Div. Columbia
and Smithfield, 2s. 6d. Willmots rose to 4s. 3d. and are
now back to 2s. 6d.
* * • •*
The Gympie decrease on ’95 returns amounted
to 47260 z.", 64,241 tons yielding 73,2620 z. The average,
however, has risen to loz. 2dwts 19grs. per ton. Decrease
in div., £11,434.
• * * *
Reported that promising-looking stone was struck
recently in the notorious Black Jack mine near the
Towers. It would take a very valuable discovery to
restore confidence in that now deserted but once much-
boomed district.
* * * *
At latest Towers advices the eastern drive in
tbe Deep Levels mine had sft. of formation with small
bunches of white quartz in the face. Western level
blank.
* * * *
Ross, Ross & Co. financiers, 352 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, notify that money at very low interest is now
available on C.P. or Freehold Land. Owners writing to
this firm can always rely on prompt and straightforward
business.*
* * * *
According to the Warden, the total Towers
output for ’96 was 223,460 tons for 232,9940 z., giving a
decrease of 48,552 tons for 32,0560 z. Decline due to
developing and exploratory work. The list is headed by
the Brilliant, Day Dawn, Wyndham, Brilliant and St.
Goor^Oi
• * * *
The Croydon increase is satisfactory, but not
what might have been expected. Increase—lo,Bo4oz.,
though output of stone was 2576 tons less than in ’95.
This gold was obtained from 297 different shafts—thus
showing the primitive style of things at Croydon. The
total output was 37,510 tons for 66,3510 z., or an average
of l%oz. per ton. 22,817 tons of tailings gave 19,5550 z.
Average per man nearly 760 z. or £lB6.
* » * *
Warden M‘Donald, of Charters Towers, reports
that over 40 cyanide-plants are now at work there.
Others are being erected and the industry is giving work
to several hundred men. Although nearly all the tailings-
heaps have been appropriated there are persons still eager
to acquire the balance. There must be many heaps in
other parts of Queensland where cyanide could be used
profitably, though in some cases the heaps are too small
and isolated to warrant the first outlay.
* * * *
The reefs that are payable on the world’s gold-
fields have hitherto averaged 3 per cent., but it is a
question if the Coolgardie and Murchison fields will be
able to maintain that average through the extraordinary
number of leases taken up during the boom, numbering
altogether over 14,000. If 1 per cent, of that number pay
it should be a record.
• * * *
Some W. A. miners, to be on the safe side, won’t
work at a mine unless there is machinery, or a big stack
of wood, on the mine—so many mines have, of late, been
shut down, without enough money to pay the men off.
* * * «
The Australian Mail, London, offers a warm
welcome to a Westralian mining expert who, it under-
stands, is coming to London to float more W.A. mines,
and to obtain appointments as consulting-engineer to cos.
already working mines there. “It would be interesting
to know how’ many of the properties this gentleman has
recommended have turned out duffers.” It gives a few
mines he reported on which have been abandoned at a
heavy loss, and, as it believes the list could be very much
extended, it invites readers to send along the names of
other worthless properties which w’ere floated mainly on
statements made by him.
*** ' *
The directors of the Ivanhoe Co., W.A., have
circularised the shareholders, setting out the terms of the
proposed sale to the London and Globe Financial Cor-
poration. The new co. is to provide an Australian register;
a Melb. Board to transfer shares, issue scrip, and distri-
bute divs. in Australia ; also provided in the contract that
scrip is to be issued simultaneously in London and Mel-
bourne. “ The terms obtained appear to your directors
to be so satisfactory that they cannot but think it will
meet with your unanimous approval, and be ratified by
the requisite majority of shareholders.” We should
think so. £lO,OOO has been paid, another £15,000 to be
paid on the ratification of the agreement, both to be for-
feited if the purchasers fail to compete.
• * * •
What has become of Bayley’s No. 2 South,
floated in London for £lOO,OOO, of which vendor took
£20,000 cash and £33,000 in fully paid shares, balance re-
served for working capital ? It had a gorgeous prospectus,
a copy of which is before the writer. It was only a mile
and a half from the “ celebrated Bayley’s Reward ” and,
according to the reports of several big experts, it had rich
reefs running right through the lease and 400 tons at grass
estimated to go at least 4oz. to the ton. What became of
this stone? There is much gall in reading Westralian
prospectuses of two and three years ago by the peep"'’' ho
took up shares on the strength of the statemSii’i. de
therein.
* * * *
It now transpires that it was the enterprising
W. R. Wilson who started the deal of turning over the
Lake View mine, W.A., to a bigger co., and for his trouble
he lately recovered, in London, a judgment (£48,750 and
costs) against the London and Globe and Finance Cor-
poration, which took the matter over from him. Wilson
withdrew, and for so doing was to receive 7500 shares in
the.new co. It was argued by the L.G.F. Co. that he was
only entitled to the value of the shares on the day they
w’ere allotted, but Justice Wills ruled that Wilson, not
knowing till October that defendants were going to re-
pudiate, was entitled to the price of the shares at that
time, and gave judgment accordingly.
• * • •
T. A. Rickard, the well-known mining engineer,
arrived in Sydney, from America, this week, on his way to
Westralia, where he proposes concerning himself w’ith the
occurrence and treatment of tellurides. He is accom-
panied by Mr. Bancroft, as assayer and metallurgist, and
is recently from Cripple Creek, Colorado, where tellurides
are now v'orked to a depth of 700 ft. Before this, the
presence of tellurides in the form of either gold or silver
was regarded as anything but evidence of permanancy of
the ore-bodies in which they are found. Their occurrence
in American mines has never been welcomed. Mr.
Rickard is emphatic on that point. How it was that Mr.
Maryanski, coming from America and seeing tellurides in
W.A., should say that they tended to establish the rich-
ness and permanency of the fields, Mr. Rickard doesn’t
understand. M.M. may prove right as far as Hannan’s is
concerned, but on the basis of American experience it only
looks like a good guess anyhow. With the exception of
Cripple Creek, it has alw’ays been the other W'ay about
with tellurides in Yankeeland.
• * * *
Had the representative of the Hampton Plains
Syndicate carried out his original idea of making Mt.
Burgess the N.E. corner of the co’s freehold it would have
included the whole of Coolgardie and a portion of Kal-
goorlie. And all for half-a-crown per acre. As it is, the
western boundary is mile east of Coolgardie, and the
northern boundary 11 miles south of Kalgoorlie. By the
way, had Bayley and Ford not found Coolgardie for an-
other six months, the H. Plains land crowd would have
forfeited its deposit.
* * * *
Over 10,000 leases have been taken up on Cool-
gardie goldfields, and if the results of assays, reports of
experts, and newspaper boosts had been realised, they all
should have been worth from soz. to 5000 oz. to the ton.
Let us sum up : 10,000 leases, running 250,000 stampers,
crushing 100,000,000 tons of quartz annually for
500,000,0000 z., equal to £1,750,000,000, which would enable
the owners to send Mayor M'Donald, of Coolgardie, ’Ome
to make the record present of the record reign, and for
all time, by handing a draft to the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer to wipe out the British national debt. He could
also have a draft for a trifle of £80,000,000 for a fleet of
battle-ships to guard the coast of the modern Ophir, ex-
cept for a few weeks when Melbourne Cup carnival was
on. But alas !
• * • •
Mr. W. R. Pennycook, who has had charge of
the Goulburn district for the A.M.P. Society for the past
10 years, has been appointed City Agent for the society.
His office is in Hoffnung’s Buildings, 163 Pitt-st., Sydney.*


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
Ff T, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
-A.T'IEjiRX.A-iEjS rp ZEE OZROXT G- ZE3Z ZU AT S ZE3Z ZR TJ ZEST ZKZ
The ORIENT CLOTHING
BUSINESS
OFFICE
PROMENADE
is in ALL TEXTURES, suita le for
RIDING _
BUSH _
TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
I'IRST '|('ALITV MEN’S SUITS
IIXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
1' urmshmgs excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST* INSPECTION INVITED.
David
(IEQKGii and
Jones & Company,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.) 97 1
BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-Gd. Each.
bee the name CORTO on the hands, rmd hen-are of imitations,
E CXJSEKTIKR et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
brandy.
Tile PUREST BRANDY known, being distilled SOLELY from picked brandv
emhmutTh " 0t a " al^ d b *' the French Government Chief Expert \il
physicians pronounce against INFLUENZA and
Price Xo U iij'ner than Other Leadinf/ Brands.
SOCIETY
4 butchered to save a cabman’s extra fare :
“.One, of the most piteous of Sydney hospital
sights” (writes a Bulletin correspondent) “is
that of a, sinking patient trying in vain to get
sleep amidst the rumble of cabs rolling along
Macquarie-street when there is a ball at Govt.
House. What chance will such victims have if
the railway ever comes to King-street ? ”
Macquarie-street is laid with “open” blocks;
in the interests of common humanity these blocks
should be pulled up and re-laid “ close,” so as to
minimise the noise. Either that, or tan should
be put down and changed occasionally. The noise
now made under the windows of the big hospital
is simply slai'vhterous.
* * * *
At Perth, the other day, the cross-
examination of a Frenchman who had been
stabbed by a compatriot elicited the fact that he
was himself a convicted murderer who had escaped
from New Caledonia—whe'reupon his wife, who
was in court and to whom the revelation was a
thunderstroke, had to be carried out insensible.
The Australienne who contemplates espousing the
fascinating foreigner would do well in most cases
to make previous inquiry at the proper consulate.
• * • •
Apropos of the two well-connected Mel-
bourne lady shoplifters, whom Panton, P.M., in
a burst of righteous indignation, sentenced to a
weeks gaol apiece for wholesale thieving—the
shoplifter who isn’t well-connected gets from six
months to three years—a London paper publishes
a strange story about shoplifters in general. The
fashionable lady-thief is numerous in London,
and, as a rule, prosecuting her involves much
waste of time and gives very little satisfaction.
Therefore, one swell draper, it is alleged, has the
detected kleptomaniac led into his back premises
where she is offered the alternative of being
arrested or being flogged by the proprietor’s sister,
in which latter case the painful subject will there-
after be dropped. It is asserted that a tolerable
large and. influential section of society has been
spanked in a room behind that drapery man’s
premises.
» « * *
Sydney (in which the God-fearing Ministry
says there are only 200 unemployed) is a beautiful
place to wander in by night. There are long rows
of rubbish-boxes along the edge of the pavement,
and at nearly every box there is a hurried,
anxious, shivering ghoul turning over the con-
tents in search of something eatable. Where the
midnight ghoul gets to by daylight is a mystery ;
the kind you see at night is even a more hairy,
and frayed, and tattered edition than the species
which hang out in the Domain by day. Probably
the one who skims the dirt-kegs after closing-up
time is so far gone about the clothes that he can’t
even enjoy the run of the park, lest he should be
arrested for indecency, and he gets into the cellar
of an empty house about sunrise, and lies low
t ere till night comes on again. Mostly, he has a
sort of black halo about him, the halo on his head
being hair and his body-halo being rags.
* * * *
Morose prisoners, like the late Butler, have
the days leading to the guillotine more rationally
ordered in France than are those leading to the
gallows in Australia. Australia treats its con damn 4
like a caged beast. Nay, worse; for keepers,
knowing their lion or tiger is securely caged,
observe him, from time to time, with a little
human interest. Australia, however, provides
keepers with a stony, official glare in both near
and off eye, which, to a man of moods, like Butler,
must be more maddening than insults. In France,
the Government furnishes the prisoner with a
compagnon, or mate, chosen from among other
prisoners, who shares the condainnd’s delicacies,
sleeps in the same cell, and plays cards, chess, or
draughts as the condamn4 desires. Every eatable
or drinkable the condemned orders, in reason, is
given to him in such measure as enables him to
treat his compagnon hospitably, so that a morose
subject is almost unknown in French prisons.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, lie front-names : a
clergyman’s objection to any praenomen is of no
consequence, provided the registrar accepts it;
and he, by rejecting any designation that is not
“ blasphemous or obscene,” would simply relieve
the parents of responsibility for non-registration.
Mere absurdity he has nothing to do with. Also,
whatever preference R.C. priests may have for
saints’ names, there is no incumbency on them to
refuse any others. And, finally, there is no neces-
sary inseparability between a person and a baptis-
mal or registered name. A man’s virtual name is
simply whatever he will answer to.—A.M.
• • *
More bush justice. In a Tas. township a
man was arrested for “drunk and dis.” The
Super, of Police, wishing to get rid of the incubus,
went to the Warden’s house and asked his attend-
ance to hear the case. The head beak was at that
moment engrossed in cabbage-planting, but was
equal to the occasion. “ I’m too' busy to come
just now,” he said ; “ fine the beggar five shillings
and let him go.” The Super, complied. Justice
tempered with—vegetable production.
• • • *
Last Sunday evening 22 shops were open
and doing a good business in William-street, Syd-
ney, 21 in King-street, and 13 in Erskine-street,
and presumably things were much the same in
other thoroughfares. Apparently, the Brunker
Sabbath-keeping spasm lasted just one Sunday.
A NATURAL GIFT.
JUSH MISSIONARY (to Queensland but lock-puncher) : “ Where CAN you have learned. the
dreadful lan [?] my poor man?”
BULLOCK-PUNOHER : “ Learn it? No blanky son of a (corruyated jum ping-pole) could ever
learn it. It's a (ermine, cross-eyed) natural (jamanrubber) yift, old cockeye!”
A MAORI STUDY: Photo. by lies, now of the Taama Studio, Hobart .
From a London private letter: —
“There are plenty of the Australian ex-soldiers knock-
ing about already. I saw one of those fellows from New
South Wales at Liverpool-street station the other nig-ht,
and fca had fairly ‘copped the brewer.' He wanted to
fight the policeman and all the porters because they
would not have a ‘ wet’ with him, but after a bit he went
quietly off with a couple of Scots Guards to the ‘ pub ’
opposite.”
* » • *
Dr. Strong’s Australian Church held a
meeting, the other day, to consider its lamentable
financial condition. Apparently every variety of
Protestantism in this country has gaunt In-
solvency howling at the door of its tabernacle,
and Dr. Strong’s fane is no exception to the
general rule. The pastor explained in tones of
regret that the accumulated debt was .£11,722
10s. Bd., which seems a tolerably robust shortage ;
£9467 and some coppers of this being due to the
Savings Bank. How the Savings Bank will feel
when it forecloses that mortgage and has a £9400
church among its assets it is hard to say ; a big
stone temple should be about the most unsaleable
thing in Melbourne just now. The congregation
on Sunday nights, it appears, averages 900, but
such a very large pro|>ortion of these are seized
with catalepsy at the sight of the plate that the
profits are not worth mentioning. It was finally
resolved that the Australian Church should gird
up its _ offertory and make another hard struggle
for existence, and if it fails there will be one more
eligible tabernacle for sale down South, and the
all-devouring Salvation Army will probably take
over the business.
* * « . »
H. : “ The Sydney and Melb. Anglican
Cathedrals are in the same financial pickle. In
Melb. the paid bell-ringers are all sacked, and the
present ones are volunteers. Of course Mr. Goe’s
£4O a week is not docked.”
* * * *
£T. : “ Melb.’s dead churches are likely to
be reinforced with Dr. Bevan’s, in Collins-street.
The Romans win all along the line. Look at St.
Patrick’s, with the big new church looming up in
YYest Melb., and the memorial stone of another
laid on Sunday week in Carlton. Bevan, no doubt,
wished to stay in London but was aghast to find
himself called on all hands an Australian preacher,
whereas he had thought he left a big English
reputation behind. But such is the tooth
of time. In his Melb. Church, Buchanan,
Renton], Sugden, Howard, and Dunstan have all
fai.ed to lift up the Sign of the Cross to paying
business. Mathieson is now billed. ”
* * * *
The catastrophe expected by scoffers has
happened to two young ladies who have been
in converting the yellow heathen in
* » * *
The Yellow Wave percolates where it can-
not batter, and slowly and surely it is insinuating
itself into the remotest cracks and crannies of
society. There has just been opened a particu-
larly stylish dressmaking establishment, in all
the magnificence of plush and mirrors, which is
the joint speculation of a fashionable white cos-
tumier and a smirking chow. The duties of the
latter will, possibly, not comprise fitting on,
* * • *
A Bulletin correspondent :
Incident of the recent Port Darwin cyclone. A China-
man was found apparently dead, among the ruins of his
house. He was placed in a coffin, and surprised the
mourners by beginning to show signs of life. Soon after
he called for rice, and when it was brought ate a fair
rneal (still in the coffin), and then pegged out in earnest,
full of years and rice.
• • * •
Turning the tables. A white leper struck
a Tate River (N.Q.) station recently, and John
Chinaman, the only responsible male on the
station, ordered him off with loathing. The poor
wretch staggered away, and a Bulletin corres-
pondent says he is still hovering in the bush near
A private letter (date. June 4th) from
’Ome to a Melbourne resident, says :
You would be surprised to see London now, it is like a
carpenter’s shop. The carpenters’ men have been earn-
ing 2s. per hour, and now they will have 2s. 6d. The
price of most things is up, and they tell us we shall have
to pay at least eighteenpence a pound for our meat. '
Which explains the jubilee “loyalty ” of carpen-
ters and butchers, anyhow.
* • * *
Much to the delight of the local vegetable
heathen, Launceston (Tas.) Christian young ladies
—most of them plump and prepossessing, by the
way—have lately been filled with a zealous yearn-
ing to save the souls of their yellow brethren. To
this end—or some other—prayer and social meet-
ings are held for the benefit of the alien. The
other night a tea-fight happened, at which the
Chows delivered little “testimonies.” presumably
arranged to convince the audience of the exuberant
spontaneity of the heathens’ conversion. One
particularly greasy idolator stopped short in the
middle of his oration and calmly announced that
he had “forket um ” the rest; but a compatriot
came to the rescue by handing up a dirty slip of
paper from which Ah Gup read his testimony right
from the start in most approved Sunday-school
English. “ This sort of thing, though amusing
must involve a good deal of self-sacrifice,” said a
lady visitor to one of the girls. “Oh, yes,” was
the reply; “ indeed it does. For instance, my
cousin, Miss So-and-so, has to sit between two of
the Chinese at every prayer-meeting, and ’’—well
perhaps it would be unwise to print the rest of her
remarks.
NOT AS THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not as the sea, when wanton day has found -her,
And she, rich-smiled,
Draws her white fleecing laces closer round her,
Yet is beguiled;
But as the sea, when her salacious lover
Is gone, and she
Lies quiet-bosomed to the stars above her—
So thou to me.
Tic.
WYVIS.


HARRINGTON
Xj’HOtb OUTFJTTtRS v >.}
<S6TONG'STsYDNE.f:
MuS\
m
\l
rfff F/fiM / Buy FfiOM-r-
-<‘o upleje and Up-to-l>ate Stock of all Requisites.
EXI’KR.T ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTKX rioX.
Use of Dark Rooms—FßEli.
XJOSE’S CELEBRATED
" LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 Georsre-street,
Sydney. By. Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out*door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A astral ia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been ehemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free : or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
X
SoftCapVaS Shifts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30;- per 54-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. KIKK HHOTUKKS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
To show how nice and friendly W.A.
nponle mav be, one half of a quarter-acre residence
on ah important goldfield is let to the Ranters
church, while the other half is rented to two
French ladies ” ; and everything goes smoothly.
* * * *
The exuberant loyalty of the W.A. Govt,
was only equalled by its lack of heraldic know-
wW Or perhaps an “enemy did this thing,
n , Jubilee night on one of the most prominent
points of the Perth Govt, offices, decorated with
fe irful and wonderful “ flags, there flaunted the
banner of.the Irish Republic, vert, a harp with-
out a crown, or.”
There is a portion of Melb. Gaol set apart
for the accommodation of those committed for ten
days or a fortnight for contempt of the courts
which order payment of maintenance money to
deserted wives. It always contains 40 or so of
these contemptuous misdemeanants, and is dubbea
by the warders “ The Marriage-a-I allure Ward.
* * * *
The first settlers in Westralia were mostly
English, and their descendants through long
isolation from the other portions of Australia re-
tain many of the manners and customs of their
forefathers. For instance, they call their employer
“the master,” a creek a “brook,” an overseer a
“ foreman,” the manager of a gold-mine a „ cap-
tain ; ” and use the expressions “up south and
“down north.”
* * * *
J.D. : “ How many Bulletin readers
have ever seen a ticket-of-leave ? Picked one up
the other dav, and for the first time understood
why a ticket-man so rarely exhibits his ‘ certifi-
cate of freedom ’ even to his most intimate
cronies. The System provided a fine outlet for
the surplus humor of its gaolers. On the back of
the ticket the description of the ‘freed prisoner
is set forth under the, following headings: Name,
grade, native place, height without shoes, age,
complexion, head, hair, whiskers, visage, forehead,
eyebrows, eyes, nose, mouth, chin, remarks.
Given those headings and a little savage humor
and what sort of a picture could be painted ? Ihe
one I found is simply unpublishable.”
* * * *
An East Bundaberg (Q.) Jubilee baby has
been christened “Victoria Regina.” The other
name is, probably, Stubbs, or Stokes, or Jenkins.
Why not “Mary Kanaka Sugar Plantation Bunda-
berg Jenkins ”?
W. WABBRTCK, a veteran footballer .
Photo,, Kerry.
N.S.W. Education-Minister Garrard has
Almost completed a scheme under which a couple
of ladies will be tried as inspectors of N.S.W.
Public Schools.
• * * *
One of Meston’s niggers at the White
Clitts Aboriginal Settlement to the Maryborough
(Q.) visiting committee : “ Mine not want it alto-
gether yan back alonga Maryborough ; budgery
thisfeller ; but mine think it want it very badly
Seeralonga rations”
* * * *
In Sydney, if an attempted suicide requires
hospital-treatment, the Police Department has to
supply a constable to watch him till he is dis-
charged, as the hospital authorities very properly
refuse to take any risks of injury to himself or the
other patients. The constables don’t like the
duty, as nurses “can’t abear coppers.”
* * * *
A search for precedents in a recent Melb.
fortune-telling prosecution revealed the fact that
m N.S.W. a case (R. v. Colan) decided that the
long-since-repealed Act of George 11. imposing
the pillory and a sentence of not less than 12
month’s gaol for sorcery, witchcraft and fortune-
telling was in force in N.S.W. in 1878 and is still,
apparently, above ground. The reasoning of the
J udges was most peculiar—and more so.
* * * *
“ It is not generally known,” writes a Bul-
letin correspondent, “ that Melb...Hospital has
paid subjects, male and female, but such is the
fact. They live on their disease, and are always
un hand ready to be strung up (in the nude) for
Dr. Sawbones and gang to pull about.
One of Melb.’s least conventional press-
lydies told the Austral Salon at a recent meeting
“The cardinal virtues are not those with which
you paint the town red.” Quite so; when ver-
milion’s the order of the evening, the world punts
its pocket-money on the Scarlet Woman.
* • « *
Australian boys are not usually over-
burdened with politeness, but recently, in a
crowded Sydney ’bus, a boy, who was seated on a
man’s knee, rose when a lady entered and offered
her his seat. The lady looked razors.
Dear Bulletin, —This is for
spiritualistic and metaphysical
readers. Last week I bought a
cheap (of course) W.B. house in
Northcote, Melb., which I wanted
moved to Oakleigh. A house-
contractor asked d£4o, but I knew
too much for that/ With three
serious-minded friends I sawed
away all the supports of the house,
then —closing all doors, windows,
fire-places, &c., to an air-tight
degree—we pumped the house full
of compressed air. Then each stood
at one corner, placed one finger
under the house, drew a deep
breath, and lifted. The house rose
as easily as a feather, and, still
holding our breath, we carried it
some few yards. This operation
we repeated for four hours, until
we finally reached Oakleigh. We
nearly had an accident on the
Caulfield railway - crossing the
youngest of the party laughed,
and the houseimmediatelydropped
on the line ; but the matter was
then much too serious for laughter,
and we soon got clear. I think
I see a fortune ahead in the house-
shifting profession. —F.C. J.
* * *
The eternal woman questi
Half the trouble among the na-
tives up in the Straits is caused
by the unfortunate custom the
niggers have of selling their gins
to colored aliens for a gun, am-
munition, rum, etc. Within the
course of a few months the abori-
ginal repents his bargain, endea-
vors to seduce his quondam spouse
from her new allegiance, and very
often gets a split head or a mouth-
ful of meat-axe in the operation.
And police begin to curse and wish
the gaol was bigger.
A Melb. solicitor lately found himself
lodging at a hotel with five other men, four of
whom had been divorced, whilst the fifth had had
divorce papers served upon him. The learned
fashion in which the four expounded the law of
divorce to the fifth, and explained processes,
papers and formalities to him, filled the profes-
sional lawyer with amazement.
•■• * •
Sydney School of Arts charges ss. 6d. a
quarter for male members and 2s. 9d, for their
wives and sisters. But the periods must be con-
current. It appears that, before this latter rule
was thought of, members who entered their wives
dropped out themselves and used the wives as
agents, thus obtaining the use of the library at
half-rates.
At a N.S.W. backblocks funeral. Friend
(to chief mourner): “So the ould gintleman’s
gone at last. Well—well—but it’s a foine healthy
place he’s buried in.”
• * * *
The Australian washerman advertises in
Perth West Australian :
IV/TAN, experienced, wants washing by day, constant
bV-L work, 6s. a day. 38 Roe-st.
* * * *
Necessary amendment of Yic. Factories
Act: The application of the minimum-wage pro-
visions and the definition of “factory” to the
Salvation Army wood-and-coal yards. However
laudable this body’s exertions to directly help the
poor and indirectly the snufflebuster, it’s coming
it too strong when it enters into keen competition,
at a barest pittance wage, with one of the hardest-
worked callings in the country.
Miss LILY POST, the American Vocalist.
In New Guinea it is said to be no un-
common thing for the Missionary Flag.to be seen
floating above the Union Jack. This paper does
not feel hurt about it, but “ vvhat-hever will they
say bin Hingland ” ?
LOVE MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heard through the trees, voluptuous strains
Of violins in concert blended.
He takes her hand (which still remains
In his, although the tune is ended)
And Maud is not at all offended.
Says he : “All love-born music seems
To bear me to a world of dreams
By Jove 1 it’s splendid.
“ Love music, on a sultry night,
Performed, of course, with real fee ling,
Gives strange, unspeakable delight
To such as I.” Then Gussie, kneeling,
With many vows and much appealing,
Persuades the silent girl to speak
“ One little word ’’—her manner meek
The truth revealing.
Next summer-time the lusty twins
Distract him with their cries nocturnal.
A year ago two violins
Had told a tale of joy eternal,
And life was like—the London Joubnal.
These strains of love-born music keep
Poor Gus from getting off to sleep—
O, d d infernal!
A CONFESSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say, dear heart, that love of wealth
And love of fame, and love of wife,
And lover’s love will never stand
Against that test—the love of Life.
Yes 1 let me whisper it in shame
That this poor clay has found it true :
But may I add the saving clause,
That Life, my dearest one, is you.
W.P.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
R.S.G. (Hannan’s): The dirge was sung at its
own funeral, which seems an admirable example of the
fitness of sings E.A.W. : Note allegation that
you are the original “Stroller,” and nobody else on earth
has any business to stroll without your written authority.
If you will kindly copyright the rest of the dictionary,
this paper will gladly be printed in deaf-and-dumb lan-
guage Jawn : Selector murdered a sheep—the other
sheep, worse luck 1 J.W.: Story of a little boy aged
seven who said “ blanky ! ” —and you “ thought this might
suit The Bulletin ” 1 And such is our reward for conduct-
ing a high-class religious journal for 18 years !.. A.H.T.:
But you haven’t dried it. Always dry such yarns for ten
minutes in a good warm fire George A. : Rabbit-poem
unfortunately poisoned as soon as it came out of its bur-
row P.B.F. : Don’t remember ; but you can use, any-
way B. : Nobody at the theatres has heard of such a
case. A fiction on the face of it. Why should the press
conspire to suppress a spicy story, and how could it be
kept a secret from a notoriously' tale-bearing pur-
feshun? Marryat M. : Hackneyed sort of episode
A.A.G. : Don’t agree with your estimate of verses by
W.H Foremos :An angel picked a waratah, did she?
Wish our angel was so easily satisfied Dobson’s Spider:
Dull Anon.: Name and address? Modern Parable :
Too mixed Thomas McM. : Rhymes 'way below inser-
tion mark D. McD.: Flesh is grass, flowers fade, and
another coat of gold-paint has been put on Brunker s
halo. H’m! Solid information; but too novel and
revolutionary for Bulletin H.J.B. : Now, what sort of
a Cupid is it who could fly with a lOst. Maoriland maiden
under each wing? J.S.H. : “Back Door” a bit
mawkish; and not our style, anyway .. Palindrome:
Duly staggered by the Perth bard’s vision of “ the Great
White Queen standing before the Great White
Throne.” That’s the beauty of having a draper’s soul—
you can match things so nicely for a lady
D. : Crime on the W.A. goldfields is not above the aver
age of the rest of the province, probably for wantof “get
away," the roads to the various mining centres being cat
de sacs, and the country a desert on each si'de and
a desert ahead M. : Bulletin tries to avoid
being made the vehicle of snobbish “society” and
personal puffs J.E.C. (0.M.): Excellent idea.
Original? M.J.P. :No Bulletin space for long dis-
sertations re details of local politios W.M.F. :
Sketches good ideas; handling not quite up Bowra : A
bit bald M.J.L. : Notice the dying miner is beginning
to supplant the dying bushman —thanks to W.A G.
Gcrrard : Thanks Murphy : Will not sing to-night
Diogenes : So the alligator-trapper turned out a baronet,
and the outcast became Lady So-and-So. How realistio 1
.Frank P. : Not enough force or novelty Mrs.
D. M. : Unsuitable Q. : Does the mildly-expostulating
“please-don’t-Mr.-Tozer” Glassey seem strong to you ?
We remember a Glassey who denounced the Boodlewraith
as a public enemy, with whom an honest politician could
have no dealings and make no compromise at the cost of
principle Valentine W. : Prose weak ; considering
verse Sludge : Some taste for decorative lying, but
want capacity Artist: Received Holder : “Throb”
isn’t vigorous enough Singer : Too sad for print
Mabel: “Will you?” too doggerelish T.F.M. : The
swagman died altogether too slowly, so was mercifully
knocked on the head A.R.X.: Contradiction not worth
space Bob Sw r agman : Not up A.B. : Nothing in it.
C.A.J.T. : Wants interest...... Peter Dale : Too flat
A.L. : We don’t print translations merely because they
are translations, but in spite of the fact that the.y are
translations Simple Simon : You evidently don't know
much about it. Deceased was not the politician’s father,
but his half-brother F.C.D. (W.): Thanks .... T.B. ;
Anathema is Wurry: Thanks Tyro: Wicker de-
department —below —to the left Hemar C. (W.A.) :
“ The Bridge of Sighs ” is rather hackneyed : but what
can a paper do ?.....M.: Not much Winchester : Thanks,
but one can’t contradict all his vain imaginings
Medda : Dull E.M. : “Harbor ” declined Frank J.:
Better pay Is. for a Whitman selection, and learri to
know him better L.R.M. : Unusable Ern. F. (Vic.):
Green poems; let ’em ripen till next century Enoch ;
“ Rise, Australians?” etc. Not with that poetic yeast
Reefton : All right. Don’t boil over Kank-something-
or-olher (Eungella) : Poem mostly old cant phrases and
weak Jubilee The Mug : You say the co. put £160,000
to reserve last year. Now, it did nothing of the kind, and
the trouble is, after this huge inaccuracy, to decide how
many of your other statements are decently reliable
Nobbier : Query—as the Hon. Jones had no printing work
to offer the deputation what would you have had him do?
Jas.T.D. : Honorary' undertaker to the royal famil|
Ye gods ! E.W.A. (Paddington): The dust of man
centuries is upon that wretched chestnut Ferret :Th
Bulletin files don’t go back so far as 400 a.d. Probabty
you will find something about it in the early numbers of
the S.M. Herald Tench : Tale written with a keg of
red paint and a shovel Kobar: Below par Q.R. :
Item about the drinky tendencies of some priests to hand.
Dugald M’Something: Declined J. Jingle: For
drying up a subject and rolling it flat you have no equal....
J. Thomas : There are 187 words in your first sentence. Life
is too short and breathless for that sort of thing
Edwin Stanfield : Poem about “ England’s flag ” and
“the battles England fought’’ and “England’s empire”
to hand. England, as a political unit, pegged out 294 years
ago. Up to that date her record as an empire-builder was
mainly that she acquired Normandy, Aujou and the
kingdom of Aquitaine, or rather these places acquired
her; and she lost them again in luckless wars. Also she
lost her own northern provinces to the Scots —in fact,
England, when “ on her own,” had a really fine record
for losing provinces Anti-Christ: Thanks W. Mans-
field :“ Where is Nansen’s God?” Can’t say. Where is
anybody’s God ? The Exile : A great loose wandering
in ink over nothing in particular B. : “ What is it that
isn’t where it is and isn’t where it isn’t ?”. Presumably
the thing that might have been but wasn’t, or the
Woman Who Did, or the person that wasn’t
born, or something of the kind Mopoke : Received
M.E.L. (B.): Sorry too late; in type Kobar: Story
weak variant of many stronger yarns J.B. (Kew.) :
Utterly unsuited to Bulletin R.: On the evidence,
the Bench’s decision was correct. The man who goes into
a girl’s room at night uninvited, and lies down on the
bed in which she is sleeping, undoubtedly commits an
assault, and has to take the consequences of his act
J.O.D. : Flatly refuse to let your mountainous billow roar
at any price Mervyn : Your modest statement that you
are one of the most broad-minded men in public life to
hand. You ought to know New Zealander : Thanks.
Curra Curra: Wild-looking young man shuddering
in a rJfct.aurant. That’s all R.L.W (Botany): He
never did any work, and his wife supported the nine
children by washing. Tale boiled down M.N.: Verse
VllL herewith:
Men have had a great deal to say
On the extension of our railway.
But those who talk about Hyde Park
Want excuses about which to bark.
O. Starbuck: We don’t propose to abolish The Bul-
letin's red cover. The red cover was put on this paper
because red is the most conspicuous of all colors—look at
the red-nosed woman, for instance. Also, red is the
Republican color M.: Brunker said: “I am responsi-
ble “to a Higher Power ’’—not “to a Higher Intelli-
gence.” As Brunker very well knows, there is no question
of intelligence where he is concerned


Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Qeorge Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted bv
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
' Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
A WOMAN’S LETTER .
My ItaMT- Sydney, July 20, 1897.
Three local artists and two ladies of the recently-
arrived Gay Parisienne ” eo., acted as judges at
the Juvenile Fancy Dress Ball, at the Town Hall,,
on 1 nursday night. The newcomers, sternly at-
tired m masculine-looking coats and skirts, enteredl
into the awarding business with much seriousness,
yet the entire lack of originality about the majority
ot the gowns made the decisions very easy. The
interpretation of the words “ fancy dress ” seems,
to most folk to be something cheap and eccentric
with swans-down or artificial flowers on it,
which accounts for the lavish scattering of
queens,” “ Flower girls,” “ Nights,” and'
oprings, at Thursday evening’s dance. One-
unusually pretty get-up, which managed to es-
cape . the eyes of the judges, represented a lily,
but the dainty maiden who wore it seemed anxious;
(marvellously enough) to conceal herself from view.
Ihe handsomest girl present—one, by the way, who-
had left childhood a good many years behind her,
and reached the age when knee-short skirts only
suggest the ballet —was smartly attired as a naval
officer; she wandered about with a Robin Hood,,
whose face, beplastered with a “spirit-gum ” yel-
a W << se^ rellJ inded one of a w T eek-old gosling.
i Military officer ”in scarlet mess jacket,
looked like a Dudley Hardy poster. The ’37
costumes were exquisitely dainty, and suited the
wearers well, but the incroyable suits of their
partners proved that the figure of the modern boy
is wholly unadapted to tight pantaloons and tri-
angular hats, and that the manners which go with
the dress of a courtly period are mere foolishness;
to him, Ihe galleries of the Town Hall were
packed with spectators, who struggled with each
er craned their necks to catch a glimpse of
the motley-attired crowd on the floor, and most of
the onlookers found the spectacle entertaining
enough to keep them chained to their seats till
after midnight. From a spectacular point of
view, however, the affair was really about as
amusing as a Methodist tea-meeting.
The girl’s dress which took the gold and
pearl bangle represented “Federated Australia,”'
in refulgent satin and many-colored ribbon
streamers. It was worn by little Zelma Aron-
son, and her brother also bore off a prize for
his historical make-up. Young Marks, as a China-
man, trotted into the prize-list with his cabbage
baskets. Among the unrewarded drapery, the
Hussar uniform on a tall blonde was conspicuous.
At 10 p.m. the grown ups crowded the floor and
pushed aside the small dancers, A tall man and
his partner collided with a tiny couple and brushed
them away, saying it was time for little boys and
girls to be in bed. “ Look here ! is this your ball
or ours ? ’ cried the six-year-old, squaring up
manfully to the six-footer.
Tfie pension of <£lso a year granted to Lady
Ihurston, widow of the late Go.v. Thurston, of
Fiji, will, if that lady’s friends in Suva be success-
ful, be augmented by a vote on the Fijian esti-
mates. The official salary of the Gov. of Fiji is
«2<ioo, which does not leave much margin, after
all expenses have been deducted, for providing for
the support of a widow and five children. Lady
Thurston is at present living in Sydney. Some of
her children are being educated in England. The
path of the wife of the Governor of a Crown
colony like Fiji is not altogether strewn with
roses. A great part of the inevitable expense
conies from keeping a free hotel for every globe-
trotter who arrives armed with a letter of intro-
duction “ tortile Governor,” and before the “ cir-
cular-letter trick was shut down upon, every
traveller who could scrape an acquaintance with a
Colonial Office hireling used to get free board and
lodging at all the Govt. Houses in the British
dominions on the strength of the missive which
he presented to each of H.M.’s representatives in
turn.
.4.1 in a Stanley looms much larger as Mme.
Paillard in “A Night Out” than the original
.trench lady, but hasn’t nearly as much to do.
Much of the latter’s “business ” is cut out of the
English version, and she plays the part standing
around. The defect of the farce is that it has had
much of the fun eliminated with the Frenchiness ;
some of the characters have a forlorn look, as if
they had nothing to do with the case, whereas in
the Parisian play every character was provided
with a neatly-fitting and quick-acting part. As
the waiter, Whelan can only rush up and down
stairs noisily through the second act; of course if
he carried on as in the original the Brunker-bossed
police would interfere. Several detached bits of
business, such as the collapsing chair and Pinglet’s
blackened face, should all come into the scheme of
things and make the farce rush rapidly along its
noisy, naughty career—instead of being, as they
are, solitary independent facts standing baldly out
of the piece and accentuating the world of dif-
ference between Gallic and Anglo-Saxon ideas of
taste and humor.
Although the Jubilee is off, Jubilee appeals still
go on. The charities now being drummed for in
ydney would take a good half-column of The
Bulletin to enumerate. And now it is decided
to add another to the list by establishing an
keep green the memory of the late
N.S.W. Chief Commissioner for Railways. The
proposal is full of good feeling, and the members
of the associations who met at the Chamber of
Commerce to arrange for it hope for a “suc-
cessful issue ” of the new idea. But when
the money has to be raked in with a steady, con-
tinuous stroke, the enthusiasm will probably ooze
off somewhat; though 11,000 railway employes
with influential outside backing should be able to
accomplish wonders. Just at present there are
far too many charities to the square inch, and
about 50 good causes are ready to snatch at each
available coin.
A new song, “ Thou Art Mine,” by Alfred Hill
(Paling and Co.), is very tuneful, with a stirring
military refrain. The sentiment of the words, by
T. Warner, describing the warlike hero going to
“love and laughter’’ in the south, while the
“maid’s fa,ir face grows pale and old” in the
north waiting for him, is all very well from a
man’s point of view, but a woman could hardly be
expected to give three cheers for it. Wiegand’s
“ Marche Francaise,” which appropriately adorned
music-shop windows on 14th July, weds effec-
tively with crashing chords the Russian and
French, national hymns. A waltz, “ Shel-
bourne,” by John Lee (Paling), is suggestive of
‘lhree Blind Mice” with variations. M. E.
Price has arranged “ On the Benches in the Park”
for dancing, and waltzes that rather weary motif
through several pages with some well-harmonised
padding. De Groen’s band has made this version
popular in ball-rooms during the season.
The exhibition by lady students at the Art
Society’s rooms, Pitt-street, was brightened by
one head and a couple of landscapes, otherwise the
show was average. This was the first “At Home ”
given by the students, and many guests assembled
to drink their cup of tea in the cause of Art. Mr.
Coffey’s lightning sketches and Mr. Alfred Hill’s
song helped the reception along. One girl reci-
tross came out strong, and gave “ Mary, Queen of
Scots to the bitter end with Potteresque ges-
tures, and there were some other events on the
programme. 1 his little party will probably be-
come an annual one.
Some lively charges and counter-charges are
made by the members of the Thornton co., now at
loggerheads. The co., while on tour, was a most
unhappy family. Noney Seabrooke, who issued a
writ against her former manager, is now staying
in Sydney, and intends, as soon as possible, to go
to her friends in her native Edinboro’. The
common report of an engagement between Miss
Seabrooke and the other writ-issuer, Herbert Terry,
is denied by both Terry, by the way, has not
left the co., and must find it hard work to nightly
act up to a man with whom he is not “ playing
speaks ”in private ; but he does it, all the same.
Theosophy has been boomed by the lectures
given in the Protestant Hall by Col. Olcott and
Miss L. Edger, who have been listened to atten-
tively by large numbers of the followers of the
mystic cult. rhe Colonel’s twang vibrates above
a whiter and more flowing beard than when he
was here six years ago ; otherwise he is unchanged.
M-iss Mger, who is obviously understudying
Annie Bes&nt in matter and style, wears flowing
neutral-tinted garments, clinging round her like a
grey sea fog on a mud-bank. Evidently the
astral body has no waist-line. The lady-lecturer,
in a, fluent, soothing voice, discoursed on re-incar-
nation as a cure for all ills. Also, on the irrever-
ence of Australian youth, an opinion which the
audience warmly applauded in a way suggesting
that they would be blessed if young Australia
•could be worried to death by wild Mahatmas,
and never come to earth again for a millennium
■or so.
llorence Schmidt’s second concert, on Saturday
night, in the Town Hall, showed that the plucky
■Queensland songstress is justified in her rather
arduous undertaking of drawing a Town Hall
audience “on her own.” The soprano’s own songs
were some which she has sung before, and for en-
cores she had prepared various ballads. There
was a Scotch flavor about the entertainment.
Mrs. Lance wailed that dreary dirge, “ Auld
Robin Grey,” in contralto, and Woodhouse and
Miss Schmidt both warbled of the kail-
yard. A feature of the evening was the piano-
playing of the minute Freda Miller, who used her
tiny fists effectively, and staggered off the plat-
form under a cartload of flowers. As an encore
she played the “Carnival of Venice;” in so
young a child the habit could surely be checked
before it became confirmed. H. Staeli’s artistic
violin-playing pleased people immensely. Miss
Ooutts-Duvalli was last performer, and her gilt
harp on the platform was a signal for half the audi-
ence to rise and stream noisily out; having
heard the soprano, they allowed their frantic desire
to catch trams and ’buses ten minutes ahead of
time to quite overpower their manners.
In “ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins ” at the Royal the jig
•danced by Maggie Moore and H. Roberts is one of
the best things in the show. It looks like the
real and not the stage Irish j ig. These old dances
are giving place to new. The very latest whirl
was danced for the first time in Sydney at a chil-
dren’s party in a private house a week ago. After
this it may spread in sassiety. The man dancer
trips behind his partner to the strains of “ Wash-
ington Post,” catching her hands, which she holds
backwards above her shoulders, and they kick
simultaneously in a kind of barn-dance hop.
Gush about the coming Ex. of Maoriland is
measured off by the yard in a daily which clips it
from a ’Ome paper for the benefit of readers un-
blessed with aristocratic acquaintances. The en-
raptured interviewer spills flattering adjectives
freely about the “elegant figure” of Lady Ran-
furly, which the severe lines of the tailor-made
gowns she habitually wears only serve to accentuate
he is “too nervous to ride,” but is “a thorough
sportswoman, being devoted to toboganning. ”
Ladyß. won’t get much of thatsportin Wellington
unless she tries sliding down Govt. House stairs on
a tea-tray. Her “ little spaniel frisks constantly
her feet as she walks,” which conveys the
idea of her ladyship tripping over doggie and
barking her Norman nose at every step. Then the
enthusiastic penwoman screams with delight over
some “ glorious ” diamonds possessed by this
paragon. After all the gush, the hard fact
that the eldest Uchter Knox olive-branch is 6ft.
high rather discounts the youthful Diana theory.
The “perfect gentleman” biz. evidently can’t
be run as a going financial concern in Sydney. In
answer to an advt. requiring services of “ agentle-
xnan (perfect) as companion to an invalid ; salary
«sBSO, 45 applicants rolled up in less than 15
minutes. Most of them looked like remittance-
men waiting for next mail, and some were of the
hock-bottle type of manly beauty, and some
looked like Domain dossers. They all seemed
hard-up, and cursing their bad luck found 44 of
them in a common bond.
Unemployed men are now applying for billets
as housemaids and indoor servants. A lady who
runs a large boarding-house advertised for a ser-
vant ; three men applied for the job, but she
explained that she wanted a housemaid. She
engaged a girl who didn’t suit, and the lady adver-
tised afresh. Two men answered the first day,
and so impressed was she at the persistence of the
appeal of one that he was engaged. The boarders
were astonished next day to find a fine-looking
young man established as a regular indoor slavey,
attending to the bedrooms, sweeping and dusting,
&e., and his mistress says her “new man” gives
her every satisfaction.
Spooks are said to flourish better in Melbourne
than Sydney, Most of the folk who run eerie,
other-world shows eventually settle on Yarra’s
banks, where, among other disciples of the occult,
one of the most successful and original of business
men governs all his actions by expensive weekly
advice obtained per medium. The controller of
Cissy ” and “ Geordie ” intends to practise for
the future down South, where interest in astral
paraphernalia is strong, and believers’ faith has
not yet received the rude shock which befel local
confidence two years ago.
A Burwood (Sydney) man, who is at one with
Rev. Harry Bryant, of St. Paul’s-a recent
importation—upon the stinginess of congregations
in general, has just returned from America and is
about to suggest a Yankee church expedient. He
says it is a practical impossibility, in a N. Y. fane,
to refrain from “parting.” The contribution-box
used contains a small bell which rings only when
a contribution is made. The collection is taken up
during the silence ensuing on the delivery of the
sermon.
Among new dance-music published by Paling &
Co., “Leura Falls” mazurka, by A. Nolan, is
tinkly ; “ Bunyip ” schottische, by Geo. Gardner,
is evidentlj r a fancied echo of the wail of that
fabulous animal ; “ Isatis ” waltz isn’t strikingly
original; “ Tandem ” waltz has a gaudily-printed
cover, showing a clever trick bicycling feat by a
girl on a tandem, who is “ coasting ” and at the
same time turning her head and apparently kiss-
ing the man behind her. Only a Selbini could do
that without falling off.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The latest vice-regal fad is prison - reform.
Lady Brassey and a coterie of Melbourne’s Nicest
visited the female section of Pentridge Prison the
other day, when special prisoners, who are always
kept on show for visitors, were lined-up, and several
were vigorously pump-handled by her ladyship.
One gaunt female, who had ‘five more left to do,’
shook the proffered hand warmly, and observed
blandly, in response to a Sunday-school common-
place : ‘ An’ I kin sye, yer lydyship, ez ’ow we’ll
all be glad ter see yer ’ere soon agen. ’ Queer that
the Governor’s wife should shake hands with
prisoners, but after a year’s pump-handling at
Government House Her Ex. probably doesn’t care
who it is.
“A down South Governor goes his own canny
way, and business people still regretfully recall his
predecessors comparative openhandedness. In
those palmy times, a vice-regal valet who took a
cab home from town was good for half a-crown
and a glass of ale. Nowadays the Governor him-
self is only a shilling fare, and a lackey who re-
freshes a cabby with household beer does so with
his heart in his mouth.
“ In the same province, under a former regime,
the aides took a wonderfully serious view of their
duties and responsibilities, considering to how
lenient and lighthearted a young couple they
owed allegiance. The present staff kicks up to an
extent that surprises, when one remembers that
there is an elderly eagle eye ever upon it and that
family prayers and home influences go on all the
time. A parson, visiting the big House one day
to get his Ex. to open his new church, was inter-
viewed by a frivolous A.D.G. and quite grieved
by the latter’s off-hand references to his em-
ployers. ‘ Gov. won’t give you a cent! P’r’aps
the missus ’! he chirped airily, disregarding the
apostolic protestations that gubernatorial ‘presence
and patronage ’ only were asked for.
“ Guests grumble because a Southern Governor,
laying in stores to be guzzled by his loyal subjects,
evidently never forgets that his yearly salary is
less by <£3ooo than his predecessor’s, and gives his
orders accordingly. Her otherwise popular lady-
ship is blamed on the score of the fewness of the
rooms thrown open for inspection on those
days when the gates of the big house lift up
their heads to admit general company. But,
bless you ! there’s not a mayoress or M.L.A.’s
wife but knows better than to leave her keys lying
around on reception days. Haven’t they all
heard of the Sydney hostess who ran upstairs for
her fan on her ‘ at-home ’ afternoon and found her
bedroom full of women trying on her gowns ?
“ A story is current, on the Melb. cab-ranks,
that a local hansom-driver was lately commis-
sioned by an Exalted Personage to drive him to
his home in South Yarra. Cabby, taking the
nearest route, cut in one of the side gates, and
pulled up at the illustrious back door of the
exalted one, whereupon the latter hopped out and
handed up a shilling. ‘ What’s this ? ’ con-
temptuously demanded Jehu, holding out a flat
palm, with the coin shining like a bull’s-eye in the
centre. ‘ Uin-um,’ said the E.P., ‘ashilling—urn
' plenty um. And, why—um—didn’t you come
in the front gate ?’ ‘ The front gate ! ’ said the
cabby, wilfully mistaking the identity of his fare.
Why. the front gate’s shut. They do say that
old Gassey lost a thrummer last week, and they’re
a-keepm’ the gates shut till ’e finds it ’
“ Melbourne actually has a lady student of
veterinary surgery. She has put up the record in
the shed of the biggest vet. in the city, and gives
promise, too, of shaping well at the work. What
next ? Lovely woman at the abattoirs.
Westralia’s high death-rate provides a con-
venient loop-hole for anyone inclined to the
vanishing trick, as a bright Melb. society girl with
a tuneful singing-voice learned to her cost. Her
fiance left her to seek fortune for them both in the
West. Soon, word of his death came to the girl
he left behind him. She put on mourning, cried
her eyes nearly out, and gave up dancing until her
tears were dried by the news that not only was
her lamented lover still alive, but married and
thriving in business in an inland Western town.
“ The last Liedertafel concert emboldened two
novices to make their first splash. The school-
girl pianiste with hair down her back, and stout,
warm-tinted hands, wrestled conscientiously with
a sonata, and looked young and bashful enough to
have left the public in peace for a few years longer.
The debutante vocaliste, on the other hand
dowagerish in a solid black gown, had evidently
staved off her initial appearance considerably past
the orthodox moment. The Liedertafel members
and associated ladies’ choir gave a vocal version of
the doings of shepherds and water-nymphs. Not
that a single one of the singers was a scrap like
the traditional dryad with red or golden tresses
and rudimentary green raiment. The Liedertafel
mermaidens were black-polled without exception,
and warded off draughts by fagged-out opera-
wraps, originally cream-colored, with only two
crude pink wool ‘ clouds ’ to break the whitey-
grey monotony.
“ The audience, for its part, was as dowdy a
crowd as ever refused to quit the family fireside
until too late to don its finery. Now that side-
combs and suchlike are fashionable, tortoise-shell
teeth and carbon daggers predominate coiffures
rather than hair. One damsel had surmounted
her plump Madonna-like face by a smooth
cushioney top-knot. Above this towered a tall
jet comb in the shape of a cross. The whole
structure loomed so funereally that onlookers
studied it as rather a good suggestion for an effec-
tive tombstone.
. “ Melbourne has a Mrs. Makin in active opera-
te 011 - During the last six months the corpses of
10 well-nourished infants have turned up at the
morgue, all killed in the same way, and many
others have been disposed of by an excited female,
u P w &if on the knee of a total stranger
with a breathless apology, and rushes off to buy a
railway-ticket, or find her little boy, or speak to a
policeman, and immediately effaces herself for
ever, so far as the distracted person with the
strange infant is concerned. Sometimes a baby is
bestowed on the Church, or hanged in a basket
(containing also a reproach and a feeding-bottle)
?? iv? 16 door-knob of an alderman. The average
Melbournite begins to move about his premises
gingerly in the dark, for fear of treading on an
illicit infant. Although they have interviewed
every storekeeper whose sign reads, ‘ Families sup-
plied," the police are utterly unable to track the
publio benefactress to her lair ; and, meanwhile,
several young women who farmed their cherubs
out to this mysterious female, and want them back
again, are weeping distractedly at the detective-
office door.
“St. Kilda Yacht Club ball, which in way-back
times claimed to be the subscription dance of the
season, was this year a tawdry ghost of its own
self. The girls, in many instances, had laid on
the make-up with a trowel, giving them a ghastly
effect in the full glare of light, and every
other kind of ballroom decoration showed a
sad falling away from the club’s traditions.
None of the Nicest ventured into this ques-
tionable mob save the commandant and his
buxom better half, who wandered around
for an hour or so, like sheep minus a shepherd, and
then departed in a hurry when they found Govt.
House was not expected. Later in the evening a
little wild excitement was caused by the arrival of
Beauteous Mrs. Maesmore Morris in a black dress
with white bead over-bodice. Several men accom-
panied the worn and weary vision, including the
painfully elegant Ferris, who used to look so
young in ‘A Woman of No Importance.’
“The Potter boom still rages among St. Kilda
females, and fantastic coiffures, plastered with
large poppies or roses, would have spoiled the ap-
pearance of many ordinarily pretty girls, even if
they hadn’t been painted an inch thick to begin
with.
“Prof. Marshall Hall’s University Conserva-
torium of Music gave a concert at the Wilson Hall
last week. The bouquet nuisance was particularly
objectionable on this occasion. As soon as a
young lady had warbled or thumped the keys an
old party from the back of the hall would start on
a violent sprint up the centre, armed with a big
bunch of flowers, which the fair singer would
stand awkwardly smiling to receive. It adds a
flavor of romance and an air of charm to these
floral offerings to know that the old party who
carried the bouquets is the University officer who
pickles the corpses for the medical school.
Nearly every music-teacher in Melb. turned up
at the concert, and a decidedly inharmonious
commingling of biassed critics, complacent rela-
tives, and free-show supporters in general crowded
the Wilson Hall to the doors. As a display of
Conservatorium talent the concert was quite satis-
factory to —the Ormond Professor’s professional
rivals. One or two girls sang with good expres-
sion and pure tone, but the vocalising of the
majority had faults on its surface. The contralto
aspirants were wanting in good low notes, a twang
(throaty and nasal) was common to all the
singers, and their pronunciation of English words
was decidedly off. The instrumentalists shone
brightly by comparison, yet without reflecting
particular glory on the Conservatorium, seeing
that several of the best have been playing at
pupils’ concerts and amateur shows for years past,
and ranked as rising artists ere Prof. Marshall-
Hall got hold of them. His Ex., who had said
much the same thing at the ‘Howard ’ pupils’
concert, a few weeks ago, gave a short burst of
lame oratory to the effect that Prof. Marshall-Hall
is ‘ the right man in the right place,’ whilst ad-
mitting his own vice-regal ignorance of the matter
he was talking about. Lady B. faced the music
in a vivid cabbage-green cloak somewhat dazzling
to beholders.
“ A party given by the principals of a ladies’
seminary one night recently was wound up with
an impressive ceremony. A large circle was
chalked in the centre of the floor. * All who have
been with the Lord to-day enter! ’ Then the elect
kiddies gathered into the ’eavenly arc and sang a
holy hymn, while Jews and R.C’s, reddening to
the foots of their hair, stood beyond, marked with
silent ignominy, and waited till prayers were
rung I'P So wags the world of righteousness.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
-N.S.VV. Assembly carried, by 59 votes
against only four, a resolution that the states
should not be equally represented in the Federal
Senate. There wasn’t even one influential politi-
cian or one solid old political hack among the four.
Considering that equal representation in the Senate
is the one condition which Tasmania, S.A., and
Westralia absolutely insist on, this shows what a
very wide discrepancy there is in the views of the
large and small provinces.
A great crowd, attracted by a mysterious
handbill, turned up at Brunswick, Vic. (a sort of
head-centre of Irish feeling down South), on Sun-
day the 11th, expecting an Orange demonstration
and consequent devilment, but no one demon-
strated, and the people dispersed in great disgust,
anxiously inquiring for the author of the leaflet.
There is a suspicion that some tram co. share-
holder “faked ” the whole business, inspired, no
doubt, by the fact that the conductors were raking
in money with both hands all the afternoon. On
the next Sunday there was an Orange processioti
and a row.
Some of the preparations for the Melb.
Orange march possessed a certain element of
humor. Two days previously, police-chief Chom-
ley ukased that no constables would be allowed to
leave home or barracks during the day of trouble
except in uniform. (Last year, several “ cops ”in
plain clothes were rumored to have taken a hand
in the fight.) Another preparation was the re-
moval of all loose road-metal within a half-mile
radius of the “ battlefield.” However, the wet
weather spoiled any “ saypous divarshun ” which
might have taken place—was it not the French
general who remarked, “ It rains ; there will be
no revolution to-day”? The best thing of the
afternoon was the charge of Johanna M‘Mahon, a
green-bonneted female, who rushed through the
cordon of police and smote the procession hip and
thigh. When overpowered and run-in, Johanna
was not contrite, and, smiling to the crowd, said
that she had come to Brunswick on purpose to
deal with thim Orangemen,’’and she had done it.
Miss Garran, secretary of the Queen’s
Jubilee Fund for Distressed Women, writes
t ? ditor c Bulletin,— ln a paragraph in the Woman’s
Letter of your issue of sth June, re the Queen’s Jubilee
Fund for Distressed Women, the writer states that this
charity has been “ kept so very select that it gradually
dwindled and pined from amemia.” There has been ho
dwindling at all; on the contrary, the capital fund has
been increased from £16,204 to £17,603. The society’s
income does not depend on annual subscriptions, but on
the interest of an endowment fund, vested in trustees
which has been made up by contributions from all classes
° f ru th e.P eo P le m sums ranging from one shilling to £l5O
What is now desired is to increase this endowment, as the
available income, amounting to £lOOO per annum, is quite
unequal to the claims made upon it. The present request
for additional donations is, like the original request, made
to all classes, and the council hopes that rit-will he
responded to by all. Your contributor ’states that this'
charity is now called by a different name. ’ This is an
entire mistake, as it has never been known by anv other
than the Queen’s Jubilee Fund for Distressed
Women. Nor has there been any change whatever in the
lines on which the income is distributed. The original
committee framed the regulations under which the money
is spent, and the present council, on which all olasses are
regulations* a on nes down by those


Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
An Epoch of Her Majesty’s Reign.
There are many epochs of Her Majesty’s Reign
which are recalled with feelings of gratitude and
thankfulness, but perhaps no one event has
touched the homes and hearts of her people-
caused as much heartfelt praise; brought as
much comfort and joy ; saved, in fact, as many
lives—as the discovery and introduction, some
twenty-five years ago, of Warner’s “ Safe ” Cura.
Until more recently, kidney disease—mora es-
pecially Bright’s Disease—was considered incur-
able, and now we have examples of cures from
these dread diseases on every hand. The most
eminent scientists on the Continent now claim
Bright’s Disease is curable, and many admit that
they have cured it by the use of this medicine.
Dr. Fisher, Govt. Physician, Neuenberg, Ger-
many, says : “I effected a cure in a patient suf-
fering from Bright’s disease with Warner’s “Safe"
Cure after other therapeutic agencies and frequent
consultation with eminent colleagues had failed.”
In the early days of Her Majesty’ reign many ail-
ments and diseases, such as nervousness, insomnia,
dyspepsia, and so-called “ impure blood ” ailments,
puzzled practitioners, but now it is generally ad-
mitted that these ailments result from a torpid or
diseased liver, and Warner’s “ Safe” Cure, acting
as it does directly upon the liver, cures promptly
and permanently these secondary liver ailments.
Examples of its efficacy occur almost daily in onr
midst, and the reputation of this medicine has in-
creased and extended from town to town, city to
city, country to country, until to-day there is no*
a civilised country in the world where Warner’s
“ Safe ” Cure is not obtainable. Mr. W. H.
Mitchell, J.P., of Casterton, speaks strongly in
favor of this medicine in a letter dated 3/3/97. He
writes : “I deem it just to my fellow creatures
who may be victims to flatulency and indigestion,
and the many ailments resulting therefrom, to tell
them I received infinitely more benefit from a few
bottles of Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure than I did from
the numerous prescriptions prepared for me by the
medical faculty for years.”*
H. SQUIRE & 'CO.,
Photographic Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak, price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
iPIIJ
m
Itm
n\\
iiiii
cm
Ml
'•III
mm\
W
S
V;
m
ki!ll
CwSfeiciEß*
IllJi
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Windeyers will never cease.
' A Melbourne opinion: “An emu can
digest anything, and George Reid could digest the
emu.”
“SERGEANT BRUNKER,” in charge of N.S.
Wales Sunday refreshments.
H. : “ Someone writes, in these columns)
that clergy and registrars would refuse to name
infants ‘Sir’ or ‘Lord.’ In Melb. we used to
have an Englishman named Frederick Lord Clay,
well-known in business.” Also a Reef ton (M.L.)
sharebroker used to get along very well under the
name of Mr. Pedro Anderson.
The lady
M.A. who
suicided the
other day in
Dunedin, be-
cause she
could not
make a living
“by her pen,”
illust r at e s
once more the
fact that aca-
demic train-
ing is more
likely to smo-
ther than to
foster the lit-
erary faculty.
Comparative-
ly few univer-
sity graduates
can write any-
thing that
anybody out-
side a univer-
sity would
give a second
glance at.
Other things
being equal,
it is doubtless
better to be a
graduate than
not —but, in
this respect,
it somehow
seems that
other things
hardly ever
are equal,
Lawyer-
ridden N.S.
Wales ! Ac-
cording to the
Law Alman-
ac issued in
January, 145
barristers are
struggling for
a living at the
bar, nine of
whom are
Q. C. ’s, and
five LL.D.’s.
There are 475 attorneys located in Sydney ; and
371 more are scattered through the country towns
of the province. Since January, too, several
batches have been admitted to both branches of
the profession.
The Bulletin notices an increasing ten-
dency on the part of the Hebrews to give their
children Scotch front names—to wit, “ Colin Kor-
minsky,” “Roderick Aronheim.” Painting the
lily, with a vengeance.
Major-General Andrew Clarke, Agent-
General for Victoria, will be 73 on July 27. He
was aide-de-camp to Denison, Governor,
V.D.L., from 1846 to ’4B, then went to fight the
Maoris, and returned to Hobart in ’49, going
thence four years later to become Surveyor-
General and Commissioner of Crown Lands in
Victoria. He was a member of the first Vic.
Ministry, being elected to the Assembly to re-
present the working men of South Melbourne
because of his vigorous railway policy and the
liberality of his views generally. He left Mel-
bourne nearly 40 years ago, and during
the whole of that period has drawn a pen-
sion of ,£BOO a year from the province, ex-
cept when acting as Agent-General.
Zoology-Professor W. A. Haswell,
M.A., D.Se., F.L.S., of Sydney Univer-
sity, is among the 15 candidates nominated
by the council as fit and proper persons to
be elected Fellows of the Royal Society of
London, one of the highest of scientific
distinctions. From these 15, will be
elected by votes of the present Fellows.
Prof. Haswell is author of scores of pub-
lished papers on zoology and compara-
tive anatomy. Also, he is a trustee of
the Australian Museum, vice-presi-
dent of the Linnean Society of N.S.W.,
a corresponding member of the Royal
Society of Tasmania, and of the Royal
German Academy at Halle. His particular
brand of recreation is promenading the bot-
tom of the Beautiful Harbor in search of sea-
things rich and strange.
Joshua Beard, the Streaky Bay (S.A.)
murderer, was hanged at Adelaide gaol on July
10. He is waiting on the banks of the Styx for
Butler, and the two will be prospecting-mates.
Majah Neild seems to have taken a far-
back seat at this year’s big N.S. W. Orange pow-
wow. Because, owing to electioneering exigen-
cies, he publicly prayed for the Pope last year ?
Ghastly, unconscious humor of the cor-
respondent-creature ! “ Beard had recovered his
appetite, and was in splendid health at the time
of his execution.” Splendid health —for the worm!
Australasian, July 10, has an interview
with the yet-living John Bourke, who carried the
first overland mail, Melb. to Sydney, 1838. He
calls the Murray the Hume, because Hume first
saw it, and thinks it is a case of Amerigo and
Columbus.
A Jubilee Mounted Rifleman, writing to
Melb. Argus about the death of Private Sneller
on the voyage ’Ome, said : —“The deceased, who
was 24 years of age, died in full uniform.” One
may have much to be thankful for, even in a case
of accidental death. Full uniform !
The author who wanted the Melb. City
Police Magistrates to let him off, and be remem-
bered in his book, makes one think of Southey.
When he applied to a noble lord for financial help,
the lord said : “ I believe literature is able to take
care of itself.” Southey : “Yes, and of you too.’
At the Maoriland kick-up in London, the
chairman, to Premier Seddon : “We look to you,
sir, materially to increase the population of Maori-
iand ! ” A screecher, which recalls Bucking-
ham’s sotto voce comment upon an appeal to
Charles 11. as the Father of his subjects—“ Of a
good many of them ! ”
HIS TITLE TO FAME.
LITTLE BILLY WOOLLOOMOOLOO (reading of the appointment of the Duke of Portland
to the new Victorian order): “Say, Sparrer, wot’s the meanin’ of Master
of the ’Orse?”
SPARRER: “ Dunno; s’pose ’e got it on account’er bein’ the cove wot bought Carbine]!”
THREE WEEKS A WIDOW.
MRS. M‘GEE : “ Good mornin’ to ye, Widdy
Nolan. I hardly knew ye widout your
black eye.”
No practising butcher of whatever civic
dignity should allow his name to appear in print
as having witnessed a hanging. The meat-eating
public is not yet utterly devoid of imagination.
An obviously inspired Sydney D.T. para-
graph states that M.L. Agent-General W P.
Reeves has refused a K.G.M.G.-ship, although
pressed to accept by Chamberlain.
Inventive talent runs in the blood.
Tagell (of Hildyard and Tagel, Melb.), the author
of an improved patent axle, is the son of the man
who, whilst managing Hiram Maxim’s factory at
Erith, perfected the wondrous Maxim gun for the
destruction of mankind at large, and Hingland’g
heathen enemies in particular.
Ex-Premier Jennings was an excellent
Italian scholar and indulged the somewhat pecu-
liar taste of keeping himself au fait with current
Italian literature. W. B. Dailey, who whiled
away his closing years studying Italian, said it
was worth an Australian’s while to learn the
language if only to enjoy an evening with the jovial
Jennings.
“ Reefer ” to The Bulletin :
Your correspondent is mistaken in asserting- that
“ Clancy of the Overflow ” is on White Cliffs opal fields.
A brother of his—John Clancy—is at present on the field
and has been here for nearly five years ; he is the father
of the Booligal “ boys” of that ilk. It is years since Tom
Clancy, (“ Banjo’s ” original) was at “ Overflow ” Station ;
he is now gold-hunting at Mt. Morgan.
Poor Ruskin is said to be in nearly the
last stage of brain-softening. He spends most of
his time planting things in his garden, and pulling
them up again next day to see how the roots have
progressed. But that is not an unquestionable
proof of lunacy. Lots of women who “ take an
interest in gardening ” conduct their floriculture in
much the same way.
Good old attorney Cuthbert, M.L.C., pro-
bably got his knighthood because he is a generally
useful person. He has been in four Ministries—
those of Berry, the then Republican ; Service, the
Conservative merchant; Gillies, the Tory spend-
thrift ; and Turner, the semi-Demoerat and hard
economist. A man who can serve four such
masters is pretty versatile.
One of Attorney-General Want’s best ser-
vices to decency and humanity in his dealings
with the Butler business was his order that the
name of the felon’s people should not be disclosed.
Almost all the near relatives of another well-
advertised assassin, a quiet, law-abiding crowd
till newspaper murder notoriety overtook them,
have since gone to the bad.
The wages of sin is -. “ All the
articles found in Butler’s possession that the police
have not already shown to have belonged to Lee
Weller and his wife are of very little value. They
consist of about half-a-dozen shirts, a suit of
clothes, a leather bag, a couple of handkerchiefs,
and a number of other paltry articles, probably
not worth more than <£l or £2. ”
John Murray, of Patee (S.A.), is set down
as the champion clumsy suicide of the province.
First of all, he blew away his nose and part of
the roof of his mouth with a gun. Then he put
his head in some blasting powder and fired it off,
and blew away all his hair and eyebrows. Next
he pulled out to the middle of the river and stepped
overboard, but he floated ashore, and then, before
he had time to do anything more, he was arrested
by policeman Shanks and carefully run in. Evi-
dently suicide on the instalment plan is a failure.
One Sun Johnson has protested to the
N.S.W. Acting-Premier against what he calls the
“ infamous insult ” of tying one Chinese prisoner’s
pig-tail to the handcuffs of another. But the
writer has seen, in Melbourne, a good two-score of
Chinese gamblers hitched together by their tails,
and, as soon as their fines were paid, they went
away, grinning, and apparently not insulted worth
a cent. All the same, the constable was wrong.
If beauty draws us with a single hair, a large flat-
footed policeman has no business to take the
whole headful.
Dear Bulletin, —As a person under whose
patronymic several homicides have been hanged,
let me laugh at the self-important individual who,
because he happens to be called Butler, writes to
the press complaining that official reticence about
the mountain-murderer’s real name allows hi*
reputed one to “ figure in the criminal annals of
the colony.” Thanks to conspirator-Butler and
others, it’s pretty prominent therein ; and, any-
how, what’s the odds ! “ John Smith ” has
probably committed more crimes—and more good
actions —than anybody else. —A.M.
The knighting of Cuthbert, Vic. Solicitor-
General, is easily understood. Attorney-General
Isaacs refused the “ honor ” because he felt him-
self too young, or too modest, for it “at present,”
and, with his refusal, he bracketed the suggestion
that Cuthbert would be a suitable person to brand.
Result, a titled Cuthbert and an astonished com-
munity remarking, “ If he has earned a K.C.M.G.
to-day what will his senior officer, Isaacs, deserve
in a few years time ? ” Artful Ikey—it is rather
superficial artfulness, though—has established a
comparative claim to an earldom at least.
Sydney’s and Brisbane’s, and Temora’s and
Cooktown’s, and Adelaide’s and various other
places’ old friend, W. H. L. Bailey, now of
London, got very near to death, the other week,
through trying to enter a moving train. While
the little man was laid up for repairs, he took the
first opportunity, so goes the story, to write »
characteristic letter to the railway co., threaten-
ing to sue for fabulous damages, yet expressing a
desire to settle amicably. Whereupon the railway
manager sent his compliments to Bailey, and
stated that, in consideration of his sufferings, th#
co. had decided not to prosecute him with th#
utmost rigor of the law for stepping into a moving
train, unless he aggravated his offence by agaia
applying for compensation. Which settled the
matter quite amicably.
Apropos the request of Wood, M.P., that
Joshua Beard, Butler’s under-studv, should a*
least be hanged by “ a Christian man,” there is
some doubt whether the S. A. executioner has been
“ saved ” or not ; he has been taken to task by
S. A. Register for his “irreverence” in wearing
his hat during the prayer and pinioning. Judicial
THOMAS BROUGHTON: one of the early
Mayors of Sydney. Was first elected as Alderman
to the City Council in 1837—60 years ago. H[?]
now retired, at a ripe old age, from active [?]
life, but is still hale and hearty.
slaughter is so rare in Adelaide that the too®)
man-butcher may be pardoned for his ignorance of
gallows etiquette. The present scribe has seen
many hangings, and no incident of the proceed-
ings ever revolted him more than the obviously-
sheriff-promoted “ respectability” of the chief
ghoul’s broadcloth, boiled shirt, and—ugh ! —re
verently-bared head. To this very hour, he can
see cold-blooded murder writ in the face of every
smug tradesman in his Sabbath suit of black.


''v/kf Jonl-r
'R& n J
"&"T‘ t r rtr n *~v* ?£' ’
* *r*
~w a a^'
in Iftlh-^ 01 j.rf
f° h 'lk*
Sw fcw l,a a o'^'
' ,
k * /- STAr^ oUrec(
)(A-i'
lecf •
f\yiolfx€t- Unem ployed
tat~/o n
Js&acs. ~ /'fcafce ivo/-A for- ~M e_^
Se.o^f/
/ 7AS~<Z cfo 77 07/imoT~ e/Se. TTzar/CG——
w ; /_ The maximum
"'was reached in 1890 when the number of
writs issued was 6674, and of cases set
down for trial was 662. .
Since that period the FotijSbet of business has
: steadily and./ in their later
reports tjie Judges haye .drawh attention to
this remark that “ there has been .
“ a very large decrease in actual litigation]
“so far as actions are concerned ”is be]
found in the reports of the last three Qf four!
years. That the falling off is so marked
may be. gathered from the fact that
during the year ending 30th Jape, lso6j
only 1699 writs were issued, and not more
than 24% cgse# were qglLgoyn for trial.
A MISTAKE AT BRUNSWICK.
WAITING FOR THE PROCESSION.
The pblice authorities and the local resi*
dents of Brunswick were taken by surprise
yesterday afternoon when shortly after 2
o’clock there was an extraordinary influx of-
visitors to the locality,
It was ascertained
in erropeoua rumor had gone abroad that the;
srs£gemen of Brunswick were to hold thei
that day..
1 \ o \vcP oftc tV^ c
M <s&»* *«*•
<gje-’ V Tl o>°- -
•*&
3%vS*B&
*S&i* f e , Wb*V ? O tV l ° 300
<l®’,t\vO°'' e ’«\teo W cOT v,\o e J ' 'K-" 1 ®
he* ~ ft e *? e ,; a t
she , 9 t »*%eA ? O^o
C)R n. s >V 4 a* 4 •*<&*
■^S''“ w
(«
. M ‘V‘ r
**»«
‘lt W" 1 ' o' 1 ,«,■* ,
=\ *r>* i«<'*'t“'^ 9
-rJ^ e *<;>■**■ ,>
"‘^‘fjr r :,
I rd
1 A e /
JtffTTa. l/em e f will' have » regula- \
tion made under the provisions of the fcx- 1
ported Products Bill, which he expects to j
become law shortly, requiring the in spec- j
tion of any animal on being killed if the ,
meat is to be shipped to that country, so
that a certificate can be given that the liver j
and heart were examined by a qualified offi-
cer, and the animal found to be healthy, I
The Minister thinks that if this were done
the frozen carcases would probably te ad-1
mitt-ed into Franoe, notwithstanding the
absence of the piiipk,/
' W or< .^(ro^^
ti ' f tj__
P'VU*^
/ ' e «ctn-<* 7A*_
/»«*
“*?* Wa! «~;/ e 0j
_,?■”' ,^-
* Aw***.. ••
T&E POPE'S LATIN POEM ON
FRUGALITY.
•■»«. • - •»—:
Haling base gluttony will} anxious air.
lie thus laid down the laws of Frugal Fare:
Neatness comes first! Be thy spare table bright
With shining dishes and with napkins white, ,
Be thy Chianti unadulterate,
To cheer the heart, and raise the spirit s weight.
Yet trust not-much the rosy god—in fine,
Be sure that you put water to your wine,
picked be thy grain, and pure thy. home made
bread, . *
Thy meats be delicate and dairy fed;
Tender, not highly spiced, thy food; nor tease
Thy taste with sauces from Aegean seas.
■Fresh be thine eggs, hard boiled or nearly raw,
Or deftly poached, or simply served au plat,
“There’s wit in poaching eggs,” the proverb £3y».-
And you may do them in a hundred ways.
Nor shun the bowl of foaming milk that feeds
The infant, and may serve the senior’s needs* «
Next on the board be heaven’s gift, honey,, placcgi
And, sparing, of llyblasan nectar taste;
Pulses and salads on thy guests bestow—
Even in suburban gardens salads grow—
And chosen fruits, whate’er the times afford;
Let rose-red apples crown the rustic board.
Last comes the beverage of the Orient shore.
MoCca, far off, the fragrant berries bore.
Taste tlio dark Huid, with a dainty lip.
Digestion waits on pleasure as you sip.
On e of the deputation then complained,
■of the insufficiency of the food supplied to i
men who went to the Leongatha labour
colony. They only got porridge, drv bread. '
and tea for breakfast, and were supposed'
to do a good morning's work on such a meal*
as that.
MOSTLY MELBOURNIAN.


Butler, it seems, left a message througlT his
chaplain, the Rev. George bane, for Sunday-
school children. /
The message was as follows; —"‘The next tlnao
| you sec your Sunday-school children, Mr. Lane,
* tell them from me that I, too, was once a Sun-
day-school scholar in a little English village,
and drink has brought me to this.”
[Vo/ Ccwrv cituj little- hoij tVli
tt]e- iVlmt' moral Wt mat)
clrcuV from- this 1 /
-Smallest boy in iTu? Class-/
. tt/e-S, I can 1 ' y
Parley " h/'ftat moral I
|t|y little man L
Smallest hoy - h/hy 1 1° dm
ChucK, £u.nclay Stkool
iT is e,/ulcLstincfhj faolatkl
St. Peter, pray bar not the way,
My title’s clear—l’m free from
sin.
From Sydney straight to Heaven’s gate
They passed me on. You pass me in.
’Tis true I slew a man or two,
But, then, I brightened up the Press ;
Each day, to feed the public greed,
Was served the rare sensation mess.
From Satan’s snare they took great care
To see that I was sanctified :
With humor droll they saved my soul,
And hanged me ere I could backslide.
What’s that you say ? My claim sO.K. !
Ah, thanks, old chap; I thought I’d win.
It seems I’ve struck a streak of luck,
I’m very glad they roped me in.
ZEF
F r -
'"CUT
nj j L ~ 1/
bvwej-
. Quci-jWrmj firuuK^SutH
fliaP fje-»5 noi" ac&puatable to
tlje, or flje- public Mat to a
■ ■ f Jack laJclnX t^uJitJ
. Zoj c> / c./S: 2 ttjiu. >' /o S / _ £7/~ J~ <j o i-j 'll d.
CARTOONISTS.


Granuma for Health,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Horn ah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long Life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try 'Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON'S WHISKY.
WAHOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
Bdacktown, 27th May, 1897.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—For fifteen years I endured the miseries
of Indigestion and Liver Complaint. I suffered con-
stantly from sick headache, and always felt tired out
and unfit for work. 1 tried numerous remedies, but
could get no relief. The wonderful cures claimed for
LOASBY’S “ WAHOO ” induced me to give it a trial,
with the result that lam completely cured. Many of
my friends are now taking “ WAHOO,” and speak as
highly of it as I do.—Yours truly,
CHARLES HONES.
Price 2/6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Pos't Free from
WAHOO!
Loasby’s “Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
1
(FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
IFOOT-ROT “CURE”
For further Particulars Prices, &c.„ apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD.
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents —
STANLEY GRIFFITHS, Hunter Street, Sydney; GORDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney; JAMES M'EWAN &. CO Ltd Melbourne- DENNYS T asn? r ruq 4T t™tv l
Geelong; P. LEAR MONTH & CO., Hamilton; A. HARRAP & SON, Launceston, Tasmania; ROBERTS & CO Ltd Hobart Ttsm^ia-^o’^Tnn*^i S J CEL ™^ A ? STIN & 00
Kingston, S.A.; QUEENSLAND MERCANTILE CO. Ltd., Brisbane; ’ BLACKBURNS & Co’., Chnstilulh, N.Z. iyLWSrBOW^ , *^ t KJwSI ' Adelaido: JOHN GRICB *CO
4 4
POLITICAL
POINTS
The S.A. Assembly is quite beyond Treas.
Holder’s control when party feeling gets excited,
and he will be very glad to see big brother King-
ston back again.
Judging from the messes into which his
colleagues have been drifting, Reid was wise in
his endeavor to keep N.S.W. Parliament closed
during his own absence abroad.
“You can’t beat Right,” exclaimed a
pious N.S.W. Minister lately when threatened
with a vote of censure. “We and Right stand
together ! We and God ! ” he hoarsely bawled.
Which beats “ Me and Parkes ! ”
The true philosophy of the Sunday-closing
question is simply that the existing law should be
rigidly enforced until the community is goaded
into smashing it. It is only the spasmodic and
half-hearted administration of such enactments
that keeps them on the statute-book. When the
shoe pinches hard enough it must come off !
THE GOOD DIE YOUNG.
MR. CASEY TURNUP: “Pwhat the divil is all this fuss about the
Quane’s Jewbillay?”
MR. KEW KUMBER : “It manes that the Quane’s rayned sixty years."
MR. C. T. : “ Begor, there’s nothin’ in that, at all, at all. Why,
shure, wouldn’t the other Quanes have rayned that long if
they’d stayed alive? ”
The Vic. police force and public service
generally is said—on very good authority—to be
“honeycombed with Orangeism.” If it be true
that men are pressed into the accursed faction by
motives of self-interest, the Orange tree needs a
Government axe at its roots. Who are the roots ?
It is estimated that the average income of
every person in N.S.W. is a little below £5O a
year. Therefore when the State borrows and
spends £1,500,000 per annum, which is rather
below the average, it means that 30,000 people in
N.S.W. (or one inhabitant out of every 40) live by
State borrowings.
That benign but tottering person, Acting-
Premier and cow-dealer Brunker, of N.S.W., now
says that the police won’t prosecute all Sunday-
traders, but only “ fhe most flagrant cases.” The
law, which Brunker approves of and doesn’t pro-
pose to repeal, says that Sunday-trading is illegal,
and Sunday-traders, flagrant or otherwise, should be
prosecuted, and Brunker thus announces that he is
going to look on in a state of mild approval while
the law is set at defiance by the very people who
are paid to enforce it. The reason for Brunker’s
existence grows more problematical every day.
Victoria finds that, out of 160,000 children
dependent on the State schools for education,
something like 60,000 hardly attend at all and are
getting no education worth mentioning.
The recurrence of St. Boyne’s Day re-
minds The Bulletin that the foremost supporters
of Orange ascendancy nowadays are the successors
of the Nonconformist parsons who suffered most
from Orange ascendancy in the past.
Similia similibus curantur. The (paid)
N.S.W. Public Works Committee is appointed to
check log-rolling and corruption. But where is
there more log-rolling than in connection with the
election of that very committee itkelf ?
Under the terms of Caldwell’s Bill in
S.A. Parliament for the election of all J’sP. by
the municipal ratepayers, the maximum number
of honorary justices is fixed at 1 per cent, of the
population instead of about i per cent, as at
present, which is surely quite enough.
The N.S.W. Ministry, The Bulletin pre-
dicts, won’t resume Hyde Park, Sydney, or any
part of it, for a railway-station. The public feel-
ing against the move is too strong ; besides, the
Labor-party opposes the thing—and that settles
the matter so far as Premier Reid is concerned.
By formal enactment to recognise God
Is the mint-tithing, lip-serving Pharisee’s plan.
Humbler teachings enjoin Duty’s path to be trod
In the hope that God’s goodness may recognise man.
The twopenny postage-rate is to continue
in Victoria for at least another year. To revert
to the penny city rate, which was abandoned after
the bcom exploded, would mean a sacrifice of
£40,000, and until things improve a lot more Isaacs
wisely says that he is going to hold on to every
penny with both hand«.
S.M. Herald : “If the
(N.S. W.) revenue is £96,000
deficient it is so much in the
pockets of the people.” This
is about Reid’s deficiency.
Wh enDibbs had a de ticiency,
the logic was that if the ex-
penditure was £96,000 be-
yond the revenue it was so
much that had to come out
of the pockets of the people
later on. So much depends
on the way you put it.
Caldwell, M.P., is
moving in S.A. Assembly
for the election of Justices
of the Peace. Even that
would be better than the
present system of obtaining
the position by Parliamen-
tary influence. The pre-
sent scribe once saw a letter
in which the writer anathe-
matised a M.P. for not
having had him appointed,
and threatened to expose
certain illicit practices by
which the M.P. was elec-
ted, in which practices, the
writer was apparently the
prominent figure. He was,
however, duly J.P.’d and
still adorns the Bench.
That good old Radical,
Longmore, pegs away with
his scheme for making the
great Victorian landlords
cut up and sell their estates.
But the plan of merely or
dering them by Act of Parlia-
ment to cut up and sell is
not very hopeful. A gradu-
ated tax, under which land
that, in 500-aere holdings,
is worth £3 an acre, is only
worth £2 or 30s. in 50,000-
acre holdings by reason of
the extra liability upon it,
is the most effectual remedy.
When cutting up big estates
is the only way to escape a
heavy tax, they would rush
into the market of their own
accord.
It is now pretty plain
that, but for certain tests
which limit the selection of
the Cabinet law-officer,
“ Jack ” Want’s official shoes would be filled by
a saint prominent in Little Bethel and Orange
Lodge circles.
“Boss” Ewi-ng, of N.S.W. Public Works
Committee, displayed questionable taste in writing
to the press to defend the by no means unanimous
decision of that body re the proposed metropolitan
railway centre. Why this ultra-judicial zeal ?
Parson Dill-Macky, at Sydney 12fch July
screech :
I would ask you to rise in all your strength as a body,
and strike for the vindication of your God !
The humor of it! The “ vindication ”of the Om-
nipotent by the Yellow Pup !
A communication reached Sydney one day
lately breaking the news gently that the N.S.W.
Freetrade congratulations to President Cleveland
a few years ago, and the Protectionist congratula-
tions to President M‘Kinley later, were treated
as waste paper by the officers of the U.S., on
the principle that that country repudiates in its
elective or administrative affairs the interference
by praise or blame of foreign Governments or
foreign organised political parties.
“Nick” Willis, M.P., is threatening to
oust Lyne from the N.S W. Opposition leader-
ship in favor of “Jarge” Dibbs, now recruiting
his health in a trip to the Islands. Those in the
know, however, say it’s only a case of “Tom
doing splendidly ” again. They aver that
“ Jaige’s ” name is being trotted out at the present
juncture in the hope that when Reid returns he’ll
be only too glad to rid himself of a rival by pack-
ing him off to London, vice Saul Samuel, retired.
IN PALLIATION.
“ Sir, you are misinformed. lam NOT 'chucking
you ’ for any gray-haired old man of sixty.
He is quite bald, and seventy-five if he is
a day!”
King O’Malley, M P., fathers a measure
in S.A. Assembly for the legitimation of children
born out of wedlock. The ’Murkan Lightnin’
Streak says “the child born illegitimate has to
carry a ten-stone handicap when it keern’t win
with a postage-stamp.” S.A. politics have been
dreary of late, and this latest move of the
O’Malley’s will be a godsend to the press.
The chairman of Brisbane Chamber
of Commerce: “Colonial politics consisted
mainly in borrowing money from England and
then spending it wastefully on dubious rail-
ways and bridges. ”
A South Brisbane (Q.) man was fined,
the other day, for neglecting to supply
proper and necessary treatment for a suffer-
ing horse. The man pleaded that he himself
was suffering from want of employment.
Question : Who ought to be fined for neglect-
ing to supply proper and necessary treatment
to the suffering man ? Don’t all speak at
once, political economists.
The bill of Daniel O’Connor, M.L.C.,
providing for the admission to the legal
trades-union of anyone who had served 10
years in a solicitor’s office and could pass the
needful examination, was thrown out by
N.S.W. Leg. Council so conelusi vely that
Daniel himself was the only man who gave a
vote in its favor. Or rather, Daniel wanted
to give a vote and couldn’t, because no one
would act as teller and count the solitary Dan.
How enthusiastically the Leg. Council curses
the trades-union of bricklayers and demands
free labor in tailoring and bootmaking ! And
how enthusiastically it curses the man who
even suggests comparatively free labor in legal
matters or wants to lay a finger on the
sacred trades-union of law sharks !
The Tasmanian Government announces
that its policy includes the centralisation of
the police force—a much-needed reform; the
encouragement of local manufactures, and the
establishment of a State Land Bank—which
latter is now an essential feature in every-
body’s policy. Also, it promises the reduction
of the police rate, the abolition of the tax on
landowners’ improvements, and the reduction
of the income-tax by 25 per cent. Tasmania
has had two surpluses—it made up the last
one by getting through <£113,000 of borrowed
money in one year, of which sum .£llO,OOO
was for works which yield no return and
which should have been charged to ordinary
revenue. And it has still an accumulated
shortage equal to a whole year’s revenue-
which is the same thing as if N.S.W. had
an accumulated shortage of 9| millions. This
makes the present a really beautiful time to
sacrifice revenue for the benefit of the local
land-owner.
The working man is a hard taskmaster.
One labor man returned to an Australian Parlia-
ment was unpopular at the following general elec-
tion, because he was a toff and a dandy ; another
was objected to because, instead of “ keepingup his
position,” he moved about among his old mates
and used “ langwidge ” ; a third got in by com-
promising—he never bathed and liberally greased
his hair.
Bennett, M.P., Vic., an alleged Democrat,
has been “ moving Government ” to appoint the
Mayors of all municipalities J’sP. “in com-
memoration of the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee.”
J.P. is the municipal C.M.G.-ship. It is a pity
that the suburban ham-fat man and the paunchy
soap-boiler cannot have their lust for an earmark
satisfied without adding to the bourgeois block-
heads who swarm in the courts of Justice.
Re running a coach and
horses through acts of Parlia-
ment. At a recent school-com-
mittee election at a country
district outside Nelson, M.L.,
a fracas occurred owing to
rivalry between different
teacher factions. The minority
took possession of the building
(with the help of pick-handles
and other aids to argument).
Result: ©lection declared void
—fresh election. Pinal act:
arrival of minority with nearly
a score of miners’ rights taken
out by young girls, andreturn
of their candidates by a good
majority. The Act reads :
Any person over the age of 14
years in a declared eoldfleld dis-
trict, holding a miner’s right, is en-
titled to vote at a school-committee
election.
Is N.S.W. Colonial Secretary Brunker
acting-Premier or acting-Deity, or only acting the
Goat ? To the batch of pietists who came
to pat him on the back over the “ good work ” of
robbing the Sunday urchin of his pen’orth o’
bananas, he said :
I take an independent course, regardless of any expres-
sion of opinion from the press.
He claims to be accountable to neither press nor
public, but to “ a higher Power,” forgetting that
his £2OOO a-year is paid, not by “ a higher
Power,” but by the public. And the publio,
which pays the piper, has the usual privilege of
calling the tune, and does not hanker after too
much hymn in business hours. Perhaps, how-
ever, “ higher Power ” means the Labor-party.
The second Federal Convention is to meet
on September 2at Sydney. There are now about
24 working days left for the various Parliaments
to get through the Federation Bill. N.S.W.
Assembly has been at it for over two months, and
is still bogged among the earliest clauses, and is
making no progress worth mentioning, while the
Council is still further behind. The Victorian
Assembly is only in the preliminary stages of the
business, and is further behind than the N.S.W.
one. Moreover, as the Vic. Parliament dissolves
at the end of August, it is also necessary to get
the financial statement, the estimates, Appropria-
tion Bill, and other matters of the kind into the
brief period available. S.A. Parliament is also
just starting, and the Tasmanian Assembly is
only thinking of doing so. Queensland has solved
the difficulty by dropping Federation entirely.
Altogether it is a picturesque situation.
SURE TO BE IN.
LADY : “Is your mistress at home?”
BRIDGET : “ Yes, mum; she’ll be in all the evening ,
it’s my night out!”


I^l
CLEVELANDS
Records. Records. Records.
CLEVELAND
m
THE CLEVELAND
AGAIN PROVES ITS SUPREMACY.
ME. J. P. HAYES and his CLEVELAND ROADSTER, fitted with the renowned and reliable CLEVELAND
fYRES, succeeded in lowering the TEN MILES HOAD RECORD to 27min. 38!4sec., also the TWENTY
MILES RECORD to 57min. 18J/6sec., over an out and home course. The THREE-MILES HANDICAP held at
Parramatta on the same date was won by MR. WAYNE mounted on A CLEVELAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
M
CLEVELAND
m
MEulmjeua
HONE.ST'VAL.UE &
TJHiUivXiti*
Tbe Sydney Cyck Co., Ltd
RIDING SCHOOL AND SHOWROOMS-
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone 388.
CYCLES FOR HIRE. REPAIRS AND SUNDRIES.
CLEVELANDS
rAI
Public Notice.
New south wales mont de piete
D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited,
74 Castlereagli-street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General MEETING of the Shareholders in
the above Company will be held on FRIDAY,
30th instant, upon the Company’s premises, at
11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
Business :
To receive the directors’ report and balance-
sheet ; to elect two directors in the room of
Henry B. Cotton, Esq., and Dr. Edward
Chisholm, whose term of office expires by
effluxion of time (both these gentlemen are
eligible for re-election, and offer themselves
accordingly); to elect two auditors in the place
of Messrs. J. B. C. Miles and J. H. Davies,
whose term of office expires by effluxion of
time (they again offer themselves for re-
election).
And to transact any other business that may be
brought before the meeting in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated 15th July, 1897.
New south wales mont de piete
D. AND 1. COMPANY, Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 30th instant in-
clusive.
By order
Dated 15th July, 1897.
’LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
J^EW
ZEALAND INSURANCE
COMPANY. '
Shareholders in the above Company are hereby
notified that a Dividend at the rate of 12J per
cent, per annum, for the half-year ending 31st
May, 1897, is now payable at the Company’s
Offices, 81 Pitt-street, Sydney.
S. HAGUE SMITH,
Manager.
Public Notices.
£100,000,000
UNCLAIMED.
A Register, containing names of 20,000 persons adver-
tised for to claim property and money since 1700.
Price, Is. 6d. Every man and woman in the world should
buy this book, as instructions are given how to recover
property from Chancery. A fortune may await you.
DOUGAL and Co., 62 Strand, London, England. Estab-
lished 1844. Property and money recovered from Chan-
cery on commission. Wills and Certificates suppied.
GENUINE TESTIMONIALS.
“ Orroroo, Adelaide. —I hereby acknowledge receipt of
cheque, my share in estate, with thanks. I also thank
you for prompt manner you have conducted the business.
—AMY NUTT.”
“ Port Darwin Camp, South Australia. —I purchased
your ‘ Register,’ and found my uncle’s name as having
funds in Chancery. I thereupon instructed you to in-
vestigate the matter, the result of which was I recovered
my share, and advise all to procure your ‘ Register,’ and
have their claims properly investigated by Dougal and
Co., London.—A. WARLAND.”
“ Queen-street, Auckland.—The ‘ Register’ compiled by
you is of very great value. In my own case my mother
was entitled to money lying unclaimed for 50 years in
Chancery. Seeing your book, I noticed my mother’s
name, and was successful in obtaining what should have
been paid more than half a century ago. It is to be re-
gretted your book is not more generally known. —Yours
Faithfully, E. T. DUFAUR, solicitor.”
“ Bordertown, Adelaide.—l beg to acknowledge cheque
for my portion of money, bequeathed to my mother, with
thanks.—LUKE FARROW.”
“ Summer Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.—I acknowledge bank
draft money due under will, and many years in Chancery
unknown to me. I thank you for obtaining money from
court. —LOUISA BAXTER.”
“ Echunga Gold-fields, S.A. —I tender mysincere thanks
for draft on Union Bank. If it had not been for your
next-of-kin book I should never have heard of this money.
You are at liberty to publish this fact, and, in so doing,
will confer a great favor on many colonists like myself.—
EDWARD LOVELAND.”
“ Paterson, N. J.—l have just received my share of
estate recovered by your agency, for which I thank you.
I should never have heard of it had I not seen your book.
—MARY B. HARRISON.”
DOUGAL’S UNCLAIMED MONEY REGISTER.
Price,' Is. 6d., by post 6d. extra ; can be obtained from
GORDON & GOTCH, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE;
George Robertson and Co., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
and Queensland ; W. C. Rigby, Adelaide ; Whitcomb and
Tombs, Christchurch, N.Z. ; or mailed from Dougal and
Co., 62 Strand, London, England.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
i
Wc'fa
* *
■ ' i
.
■ ; . .•*.. ■ " /
t t- ■M:
■ \
Mm
• I
r m ihm
i» «
/ ' U- >,
M: ; m
■M" >• 7-
?«#V ' ' ''* •"s , ''■''-*z?*r' '■■*
n||pB»(y :
r/
a ss
f x „
■
St. Cfldilllkw.
6
a IS
m mr
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
. . SYDNEY aijd BRISBANE . .
Sensational Riding!
32 ffliles 448 yards
BIDDEN BY
J. W. STOCKS
ON
OUJJLQP TYRES
IN
ONE HOUR!
p
Help you on in the world
Quicker than anything.
First in 1838. Foremost ever Since.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYKE CO., LTD.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH and NEW ZEALAND.
Colonel Olcott, the Pope of Theosophy, is
. 65-year-old, round man with a patriarchal
white beard, a blue eye, and a Yankee business
address and drawl. His Sthula (Theosophic for
fighting weight) is 13st. Doubtless this Sthula
superiority, combined with a copious Kama, con-
stant Prana, and systematic Linga Surira enable the
Manas of Olcott to nurture his Buddhi, to keep in
touch with Atma, and to avoid Wesleyanism.
Colonel O. (he is just that letter) was not theoso-
phised until ’72. When going, in the news-
paper interest, to a certain ’Murkan farm
to investigate an alleged apparition, he was
COLONEL OLCOTT , the Pope of Theosophy.
Photo., A. W. A. [?] Colombo.
confronted by a tremendously real and over-
whelmingly convincing phenomenon in the
loveable and aggregate avoirdupois of Madame
Blavatsky. Their eyes met ! the eyes of the
fattest Pope and the fattest priestess ; henceforth
their Sthula, Linga Surira, Kama, and Prana
would work harmoniously together in the interests
of their Atma, Manas, and Buddhi. Or, in other
words, Olcott was (Platonically) a gone coon. In
’79 the two fat ones sat together on their trunks
and fastened them down, and, with the aid of a
derrick, embarked together for the sunny isle 1
of Ceylon. After some years of Theosophy,
the Colonel lost his Blavvy, that is, her Sthula,
by natural causes, but the round old boy has kept
pegging at it ever since; grinding out the
Theosophio journal from the head mill
at Madras, and mashing the world so con-
stantly that to-day Theosophic centres number 400.
“Women” says the Colonel, “ask me questions
on every conceivable subject.” How nice ! And
the Colonel does like it when he lays down the
law to the gentle creatures, lording it over them
the while as a shaggy bull terrier would lord it
over half a dozen mice. Following the Colonel’s
generalisation of questions, here is The Bulletin’s
notion of what the answers might be :
“ Yours is an undeveloped spiritual sight;
Swedenborg’s undeveloped spiritual sight caused
him to see St. Paul in frock coat and top hat.”
“ A little gruel with whisky on retiring.”
“Follow your own intuitions.”
“ Bullock’s liver cut up fine will assist chickens
wonderfully.”
“ Analyse everything by common sense; do not
bow down to Christ, Paul, Mahomet, or any other
man.”
“ This is not my ‘ baby ’ day.”
“ Frills are Foolishness.”
“ There is no religion higher than truth.”
“ Lace looks lovely.”
“You are a part of Atma.”
“ Silk stockings are more beautiful than babies’
bibs, and simple faith than Royal blood.”
“ I am out to ‘indigestion’ and ‘tea’questions.”
“ You are immortal.”
“ Hot brine for chilblains.”
Theosophy, to The Bulletin’s mind, is an occult
religion obviously founded on beef, bread, beer
and Blavatsky, and from the social science stand-
point, it is valuable only as exemplifying the trite
fact that that incomprehensible ass, a human
being, can “ kid ” himself and his fellows into be-
lieving anything about anything.
Lormer, the godly Melbourne be ak and
boss teetotaller, still adjudicates in licensing cases,
despite the dictum of his own board that he
suffered from “unconscious bias.” With due
respect for this decision, the average defendant
always tries to keep his case over till the after-
noon, hoping that the cold-waterman will by that
time have departed. But barrister Eagleson,
defending the Cafe Denat against the hideous
charge of supplying cafe royal to its customers,
hit upon a far more effectual method—he coolly
subpoenaed Lormer to appear as a witness for the
defence ! The wail of a strong teetotaller in his
agony, as Lormer unavailingly pleaded his total
ignorance of the whole affair, was the most
pathetic thing heard in the court for years.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lead.
FI'ICTIIEIt RI.IUCEU KATES.
PAWNBROKING' DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
Oni.y Address :
74 CASTLKRRAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next. St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
Gd. per month for every <£l to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£l.o
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£looand over—Special Low Kates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,X00,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,050,211 ss.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J. P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: VVm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
Dondon Ojfice: 1 Jtishops'/ote Street Within
(corner of Learienhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John B r. mlomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford wit i agency at Wyonir', New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : G 4 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Z u aland Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Queensland Rational Bank,
LI MITE I).
(Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Directors:
.las. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. 8. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Otfice : S Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden & Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at 6% per
annum by
!i<s Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
Melt* ourxie.
( able Address— Uiemseil.
('ode— MOUEINO & i\ EATj, eto.
Telephone No. 695.
Hox No. 337, G.P.O.
Clarke & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHARE BROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Slocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
XL:> . - is noted for its Prompt
I I) I S VOrQpaijy and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital .£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
|TEAT) OFFICES : 70 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
si., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
f
<arin?€ & Srr>itb»
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.)>
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10 6
Best English Hair Tails from 5/6
to 75/-
Wigs.'Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
Banking, JPubllc Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith, Es C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department — Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Limited.
Incorporated under the •• Companies’ Act 1890."
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,700,426 15 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 805,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 49,573 4 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. _ 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grioe, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; ArthurS. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Bums, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager; J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Stdnev), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George TurnbuH. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: 11. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office- Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. *400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
GILFILLAN &, MCCREERY,
Assayers,
MeibourmOreTesting fa Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
.Bank of New South Wales •
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
1,949,500 0 0
1,191,934 0 0
1,949,500 0 0
Total
6,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackbllar, M.L.O.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The 'tank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in publio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other hanks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd
XXES-A.13 OFFICE!
INTERSECTION
HUNTER,BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
oo e © © o
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
•©9 0 O O
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Australian Novelty Introducing Co.,
13 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Importers Latest American Novelties.
Sole Agents Monarch Card, Pistol and 3 Arrow Slot
Machines, Jewellery., 14-oarat Solid Gold-filled WAL-
THAM WATCHES, £8 165., guaranteed 16 years.
Only Pepflt for the CINEMATOGRAPH BOORS :
Widow’s Kiss, Dancing Girl, butler Execution, and Aus-
tralian Buck-Jumper. Wholesale and Retail.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRN A M BOOL
Peregrine, Sat., July 24, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, July 27, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 31, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE i
PORT AUGUSTA V
PORT PIRIE
| Peregrine, Saturday, July 24, 2 p.m.
I Galio, Tuesday, July 27, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALUTON
Gabo, Tuesday, July 27, 6 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
KOGKHAMPTON
Tyiian, Saturday, July 24, 2 p.m.
Bimvah, Tuesday, July 27, 5 p.m.
BUNDARERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Tyrian, °aturday, July 24, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tues., July 27, 12 noon.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 31, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
lOWEST CIIBKKNT FARES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, August 7.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney) Tues-
day, August 10.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innamincka (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, Aug. 7.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, August 10.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Rob Roy (from Adelaide) Thurs-
day, July 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Tuesday, July 27
Rest & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YIJILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Eoyal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Th r oagh at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROU'I'E).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street: Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, .£25 to .£7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pftt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Shipping,
ip. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
♦Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Pares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MIOHXE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U- S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents: -
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W, MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—*
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare I London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-strefct, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS & CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. ■
Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL GERMAN
MAIL STEAMERS according to the requirements of the
Merchants Shipping Act of 1894.
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, BREMEM, via ALBANY,
COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and
Genoa. Steamers from GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTH-
AMPTON, DIRECT TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Steamers call at
Albany. Special facilities are afforded for bringing out re-
latives and friends from Europe by prepayment of passage-
money. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
David graham § go.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
Winter SOitiQgs
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
.PATENT,
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAIi
MELODEONS
Have Orsran and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn i 'salin,
the soul-stirring Hjh.n, the cheer-
I'iU Song, and the Merry Dance can all be played on these
charming Instruments. No KNOWLEDGE OF MUKIchEQ DIKED.
A Useful and Pre ty Present.' Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of the
" Sydney Bulletin.
Campbe’l’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 10'8
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22 6
Cut out tills and send P. 0.0. 'or the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lnvjers of music should nt once send for our New Illus-
trated Privile e Price List for Musical Season iasi7, now ready
150,000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send t»
CAMPBELL & Co., Musical Instrument Makers,
116, Ti ongjate, GLASOow. Eat. 60 Years. Agents Wanted.


Charters Towers (N.Q.) P.M. says that
0 Inebriates Act has not yet become law. Wrong.
It is law, but it is not being administered. The
Diamaiitina Orphanage, now being slowly vacated,
is supposed fictionally to be an Inebriates’ Asylum
and a Home for Epileptics combined.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
veil tors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eve-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection-
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
Brisbane Y.M.C.A. has practically ad-
mitted the utter hopelessness of endeavoring to
Christianise the local youth by any of the recog-
nised methods, and, being in a hopeless financial
slough, has decided to sell its hymn-books and other
little things, and spread the proceeds over as
much of its liabilities as they will cover. There-
after, it will lead a new life wherein going slow
will be a prominent feature, and from which en-
thusiastic orgies on ginger-pop will be rigorously
excluded.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centi®
of the block in Bourke-stree* to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb a distance of 060 ft.,
and contains the following 1". departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ;6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11 a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13 a Smiling Gallery i 4, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
The smallest prosecutor on record turned
up recently in Melbourne. He was aged s£, and
his head just appeared over the solicitor’s table,
nevertheless he conducted his own case against a
man who snatched sd. from him in the street, and
got the marauder a month in gaol. The belligerent
mite, after being robbed, had gone in pursuit, and
finally ran down his prey in the Salvation Army
dining-room, where he identified him and gave
him in custody. Plainly the Australian small
boy isn’t a person to be plundered with impunity.
In New Guinea the rubber industry is be-
coming a b'g thing for the foreseeing, who are
planting and growing, and “ milking ” by stripping
the leaves, instead of wastefully and ruinously
“milking” the trunk. Sponge-growing and
sponge-gathering already prove remunerative to
a very keen-eyed man in the Conflict Group.
Also, Melbourne regularly ships abroad loads of
arsenic, which comes back again as “ best
European.” Vic. grape-brandy steadily comes
back as the best product of the “Cognac ” country.
With Maoriland sitting, as it were, on its door-
step, Australian sulphur is “ best Sicilian.” Quan-
tities of treated shark’s liver regularly go London-
wards, and return as authentic “ cod-liver oil.”
Boiled-down penguin-juice miraculously becomes
whale-oil.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
1
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
6/ e inch and 3/4 inch Blades,
Round and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
Thl* Razor is True to Name —RINGS like a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents; HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydney
1207
124
372
120 S
403
126
at
125
127
A
234
078
iSSSSS®
56
%
B 2
~ . - v ••
A. N.W.
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest & Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
AUSTBALIAN
NEEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY HE HAD WHOLESALE EROM
MEW ZEALAND-
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington,
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davie 9 & Lainb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Ell zabeth-s tree t»
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyons’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
T ATT ERSALL'S HOTEL.
Minders-at., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends ana
i- Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER
BALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position—
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
OTIC®
MELBOURNE
TO
VISITORS.
L WIMPOLE’S GEORGeT HOT EL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIri
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
opposite S.P.O-
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION,
THE <SRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE 0.P.0.,
D E ST &«. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
Tales of the convict system*
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate on White Metal,
cut glass, 15/6.
Flowered Earthernware, 20/-
4 o’c. Tea Spoons and Sugar Tongs, 12/6.
Pure Silver on White Metal.
Other patterns, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-
222
Sugar Scuttle and Spoon.
Pure Silver on Britannia Metal,
16/6.
Other styles, 20/-, 25/-
Butter Knife.
Pure Silver on White
Metal,
2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 6/-
/ J
□
ILIU
n
□□
urn
UIJ
L
LI
□□d
m
V
Wn
On
Pure Silver on Hard White Metal.
Dinner Cruet 6-bottle, 32/6 ; 4-bottle, 21/-
Other styles, 38/6, 45/-, 50/-, 70/
m
-
Entr(i Dishes (pair)— that is, 4 dishes—pure Silver
on Hard White Nickel Silver, 57/6. Exceptionally
cheap line.
Egg Cruet, Pure Silver on Hard White
Metal, 32/C; Chased, 35/-
Splendid Value.
Bread Forks.
Pure Silver on
White Metal and
Pearl, 10/6. Other
style, 5/-, 7/6.
'M
Biscuit (Pure Silver on Hard
White Metal), 10/6. Colored
Floral Dalton Ware, 15/-, 20/-
Salad Bowl and Servers (Pure Silver on
White Metal), 32/6, 35/-, 40/-
Oak, with Servers, 18/6.
oil \\ h-itf Britannia Meta : , «£?» ss. ; other styles, £2 10s., 10s., 10s.
Handsome TEA and COFFEE SET (Pure Silver
All the above Silver-plate we guarantee first quality English make, at half charged by other Jewellers or Ironmongers. Call and see
our display Mind—
A. SAUNDERS, Jeweller & SilVerSnjitl),
815 George-street (opposite U ail way Station), SYDNEY (OX^fXiY).


Packets
Of
CARS
fM
POauV*
PURE
nufdcitjred by
Payerne
Is.
FOE the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ TIIE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell>s’ King-street Coffee I'alace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ■ - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
NOW READY.
J. J. MILLER’S . . .
ANNUAL SPORTING PAMPHLET . .
Contains Entries, Weights, Performances of all Horses
engaged in Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, and principal
w.f.a. races of the season. Winners of past principal
Australian races; complete tables of bests on record in
all branches of sport, including Cycling. Price, ONE
SHlLLlNG—posted, Id. extra. Printed by J. J. Miller.
Wholesale Agents : Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth.
BARGAINS IN GOOD READING.
BLACK & WHITE, magazine, with superb picture 9d. ea.
THE HOUR 1 each with large beautiful pic-
THE SKETCH V ture of the celebrated actress, Bd. ea.
THE GRAPHIC \ “Mrs. Siddens.”
LADIES’ PICTORIAL, illus.; COSMOS, illus. 3d. ea.
THE GRAPHIC, wedding number, col. pictures 6d. ea.
ST. PAUL’S, beautifully illustrated 6d. ea.
Post free throughout Australasia; but Queensland,
2d. each extra. AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., 194 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
Amusements.
IRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SEASON COMMENCING
Saturday, 31st July,
Special Ladies’ and Children Matinee, Wednesday
and Saturday at 3 o’clock.
Prof. P. tA- Bristol
And his Marvellous
PERFORMING HORSES,
Don’t Fail to See DENVER, the Mule Comedian t
SULTAN, the Wonderful Mathematician;
TONY, the Trapeze Pony ;
ALFONZO, the Startling Mimic ;
and all the other
STELLAR FAVORITES !
Special Day Performances.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY,
and SATURDAY, at 3.
PRICES—3s., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
At the Matinees all Small Children are given a
Free Pony Ride, and are admitted to any seat in
the House for SIXPENCE.
6
PHIKA HOUSE (King- and York-sts.), SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Edward Farlev.
Farley’s Eoelisb Opera Co.
Ninth and Last Week of Season.
Gounod’s Faust
T HURSDAY, -22nd July—Benefit of Miss E. A. Lambert
FRIDAY, 23rd JuIy—LAST NIGHT of the Season ;
Benefit of Miss Maud Lita
PRICES FOR THE PEOPLE-3s, 2s, and One Shilling.
Plan at Paling’s. Day tickets at Josephson’s York Hotel,
next Theatre. Positively No Free List.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
4o York Street. SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Melb. and Sydney race-goers accustomed to
getting about 10 or, at most, 12 to 1 against a rank out-
sider, must find it hard to realise Maid of the Mist’s divi-
dend of £lO5 Is. A few such practical lessons will do
more to encourage the totalisator agitation than all the
talk in the world. The machine must come and the
bookmaker must go. There can be no compromise.
The Millers had an exciting time at Caulfield
on Saturday. They won with Homespun (unbacked), and
ran a couple of close seconds in other flat-races, whilst
each of the jumping events cost the stable a horse. Bon
Ton, the hurdler, broke his useful leg ; Larnook smashed
his shoulder in the Steeplechase. Five well-known
jumpers were killed at Flemington and Caulfield within
15 days—Larrikin, Gratiano, Woonooke, Bon Ton, Lar-
nook ; and yet we go.deploring the “dearth of good
cross-country performers.”
* * * *
Surcingle: “Hayseed is thoroughly a ‘fiddle-
headed brute,’ as the scribes used to write, before big
heads were fashionable. As ugly and monstrous a head
as ever was seen on a racecourse, a regular hippopotamus
one, with a tiny, cunning pig’s eye, not at all like the full
one of the typical thoroughbred.”
* • • •
Surcingle : “ Why not revive the Flemington
water-jump? Only an intrigue put it down, almost in
the last generation, because the crack Babbler was uncer-
tain at water.”
* * * *
A Melb. paper says that Miller, Hayseed’s
owner, in the Grand National, had a remount jockey
ready at every fence in case of accident.
* ♦ * *
A few minutes after the steeplechaser Larrikin
was killed on Flemington course, the usual gang of race-
course ghouls stripped him of his mane, tail, shoes, and
teeth ; and they were going for the hide when Glasscock
appeared and offered up a prayer.
* • * •
On the strength of a published price-list, “on
principal events starting price limit 33 to 1, on minor
events 10 to 1,” a countryman sent to a big Sydney book-
maker a starting-price commission for the G.N. Steeple.
On the morning of the race bookie wired: “ Letter
received attention ; twelve limit.” Had the countryman
been a member of Tattersall’s Club he could have made
Mr. Bookie pay up at quoted price if his fancy had won ;
but not being a member of that select body he would
have had no redress, and bookie could just as easily have
wired his limit as 2to 1. The present writer has before
him the published list of starting prices and the bookie’s
wire, so the bill seems to be a true one.
* * * •
Early in the week Echo and The Meddler were
picked upon as the right peas for last Saturday’s Rosehill
double, and so they started favorites at 5 to 2 and 4 to 1
respectively. Echo won the Flying Handicap after a
great set-to with Sinecurist, but The Meddler failed to run
into a place in the July Handicap, and that gay old dog
Newman, after reported bad gallops during the week,
started at 5 to 1 and scored an easy win from Shaughraun.
Loch Marie and Amourette, both by Lochiel, won the
Granville Stakes and the Nursery Handicap respectively ;
Mr. S. R. Kennedy’s Bernal secured the Steeplechase;
and Standard beat Loch Marie by a couple of lengths for
the Welter Handicap. Three first favorites and two
seconds made things rather sultry for the books.
* * * »
Victoria can boast of about a dozen riders—
“gentlemen” once, now professionals—risking their
necks for the dollars.
* * * *
“Flemington” to The Bulletin:—“ On the
flat at any racecourse may be seen welshers, thieves, and
vags., men who have done time and many who ought to
be, doing time, calling themselves ‘ bookies.’ Each has
a gang of roughs on hand ready for anything. Thus the
lambs are barefacedly shorn right under the nose of the
police, yet the latter can’t see anything wrong, but will
gaol a square man making a fair tote. Why ? ”
• * • •
Townsville Daily Bulletin report of the finish
for Townsville Cup : “ Waterloo swerved badly in the run
home, crossing Checkmate just after passing the rails. It
was fully expected that a protest would be entered, but
the owner of Checkmate (Mr. W. Mooney) would not take
action, as he stated that he was satisfied the cross
did not prevent his horse winning. This was the true
sportsman spirit, and we wish we had more of his
kind racing. Mr. Mooney is the leading Brisbane book-
maker.” Waterloo, by the way, seems to have been the
outsider of the field.
* * * *
A short time ago, a well-known Q. horse-breeder
had 25 horses taken outand shot. “ A few years ago,” he
remarked, “ they would have sold at £5 apiece.” Now
they wouldn’t fetch ss. each, and are only cumbering the
earth and robbing the cattle of pasture.”
Horses are at a discount up Rockhampton way.
At a pound sale, the other day, several went for ss. each,
and a lame one only brought Is. 3d. The cute buyer
boiled him down, got 235. for the fat, and had the hide to
boot.
• . * *
Members of the V.R.C. seem'well satisfied with
the committee, as none of the six retiring members are
to be opposed this year. Mr. S. Miller, owner of G.N.
Steeplechase winner, Hayseed, is one of them.
The Queensland champion, Battalion, will be
seen out at A. J.C. Spring meeting, so Cup fanciers of this
good horse will be able to see if he has retained his form.
6 •. » * *
That smart but unlucky mare, Acmena (Martini-
Henry—Acme), opened a winning account, last week, for
Australian flat-racers by annexing the High Weight Handi-
cap at Newmarket (Eng.). As she is a good stayer, she
will probably account for some more pretentious stake ere
the end of the season.
* * * *
An unlucky horseman is Jack Cameron. He
had the mounts on Black Harry and Larrikin, favorites
for the G.N. Hurdle and Steeple respectively. Shortly
before the Hurdle, Black Harry was killed in a flat-race
and it was decided to run Larrikin for the Hurdle. Then
Cameron got his collar-bone broken while riding Con-
fusion at Moonee Valley. He managed to patch up, how-
ever, and, when going strong in the National, Larrikin
“took off” too far away and broke his neck.
• * * »
The lottery of breeding racehorses is well exem-
plified at ’Ome by St. Simon, for years at the top of the
tree of winning sires, not even figuring in the first 17 this
season. The first four places are held by descendants of
the great Stockwell, a son of the Irish horse, the Baron.
Stockwell was sold for what was considered the enormous
Bum of 4500g5., sinee then three of his descendants have
fetched £14,000 ; £30,000 ; £15,000, whilst another (Galtee
More) is priced at over £30,000. Kendal, the sire of
Galtee More, was also bought back for £lB,OOO, after
being sold for a song to go to Ireland.
* * * *
Amongst the revised rules of racing to be sub-
mitted to V.R.O. members at the annual meeting is the
salutary one that if a bookmaker have any interest in a
horse it shall be raced in the name of all persons having
any interest therein. The proposal that “ all horses
must be ridden out ” widens the path to roping, as, under
the pretence of a vigorous finish, a good horseman can
effectually stop his mount.
* * * *
Despite his ignominious performance in the
Winter Stakes, at Flemington, where he looked very
lusty, Dreamland (Trenton —Nightmare) may prove the
best of the Ballarat division for Caulfield Cup, where he is
“ chucked in ” with 7st. 91b. Wait-a-Bit will wait a bit
longer for Melb. Cup.
* * * *
“ Sweep considerations ” have caused a big entry
list for Canterbury Park Cup, N.S.W. If lucky ticket-
holders be generous, there will be an enormous field, and
Kelso, Steward, Wyalong, and Blue Vest may supply the
winner.
* * * •
The handsome win, with a 26-years’-record
score, of the Victorian riflemen in theKolapore Cup must
be eminently grateful to David Syme, who found the
money to take the team to England.
* * • •
The Australians were not thought to have
“Buckley’s show” for the Kolapore Cup rifle shoot at
Bisley last week, it being considered a certainty for the
mother country or Canada. Victoria and Maoriland,
however, made all the running, and finished with
scores of 751 and 748 respectively, the mother country
finishing next with 732. In the United Service match,
under similar conditions, a picked team of the British
army scored 743.
* * « »
Percy Cavill’s win of the world’s five miles ama-
teur swimming championship, over a Thames course, on
Saturday last, in lh. 6min. 35sec. must surely have been
with the aid of a mill-race tide. Amateur A. Ibbott swam
5 miles 66 yds. in lh. 12min. 27sec. on the same river,
with the tide, on 26th July, ’9l ; but in s till water, in '76,
it took amateur Douglass, the crack Yankee of his day,
lh. 53min. 30sec. to swim three miles, so that no criterion
of the calibre of the British amateurs, as compared with
the Australians, can be taken from the time now cabled.
In ’93 it took the English wonder, Nuttall, 26min. Bsec. to
swim a mile, with three turns, at which rate of pro-
gression, allowing he could have kept up the same speed
for five miles, it would have taken him 2h. 50sec., as
against Cavill’s lh. 6min. 35sec. With Percy Cavill in the
best of condition it is hardly likely any amateur will be
found the other side of the world to beat him a distance.
From infancy Cavill has spent as much of his life in the
water as out of it, under the very best of tuition, and
although he cannot be debarred as ari amateur any more
than Ten Eyck, the son of a professional oarsman, who
won the Diamond Sculls last week at Henley, the fact
remains that Cavill has been reared in swimming-baths
and amongst professional swimmers “ of the first water.”
* * * ♦
“ Colonials” are certainly doing well in England
on water and on land, and it now only needs Newhaven
in his Derby and Cup form to put the Australian sporting
public in the seventh heaven of delight.
* * * *
At Henley regatta (Eng.) on Saturday last, the
Diamond Challenge Sculls were won by E. H. Ten Eyck,
the 18-year-old son of F. A. Ten Eyck, a Yankee pro-
fessional oarsman who was rowing in the days of Laycock
and Trickett. The Diamond Sculls were established at
Henley regatta in 1844, in which year England was simply
invincible in pugilism and sculling, two games at which
she is now badly in the ruck.
» * * •
The semi-final match between Pirates and
Wentworths for the Sydney Cricket Ground trophy last
Saturday did not prove so close a contest as was expected.
Pirates generally, and Macnamara in particular, com-
pletely outclassed their opponents, and when, at half-
time, Pirates had scored two tries and a field goal to
Wentworth’s clean sheet, the game was a foregone con-
clusion for the Outlaws. Wentworth did better in the
second half, but Pirates more than held their own, win-
ning eventually by 17 points to 6.
* * • *
The final match, next Saturday, will be between
Randwick and Pirates, the former with an unbeaten
record, the latter with two defeats, by Randwick and
University respectively. Pirates, however, have played
themselves into form, and Randwicks will, on Saturday
next, find them a much improved team.
* * * *
S.A. football anomalies. South Adelaide and
Norwood have each defeated each other once, likewise
Port Adelaide and South. This apparently accidental
“ happy family” order of things has had a healthy effect
on the gates; and Adelaide football booms again.
* * * *
This year, for the first time, the Australasian
Axeman’s Association holds its annual meeting at Mel-
bourne during Cup week. £750 in prizes, exclusive of
trophies. Chief events : Handicap chopping match, £2OO ;
underhand chopping, £100; champion chopping (2ft.
logs), £75 ; sawing match, £6O. A big plunge, but the
Axemen hope to pull through. In The Bulletin’s opinion
their show will boom. The address of Secretary Nicholls
is Ulverstone, Tasmania.
* * » *
A certain Sydney cycle man has burst out with
a solution of the problem of increase on present possible
bicycle speed. He has dispensed with the chain, and
claims to have refused £5OOO for the N.S.W. rights of his
invention. The invention is alleged to have cost its
diviner £BOO. A match is talked of: M’Conibe to ride the
new bike against Elliott on the usual, over one, five, and
ten miles.
* * * *
Cabled that Hint, of Nottingham, has broken
the world’s cycling record for the 24 hours, covering 414
miles.
* * * *
Said that cyclist Zimmerman, with other cracks,
is preparing for another visit to Australia. Perhaps this
time he’ll come without “ the old Dutch.”
• * * *
It is proposed to have a trained ambulance corps
to follow bicycle road races in Melbourne. Ridiculous!
A trained undertaker is what’s wanted.
• • * ♦
Billmartin writes from Noumea, saying he has
quite recovered his health and is riding in great form.
He has accepted a challenge from two local riders (French-
men) to ride them over 25 miles, one up t’other down.
* * * #
It would appear that Choynski played a terrible
tattoo with his left upon Denver Ed. Smith, until the
latter, in desperation, “ butted ” Choynski with his head,
and the fight was awarded to Joseph on a foul. Followers
of the game in Sydney will remember the meeting
between Choynski and Jim Fogarty at Darlinghurst
Skating Rink. Fogarty had just previously broken a
couple of men’s jaws with his terrible right, and it was
thought that if he could by chance land upon the Hebrew
it would be all over. Choynski simply played a tattoo
with the left upon Fogarty at will, and when Jim, who
was no coward, saw he was simply being made a chopping-
block of, he pulled the gloves off and told the audience
that as he had no possible show of hitting the long
American, he did not see the fun of simply standing
there to be cut to pieces.
* • * *
Jack Griffiths, who swung clubs for 36 hours
recently, has sent a challenge to Tom Burrows. A grue-
some spectacle it will be towards the finish if the two
come together, about the only parallel being the memor-
able women’s walking-match at the old Sydney Exhibition
Building, when the exhausted maidens, supported by
whisky and their attendants, continued their weary
wobble with blistered and bleeding feet.
» * * *
The numbered saddlecloth, like the starting-
machine, is another Australian reform recently introduced
t« the Conservative Eng. turf.
* • * *
Of W. Warbrick (the eminent Maori footballer,
whose portrait is printed on p. 11) “S.M.” writes to The
Bulletin W. Warbrick, born of Maori mother and Eng-
lish father, has played football for 20 years, beginning at
the age of 11. At 13, in a school match, he met his first
accident in a broken left arm ; then for 9 years he played
and remained whole, but with the forming of the 'BB
Maori team for England he began a chapter of mishaps
by breaking his nose, and in England, as back to the
Maoris, he got his collar-bone broken twice, his shin
splintered once, his left hand-bones broken, while he was
“knocked silly” once or twice a week. His bones knit,
and his flesh heals with a speed surprising to the doctors.
He fractured his larynx in Sydney football only last year,
and the hospital surgeons then shook their heads about
his chance. But, of course, he came through and played
again. He was the only Maori engaged in the first of the
matches of the hour, M.L. v. N.S.W. ; and he got his
shoulder hurt too badly in the first match to play in the
return. He says that the absence of Maoris from the
visiting team is due to the Maoris being not in the cities
but in their own settlements, where they are not affiliated
with the unions, but play football “on their own.”
Swindley, the Maori whom the Queenslanders, when in
M. last year, said was the best forward they met,
is now on one of these settlements. So sure is he that a
truly representative M.L. team could be formed of Maoris,
that he is writing to Dave Stewart, forward in ’BB Maori
team, who has money, advising him to get a Maori team
together and tour them—“the gate of M.L. v. N.S.W., on
July 3, was over £900.” The gamest footballer he ever
saw was Barlow Madigan, a Maorilander of European
parents, “ our best threequarters in England. I played
back to his threequarters, and a basket of eggs as back
would have felt quite safe behind Barlow. When we
were winning he wouldn’t trouble himself, but the
moment the battle turned he was on it. It was splendid
.to see him run, tackle, kick, and charge. He got the
ball and he didn’t then sit down with it and wonder
whether he would get his neck broken or not. But he
was off, his 12st. odd going even-time through the other
side. They gave him a gold-medal down in Auckland
for playing all through the second spell against the ’B7
English team with his collar-bone broken. He died a
year or so ago of inflammation of the lungs. The hardest
time we backs had in the English tour was against the Irish
and the Yorkshire forwards —the big, fast men who came
rushing down in a body with the ball upon their toes.
To fall on the ball, or to snatch it up and charge straight
through was the only way to defend. To play Rugby a
man must not consider his personal safety at all. The
Irish had the best of it at half-time, but in the second
spell, being as soft as the spuds they live upon, they were
run right off their legs.” Warbrick was considered by the
English to be the best back of the day ; at 31 he is not the
agile man he was at 22, when he would spring upon the
ball and save his side in the instant when all seemed over.
He has played for M.L. against England, Ireland, Wales,
N. and Q’sland ; for Q. against N.S.W. and M.L., and
Saturday, July 3, for N.S.W. against M.L. The number of
matches he has played can be estimated from the ’BB Maori
team’s record alone—plaj'ed 116, lost 21, drew 3. He has
never smoked tobacco, nor drunk grog; at Lord Shef-
field’s banquet, he decided to taste champagne, which he
had never tried. He got it down with a grimace ; his
Lordship’s champagne, to the Maori palate, “tasted just
like ink.” And, after all, he has never seen a man killed
on the football field.
* * * *
A winner of .£1650 in a Tattersall sweep fell
dead upon a Melbourne platform shortly after he had
banked the money. And yet the men who draw blanks
in Tattersall’s seem to live wearily on. Some fellows have
all the luck.
* * * •
Now that “Ranjy ” is sure for Stoddart’s team,
it appears Jackson is no cert. Jackson had long had an
eye on Parliament, and, as he thinks the trip might spoil
his chances, he is inclined to cry off. They are trying
very hard to get Abel, but the little ’un has a horror of the
water trip.
* * * ♦
The Duke of Westminster, considered one of
the best judges of the ’orse at ’Ome, drafted Kendall, the
sire of Galtee More, out of his stud for a small sum, as he
did not consider the horse good enough to breed from, on
account of his stilty fore-legs.
• * * •
Cloncurry (N.Q.), on a recent Sunday, turned
out to see a quarter-of-a-mile flutter between a white
female slavey, riding straddle-legged, and a Chinese cook.
The woman won. What the Cloncurry and other Leper-
land towns want is a stockwhip muster to hunt out the
yellows, the browns, and the darker shades—the aliens to
have the benefit of a decent start from the various scratch
lines to the nearest port of shipment.
» * » *
Rivierre on a Beeston-Humber won the Paris to
Bordeaux road-race this season ; G. P. Mills won the same
race on a Beeston-Humber in ’9l.*
• * • •
J. W. Stocks, on Dunlop tyres, has ridden 32
miles 448 yards in one hour; Holbein and Walters, on
Dunlop-tyred tandem, covered 230 English miles in 12
hours. Greenwood, knocked out by fever after 92 miles
of “ Port Darwin to Melbourne by bike,” gives place to
Mather and Coleman on Dunlop cycles and tyres.*
* » '* *
J. P. Hayes, on his Cleveland wheel and tyres,
last Saturday cut .Kerr’s N.S.W. amateur 10-mile record
of 30min. 56sec. down to 27min. 38£sec., and the 20-mile
record of 65min. down to 57min. 18£sec. Clevelands, too,
in the Parramatta three-mile handicap got first and fourth
places.*
John Farrell re-issues through Angus and
Robertson, and with a new title, “ Australia to
England,” his Daily Telegraph poem for 22nd
June. S.M. Herald complains because he hasn’t
omitted two pregnant verses—
Red sins were yours : the avid greed
Of pirate fathers, smocked as Grace,
Sent Judas inissioners to read
Christ’s Word to many a feebler race—
False priests of Truth who made their tryst
At Mammon’s shrine, and reft or slew
Some hands you taught to pray for Christ
Have prayed His curse to rest on you !
Your way has been to pluck the blade
Too readily, and train the guns.
We here, apart and unafraid
Of envious foes, are but your sons;
We stretched a heedless hand to smutch
Our spotless flag with Murder’s blight—
For one less sacrilegious touch
God’s vengeance blasted Uzza white !
Of course, these are true, strong verses. But the
Herald’s attitude is always and inevitably the
attitude of Mr. Pecksniff leaning over Todgers’
bannisters and hiocuping “ Let’sh be moral !’"
—and cover things up. For a respectable
married paper, with presumably very little
to learn, the Herald is unaccountably
shocked at the sight of the naked Truth. It
resents reference to unpleasant topics just as the
grocer-deacon resents reference to his brothel-
rents —his collection half-crown doesn’t smell any
more than the Roman emperor’s historic tax. And
the Herald is greasily “ loyal ’’—loyal to a de-
corated nonentity, a fetish, a superstition; and
disloyal to manhood and womanhood, to Austra-
lia, to Right and Justice. For all these reasons
the Herald objects primly to the habit of calling
the “ dear old mother country’s ” dirty work by its
proper name. And the Herald, so it says, is
“ the leading Australian daily paper.” It means
the leaden Australian daily paper.
The widely-known and deservedly-popular
Mrs. Hadley, hostess of the Orient Hotel, Hobart,
has died in her 76th year.
Premier Seddonis now staying atLeopards-
town Park, near Dublin, the residence of Sir John
Power’s whiskey.
The recent King-street (Sydney) Coffee
Palace social, with 300 guests, sumptuous supper,
singing, dancing, and speechifying was a big
success.
Ellis’s Post Office Coffee Palace is the
place to stay at in Sydney, as bushmen know and
note. Charges moderate ; table A 1; accommoda-
tion AAI ; and handy to all the sights and centres.
The Crescent Coffee Palace, Brickfield Hill, is
also managed by-Ellis on the same admirable
plan.*
The Sydney P.0.-Municipality trouble
seems to hinge upon the circumstance that, when
conference about the telephone-tunnel business
became necessary, the P.M.G. considered himself
too extensive a pumpkin to visit Ives in his
haughty civic halls, and the Mayor didn’t think
himself small potato enough to seek the foot of
Cook’s departmental throne. Perchance a parley
by trumpet at the Queen’s Statue would have
brought the dread potentates together !
“In every capital of this, the uttermost
part of your Majesty’s realm, there are bodies of
geographers, explorers, and discoverers which
have reason to bless your glorious and beneficent
reign.” Chief Justice Madden, as president of
the Vic. branch of the Geographical Society, pub-
lished the foregoing edition of the Jubilee Loyalty
Lie. The Bulletin hasn’t such a poor opinion of
Judge Madden’s brain as to suppose that he thought
he was speaking the truth. The Queen, in her
reigning capacity, is just what the British Govern-
ments make her, and no Australian explorers and
discoverers have had reason to bless any official
power, or to suppose that anybody’s reign made a
ha’porth of difference to their enterorise.


John Sands and Co., the well-known Syd-
ney printers, issue an attractive leaflet with
portraits of members of the firm and heads of
departments. The fourth page has a striking
design in colors, very well executed.
Legal Notices.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OFI
QUEENSLAND. V
Mb. Justice Cooper. J
In the matter of the WILL of JOHN
WILLIAMS late of Eidsvold in the
Colony of Queensland Licensed Vic-
tualler Deceased.
Between WILLIAM BARRY, Plaintiff,
and
HER MAJESTY’S ATTORNEY-GENERAL
OF QUEENSLAND, Defendant.
PURSUANT to a Decree of the Supreme
Court of Queensland made herein on the
Eighteenth day of June 1897 in the above action
ALL PERSONS claiming to be the next of kin
of JOHN WILLIAMS Licensed Victualler who
is variously described as having been born at Green
Swamp Bathurst in the Colony of New South
Wales about the year 1842, or in England prior to
that date, who prior to 1870 was goldmining m
New South Wales and New Zealand and from
1870 to 1885 was hawking from Maitland to the
New England districts New South Wales and who
then came to Eidsvold Queensland where he died
on the 6th of October 1896, ARE REQUIRED
to send proof of their relationship to the above-
named John Williams to Messrs. HAMILTON
& GRAHAM Solicitors 57 Queen-street Brisbane
Queensland on or before the 31st day of December
1897 otherwise they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said decree.
Dated the Twelfth day of July 1897.
(L.s.) WILLM. BELL,
Registrar, Supreme Court,
Brisbane, Queensland.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. Justice Cooper.
In the matter of JOHN WILLIAMS
late of Eidsvold in the Colony of
Queensland Licensed Victualler De-
ceased.
Between WILLIAM BARRY, Plaintiff,
and
HER MAJESTY’S ATTORNEY-GENERAL
OF QUEENSLAND, Defendant.
PURSUANT to a Decree of the Supreme
Court of Queensland made herein on 18th
day of June 1897 in the above action THE
CREDITORS of JOHN WILLIAMS late of
Eidsvold deceased who died on 6th day of October
1896 are required to send in their claims to Messrs.
HAMILTON & GRAHAM Solicitors 57 Queen-
street Brisbane Queensland on or before 30th Sep-
tember 1897 or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
decree. THURSDAY 28th day of October 1897
at the hour of ten o’clock in the forenoon at the
Chambers of the Registrar of the Supreme Court
Brisbane is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this Twelfth day of July 1897.
(L.S.) WILLM. BELL,
Registrar, Supreme Court,
Brisbane, Queensland.
OYER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BICYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4 gin.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(aretrille TGrijcr Ltd.,
87 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
]
N DESIGN . .
MATERIAL . .
WORKMANSHIP . .
nd, consequently, RESULTS !
THE
phiz* Bicycles
ARE
Absolutely Unrivalled.
Catalogues Posted Free.
X.
Phiz” Cycle Works,
61 to 65 Druitt Street (next Town Hall), SYDNEY.
I HI I
j g Universally Accorded tiie Preference on account of its
High Quality. Economy and Delicious Taste.
IT’S R6MARKABLC
How quickly a good wheel is appreciated. Mr. Henry Sturmey (England s
leading expert) by pointing out several special features in its construction first
called attention to the
“ROYAL PROGRESS,”
which is now more extensively patronised by the aristocracy of England than
any other make. It is ONE OF THE BEST machines manufactured. We
ask you to call and judge for yourselves, or send for illustrated catalogue.
Price, £25; LADIES, £26.
The ENGLISH * AMERICAN AGENCY CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (two doors from STRAND ARCADE);
Also at 52 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
INVINCIBLES and other High-grade Wheels to select from.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout,
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF.
’ ' • f
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
- - the new - -
Herald Bicycle.
For LADIES and GENTS.
17MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc iQtercbaQScablc
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 268 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
The ACME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“DOWRIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
V
QC
IO
vi
%
r>
r JinDE
ft
RAL£ i<SH
Cy Cf.e s
1397
AN €XC€PTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
of purchasing a Eirst-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give up the Agency for “ Raleigh ” Cycles, we are
offering' our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
O
at the following
REDUCED PRICES,
All fitted with Dunlop Tyres, Martin Silent, Toolbag, Pump and
Spanner. All Ladies’ Machines have Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Raleigh Co.’s] Post Free
fii psiral Cycle ggency [ld.,
‘Raleich'
Depot, 393 (acorge-St., Sydpey.
Branches At :
Melbourne— 229 Elizabeth-st.
Adelaide— 33 Rundle-ab.
Perth — Hay-st.
Brisbane — Adelaide-at.
Charters Towers— Gill-at.
Warrnambool—Kepler-sfc.
Goulburn
Christchurch—Lioh(ield-st.
Dunedin —123 George-st.
Hobart, &c.


Special Advertisements.
Pure, Rich
Blood
is the soil in which roots life, health,
strength, happiness. The soil of the
blood can be drained or impoverished
like any other soil, and can be fertil-
ized and nourished in a similar way.
You can get back the old spring and
snap. You can enjoy labor by day
and sleep by night. You can eat
your food with the
Hearty
Appetite
of health, if you only supply the
blood with its lacking nutriment;
vitalize it, or if you like, fertilize it.
A large number of so called tonic
remedies are disguised stimulants.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is not a stimu-
lant but a nourishment. It feeds
the blood and so enriches it, as well
as purifies it. That is why physi-
cians recommend
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
Beware of imitations. The name Ayer's
Sarsaparilla—is prominent on the wrapper
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
AYER'S PILLS FOR INDIGESTION.
CY A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
• * Obtainable of Chemists,
tAoi es, Perfumers,
\ v lt± or direct from
k\ ▼ < O
Street
HAIKDIIESSEICS A\l» WIGUAKHtS
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquali ty English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing, White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (ail makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. fid ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss, 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
GSO «t 682 George Street, Sydney.
00 YOU WANT*
CATALOGUE?
POST FREE
VlwrcriES- Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
Weddialg z CHristeiJiNg Presents
H NeWMAIJ- 1755177-FLIZARFTri ST*
OPPOSITE C:P.Q.
MELBOURNE-
At Geraldton, N.Q., recently, Malayta
and Santo had a battle, commencing with fisticuffs
and winding up with spears, clubs, glass-bottler,
and the slaughter of two of the Santo heathen.
Europeans were edified and delighted to find their
doors burst open and hapless savages seeking
refuge from the sanguinary Malaytans among
Caucasian Lares and Penates. “The docility of
the Polynesian is remarkable.” —( Parliamentary
oration.)
Dear Bulletin, “ Melbourne ” aaks
“ Why not a statue to W. J. Clarke ? ” and points
out that the defunct baronet deserved a statue by
reason of his startling generosity. W. J. obtained
the reward of his alleged generosity when his
Gracious Queen dubbed him “Bart.” Practically,
W. J. Clarke went to London, and bid for a
baronetcy. When ho bid high enough, he was
gratified with an Imperial brand, and, having got
what he asked for, all parties should be content.
After W.J. became Sir William there was nothing
“superior” about his generosity. To erect a
statue over the ashes of the original Australian
baronet is to affirm the principle that any absurd
person who scatters a few thousands in quest of
an English gaud is deserving of the adulation of
the Australian multitude. There is one reason
why those moneyed men who are not quite so bad
as other moneyed men who might be mentioned
should have statues, but “ Melbourne ” does not
mention it —the stones will make excellent road-
metal for Posterity.—S.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin, —
Ayers’ Rock, that strange, smooth, gigantio dome of
nek in the Centralian desert, so well described in Prof.
S lencer's “Larapinta Land,” will shout old Henry Ayers’
name across weird Amadeus to her sister sublimity,
Mount Oiga, long after his paltry title and ephemeral
legislatorship have lost their virility.
Why “ weird Amadeus ? There is nothing in
the least weird about the alleged lake. Lake
Amadeus is a dreary expanse of saline bog,
which has no surface water to constitute it a
lake, and has obtained a conspicuous posi-
tion on the map of Australia under exceed-
ingly false pretences. No water-courses of.any
size or importance run into it, and spinifex sand-
ridges adorn its northern side. Depressing, weari-
some, ugly, uninteresting it might be called,
but certainly not weird. Also, Ayers’ Kock
is a curious geological freak, but it is not
sublime, and it is not a dome. While
as to calling Mount Olga a sublimity ! Anyone
who does that must have “ got ’em ” bad. If such
superlative adjectives are wasted on the insignifi-
cant ridges of Central Australia., how can one
describe Mount Cook, Mount Sefton, or Mount
Egmont—one of the most symmetrical mountains
in the world ? Geographically speaking, there is
not a mountain of any importance in Central !
Australia from Spencer’s Gulf to Van Diemen
Gulf. There is a popular idea that Kosciusko is
the highest peak in Australia, and Mount Cook
the highest mountain in Australasia. The highest
peak m Australia is Mount Townsend, and the
highest mountain in Australasia is Mount Owen
Stanley in British New Guinea.—E.F.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
+ Sauce. *
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
*
Lime-Frdlt
Juice, it is
found, forms
fa most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be' the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 16/7, in a treatise on Scurvy: —“l
dare nofwrite how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins."
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAIiES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jutes Renard
& Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co,
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
FAC-SIMILE OF
ROYALTESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
%OKO
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
%& 2 S'* 1
CIASL } AG
Qjnji QjlrJc Oisi 9
°IA; c &ul &o*>£-,
f o l**QA Vo
iav 4
/laA"£h/^.
&\ tct&wC
KOKO
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandruff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimony Is prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Prer a ration for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, & Invigorating. i -, s 6 & 46 siz«=s, of all Chemists,
Stores &c. THE KOKO MARICOPfIS CO.. 1.T0.. (*«»• =«; Marl's, fONOON, ENG.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
•' THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORED,
072,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OP BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Proprietors
TIIJ.OCK &
Sold 111 Bottles, 6d., i -, and 2 - eacb.
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO., LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
T>OOK OF JNATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
Tub Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustavk, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Drbam of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s eucb.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kocir, post free, Is 3d.
komancb of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Seorets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptamkron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plat< s, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
New Realistic Novels:—The Serpent Tempted Her;
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories ok Love and Frolic, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, l>y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of the Court of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Famous Romances of Voltaire, illus., post free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Lb Chateau de l a Fa/ kite (in French), post Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book. Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and publio amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife's Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON AT.Ti SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Booh Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected. —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
#
Benger’s Food Is sold by
Eillott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere,
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
THE AGED.


1
HERR IR.-A.SSIVETXSSIEiIIM'
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GrEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbc ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great viitues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizaheth-st., Melb.
Bear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
eourse of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, 1 consider you are deserving cf
success, which 1 do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn.—Dear-
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R*ssmussbn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
i have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush. —Yours very truly, B. HJTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. leker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near tny place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor,
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. Till*
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, whioh cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal bind and caused me the most excrusiatiug pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussbn. March loth, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try' your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and 1 shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Haqerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Inver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
to IIEBR. UA-MDSbEN.
I am pleasid to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better \ and I shall nevei legiet
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on tnv complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. 1 have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, ■ntji'pvtn
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
it, gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years* standing. Dear-Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to tne will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mbs. E. SMtTH.
tort Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Crmplaiiit, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months 1 have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
p.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills 1 have ex-
perienced an immunity from my atiack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and 1 will do the same to all whom 1
hear oomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9,3/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affect ion of ihe liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say' that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Partes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Your*
gratefully, JAMtS NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Hkrr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9,1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline P ;, ls, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of genera
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds In other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that I was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W,
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED
VTWO gold
EDALS
li'A'v
\\\
ALFALIMEPILLS;
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD a. NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted J*Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flat ulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
r< gulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE
BOOK
lIERR RASSMUSS V N will Post his Valuable Bookt
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS-MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERK.
hEM'DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyofte on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Pranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE :
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Cosigardie—Next Coolgardie Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
Barry Paulton and Alma Stanley
In the Brightest, Cleverest, and most Irresistibly Funny
Farcioal Comedy of the day,
“A NI6NT OUT.”
SATURDAY, 24th July—“MY FRIEND FROM INDIA.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. I3ET" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
gALON cinematographs:,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
200,000 People to Date, 200,000.
THE COUPON SYSTEM is NOW in OPERATION.
Every person paying Is. is entitled to Free Admission
at any time when accompanied by one paying person.
F. MAC MAHON.
FJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of the BRILLIANT SUCCESS,
“MRS. QUINN’S TWINS.’’
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
SATURDAY, 24th JULY —“ THE PAVPER.”
Popular Prices —3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
I V O L I THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Barry JlicJeards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
FJIHE OPERA HOUSER MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
ROTUNDA - MELBOURNE -- ROTUNDA.
Entrance —207 Bourke-st., through Yeoman’s Studio.
Entrance—Little Collins-st.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8.
PROF. NORTON B. SMITH,
EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS.
The Greatest Horse Trainer since the days of Rarey.
AN INSTANT SUCCESS. UNANIMOUS VERDICT OF
THE PRESS AND PUBLIC.
“ The Greatest Horse Exhibition Melbourne has ever
Seen.”
“ He is a Past Master of his Art.”
FUN ... EXCITEMENT ... INSTRUCTION.
|3P" A Word to the Ladies of Australia. —Follow
the example of the Grand Dames of England, who
have regularly visited Professor Smith’s Exhibition, and
sent their Hunters, Hacks, Carriage Horses, and Child-
ren’s Ponies to be handled.
Prices—4s., 35., 25., &ls. Boxes, £1 Is. Children, half-
price. Plan at Glen’s. Day Tickets. Bourke-st. entrance.
Persons wishing to have horses handled, write or apply
at the Rotunda to NAT BEHRENS.
Theatre royal, “Melbourne.
Melville Stoltz ... Director.
TO-NIGHT (SATURDAY) 24th JULY-
First Appearance of the
FLYIN6 JORDANS
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
F
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
VERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING I
Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“Tb€ Sigo of tl}€ Cross.”
MATINEE Saturday Next, July 24, at 2 o’clocck.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Prinoess’s Theatre Cafe.
VW plSUUfffj
SPECIAL
pla
Wti
Miss E. Twecdie,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbs Up-to-dats FrockiSt.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
or VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
TUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCE STERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
:rosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIPGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
LAT6ST NOVCLTY BROOCH,
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
Cogli&b Hall-Harked (Sold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
XJnapproaoliatjle Value - £1 Post Free.
ff ONE PIECE’ Studs The World’s Most Serviceable Studs
AND CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. - PATENTED. ■ Unbreakable.
Section
Collar Stud
Actual
Size
Enlarged
Collar
View of
Stud.
Section
Shirt Stud
| Actual
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece' Studs.
1. Struck from single disc of metal—no solder.
2. —Elegance and absolute uniformity of cur ve,a>uZs»
3. —Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease.
Solid Gold. 9-Carat. 15-Carat. 18-Carat.
Suite of 3 Studs 6 6 9/- 10/- 10/6 12,'- 15/- 14/6 16/- 18/6 per Suite.
Collar Studs ... 5/- 6/- 7 6 7/- 9/- 10/6 10/6 12 6 15/-each.
Cuff Buttons. . . 10/- 13/- 15/-16/- 17/6 20/- 20/- 22 6 25/-per pair.
POST FREE.
The Public are CAUTIONED against vamped-up
IMITATIONS of these Studs—clumsy—in pieces, sol-
dered together, but shaped to deceive, and sold as the
“One Piece.”
AET JEWELLEES AND WATCH MANDFACTUEEES,
90 KING ST., SYDNEY,
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address —
WaSbiQgtoQ H- Sotil & Co.
Do not be satisfied with “Good Enough.”
The Best is the only - 4 Good Enough” you should have, and
always the Cheapest in the long run.
A FEW EXAMPLES:
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER is a pure and sound article, at 6d. per tin.
DENTAROMA, at Is. 6d., whitens the teeth, purifies the breath. A most Fragrant
Dentifrice.
DR. THOMPSON’S COLTSFOOT COUGH LINCTUS, or GLYCERINE and
LINSEED, each Is. per bottle. Splendid articles for Coughs, Colds, &c.
YAALA, or PEPALGEN, 2s. per bottle. If you have no indigestion, you will not
need it; if you have, use it. The most effective cure to be obtained.
SPARTAN TONIC, 2s. 6d. and 4s. The tonic that reigns supreme, and its
qualities are recorded in many an Australian household.
Do Not Forget the Old Shop--Next door but one to the City Bank.
WASHINGTON H- - SOUL & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street, Sydney,
also at 268 PITT STREET; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
miCROBESTSOn’S HEME HI
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists So Stores.
Works : - Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
The of a MarricJcvillo
Lady .
HER TRIALS ABOUT TO OVERWHELM
HER WHEN DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK
PILLS RESCUE HER.
ENDURED YEARS OF TORTURE FROM
INDIGESTION AND DYSPEPSIA.
Mrs. Edwards, a most intelligent and kindly lady
(wife of the oaretaker of the Marrickville Town
Hall), has for a long time been a victim to in-
digestion of an aggravated character. She very
courteously received a representative, and gave an
account of her ailments and their cure. In answer
to his first question, she said :
“ What you have heard is quite true. I have
been suffering for years from indigestion and dys-
pepsia.”
“Will you be good enough to describe your
symptoms ? ”
“ Well, first of all I suffered from sleeplessness,
ringing noises in my head, and an overbearing
pain at my chest. Furthermore, my appetite failed,
and all that would rest on my stomach was soft
food such as milk and arrowroot. But what alarm-
ed me most was the way my heart would go pit-a-
pat on the very slightest exertion. I can assure
you if I walked a quarter of a mile these distressing
symptoms would come on. This frightened me
very much, for I feared I was suffering from heart
disease. As to the remedies I swallowed, why
their name is legion, but unfortunately no good
effects resulted, and I feared my troubles were
neither to be cured nor alleviated. I consequently
began to feel very low and depressed.”
“ It is no wonder you felt low and depressed,
Mrs. Edwards. Sleeplessness alone, when it be-
comes chronic, is sufficient to deprive one of reason.
Ringing noises in the head, too, you must have ex-
perienced trouble from, as deafness in some degree
is rarely unassociated with them. Severe, heavy
pain at the chest is always a marked sign of in-
digestion ; and loss of appetite, the surest proof of
something wrong, is frequently linked to it. You
must indeed have had a severe trial, but to continue
with your story.”
“ One day I read of some cures effected by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pilis for Pale People, and indeed
it proved a joyous day for me. I determined to
try a few boxes of this specific, bought them, and
commenced to take them according to the direc-
tions which I noticed were around each box. After
the first two boxes I felt a decided improvement,
and decided to continne with this medicine. As
I persevered with the treatment I made satisfactory
progress.
“ You said that your heart gave you considerable
anxiety, Mrs. Edwards.”
“ Yes, I was afraid it was diseased, and I’m
glad to find I was mistaken. It took a little time
to pull me together again, for you must remember
I had sunk very low ; but I am happy to state that
I am fairly on my feet again, and am so satisfied
that this cure has been effected by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People that I have recommended
them to my friends. Yes, you are at perfect liberty
to publish this testimonial, for I consider it a duty
that I owe to the world at large.”
(Signed) JANE EDWARDS.
Anyone with a particle of sympathy in his com-
position will readily concede that life under the
circumstances narrated in Mrs, Edwards’ case is
a failure, and death holds little terror for one so
situated. Imagine even such an existence, and
the thought brings terror with it. It is like bear-
ing a heavy load with little strength to manage it,
consequent upon the denial of food and sleep. No
wonder the heart rebels and seems determined
upon bursting bounds.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills also cure such diseases
as rheumatism, neuralgia, partial paralysis, loco-
motor ataxia, St. Yitus dance, nervous headache,
nervous prostration, the after effects of la grippe,
influenza, and severe colds, diseases depending on
humors in the blood, such as scrofula, chronic ery-
sipelas, &c. In the case of men they effect a
radical cure in all cases arising from mental worry,
overwork, or excesses of any nature.
These pills are not a purgative. They are
genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by
chemists, and by Dr. Williams’ Medicine Com-
pany, Sydney, who will forward, post paid, on
receipt of stamps or post order, one box for 2s. 9d.
or half-dozen for 14s. 9d. They are unrivalled as
a tonic for both sexes.*
*rrarir
G^OftCg,
us
£
Lh
B-
>3
on 1 "/*
mwz
&
&
ST'x'
2cO"^
7*5
■93
lJ
U
aJI
V?
<5
V>.
VIH
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy ? You say schmoke siqnet
tobacco oyly. I never smoke any other tobacco."
Pr(ii)k€QQe4s
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can be given secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot .be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Euerasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
li stories), Is. 3d.


Stocktaking Closing Out Cash
Sale of Winter Goods
—AT—
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
IS NOW ON.
Goods in every Department are substantially
reduced for this Closing Out Sale.
ORDERS should be sent EARLY, with a
careful description of requirements, naming
prices wished to be paid, and enclosing remittance
to cover amount. Any change over after execut-
ing orders will at once be refunded, and
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
may rely upon getting the benefit of all reductions,
and goods nearest in price to those mentioned.
Drapery Goods of the value of £2 and upwards
that can go by Parcels Post, with the excep-
tion of certain heavy or bulky low-priced
lines, are sent by us to any Parcels Post Office
in the colony POSTAGE FREE.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank
Drafts and Cheques payable to
Finney, Isles & Co.,
Brisbane.
?
In the...
Rain Storm
the man got very wet. The wetting
gave him a cold. The cold, neglected,
developed to a cough. The cough
sent him to a bed of sickness. A dose
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, taken at
the start, would have nipped the cold
in the bud and saved the sickness,
suffering, and expense. The house-
hold remedy for colds, coughs, and all
lung troubles, is
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co.,
LOWELL, MASS., U. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
«2r- Beware of cheap imitations. The
name Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
POR SAW-CULLEfiING, PLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, and GENERAL
TOOL GRINDING,
Th.e Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Intelligent Artizans.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
EMGUNTEERS,
GENERAE machinery merchants,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As _ unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €rt)brocatioi).
In the prosecution of a woman in Bris-
bane (Q.) for selling half (return) railway-tickets,
Crown counsel said : “ The reason that action has
not been taken before is because women have been
principally engaged in the business.” Er, the
man wot lays his hand upon a female, save in the
way of kindness, is not worthy of the name of an
Australian civil servant.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Dear Bulletin, —The system of starting
trains at the Redfern death-trap is not a matter
of signals only. Yesterday I saw a man leaning
out of the signal-box shouting and gesticulating
at the driver of an outgoing passenger train, who
stopped in consequence. Immediately after a
detached locomotive steamed under the Regent-
street bridge and along the line which the out-
going train was about to take.—T.D.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Victorian general election is due in Octo-
ber, so the new Parliamentary session is to last
two months only. In that brief period Isaacs
hopes to push through the Federation Bill ; a new
insolvency law; a law to abolish the unclean
dairies which spread typhoid in and around Mel-
bourne ; a measure, something after the manner of
the Companies Act, to make life assurance societies
go straight; and several smaller items. If Isaacs
manages all this in two months, then he will stand
out conspicuously as one of the strong men of Aus-
tralian politics. The N.S.W. Assembly, maun-
dering along under the feeble leadership of
Brunker and Carruthers, has been two months in
session and has just finished Clause 1 of the Feder-
ation Bill. Said clause 1 merely says: “This Act may
be cited as the Constitution of the Commonwealth
of Australia.” The Council hasn’t even got so far
as clause 1. And there are only two months left
now ! !
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
“ Medicus ” writes thus interestingly and
suggestively re Ramornie (N.S.W.) meat-pre-
serving works: —
The lately-enlarged and improved Ramornie (near
Grafton, N.S.W.) meat-works are in full blast, and,
if cattle can be secured, the season’s output will be the
largest to date. On one recent day, 168 bullocks were
killed, and the weekly average is about 900. The pro-
prietors have just signed with the great English firm of
Crosse and Blaokwell for the supply of 72 tons of meat
extract, at 4s. per lb. People who have been paying 2s.
and 2s. 6d. for a microscopic pot of “ Liebig’s,” will see
from this that there must be a pretty fair margin of profit
to the Baron’s firm, which simply buys the extract from
meat-works all over the world, and, “blending” to uniform
grade and strength with fat, sells it over its own label.
In former years the blood from the slaughtered beasts
was discharged into the River Orara, and as this stream
has but little fall from the works to where it joins the
Clarence, the refuse simply moved down and up with the
ebb and flow of the tide. As the weather grew hot and
the refuse accumulated the smell was, to say the least,
not nice ; neither was the river the sort of clear, pellucid
stream that poets rave about. This season the blood is
mixed with sawdust and sulphuric acid, and thus con-
verted into manure. The blood was the only waste pro-
duct, and now positively not an ounce of the beast goes
to waste. Many people who have lived within 20
miles of the works all their lives have never seen
them, hence have no shadow of an idea of the immense
value of the industry. The writer doubts if there
is in N.S.W. to-day a business investment that in any way
approaches Ramornie as a paying concern. The place is a
veritable hive of industry. All the timber for cases and
casks is sawn on the flat and made up on the premises by
contract. In fact everything in connection with the
operation of turning a bullock into tinned meat is done by
contract, so that the proprietors can tell to a farthing
what every tin of meat and every pound of extract costs.
Electric-light is installed throughout, and up-to-date
machinery is the rule. Many of the employes have been
years at the works—in fact, many of them were born
there, and they are steady, well-to-do men. The writer
was present last year during the visit of the Govt, inspec-
tor. As the inspector (a doctor) “cut down”— i.e., con-
demned—beast after beast, it was astonishing to see
the look on the face of the sellers of the cattle who
happened to be present. One fellow, as the inspec-
tor “cut down” the sixth out of a mob of 100 or
so, shrieked, “Great God, man, you will ruin me 1
What shall I do?” What he did do was to meet
the doctor as that gentleman returned from break-
fast, and, taking him aside, whisper as he tried to thrust
“ something that rustled ” into his hand, “ I say, can’t
you go a bit easy on those cattle ? I’ll make it square
with you.” The inspector’s “remarks” in reply were
brief, but full of vim. “ Well,” sorrowfully remarked tie
cattleman, “ anyway, keep the fiver, and if you will only
cut down one more for my brother-in-law than you did for
me, I’ll think the money well spent. The confounded fellow
has been grinning at me all the morning, and I want to
have a throw at him.”
€3-0 I*o HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
SI QUEEN ST., MELBOUMNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London, E.C.
M‘GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes ... 10/- and 12/6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 86, and 10 6 „
KROPP BRAND 6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 6/-, 6/-, 7/6, 10,6
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 5/- upwards.
'PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
~ L getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW IVI‘GEE, Hairdresser, See.,
4 5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Afsties
VC
-FOR—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
PMRoT
WLYpTur
\Pu Fl piUr°K*
3P<?aiMs \voumdc
(pVGHS (OLPS tc*
[Beware of >
/MITATI°mS
IELLIHS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. ii.uLiorT Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co •
John Connell & Co., Ltd.
iQdoao Art Malefactors.
WHOLESALE AND RET ATT.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in. to 53in. wide, 5f to 61yd
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 7yds.
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 10 to 12yd
in piece. Price, Rs. 6/8 to Rs. 15/- piece.
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in. wide, 8 to 12yds
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wid
Price—White, 4 annas and 6 pies yard.
~ Colored Stripes, 5 annas
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 18in., length 9yd
Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syd
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Mates; Retail Prices are G i
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work, Sand:
Wood Boxes, &c., &e., Bombay and Cutch Wort
and all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplie
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the E
change current, or reference for payment to ar
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency
India. G-. Gr. WHITE & CO.,
45 Radha Bazaar-st., CALCUTTA.
Tales of the convict system
Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing- demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Kucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
the drum
in POSITION,
Peafi>ess
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relied
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String-.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
R
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a g’reat
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52. Park-st. P.O.
LAST
O F
SIX
T
H E
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.


FISHES, & CO’S
MATRICARIA
(REGISTERED).
VvH
A
r
Y't.
UNSURPASSED
For Children Cutting their Teeth, and the various
Slight Derangements incident to Infancy.
DOSE.—Under six months, half a powder, dry on the
tongue, every three hours; above six months, one powder,
ary on the tongue, every three hours. If the child is in
much pain, or very restless, a few doses may be given everv
one or two hours.
In Boxes, Is. Three Boxes for 2s. 6d.
Postage extra, Id.
TEE PUREST AND MOST EFFECTIVE POWDER
KNOWN TO SCIENCE.
Wholesale from Elliott Bros., Aust. Drug
Compy., Hoppnung’s, and any other Wholesale
House,
also,
At tbc Pbarnjacy,
837 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite G.P.0.).
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. 6d. NATIVE WA-
RATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding covers,
price 2s.
J. ALBERT & SON,
Largest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments and
spectacles. Illustrated Catalogue of Violins, Accordeons,
Cornets, Mandolines, Music, etc., posted free on applica-
tion- 118 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes J
nwra
Ou
o o=To
Send P. 0.0, for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoq’s Noted Accordeoo&,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown ;
8 Walkartt, North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
w. i<\ coxoisr a co., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash,&o. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Mouth Organs (Jtone), from 6d.
tol guinea,great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOW ARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
HOWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
HOWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Elat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
p€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED,
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated
Comfort-
Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
W 6 Collins-street, MELBOriUXK
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO defy compexitiokt.
WINES
The. Bed Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
H : -t——--
Ispf;
I
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Cold, jjilver, Dead $ Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
§tttp>ttt PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SI ? P ? U ¥ C AC ?P MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemoee, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being m the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
A Barometer
... of Trade
IS THE TYPEWRITER BUSINESS.
IT QUICKLY RESPONDS TO IM-
PROVED CONDITIONS. THIS
LENDS GENERAL INTEREST TO
THE FACT THAT
n?ore
Remington...
Standard Typewriters
were sold in the month of March, 1897, than in any previous month in its history.
Ihe NEW MODEL No. 7 has many Late Improvements.
Catalogues Free.
STOTT & HOARE, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Ada ii7s Tatt?rsall Hotel,
PITT ST., SlTlDilSriEir.
AdanjS Cafs, Street.
*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
SPLENDID A CCOMMODA TION.
TEEMS: EDOM Bs. PER DAY.
VISLTOES CAN DINE IN HOTEL OH CAEE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
RELIEF
from
GOUGH
HAY MAN'S
m
TEN
MINUTES
sitops Cold, Cores Cough.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepare only by A. HAYMAN & Co.. London. Price is. i*d. and 2s. 9 d.
NEVER CAUGHT A COLD
FISHER AND CO.’S
Fan>oCiS Natara
(KECIISTERED)
CURES - - The Mead,
CURES - - The Throat,
CURES - - The Chest.
Once Tried, always Recommended for
COLDS, COUGHS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH,
<&c., &c.
A MOST CERTAIN REMEDY, UNRIVALLED FOR
QUICR ACTION AND IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
One DOSE BELIEVES. One BOTTLE CURES.
PLEASANT TO THE TASTE.
Arthur Cocks and Co.,
Wholesale Opticians, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I was persuaded to try your Natara re-
cently whilst suffering from a heavy cold, and its effect
was far beyond my expectations. One dose effected a
marked improvement, and next day I had fullv recovered
from the cold, after taking four doses. It “is the best
remedy I have ever used.—Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR COCKS.
Manufactured only by the Proprietors,
FISHER AND CO.,
WHOLESALE CHEMISTS AND
DRUGGISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Is. 6d. and 2s. (id. per Bottle ;
By Post, 6d. and Bd. Extra.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WHEN IN TOWN
CAN OBTAIN SINGLE DOSES, 3d. per dose.
To be had from all Chemists and Storekeepers in the
Colonies. Beware of Imitations, and insist upon being
served with NATARA, and no other Cough Mixture.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Sydney nd Parramatta:
PATTINSON (all shop ).
Wholesale from —Elliott Brothers; Australian Drug
Company ; Hoffnung’s; Feldheim, Gottlielf and Co. ; or
any other Wholesale House.
TAT TO O OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Reti Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking*
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide
Representative : J. 0. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.'
Pubications.
Greo. Robertson & 00.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale 2s Retail Booksellers 2s Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies' Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English & Colonial Celebritie
"EXENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
~~ and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert Ie Diable,’’
rr.n r< ?. wn ® lamo,lds >” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE. ’
“ Friends no Longer*” s Tou R N y ! u f^
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox These Popular Songs,
Ocl. each, of all dotilGisj. Cutßloffuss of Hundrpflti Af
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. each, Post Free
from the Publishers. ’
Paxton. & 00., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, AIELItOIIKNE.
LYRICS
°f Shakespeare and Browning set
to Music by Arthur Chanter Mn« p Q rt
“TAKE, OH, TAKE THOSE LIPS AWAY " '
“THERE’S A WOMAN LIKE A DEWOROP » ' -
Melbourne 11111 MUM ° SellerB, Publishers, ALLAN & CO„


LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Tl>€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORP STREET.
Ladies'
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBING Sor CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W H Wigzell, no Williaui-st. Only, Sydney.
Whitehead’s
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store: Washington-st., pu.u TT
near Druitt-street. ■
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“Triumph.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
A SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
Aipericao Injport Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Leading Warehouses.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY CURED BY . .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
rpHOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
i ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Cough, Difficulty of Breathing:,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as 1 continued the treatment, until I
became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney,”
“Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.—J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“Mr. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never coughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a.friend of mine to try it; he did so, and it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too widely known :
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in threaten'd
along back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Sir, —Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M‘BEAN, Carlton.”
“Dear Sir,—l had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“Dear Sir,—Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doin'*
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Age of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. After taking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed .by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Small size, 2s. 6d.; large, 4s. 6d. Sold
Medicine Vendors. Forward bv post to any address when not obtainable locally.
Chemists and
Business, Bobbery, etc.
r>«ar Bulletin, — I see that a correspondent
complains of the Sydney fruit agents. Hobart middle-
are iust as slippery. Some fruit-buyers’ weights are
percent short of true weight. The same in other
r ph I knew a man who sent several cargoes of bark to
wnhart He coifldn’t understand why it weighed so light,
fnd came up with one consignment to see fair play He
™.fnhed the bark as it was carted from the wharf and
weighed, and put a chalk mark under every dray. Each
drav-load was weighed on a weigh-bridge and one dray
weighed separately to get the nett weight That dray
was a very heavy one, the others much lighter. When
the carting was done he interviewed that bark-buyer and
afd severfl things. The buyer tried to bluff it off but
the seller took him into the yard, and showed his chalk-
marks The buyer paid hush-money. Of course, he was
a pillar of the church. They always are A favorite
dodge of some commission-agents it to sell the produce as
soon as it reaches them and report it as unsold. The
farmer then gets an advance on his produce. Some months
hence the stuff is “ sold ” and the farmer gets a little bill,
commission on selling, storage, and interest on money
advanced. The agent thus makes four profits, where he
is entitled only to one :-(l) commission on sale; (2)
storage (3) interest on advance ; (4) interest on price of
the produce which has been, for 6 months, in the agents
bank instead of the farmer’s. And yet they talk about
sleepy Hobart.—Ybllowbush. # #
His little niece in Scawtlan’ sent a Brisbane
(O ) man per parcels post, three pairs of hand-knitted
woollen socks. The P.O. demanded 9d., as Customs duty,
before delivery. Being Scawtch, the addressee replied,
declining to pay 9d., as the socks were for personal use
and not for sale, barter, or exchange, and that, had they
come out in a passenger’s luggage, they would have been
admitted free; also, that all postal rates had been fully
prepaid. The P.O. corresponded with the Customs ; the
Customs replied ; and, three weeks after, Mac. was in-
formed that 9d. was insisted on. Bein’ vera Scawtch, ye
ken, he wrote to the Home-Secretary, asking to be relieved
of the impost. The Home-Secretary sent the letter on to
the Treasury Department, and, finally, the Treasury in-
formed Mac. that it couldn’t let him off the 9d. Mac.
paid, but, when his heart’s blood had oozed out drop by
drop, till the tally of 9 was called, he joyously exclaimed
“ Hech ! mon ; ut’s scaur’d me o’ auchteen bawbees, but
Aw wunner hoo mony bawbees it’s been until they chiels
at the Post Office, the Customs, an’ the Treasury? Aboot
saxteen poon’s stairlin’, I reckon. Let’s hae a dram.”
* * • *
It does not need a big stretch of imagination to
admit the possibility of a £500,000 tote on Melb. Cup, but
of this £450,000 would go to the backers of the winning
horse, £lO,OOO to charity, and £40,000 as added money to
the prize. The winning owner, without risking a shilling
in bets, could land a pile. But there’s no fizz or diamonds
in the whole £500,000 for Ikey Mo.
* * * •
Where is the political genius who will propose
to abolish all legal claims for debt on articles of con-
sumption involving an amount over £2 ? The publican
has been wisely limited as to the extent of his legally
recoverable credit, and has learned to live happily within
the scope of his powers. The fear that poor people would
starve for want of necessaries if grocer and baker were
similarly tied down is more imaginary than real. Grocer
and baker don’t go beyond £2 except when they see a
prospect; and habitually the publican exceeds his limit
where he sees a prospect. But grocer and baker can go
on to any amount, with the prospect in one eye and the
bailiff in the other, and when the prospect dissolves can
roar down like a lion on the debtor’s household, while the
publican wipes off his slate all over the limit and says no
more about it.
* * * . *
Australian banks continue their silly practice of
shipping good gold coin to England instead of worn coin.
Coin w’orn within certain limits is now being redeemed
at par by the Bank of England. By shipping worn coin
the local banks will rid themselves of a disagreeable
burden, without adding to the difficulties of exchange
operations. In Australia, the traditional policy of
penalising the last holder of a light sovereign is, of course,
still in force—and it is the banks which have to bear the
brunt of the law. Consequently, in their clearing-house
transactions they are always trying to work off their dis-
credited accumulations on one another. In Australia the
sovereign is only legal tender within a legally restricted
“remedy”— i.e., it is only a piece of bullion when it is
so many grains light. The Bank of England, acting in
conjunction with the British Government, has extended
this remedy—and it is the Australian banks’ opportunity,
if they only had the sense to grasp it. The integrity of
the currency is a responsibility which should fall on the
State, though it is but recently that Britain has recog-
nised the fact, and then only in a half-hearted way. Soon
Australia will look after its own currency, and will not be
wet-nursed by English officialdom as at present. The
new Japanese coinage law makes the State responsible
for the integrity of the metal currency.
* * * *
The monotony of organ-reoitals and services at
the Anglican Church, Charters Towers, is now varied by
the blowing and blasting and dynamiting and other things
in the Daj-Dawn Church Land Co.’s ground adjoining,
where a shaft is being sunk hard by the church building.
The Anglicans in the early days sold their underground
mineral rights to a syndicate of would-be knowing ones,
who tried in vain to coerce the Block and Wyndham
people into buying them out at fancy prices when it was
known that a rich shoot was traced under the church
land. The famous encroachment case and its unexpected
turn were the result. Now, a co. formed by the syndicate
has a shaft down 284 ft., and endless complications arising
from a co-mingling of the exhortations of the parson in
the church and the sanguinary objurgations of the brace-
man at the shaft are extremely probable.
* * * *
Arbitration proceedings between the Rock-
hampton (C.Q.) Harbor Board and the Municipal Council
cost £5898 17s. Id. (Note the penny !) A lawsuit would
probably have cost less than half. Explanation—bar-
risters were imported into the arbitration proceedings,
which thus became an arbitration plus a lawsuit. No
lawyer is wanted within a mile of an arbitration.
• * • •
The credit-foncier-life assurance business now
being done by a local co. was suggested by the contract
of the great Credit Foncier of France with an insurance
co., whereby if the borrower dies before the expiration of
the term of his loan his property becomes unencumbered
and at the disposal of his heirs. Another French insur-
ance proposal involves building-society business on analo-
gous lines.
* * * *
More than one lucky ballotress in the Richmond
Downs, Clermont way (Q.), land-selections admitted,
candidly, to the Land Court which examined into com-
plaints against bona-fides, that they had no intention of
leaving their wage-earning situations, but merely applied
for selections because —well, “because.” The girls were
on the gamble, and knew that a big squatter was ready
to purchase and pay handsomely. One girl—a milliner—
would rather that the examining lawyer “ would not
arst ” whether she wanted to get married. The Land
Court gently relieved the ladies of the land they had thus
won in the non-prohibited tote.
* * * *
One of the grievances placed before Q. Mining
Commission related to “foreign companies,” the in-
stances cited being Sydney companies. Workmen have
been diddled out of wages. It was useless for them to
sue the mining managers, as these were merely paid
servants, and the deputation asked that foreign com-
panies should each be compelled to “have a registered
office in the province, with property or cash to cover one
month’s wages.”
* * * *
The Vic. Mines Minister makes a comparison
between the capital of Yic. mines floated in London and
those dealt with locally. The average capital of local co’s
is £34,000 ; that of London ones over £lOO,OOO. Says the
Minister: “ It is quite reasonable to assume that a mine
might pay fair divs. on a capital of £40,000, used solely
for developing such mine, but would inevitably be a
failure on a capital of £lOO,OOO, £60,000 of which passed
into the hands of the brokers as commission for floating.
■ When the English capitalists recognise the force of this
assumption, and act on it, they will find that Yic. gold-
fields afford almost unlimited scope for profitable invest-
ment.” But this same old sermon has been preached for
many a year, and Bull won’t listen to it. As long as the
system lasts, working mines by co’s must be an absolute
failure as an average. When oo’s buy and work mines as
individuals would, then the industry will succeed. But,
did anyone ever see an individual mine-buyer who bought
and worked mines himself ? We often hear of him, but
where is he ? George Lansell is about as near an approach
to a mine-buyer as the writer knows of, and he seldom
buys alone.
* • * *
Dear Bulletin,— -Why cannot the Postal
Union arrange for the issue of international stamps,
which could be used to frank out-going letters, or be con-
vertible into cash, on a sliding scale of commission,
within the Union ? In these days of universal travel and
correspondence, both old and new business would benefit.
In Sydney no more than lOd.-worth of British stamps can
be obtained from the G.P.O. without extra charge ! For
any excess the commission imposed is 2d. on every sd.
worth : and private competition is prohibited by law. Is
this not tyrannical idiocy? The P.O. objects to the idea,
from a mistaken notion that it would be impossible to es-
timate the sales apportionable to each province or country,
and to adjust the international accounts; but a small
private mark on each stamp would easily secure that es-
sential.—Yours, &c., Ron.
» • * •
Kalgoorlie, so far the leading goldfields town, is
threatened with a rival in the Boulder, a new and rapidly-
growing township. Its proximity to the big mines ensures
the settlement of a large population. Kalgoorlie is
solicitous for the welfare of the young town, and offers to
build tram-lines to it from Kalgoorlie railway station, but
the Boulderites see in this proposal a plot to bolster up
Kalgoorlie at their expense, and have resolved not to
“ take any."
* * • *
The W.A. Govt, has considerably backed down
on its proposal to erect public batteries. In March the Pre-
mier said it had decided to erect mills on the different
centres throughout the province. Now the Acting-Premier
says : “ It was not the intention of Govt, to erect batteries
at any centre as permanent institutions. All contemplated
was the construction of small batteries of from three to
five heads in centres remote from existing mills. Govt,
does not intend to afford any means of relief to those
prospectors who are' now prevented from crushing by the
prices charged by private mills, and no battery at all will
be erected within radius of at least 30 miles of any works
now in existence.” What, too, has become of the pro-
posal in the same direction made last year by the N.S.W.
Mines Minister?
• * * *
Strong-rooms in interprovincial steamers ridi-
culously belie their names, and it would be as well to put
up a notice asking passengers not to sneeze in the vicinity
for fear of shaking the hinges off the doors. On one
steamer, from which bullion was stolen many years ago,
it was the custom to keep the spare stock of deck mats
with the bullion, but, as this led to loss of mats, the cus-
tom was dropped.
* * * =N
A bigmoneyed man was lately bowled out attach-
ing already-obliterated 2d. stamps to receipts; for the better
covering of his deception he again obliterated the stamp
most effectively with a widely-barred rubber stamp. The
case was squared privately.
In the Vic. public departments this winter the
fires of the bosses are of N.S.W. coal, while the ordinary
clerks are warmed with the cheaper Vic, article.
Thus an exchange :
The Hon. George Thornton is a store-house of Australian
fact and incident. He remarked to a gentleman, the
other day, that while at school in old St. James’s, Sydney,
he saw as many as 22 prisoners in a day walk down the
steps sentenced to death. He also remarked that he
twice saw seven men standing for execution on a public
gallows in Sydney, and many times saw four or five men
five men often—on the gallows, awaiting the final dread
ceremony.
The seven men alluded to were the men hanged
for the Myall Creek massacre, and the Jewboy’s
gang. The boys of the time (1838 and 1842) could
see the hangings from the rocks behind the old
gaol in Lower George-street.
Pirimona.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PiKIMONA was a half-caste. His baptistnal name
was Philemon, but “ Pirimona ” is as near as the
Maori tongue can get to the original Greek. He
lived alone in a two-roomed frame-house, just out-
side the kainga.
He was a pattern for all good Maoris to copy ;
the “ show ” Christian of the kainga; the mis-
sionary’s pet convert.
In course of time Pirimona married. That
made two in the frame-house.
He chose well —a rangatira woman, who had
unquestioned rights to large tracts of land. But
she bore Pirimona no children.
He said it was her fault, but she denied the
soft impeachment. So matters lay dormant for
quite five years. Then Pirimona grew restive,
for the title to the land had been granted, and no
heir put in an appearance. Once every week at
least, or whenever the subject obtruded itself,
Pirimona would taunt his wife with being
pakoko. At last she became angry, and told
Pirimona that the fault was his own.
Pirimona swore big blatant English oaths —
there are none in Maori —and went away to a
kainga 30 miles off.
In a week or so he returned with two young
wahine, each carrying a big basket of kumeras
for Pirimona’s wife. These wahine were to be
handmaidens to that great lady, a,nd hoahoa for
Pirimona —if he so wished. They did all the cook-
ing and cleaning, and were very merry. That
made four in the frame-house.
But one night, first one girl slipped out of the
house and vanished into the darkness, and soon
after the other girl followed. They woke Pirimona
and his wife out of their sleep.
The two hoahoa girls did not come back that
night. But in the morning they appeared,
smiling, at the door of the frame-house, and asked
Pirimona to “come and see.”
They led him and the rangatira woman down to
the stream, and there showed them two new-born
piccaninnies lying in the thick grass, blinking at
their first sun.
Pirimona’s wife stormed and raged. But Piri-
mona only laughed, and the hoahoa girls smiled
contentedly, and the two brown piccaninnies went
on blinking at the sun till their young mothers
took them up and cuddled them to their bosoms.
Pirimona said it was whakamiharo, wonderful,
that his two sons should arrive on the samemorning.
That made six in the frame-house.
When the missionary -tohunga came to remon-
strate with Pirimona, that made seven. ,
Seven is the perfect number.
M.L.
ALFRED A. GRACE.


A MIRACULOUS CURB IN SYDNEY.
GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS
CURE A LADY AFTER
HOSPITALS AND DOCTORS SAID SHE WAS INCURABLE.
A Miracle in Sydney.
SUFFERED FOR THIRTY-FIVE YEARS.
TERRIBLE STORY OF A SYDNEY
LADY.
Had a disease that baffled the most skilled phy
sioians and hospital authorities —sickness com-
menced with a weakened digestion and liver
trouble—liver became congested, and kidneys
acted involuntarily. Doctors were consulted with-
out avail; said her case was hopeless—circulation
became very bad —legs began to get numb and
lifeless. At times the power to move would be
lost entirely. After suffering for 35 years and
everything failing, Gould’s Liver Pills were re-
sorted to, with the results given below.
Mrs. Gilbert, wife of Mr. J. Gilbert, of 187
Abercrombie-street, Chippendale, Sydney, who
Nas for the past 35 years been constantly under
medical treatment, and told by doctors and hos-
pital authorities that they could not cure her, but
MRS. JOHN gilbert’s PHOTO.
(Djes not look as if she was dying.)
only relieve her pains for a short time, was called
on by a representative to get patticulars of her
case.
Mrs. Gilbert proved to be a jovial, pleasant,
little lady, who readily expressed her willingness
to give the reporter all information concerning her
long siege of illness and recovery from the same.
After stating that she had been born in Gloucester,
England, and that she had been in the colonies 13
years, she proceeded with her story as follows :
About 35 years ago [Mrs. Gilbert is 55 years of age
now], I began to have some very distressing
symptoms of ill-health ; my stomach would become
distended, and a sour, bitter stuff would keep
coming up into my mouth. I had terrible pains in
my right side and back, and at times I suffered
from terrible bursting headaches. After a while
my circulation became very bad, and my limbs
would get numb and lifeless. Doctors differed as
to the cause: one said I had Bright’s disease;
another, congestion of the liver; another said it
was dropsy. Sometimes my kidneys would act
involuntarily ; and, again, the pains in my back
would become so unbearable that I could not sleep.
About this time we moved from the Old Country
to Sydney, and all the way out from England I
was sick; and instead of the voyage doing me
good I was in bed when we anchored. This was
13 years ago. Since then the sufferings I have
gone through are beyond description. The cold-
ness and loss of life in my legs continued to get
worse, and at times I would lose all power to move
them until they were thoroughly rubbed and the
circulation restored. Sometime I would be stand-
ing at the edge of a table, and start to walk away,
and my legs would utterly refuse to act ; again, I
would wake up at night, and have to call someone
to rub ray body before I could move. My digestion
at this time was in a terrible state, and I was
continually vomiting up sour bitter stuff, and
belching wind. At times, my head would feel as
if the ceiling was pressing down on it, and I felt
as if I was suffocating, and must be carried into
the fresh air; my heart would flutter, and a cold
feeling come over me, just like death. I often
thought I would be stricken with paralysis, so
numb and helpless would my limbs become. I
have consulted some of the best physicians in
Sydney and at home, have also attended"the Prince
Alfred Hospital, Sydney, but only to get ease for
a time. Patent medicines and everything I have
tried with the same results, until a few weeks ago
my son brought home some Gould’s Tiny Tonic
Liver Pills, which I resolved to try. I followed
the directions very closely, with the result I have
derived such benefit from them that I feel a new
being, am energetic, full of life, and have lost all
that drowry, listless feeling ; feel years younger,
my appetite has increased, and I fully enjoy my
meals ; and 1 may say that I feel like a new woman
through and through. Would I object to have
this published ? No. 1 should like to let every
sufferer in the world know what I owe to Gould ; s
Pills.
+
Constipation More Terrible
than the Black Blague .
Centuries ago, people used to fear what they
called the pestilence. “ Black Death ” was the
most terrible thing in the world to them. They
feared it as the people now fear the Cholera and
Yellow Fever. And yet there is a more terrible
thing than any of these. It is the commonest
trouble that human beings suffer from. It is so
common that nine-tenths of all the sick-
ness in the world is traceable to it. It is
merely that simple, common thing—constipation.
There is no telling what it may lead to, but it is
sure to lead to something bad. Its immediate
effects are unpleasant in the extreme. It makes
people listless, gives them headaches, makes the
digestion poor, causes dizziness, loss of appetite,
loss of sleep, foul breath, and distress after eating.
All this merely because Nature has been imposed
upon, and has been refused the little help she
needed.
This little help is furnished by Gould’s Tiny
Tonic Liver Pills. You take them until you get
yourself into perfect working order, and then you
stop. You don’t have to take any more, Pills unless
after a while you do • something that deranges
your digestive system again. We are not guess-
ing about these facts, and we don’t ask you to
take our unsupported word for it. Doctors have
found that they are true, and have testified to
them. Let the druggist who says that something
else is “ iust as good ” sell that something else to
somebody else. Don’t let him trifle with your
health for the sake of a little more profit to himself.
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are a specific for
billiousness, constipation, headache, indigestion,
piles, face pimples, fullness after eating, female
ailments, pale and sallow complexion, general
weakness, debility, kidney and liver troubles, and
a number of other disagreeable ailments that are
the results of improper food and neglect.
If your chemist or dealer does not stock Gould’s
Pills a bottle will be forwarded (post paid) on re-
ceipt of stamps or post order for 2s. fid., or half-
dozen for 13s. fid., by addressing the Australian
branch of
E. A. GOULD, SONS, & CO.,
Box 1204, Sydney, N.S.W.
' +
Condemned to Death.
Mr. Hutchinson, of King-street, Newcastle,
chemist and druggist, was called on by a repre-
sentative of a Sydney paper to get some in-
formation regarding his marvellous recovery
from a long and severe illness. Mr. Hutchin-
son said, m answer to our inquiry, that he
was fifty-two years of age on January last, and
that during the last nine years he had been a great
sufferer from liver trouble, which got so bad that
his skin became perfectly yellow, and he was so
weak that he could scarcely walk. He suffered
also from terrible pains in the shoulders, and had
awful splitting headaches. At times he would
become terribly depressed in spirits, and felt that
he was at death’s door. Mr. Hutchinson continued
this way for years, and notwithstanding the fact
that he tried every possible remedy, and consulted
vs - /'
k m
\7
m
ME. HUTCHINSON AFTER HIS CURE.
the best physicians in Australia, he continued to
get worse, until in desperation, hearing of the
marvellous cures that Gould’s Pills had wrought
in others, he decided to give them a trial. The
following letter written by Mr. Hutchinson him-
self, which we give, would prove that a really
marvellous cure has been effected in his case. Mr.
Hutchinson s letter reads as follows :
“King-st., Newcastle, Peb. 4th, 1897.
“ Messrs. Gould, Sons & Co.
‘ Dear Sirs, —I was a great sufferer for many
years with Congestion of the Liver and Constipa-
tion. My skin got quite yellow, and I suffered
from loss of appetite, depression of spirits, &c.,
&c. 1 was under three of the leading Sydney
physicians, and was told to give up my professional
duties and go into a hospital, which I did, going
to Walker’s Hospital, Parramatta. I was five
weeks there, but only got worse, and came out to
die I was recommended to try Gould’s Liver
Pills, and taking the Pills, I commenced to im-
prove, and in a short time I was quite recovered.
•*- j i? 11s are really good, gentle in their action,
and there is no griping. It seems strange that a
chemist could not help himself, but the medicines
calomel, &c. I took only gave me temporary
relief. (Signed) 3
S. Hutchinson, Registered Chemist.
The Gallants of England.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
t During the Jubilee celebrations an attempt was made
to muster the survivors of the armies of the Crimea and
Indian Mutiny scattered throughout England. The
Prince of Wales reviewed the old soldiers, and presented
each with a Jubilee pipe and a small quantity of tobacco.
Much surprise was expressed when it was discovered that
nearly all the men answered from workhouses, poor-
houses, &c.”]
O, remnant of regiments long scattered
By death in the din
Of battles where squadrons were shattered—
Roll up and fall in !
The deeds that you did shed their lustre
On England, and she —you can trust her
To give fair reward. To the muster—
Roll up and fall in !
Survivors of red Balaclava,
Of fierce Inkerman;
Of those cooped in Lucknow to starve, or
Who cleared the Redan —
Stand forward ! The nation you bled for,
And faced fire and bayonet and lead for—
The nation you piled up your dead for
Calls, “Muster, who can ! ”
What matter though feebly you falter,
Who once marched so trim ;
No feebleness surely shall alter
Your glory, nor dim
The mem’ry of deeds that were never
Surpassed since the world was, nor ever
Shall be while the sword strikes to sever
Man’s life and man’s limb !
With slow, halting footsteps and weary
Sad faces, they come
From workhouse and poorhouse and dreary
Disease-stricken slum—
A handful left over from slaughter
When blood was poured out like waste water ;
W hat fortune of war gave these quarter
When death struck those dumb ?
“ The Prince to review and reward you.”
(Your work bears its fruit.)
Remember your might with the sword you
Once wielded. “Salute!”
Then take your reward from a land full
Of gold—’tis a pipe and a hand full
Of ’bacca diluted with sand. Full
And plain lies your route !
“ Dismiss ! ” (if you like, to the devil),
Depart whence you came ;
Get hence to the poorhouse’s revel
And there bless the name
Of the Prince and the nation you bled for,
And faced fire and bayonet and lead for—
The workhouse is what you were bred for—
Your meed is your fame.
Upper Derwent (Tas.).
W.A.A.
A Tale of Jubilee .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fp ear Bullktin, —A man came into our ward last night,
and, after they had eased his pain, this is the story he
told.— Hermes.]
Lobd bless you ! Charity is mostly advertise-
ment, and nearly all the Jubilee grub went to
them as wanted it least. Anyone can live well
on charity in Sydney if they only likes to crawl
enough fur it. If yer don’t crawl yer can damn-
well starve.
“ I bin down on me back ten weeks with some-
thin’ wrong with me stumick—can’t keep any
food on it; look at me legs, like pipe-steins.
Terrible, ain tit ? Well, while I was downed, the
wife bucked round ; did scrubbing, washing,
needle-work, and anything she could get, to keep
us—there’s three kids, you know. But ’twas no
go. She’d pawned everything we could get ’em
to take ; we’d done-in two landlords, and then I’m
blessed if we could make tucker of it. So
she says to me, ‘ It’s no good ; I must go and see
some of the people that gives out charity.’
“So she goes to boss Creer, but Joey he ain’t
giving out charity to women, only to men as could
work for it; and he scratches his nose and, says he,
‘l’m sorry; but I can’t do anything; yer’ll have
to go to the Benevolent Asylum, and they’ll help
yous there.’
“So she paddles round to the Benevolent, but
there was such a dam crowd of cows there that
she couldn’t stand the slack, and chucked it and
comes home. Well, we had no tucker, and it was
after 4 o’clock in the afternoon, and no chance
of gettin’ any till next morning; and the kids—■
poor little devils ! —-was howlin’ with hunger.
“It was a miserable night, and next morning the
wife gets up early and goes to another charity
place and asks the bloke wot runs the show for
somethin’ to eat. And he says, polite-like;
‘ Madam, I carn’t do anythin’ for yous unless you
brings me a reference.’
“ Says she : ‘ I’ll soon do that.’
“ And home she comes and gets a-searchin’ in
an old box for the reference from her last place
afore I married her. She was a cook and laun-
dress afore we got spliced. Well, she gets the
reference and away she goes, but when she got
back the bloke was out, and, what was worse,
wouldn’t be back till two o’clock.
“So she waits till two, when the bloke comes
back, and she steps in and gives him the reference,
and he reads it and, says he : ‘ Here ; what’s all this
about ? I don’t want a cook and laundress ! ’
“ Says she : ‘ Please, sir, it’s the reference you
told me to get.’
“ ‘No! no ! me good woman ! I didn’t mean
this. You must get a recommendation from a
supsgriber to this society.’
“ ‘ Where'll I find ’em ?’ says she.
“ Says he, ‘ That, madam, it ain’t my business
to inform you.’ So she comes away and gets
pitching about it to some other women, and they
tells her ’bout a doctor and a lawyer what wuz
supsgribers. So she starts off to the doctor’s, and
tells the gell at the door, and the gell takes her
into a great parlour and sez to her, ‘ S’pose you
write a little note, missus ; he’s bein’ consulted by
a lot of ladies, and if you wrote a little note p’r’aps
you’d get it quicker.’
“ So she wrote a little note and the gell takes it
in, but, strike me dead ! he never took no notice,
but jistwent on with the ladies, one after another,
bowin’ and scrapin’ and openin’ the door for ’em
hisself. And he kept my poor wife waitin’ an
hour an’ twenty minutes before he reads the note,
and then he roars out to the servant gell, ‘ Show
this yere pusson out an’ tell her to do some work
or go to the Benevolent Asylum.’
“ So the gell shows her out and, says she, ‘ Mis-
sus, I’m mighty sorry I haven’t any money in my
clothes. ’
“So then she goes round to the lawyer sup-
sgriber, and a clerk sees her an’ she pitches him
her tale and asks him for a reference. And he
goes in to the boss and tells him. And the boss,
he says : * Dam un ! don’t let un in here; let un
go and work.’
“And when my missus gets into the passage
she’s like to drop, and down comes a walloping big
shower of rain, and she waits in the passage for it
to clear off. In pops a crimson hay bag all rags
and dirt. She dives into the lawyer’s office and
squeals out:
“ Shelp me Gawd ! I haven’t had a bite for
four days. It hain’t myself, gents, it’s my poor
little childer hi thinks on. Doee now, sir, think
of me poor little babbies at home. Now, doee ! ’
“ ‘ I haven’t got a ticket left,’ shouts the lawyer
bloke ; ‘ take this and clear out, you drunken
wretch ! ’
‘‘‘Now, doee, sir; make it half-a-crown; a
shillin’ don’t go nowhere with bread thruppence a
loaf; an’ I want meat, an’ bread, an’ spuds, an’
wood, an’ sugar, an’ ’
“ ‘ Well, take it, then, and go to the devil; and
next time you come here I’ll run you in ; by
heavens I will! ’
“ ‘ Thankee, sir ! Yer a kind gentleman, sir,
and I hope the Lord will bless ye, sir. Couldn’t
ye just give me a little note to the ’ciety now
an’ ’
“ ‘ Ring up the police-station ! ’ shouts the
lawyer.
“ Then the old haybag scoots out larfin’.
“ He gave her harf-a-crown to get drunk on,
and wouldn’t give my poor old woman a sprat or a
line to save her and her kiddies from starvation.
Damn him !
“ You see they tell a decent pusson to go and
work, ’cause they don’t go in with their clothes
torn, and their faces grimed, and a stream of tears
running off the end of their nose.
“ How did my wife get on ? Well, I’m telling
you as fast as I can. When the old fowl comes
out of the lawyer’s my missus steps back like and
gets close to a door on the other side of the pas-
sage—she’s always very neat and tidy, my missus ;
you’ll see her on visitin’-day. Well, when she gets
close to this other door—it was another lawyer’s
office —out comes a tall, dark young fellow with a
moustache, and he says :
“ ‘ Good afternoon, madam ! Did you want to
see me ? ’
“ ‘ No, I was tryin’ to get a reference to the
Charity Society, but the gentleman who gives the
orders refused me, and now I’m waitin’ for the
rain to stop.’
“ ‘ Come inside and p’r’aps I can get yous one,’
says he.
“ Lord ! but he was a real gentleman, that chap ;
he takes her inside, and makes her sit down and
tell him about herself and the kids and me, and
then he says:
“‘Mrs. , I sympathises with you very
much.’ And he writes out a letter to take to the
charity chap, and he gives her harf-a-crown and a
lot of tram-tickets to take her home quick, and
then he gives her another letter for me to take to
a doctor what attends hisself.
“ And so she come home with some tucker 1 and
Lord 1 didn’t we eat! ’specially the kids; and
then I takes the note to the dootor, and he sends
me to the horspital, and here I am—the wife’s got
a bit of tucker on hand, too.”
Westralian Hallways .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The through express (which runs ten miles an
hour when plenty of firewood can be picked up
along the line to keep the fire going) pulled up
suddenly and heads went out of the windows
just as quickly. The guard walked along to the
engine, and a pale young man in our carriage
said he thought the pooh-hoo valve had become
complicated with the last coupling.
Then the guard came along and explained mat-
ters to the live-stock contents of each carriage. It
appears the engine had run short of water, and so
could not get up steam; as there was no water
within 30 miles, he hoped the passengers would
be good enough to produce all their drinkables,
otherwise they would have to “get out
and push.” They responded liberally, and
83 bottles of ale and porter, 7/> bottles of whisky,
17 bottles of other intoxicants, and half a bottle
of water (contributed by a clergyman) were
poured without a groan into the tank of the thirsty
engine. After 45min. delay, the express started
again and went quickly, but unsteadily, until
Diedwithfever Junction was reached. Here the
local constable, who was on the platform, viewed
the engine very suspiciously as she staggered into
the station, and, after smelling her all round for
some minutes, decided that she was unfit to be at
large, and ran her in for being drunk and dis-
orderly. This caused another delay of two hours,
when an Afghan and two camels were engaged to
take the train along until we got another engine.
Things went very well until we came to the hill
where the gold wasn’t found (rather vague when
we’re talking about W.A.), and as there were no
brakes on the carriages, away we went at about
103 miles a hour, killing the Afghan and the
camels in the first 30 yards; we went down the
hill and up the opposite hill, then down the hill
and up the opposite hill, backwards and forwards
until there was a dead stop in the gully. Then
the passengers all got out and walked to the ter-
minus, eight miles off, arriving to time 3.40 p.m.
by the time-table, but 24 hours late; everyone
cursing because of the lost grog.—A. A. A.
During a Cingalese law-suit in Mackay the
P.M. thus addressed the interpreter : “ You savee
speak ’em all the same this fellow ? ” Whereupon
the man of tongues, stately and dignified, an-
swered : “ I speak pure English, but I do not
understand the sort of English your worship
speaks.”
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and Eirst Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)


ALL OVER THE WORLD.
William C. Herbert, U. S. N,, -Takes Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with Him Everywhere. Disordered
w M oo d and Bad Stomach Cured Positively and Permanently. That is what Ayer’s Sana*
parilla did for Past Assistant Engineer Wm. C. Herbert, whose portrait is here given,
Ik
/\
A
%
y.
Mr. Herbert lias been an officer in the U. S. naval service for the past 16 years.
His duties have taken him all over the world, and he has been on a constant go for
several years, through the Dardanelles, around the famous rock of Gibraltar, in the
Mediterranean, through the Suez Canal, about the South Sea Islands, in Hawaii,
round Cape Horn, to South America, Africa—everywhere, almost, under the sun he
has cruised as a navy officer. On his return from one of liis voyages the strain told
on him. His blood was in a very bad condition, and his stomach was weakened,
and, as he says, he was “ knocked out.” Mr. Herbert says:
‘‘Although I look very hearty now, four years ago my health and physical con-
dition were anything but good. "Then it was that I found the constant knocking
about had at last told on me. My blood was very poor and my stomach as bad. I
had been cruising about in the service for a long time without any restand without
ceasing from my duties. Frequent changes in water and climate, such as I experi-
enced, will weaken and debilitate the strongest of us, and I was no exception. In
fact, I was completely run down, and when I came home my family insisted on call-
ing in the doctor. He prescribed for me and did all he could, but nothing came of
it, and I grew worse. As my blood seemed chiefly the cause of the trouble I thought
I would give Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a trial, seeing it advertised to cure such cases. I
took a bottle in an aimless sort of a fashion, but when I found it helped my stomach
and was commencing to clear my blood, too, I thought thefe might be some real
merit in it, and accordingly began on a second bottle. Well, to make a long story
short, the third completely cured me and restored me to my old-time health. My
blood was better than ever, and my stomach did not bother me in the least. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla cured me. Now I take it whenever I feel that my system needs it, and
I do not consider myself equipped for a cruise anywhere without a bottle of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. It has, I assure yoii, my hearty indorsement and recommendation.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Only True Blood-Fxrrifler.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
r HAVE YOU A COLD ?
■A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
, Try it for a Cold.
Try it for Whooping-Cough
•'■urpifae 3 to „ try your Lun * Toni °. To my most agreeable
'Solved’toTdd 1 *“ able *® °®oiate with perfect ease. I
shall Devolrbe withou2||™^ ICine my household remedies, and cer-
F. C.S. KRtENIG, Yioar of St. Barnabas, Hull.
**< ser *, : * f Jwaysifind sit invaluableftonHesHng
__ J °aN aAHaar, Pastor, P.M. Ohuroh,
Try it for Consumption.
, Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRiDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, I*. i|d., 2s. 9d. 4s gd
and Us., by all Chemist* and Patent "
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
JGLD BY THE LAYEiIS MANUFACTURING CO,, 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
1
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos r iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees_to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold. Everywhere, in. Boxes, 9|d, Is and 2s 9d each.
TALES OE THE
CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND —
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND —
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
i®” Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on reoeipt of remittance. The Trade supplied *
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HATMiEKET, SYDNEY.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
J3T* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
T 1 OLLOWAV’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
Jl I There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of su ferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factored only at 78 New Oxfo'rd-st., Loudon. Pur-
chasers s' muld look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
/--THE—'
BaflctCairf,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free JLh
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 9i:i, G.P.0., SYDiVEY.
MADAME S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application.
Tlie Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ARE—
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
03 York Street, SYDKTEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street;, MBLBOXTRKTE!.
Wortl)iQgtoi) P6n)pii}g Ei)gii)€ Con>paoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SllUpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
BC-eiat; in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH
& ICE CO.. LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE • the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King 1 Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBjUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
A-genta Everywhere.
H. PATESON, Manager.
p
ARKE & LACY COMPANY, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m acehn er y, DEaisra-jirijEis &
BOILSRS.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and Settlers.
Coarse Crushing Rolls,
Blast Furnaces.
Triumph Concentrators.
Crushing Macliinerv.
Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rook Breakers. Sample Grinders.
Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls. Krom Rolls.
Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers. HENDY’S CHALLENGE . ORE FEEDERS,
i\.m.algaxna,tiiag Machinery.
Clean-up Bans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators.
.'Seater,
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Roasting and Chi oridi zing Furnaces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES,
Concentrating Machinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Frue Vanners.
Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Machinery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
Hoisting Machinery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Pumping Machinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pumps.
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and Rock Drill Plants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &0., &0.
Blowers.
Root’s Patent, and Baker Blowers, speoially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans. Sturtevant and Huyett & Smith’s Fans
for Ventilating Purposes.
Water Wheels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS.
Bullock^ Diamond Huson’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for all purposes.
Simmons’ Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Boilers. Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supplies.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
Caldwell’s Sectional Boilers.
THE - -
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
A I/L SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Baking p ow( | e |.
Scale o f Advertising
-IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single, Column ... ... ... m ... 6s. per inoh per insertion, nett.
... ... 10 per cent, discount.
... ... 20 ~ ~ ~
m „ ..
... ... lOs. per inch per insertion, nett,
allowed for cash in advances
Oiartcriy i ;> mtracts, (in insertions;
Par*H®«jitii itKftWtMwnsents ...
An bxte-a bisoount of 5 per cent.
BoQQil)gtol)’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used.
As Safe as it is Certain.
WILL CURE ALL KINDS oLCOUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
" ’ INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints*.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
