

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
u The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
w » imii Ml* IK7 TH ■
107 Kent Street;, Sydney, 7
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ aud GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW *xd SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& GO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 TORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
_ JL»ooo Tons “ Orti ” and. “ Pyramid. 99 Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Caslss Kniglit Bevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
*ZX3
■ '% ?
<RAc^aJocK>
o%
—— *_l 'S- '
,:?\ .
> * V’
R. A. HEIiVEY, Ajjent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & Co.,
85 Pitt-St., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eceentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best; manufactured bv Rrsrox,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBEXT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, Ac.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbbnt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants;,manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
facture 1 by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Leasing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
m
esm
rR
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Priee Lists on appHoation.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaglit Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta Stiver.
' COURIER ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Bonningtons Sarsaparilla, 2/6
AN ALTERATIVE, ? TONIC AND BLOOD PURIFIER. Remove*
bores, 'Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
FOR LIVER, STOMACH, & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. Stimulate*
and Creates a Healthy System.
What is Health?
Tfheumutitm, Sciatica,
Lumbago, <&«,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, M 6 VICTORIA Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
Tariff^f«sji^tence
THIS - -
CarosVeoor Hot^l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDBifEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager,
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUBOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth,
W. Australia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide,
S. Australia.
Toronto |)ctel,
Lake
Macquarie,
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists
Boating', Bathing, and Pishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway qonnects with all Trans from
Sydney or the North, s&ppmg at Pasaifera, tending paa-
aengats within a few yards of the Hotel, tftromgh negate
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steaansr ooumru-
nioetion from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
eive if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
i*" Poverty 3r*ointer«
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Aocomraodafeion in Queensland.
Next GOtIGH'S RXOBLSIOR HOTEL.
OBART.
—Ufa—
Hadley’s Orient fiotiL
riIHE LAST OF SIX: TALES
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
PRICE Is.
OF
per Post, Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills m
Australia and New Zealand.
- -v -
HENRY SIMON L*?,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, KT.S.W.
CAVOUR CI6ARS.
PACKETS
The Bulletin
Voi. 18.—350. 931. J
[Saturday, December 18, 1897.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE
ROBIRTSON & GO.,
. George Street, Sidney,
Piiltliulivis of
at.ky MONTGOMERY’S TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. fid. ;• posted. Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (.new series, from The
Bulletin), by Price Wariing ; price, 25,; post-free,
2s. fid. . , „ ,
MOSCYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; price, 2s. 6a.;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you wamt.
Fancy a Happy Christmas - without a
'cameo cigarette.
Don’t wish it for a moment. Lay in a stock,
and remember that 25 empty Cameo boxes
will give you a set of button portraits of
the English Cricketing Team. Ask your
tobacconist to show you these—they’re splendid!
THE RED PAGE.
Melb. University Prof. Morris’s ‘ Diotionary
of Australasian Words, Phrases, and Usages,’
(Macmillan and Co.) is certainly ‘calculated to
supply a Want.’ Pity the author hasn’talittlemore
fire and force and illuminating-power 1 Judging
him by his portrait and his Diotionary and his
Life of Higinbotham, he is a rather narrow, and
rather learned, and very conscientious man who
has heaped so many books on his brain that its
capacity for original impetus and stimulus lies
squashed as flat as a damper. He is professor of
English, French, and German languages and
literatures, and his books read as if he could be
Dull in all those languages and literatures without
the least difficulty—without even trying. And
Mr. Morris seems conscious that he haunts his
subjects like the ghost of a very heavy man who
died a very long time ago, for now and again he
jokes with great solemnity and an air of looking
round nervously to see if he’s observed—in the
guilty fashion of a man who laughs at a funeral.
E.g.—
THE MORRIS JOKE.
Much of Australasian nomenclature is flue to “the
man in the bush ’’—more precise address not recorded.
[This is a Joke.] Givers of new names may be benefaotors
to their language or violators of its purity and simplicity,
but in’either case they are nearly always, like the burial-
plaoe of Moses—[This is a Jo/ce]—unknown.
Good Heavens, what gambols 1
• * * *
Luoky that the slow, stolid mind has the merits
of its defects. The heavy man, getting no intense
moments, gets no reaction from intense moments :
breeding no exaltation, he misses the correspond-
ing depression : consequently he is able to peg
away on the low plane of effort with a persistent
industry which brighter spirits can’t achieve.
Ordinarily speaking, that is. Lots of men can
swing intellectual clubs slowly for eight hours a
day, with Sunday and holiday spells; lots can
swing fast for four hours ; but not one man in a
mental million can swing fast for eight hours, and
keep a-goin’.
* • » *
[Several people have written wanting to know
more about Sam Walter Fqss, the 39-year-old
New Hampshire Yank whose ‘ Keep A-Goin’ 1 ’
was reprinted in Bulletin not so long ago. Pre-
sently. Meantime, here’s a good thing (with a
touch of Kipling’s ‘ For to Admire ’) from his last
book of verses—
TO SEE THE THING GO ON.
‘ What’s all this thing about ? ’ says he.
‘ Wall, I dunno,’ says I.
‘ What good is all this worl’ to me,
This lan’ an* sea an’ sky ?
The same ol* thing! Git up an* dress,
An’ eat an’ work like sin;
Then go to bed, git up an’ dress,
An’ eat an’ work ag’in.
What’s all this thing about ? ’ eays he.
Says I: ‘ Can’t tell ye, John ;
But, as for me, I like to see,
To see the thing go on.
‘ There ain’t no end to this machine,
An’ no man hareabout,
Bo fur as I have ever seen,
Can tell what it grinds out ;
Its belts are hitched to far-off gears,
Far out he-ond the sun,
An’ I’ve no doubt ’twill run for yean
The way it alius run.’
‘ But what’s the thing about? ’ eays he;
Says 1, ‘ Can’t tell ye, John;
But, as for me, I like to see.
To see the thing go on.’
‘This day an’ night an’ night an* day.
The same ol’ thing,’ says John.
• I guess it is,’ says I, ‘ but say,
Let’s watch the thing go on ;
For all the grass an’ things that grow,
An’ stars, it seems to me,
Are jest a free-for-nothin’ show
For us deadheads to see.
An* I ain’t tired of it yit,
It’s pretty middlin’, John:
An’ as for me, I like to see,
To see the thing go on.
‘ I like to see the thing, my friend,
’Tis healthy sport for man.
Though I can’t tell ye where ’twill end,
Nor where the thing began.’
‘What’s all the thing about?’ ‘Dunno:
'Tis fun enough for me
To jest lay back an’ see the show
An’ wonder ; yes, sir-ee!
An’ so I guess that we are here, v
An’ that’s our business, John,
To work an’ git ourselves in gear
To help the thing go on.’]
• • • *
Prof. Morris deserves credit for his Dic-
tionary. Many people have had the idea of such
a book, but he is first to milk the idea into a good
substantial bucket. And the next man will
lean a lot on Professor Morris’s merits, and learn
a lot from his defects. His book—ill-illumined
compilation though it be—is in part a solid and
valuable contribution to Australian literature.
• * • ■
But—
1. The Dictionary contains many misprints.
E.g.—
“ Barfere ” for Barrere, p. 88, col. 1.
“ E. Meston ” for A. Meston, p. 236, col. 1.
P. 120, 001. 1, a reference to dilly-bag is placed under
dingle-bird.
And there are many others.
2. The type of the subject-heads and of the
page-heads is not sufficiently bold. It’s the differ-
ence between a freshly-painted sign-post and a
sign-post half-obliterated. t
3. The Dictionary is Mixed. Names of plants
and animals run in alphabetical order with the
Australian ivords which the dictionary professes
to connote and explain. There are often whole
pages of botanical references and descriptions
borrowed from Maiden or Von Mueller or others.
Without these and similar lists of fishes, birds,
and so on, the Dictionary would have been a
much less imposing volume. Yet it is not clear
why botany and philology should be confused.
But since it was decided to include lists of
animals and plants, with their vernacular names—
and these lists, in a popular, pan-Australasian
form, were oertainly much needed —why were nob
plants and animals listed separately, and separately
from words included for linguistic and national
reasons? It seems as if almost everything in
clarity and convenience was to be gained, and
hardly anything lost, by such separate classifica-
tion. At present the searcher has to waste much
time unnecessarily in scanning pages and turning
over leaves.
4. The Diotionary is Misleading. Even an
Australian is liable to be put wrong : a foreigner
can hardly go right. This is because Mr. Morris,
with a stupidity oertainly unexpected in a man of
his attainments, has included (a) obsolete or
obsolescent words without the least hint to show
that they are not in daily use like their next-
column neighbors; has included (b) words of
limited use in a particular Australian district
without the leasb hint to show that they are not
used like their next-column neighbors, throughout
Australia; (c) has curiously failed, in some im-
portant instances, to supply adequate definitions ;
and (d) has supplied some definitions altogether
erroneous.
• • • •
[The essence of two of the most obvious of these
blunders (a and b) is a leap from the part (of time
or space) to the whole; and the blunders them-
selves are singularly common among writers on
Australia. Marcus Clarke, who should have
known better, was a notable offender; and,
despite the interest and rhetorical oharm of his pre-
face to Gordon’s poems, it is questionable whether
it would nob have been wiser, in Australia’s
interest, to have suppressed that famous prefaoe
altogether—such an untrue impression does it
make upon strangers who do not know our
country. Olarke argued from Victoria, of which
he had seen a little, to Australia, of which he had
seen comparatively nothing, and made the widest
possible statements on the slenderest possible
grounds. ‘ Our trees without shade ’is nonsense as
a general statement of pan-Australian application;
but possibly Olarke never saw a Moreton Bay fig,
or a cedar, or a myrtle, or a dozen others.
Certainly he never saw that fig in its native lair,
or he would never have written “in the Austra-
lian forests no leaves fall." “ Our flowers without
perfume ” is nonsense as a general statement;
but probably Clarke never smelt a N.Q. orohid
perfuming the air for hundreds of yards around it.
And so this very clever craftsman goes on with
statements literally true in a sense and to a degree,
and so made as to be thoroughly misleading to
the foreigner who takes them literally.]
• • • *
Prof. Morris should assuredly have known
better. Didn’t he acquire any logio when he was
assimilating English, French, and German litera-
ture? And if he did, Barbara Celarent should
have taught him that (a) and (b) discount by 33|
per cent, the value of his Diotionary. For ex-
ample—
Fist, v. To use the hands. The word is not unknown
in English in the sense of to grip. (Shakspere, ‘Cor.*
iv., y., 124).
1846. C. P. Hodgson, ‘ Reminiscences of Australia,’
p. 366:
“ • Fist it,’ a colonial expression, Ac.
If Fist It ever had any vogue, it’s dead long
ago. And Mr. Morris cannot argue that his
quotation-date alone suffices to show that; sinoe
the quotation for Fish-hawk, immediately pre-
ceding, dates 1848; and Fish-hawk is to-day’s
name for a well-known bird. Further, in some
cases (as Dungaree-Settler) Prof. Morris does add
‘Now obsolete,’so the foreign reader is left tc
infer that Fist It is in common use at the present
moment.
Skullbankhr, or Soowbankeb, a slang name in Aus-
tralia for a loafer, a tramp.
1866, A. Michie, ‘ Retrospects and Prospects of the
Colony,’ p. 9:
‘A skull-banker is a species of the genua loafer—half
highwayman, half beggar, He is a haunter of stations,
and lives on the squatters, amongst whom lie makes a
circuit, affecting to seek work and determining not to
find it.’
Not many people hear SkullbankEr nowadays,
even in Victoria. And Mr. Morris deliberately en-
larges Michie’s Victorian reference to include all-
Australia, and adds a present-day inference!
There are dozens of similar cases. And for
examples of (6)
Jack the Painter, n. Very strong bush-tea, so called
from the marK it leaves round the drinker’s mouth.
Jack the Painter had some Victorian vogue,
but is obsolescent, and it is hardly, ever used
beyond Victoria, if at all. Yet Mr. Morris in-
ferentially applies it to all Australia to-day.
Coast, v. To loaf about from station to station.
1890. ‘Rolf Boldrewood,’ ‘Squatter’sDream,’xxv. 296:
‘ I ain’t like you, Towney, able to coast about without
a job of work from shearin’ toshearin’.’
Coast is obsolescent Vic. and N.S.W. slang,
doubtfully used elsewhere: Mr. Morris gives
it full present-day currency and all-Australian
referenoe. He makes no reference to the much
more common use of ‘ coast ’ in cycling. There are
dozens of similar cases.
* * • *
Keliance on ‘Rolf Boldrewood’ often leads
Mr. Morris into error. ‘ Rolf Boldrewood s ex-
perience covered limited districts of Victoria and
N.S. Wales, during a limited time, and his novels
reflect truly the language of those districts and of
that time —and no other. Prof. Morris cheerfully
gives * Boldrewood’s ’ Vie. slang of 20 years ago
present-day and pan-Australian currency. E.g.—
Count-muster, «., a gathering, especially of sheep or
oattle in order to oount them.
1891. Rolf Boldrewood, * A Sydney-side Saxon,’ p. 1:
•The old man’s having a regular count-muster of his
gons and daughters, and their children and off-side rela-
tives—that is, by marriage.*
COUNT-MUSTER is rarely nowadays heard of —pro-
bably never beyond the S.E. corner of Australia.
The related terms ‘ book-muster ’ and ‘ bang-tail
muster,’and the generic and well-known ‘muster,’
Prof. Morris omits altogether.
Rager, »., an old and fierce bullock or oow, thit always
begins to rage in the stock-yard.
1884. Rolf Boldrewood, ‘ Melbourne Memories,’ o.
xxiv.. p. 105:
• Amongst them was a large proportion of bullocks,
which declined with fiendish obstinacy to fatten. They
were what are known by .the stock-riders as “ ragers ’’or
“ pig.meaters ’* ’ [g.v.].
Ragers is hardly known out of Vic., and is
obsolescent there. The reference to ‘ pig-meaters ’
blunders similarly. The best-known nowadays
term for oattle chat won’t fatten is ‘wasters’ —
which Prof. Morris omits altogether. ‘Piker’
and ‘scrubber’ are also omitted; but Prof.
Morris is indebted to ‘ Rolf Boldrewood ’ for
Sorub-danGX.ER, now very rarely heard in Vio.,
and never elsewhere. There are other similar
cases.
* * » *
Examples of (c) inadequate definitions—
‘ Scrub’—one of the most characteristic Austra-
lian words, Prof. Morris defines simply as
‘ country overgrown by thick bushes.’ Not to go
further, does this adequately describe mulga scrub
—which isn’t ‘bushes,’ but trees —or the scrub
of the N.S. W. northern rivers, or of N.Q. ? Would
not a foreigner receive from such a bald statement
an altogether false conception, of most of the
kinds of sorub ? And what is the editor of such
a Dictionary as Prof. Morris’s supposed to do, if
not to spend time and pains in making his defini-
tions full and true enough to fit all cases—just as
a law-oodifier spends time and brains in making a
new sentence which covers all the implications of
existing law? Certainly, Prof. Morris’s quota-
tions help to elucidate the meaning of scrub ; but
they are mutually contradictory, and a foreigner
wants an authoritative statement. Why doesn’t
he get it ? Why did not Prof. Morris submit his
stock terms to an experienced stockman, and his
bush terms to an educated bushman, instead of
issuing an imperfect or misleading definition with
all the weight of a * professor of English, French,
and German languages and literatures in the
University of Melbourne ’ ?
Under Bush, adj., is this note—
In Australia, the word ‘ inn ’ is now rare, the word
• hotel * has supplanted it.
Nothing about the ‘pub.’—which is practically
the only bush term in current use. 11a this and
other cases Prof. Morris seems hampered with
uneasy gentility—like that which, in H. A. Hunt’s
Sydney essay, refined the popular ‘southerly
buster ’ into ‘southerly burster,’ as more fitted for
ears polite. The spectacle of anyone sitting down
to compile an Australian slang diotionaxy with
kid gloves on his hands, wadding in his ears, and
blushes flooding his manly cheekß, would interest
H. Parkes and others.
•' * » »
[Just here it will be pleasant to rest the mind
awhile on a piece of verse by an anonymous writer
in the * Pall Mall Budget ’ of aforetime—
TO A BRETON PEASANT.
Tou bent to the sickle’s eager sweep,
A living note in a wordless song.
Tou held the spirit of all that reap
In your slight girl form, divinely strong,
As you stood in the last flare of the sun,
The harvest ended—the reaping done.
You were not, I think, made perfectly ;
Yet had you been flawed from head to feet,
That one strange hour in the dusk would he
More true than half that I deemed most sweet;
For the tide of the world raved far away,
And I was at rest in a windless bay.
you brought a sense of the breaking bud
To woo me baok to the old green things;
To you all life was a sea at flood,
Too full for vague imaginings,
And your wildest fancy never flew
Beyond the pale of the land you knew.
My feet are set upon other ways,
My hands reap best in the fields of men ;
You follow the course of quiet days,
Till the quiet twilights fall again ;
I strive to enter where none have trod,
You walk in the pleasant fields Of God.
And refreshed, returning—]
* • * w
Examples of ( d) erroneous definitions —
Tambaroora, n. a Queensland game. More generally
known as * A shilling in and the winner shouts.’’ From a
town in Queensland.
It is to be feared this is a Morris joke. The
essence of a present-day tambaroo. i is a sweep for
the purchase of drinks —frequently on the prin-
ciple that more liquor can be purchased wholesale
for Is. 6d. than six thirsty people can buy for 3d.
each. Hence ‘ tambaroora muster,’ when the
droughty party musters all the coin it’s possessed
of, and one individual goes and bargains for the
beer. In the towns, dice are usually dispensed
with. In the Q. bush, the name still has some-
thing of the older and gauiey significance ; but
the drink idea always predominated over the
game-idea. And the ‘town in Queensland’ hap-
pens to be in N.S. Wales.
Tanneiqrams, n. very recent New Zealand slang. On
Ist June, 1896, the New Zealand Government reduced the
price of telegrams to sixpence (slang, a ‘ tanner ’) for 12
words.
Probably nine-ten! hs of Maorilanders never
heard of Tanner Grams. The word may have had
a local and limited currency in Oamaru, whence
Prof. Morris extracts a reference ; but to apply it
to all Maoriland is utterly unsleading.
Caddie, n., a bush name for the slouch-hat or wide-
awake.- In the Australian bush the brim is generally
turned down at the back and sometimes all round.
This is type of a class of inept notes numerous
in Prof. Morris’s Dictionary. Caddie (more often
cady) is rare enough, and merely reproduces the
British cady. The word’s chief use is to give
hard-pushed bards a rhyme to lady. The ‘brim ’
remark is nonsense. Every man wears his hat as
bq pleases. If the brim generally turns down,
it’s because the hat is so old and feeble that the
brim won’t stay up on any consideration.
* * * *
By this time readers and Prof. Morris will have
a pretty fair idea where ’e are as a Dictionary-
maker. In addition to' his sins of commission
there are many of omission. What charming
notes, for example—with real historical and
national value—could be written on words like
sway! —concerning which Prof. Morris merely
remarks that it is ‘a tramp’s bundle, wrapt up iu
a blanket called a Bluey (q.v.). Used also for a
passenger’s luggage.’ The note to bluey is as
curt; and Matilda isn’t mentioned. Or what
a characteristic-Australian note; could be made
on “ sweep ’’ —altogether omitted. In scores
of similar cases Prof. Morris has failed to rise
to the height of bis opportunities. He may say
that the plan of his Dictionary didn’t contemplate
disquisitions, however curious and interesting.
All the worse for the Dictionary. Prof. Morris
would have been much bettfer employed in making
original research and comment than in amassing
whole pages of stuff like this —
Native Damson, n. See Damson.
Native Dandelion, n. S ee Dandelion.
Native Daphne, n. See Daphne.
Native Date, n. See Date-.
from Maiden and Yon Mueller and the rest. But
he seems to have tried—not how much, but—how
little original research and comment ho could put
into the book.
* * * •
All this doesn’t prevent the Dictionary from
containing much valuable information. The
references to book-use of words are : frequently
very full and helpful. Many of them, such as a
reference to Wattle-bark—an obvious word, of
little or no philological interest apart from the
substantive wattle—
-1877. [? Exact date lost,] * Melbourne Punch ’;- ,
* What’ll bark ? Why, a dog’ll.'
are inane and ridiculous. In fact, quotations
have been rammed in all-through as if the com-
piler’s object was to make a big volume to sell at
a high price—rather than a valuable book, without'
reference to price. But the quotations for ‘ squat-
ter,’ ‘brickfielder,’ ‘bush,’ and many other words
are most interesting. No fault can be found
because derivations of words like duffer (of cattle),
brumby (probably aboiiginal), jackshay (possibly
from one Jack rihea, the maker or’introducer),
billy, and many others, are not yet authoritatively
fixed. A man does what he can. And some of
Prof. Morris’s (or collaborators’) derivations are
excellent — e.y. , chyack, from chi-i-ke, an Austra-
lian pronunciation <>f the English verb to cheek;
post-and-rail, applied to tea, from the appearance
of the alleged tee-iwigs floating on top; box, as
applied to sheep ; and so on.
• *' * *
To sum up, where Prof. Morris and his assist-
ants have simply compiled 'and classified the
previous work of trained minds—as in the animal
and plant sections —-their work is good ; but these
sections should be set apart from the language-
section. As a guide to Australian language, the
Dictionary is worthless except to an Australian
expert who can supplement .with local knowledge
the makers’ numerous errors and omissions. To a
foreign reader, it is worse, than worthless in this
respect, for it is often positively misleading—
because insufficient brains and labor.and care and
time have been applied to it. A substantial body
of information lias, however, been collected, and
in the hands of capable . persons this collection
will have permanent value -as part of the basis of
an adequate dictionary of the Australasian lan-
gunge. _ YjgJ.- _


MedioaL
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
In the Laboratory
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
Erien j)Sof sufferers
Second to Hone iB
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these ahle
Specialists,
And. get rid of your
troubles.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SYDNEY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
TIDHG MU,
If you are troubled with
pimples, baslifuluesa,
aversion to society,
stupiduess, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unlit
for Btudy, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r*en.
MIDDLE-HEED > OLD MED,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
wiiliout pain and detention from business.
MAIL
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to tbe
doctors if living’
away from tbe
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-.
uses, N E ItVOUS '
AN 11 PRIVATE
DISEASE’', post
free on applica.
All Trams stop at the Hoot
tion. A perusal of tliem might save much mental
and physical Suffering and add .golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
ill by mail, aud full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Cornea Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIJt EL Y
FIIEE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
ft
4 TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“A Boro PbySiQiaO-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Cotpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
MuhTION this Papjse.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
7 York Street,
WYNYaED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching’ the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
Alili CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and suooess.
208.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
‘joHUFrDjjmin
FULL DIRECT®'
5 ENCLOSED?^
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in -a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Tt-r».
Sheer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
7 York Street* Sydney.
BOX 920.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d,
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses,
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and;
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Writ®
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
O £ n I C O R O's
I SS^ wCE ' F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled!
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for lids. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope „ „ . __
Agents for Australasia— Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN.S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st. .Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,"
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free. -
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
New Up-to-Date Publications.
rpHE Soiled Dove, the history of a young lady who ran
J- away from home and eventually went to the dogs ;
also Miss Skittles, the girl with six husbands ; Sappho, or
Life and Love in Paris, each post free 1(5. The Ballet-
Girl, her theatrical history, “illustrated,” before and
behind the scenes, post free 1/-. Maria Monk, Ovid’s Art
of Love Byron’s Don Juan, each post free 1/9.
R. W. SKINNER,
Tub Noted Second-Hand Bookseller . .
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
4 .GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
A stories), Is. 3d.
Medical;
Will be Pleased to Welcome bis Friends
and Patients at liis
Electrical & Consulting Booms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those, who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or exoesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &e.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Bo Mot Delay,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr Gibbons will setul you, post
free, the Latest Edition of bis Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every ease undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none bub the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has (documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G-.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday.
7 to 9.
Mea tion this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT HOOD.
Jo(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Ago.
TYTEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
’’ permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among meii in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, '“should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Jifkt Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, ®pp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes:—“l can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being- well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from Hhe first I was able te attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have bgen for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted t«
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Barley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in faet, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
Without obtaining any relief. On nay way to New Guinga,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other coloities breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they oan obtain a certain cure.”
X'Jx
Mr. M. J. DENAIIY, Bevyl
Street, Broken y Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only ehance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCIIISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric. belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks' time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over ±2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of tl\p misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial qjie of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick; Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A,
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
7fimwac.
i^n
/


TATTERS ALLS
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ANNIVERSARY H. Jan. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Hobart 0. 9th February.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name
Address
NEWMARKET H. Feb. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address i
Australian G. March 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : shares in the above.
Name _
Address
Cootamundra 0. February 9.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
N ame
Address ..
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


flnthony Hordern’:
NEW
CATALOGUE
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USB
Spooler's
HfWi
RQYALNAVY DRESSIKC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BQOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECI lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
F.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
*
c!
Or
G
o
W
-o
s>
0-
T"
Engineers, Machinery merchants,
manufacturers’ flgeite.
Principal Agencies:
Blake’s Direct-Acting STEAM PUMPS.
Harris’ Champion LUBRICATING OILS.
Ludlow Open-Gate or Sluice VALVES.
Pickering Steam Engine GOVERNORS.
Fay & Co.’s WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Empire Co.’s LAUNDRY MACHINERY.
W. F. & J. Barnes Co.’s HAND, FOOT, and
STEAM POWER TOOLS.
B. F. Sturtevant Co.’s FANS and FORGES.
Mason STEAM and WATER REDUCING
VALVES.
Mosher’s STEAM SEPARATORS.
Denison’s Suspended WEIGHING MACHINES.
Tanite Co.’s EMERY WHEELS.
Shutte’s “KORTING” BOILER FEED IN-
JECTORS.
SYDNEY: 74 CLARENCE ST.
435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
0T
Prof. DDRCOT’S MUSKAL
(Speedily produces a luxuriant growth of
} Hi.iron Smoothest Pace or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. The only Remedy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
airections for 6s. 6d., Double Size, 10s.
S. D. RUbSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne,
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
fect. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., ENQ.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
GO TO 3BCELX.-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s.;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. : Ladies’ Saddles*
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d BOYS 5
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st Sydne y,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one, do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOB A CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
FAG-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
Yrade mark
REGISTERED
FOR THE
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
Qju 6.
%ir 2 y* l *yy&
Q~v* ( lAjI Art
ty\JL m &Jt/\Jc C£ 9 / h*L*suvO
°U: IruZJfuo c lKjl J bzJxQt &oo~Z. t
f §l**QA I#
'C'LA*£S^l/j ge
&\
c^o y C £ **sfc£*^
KOKO
i°S£
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dan r ff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimonials prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Coo', & Invigoratir g. i -, a 6 & 4 6 sizes, ofall Chemists,
Stores Ac. THE KOKO '’’’APIS PAS cn , LTD., I*. lWarks, LONDON, ENG
W E .
, . “ “ SPECIAL WOTIOB
beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying'from us
v *.* W * he Y will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-fimshed work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manufac-
, turers—not dealers.
OUBBENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
a or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6-153.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
• £ ! I! t S ‘ .° ur S P ecial 3 SPRING STICK
i EA J, SUEE Y, sijyer dash rail splash-baardsand lamps, £8
C 17s. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps
£2l ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed L real leader;
PHAfes b , r Ho k m£2l lamPS> LADIES ' PARK
AlPdescriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices
note OUR ONLY ADDRESS: * r
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney,
Send for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney.
i Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying- ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware oPinjurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: ‘.‘l find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied Into one glass dish and the Custard
poured Into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
cmn bo obtalnod wherever
Tin nod Fruit la mold.
POWDER
jhe best resource tor every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally mean.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Hides and Tallow.
A STEVEDORING RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here ain’t a lavender ditty,
Sung by a sweet-scented cove ;
Here ain’t no wine-inspired, witty
Story of ’onor an’ love :
Here is the song of the taller,
Likewise tbe chanty of ’ides—
Greasy an’ dirty an’ yaller,
Gritty an’ stinkin’ besides—
’ldes an’ taller ; taller an’ ’ides.
‘■Potes ” who ’ave nourished on roses,
Given to sippin’ of dew ;
“ Potes ” with susceptible noses,
This ain’t intended for you.
These are the lands that lie fallow,
Unploughed by the pens of romance ;
This is the ode of tee Tallow—
Odorous tallow perchance.
The whenceness of which an’ the whither
The creed of no church ain’t secure,
Old fancies an’ fashions may wither
One fact it is certain an’ sure —
There’s nothing smells worse nor the taller,
Always exceptin’ the ’ides;
Grimy an’ sweaty an’ yaller,
Greasy an’ gritty besides,
’ldes an’ taller, taller an’ ’ides.
The wool-bales is easy to lumber,
We know ’em, the same as a book ;
The clerk keeps his eye on the number,
You cop ’em right side with your hook.
You knows a damn dump when you spot ’im,
You ’ump ’im an’ truck ’im away,
A cask you’ll per-ceive when you’ve got ’im
Ain’t never constructed that way.
’E slips an’ ’e rolls an’ ’e shices,
’E bucks an’ ’e wobbles an’, worse,
’E jams an’ ’e rams an’ entices
’Ard-workin’ pore chaps for to curse.
Oh, damn all the product of taller,
An’ blast all the product of ’ides,
It’s ’eavy an’ dirty an’ yaller,
It’s greasy an’ stinkin’ besides,
’ldes an’ taller, taller an’ ’ides.
The thing that gits over a feller
Is kids and a missus to keep.
It don’t make ’is life none too meller,
It don’t much provoke 'im to sleep.
’E ain’t got no time to grow lazy,
’E’s got to look limber an’ slick,
Though taller ’ud drive a cove era- y
An’ ’ides make a feller go sick.
An’ wherefore an’ whyfore we’re lumpin’
Them products that’s awkwardly rolled ;
A thumpin’ our shin-bones an’ bumpin’
The same to their place in the hold.
If ’ell is as ’ot as they tell us
We needn’t be gallied by that,
The devils will strike when they Bmell us
A renderin’ up of our fat!
The preacher whose pulpit is furnished
With cushions of velvet and silk,
With bloomin’ brass-rails brightly burnished,
Who scoffs all the honey an’ milk,
’E often gets up an’ ’e preaches
A sermon on cussin’ and beer ;
On liver an’ bacon an’ peaches
’E guys us pore sinners down here.
But, Lord ! let’m rip off ’is cassock,
An’ peel to ’is sanctified pelt,
Give over ’is nice feather hassock,
An’ kneel where us jokers ’as knelt,
With sweat an’ ’ard graft for to halier
’ls soul an’ ’his body besides —
Contrition ain’t nothink to taller,
An’ prayin’ ain’t in it with ’ides;
’ldes an’ taller, taller an’ ’ides.
We ain’t much addicted to sorrow,
We’re given right over to slang.
It’s yakker to-day, an’ to-morrow
You’re smashed, an’ they don’t give a hang.
There’s Jones—’e was workin’ last Monday,
Cask rolled, an’ she pinned him ’longside ;
They’ll carve up ’is innards by Sunday
To find out the reason ’e died.
Them buyers is scoopin’ their profit,
It pays ’em right up to the hilt;
Champagne is their tap, an’ they scoff it—
The sellers don’t growl if it’s spilt.
But beer’s our old tank, an’ we booze it—
’Tis good for our “common ” insides ;
’Tis good for your soul if-you views it
All right through the taller an’ ’ides—
'ldes an’ taller; taller an’ ’ides.
This ugly four-master, ’e offers
A hold that’s as deep as the deuce,
The takings will bulge their fat coffers,
By gosh but we’ll stew in our juice ;
The mess-kids is smokin’ up for’ard,
My breakfast it mainly were bread,
That feel in your stummick is ’orrid,
It’s worse nor the feel m your ’ead.
By God ! if I’m tempted to leave ’er
To get one more sniff of the sea
My bloomin’ Ole Dutch were the griever,
It’s longshore an’ cuss it for me ;
It’s humpin’ the wool in hot seasons,
It’s rolling these casks in the cold,
It’s “ stand by the slings ” for good reasons,
Get graft, an’ more graft an’ grow old.
I’m clewed to four walls an’ a table
The chairs an’ the kids an’ the wife •
I’m petticoat tied an’ ain’t able
To kick for the old rovin’ life ;
I’m hitched to the wool an’ the taller,
The copra an’ sich like besides ;
I’m spliced to the bales an’ the taller,
The ’oms an’ the bones an’ the ’ides—
’ldes an’ taller, taller an’ ’ides.
I’ve got a spare judy out yonder,
I ’ad a nice gal in Bombay—
Wot’s Nelly a-doin’, I wonder !
I’ll cut my stick over some day;
By God ! were I just a bit younger
I’d slip in the turn o’ the tides,
This blessed ole tank she could ’unger
For me for ’er taller an’ ’ides,
’ldes an’ taller, taller an’ ’ides !
Sydney, 1897.
EDWIN J. BRADY.


AustraliaQ Mtittial Provident Society.
i '♦♦»»♦»♦•»♦»♦»»♦»♦»»♦»»» ——
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Ajjl, POLICIES issued, before the End of the Year will Share in the Bonus for the Year (al
Bonuses vest immediately on Policies attaining a duration of two years). ihe Amount ot L-a=.n
Bonus distributed amongst Policyholders for the One Year 1896 was
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct 01
through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of the profits for the. year.
Direotors: —The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT,
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; TIIOS..
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager
Head Office: ©V PITT STR E E T SYDN E Y.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
nOTEL^->
Rates i 2/&
PER
DAY
mim
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE *
CIGARS FREE
HJMmiidEm
rrTTTTT
531
DROP 3? Hi THE SLOT\\fi^^tr
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker fflachiies,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
duheroidpjroofing
/•
*/
c ° e
4
r
r
E&P3
r
Mlllii
“
IS
\
k
s
ib
St
pS
preservative
pA |NT
RUBEROID
DAMP-COURSE
BU,Id IHq
Paf> er.
AGENTS! E. Rich & Go. Ltd, 24 &26 O’Connell St., SYDNEY.
Every Variety of
t
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
*3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. TB»
London*.
& Melbourne
TAILORING CO.
Summer
Suits,
455.
to 90s.
Delivered Free to any part of the Colony.
OUR QUALITIES
ARE HIGH
AND
PRICES LOW.
OUR GOODS AND
WORKMANSHIP
SPEAK
FOR THEMSELVES.
31 ERSKINE STEET, SYDNEY.
S. M. BAUMASHE,
Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. £
Surgical
5. D. ASHER,^
and Mechanical
Dentist.
rpHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
I Yithout Plates, by means of Jiritlyeu’orJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
\Ve guarantee to fit 'any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address
93 King-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
TniiErnoNß 2616.
FEDERAL ■ -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
I®
M ELBO URNE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms ; and Oaf 6 open Day and Night.
I
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOR
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
IVTEW furniture
A'l (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing' of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 l*itt St., Sydney,
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. •
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
m" INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
undferthe MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., JBB2IO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes J 897.763, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. P. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.0.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring: £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling:. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Xo>>'' ».
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessof, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
5S YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
w. O- IEioDimiiDGKE & co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 TogS rgore In)ported Leaf
tlpg all the Tobacco
Factories POt Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of Dixs Oil’s
Brands- DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yai)lw Doodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PEE CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
CbaiQpioi)-
The Choicest Bright Cat and Plug.
Coi)q<i?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)t€i)Dial-
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars-
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole,
Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper*
Vol. 18.—No. 931.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1897.
THE GENTLE ART.
“ I never change my bait."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ..... _ 066
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
1 Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for-its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. JilaeJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
cfc Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — JR. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.—lF. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Alaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland mil be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid, on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1897.
Concerning Some Old Legends.
When Manager Williamson recently staged
his semi-historical drama, 44 A Royal Divorce, ’ ’
in Sydney, it was noticeable that the Sydney
audience rose with a roar of joy at exactly
the point where the Melbourne audience
roared also, which, considering the remark-
able difference in the dramatic taste of the
two cities, was just a trifle unusual. And
the place where both cities roared was where
the lost Bonaparte, the night before Water-
loo, maundered about the stupendous—he
almost said the incredible—fighting qualities
of the English race. It was one of those
purple patches that delights the soul of John
Bull away in the foggy North Sea—and it is
quite natural and reasonable that it should.
In a fighting sense, even after making all
possible allowance for the good luck and the
clever diplomacy and the great lack of
scruple which helped him out of many dif-
ficulties, the Briton—both the part of him
which is Bull and the part which isn’t—has
a splendid record. It comes a good second
to that of Rome, and possibly wipes out that
of Assyria, which latter has become rather
blurred in the remote haze of history. And
the Briton is naturally proud of it with a
great pride, and lies about it immensely, to
make it even greater than it is. So does
every other nation, about its record ;
every race that means to become anything,
or to remain anything, must believe in
itself and its past; and no nation has a past
that can’t be improved by little judicious
suppression and a lot of judicious perversion.
Therefore the Briton lies about his achieve-
ments of necessity, like everybody else, and
there is probably no reason why he shouldn’t.
But why the Australian, who is as far away
from Bull as the size of the earth will allow,
and who has his own nation to construct,
and his own separate record to put up, and
who has left the Bull island and the
Bull traditions behind him, should want to
lie on the subject, or to help anyone else to
do so, is less easy of comprehension.
* * * *
For a long time back there has been a
demand for a new Australian history for use
in schools. An equally urgent need is for a
new British history for school use—one that
will tell the straight, unvarnished truth, or
as near to it as possible. The average Aus-
tralian still believes that it was Britain which
wiped out Napoleon, practically single-
handed, and he still regards it as quite
natural that a stage Bonaparte in William-
son’s drama should pour the grease of adula-
tion on the British lion. Yet Napoleon
had hardly even seen that animal up till then,
and he probably felt no respect for it at all.
And Waterloo never was the decisive battle
it has been cracked up to be; the lost
emperor, with his skeleton army, consisting
largely of conscripts, and his failing energies,
and his incurably diseased stomach, had
enemies pouring in on him from all sides,
and his chance, so far as can be seen at this
distance, hardly amounted to a row of pins.
Possibly he regarded the British as the
least of his troubles. He had been person-
ally licked by the Austrians, the Muscovites,
and the Prussians, and he knew them ; he
had never been wiped out by the British on
his own element, and they were probably
the one item in the programme which he
viewed with very little respect, and didn’t
make any eloquent remarks about at all.
* * * *
To the Briton it was Wellington and the
Peninsular war which wrecked the emperor.
It is difficult for him to understand that that
war was a mere diversion—a disastrous side-
scrimmage certainly, but yet only an out-
lying row on the remote flank of a great
campaign. Also, it is naturally difficult for
him to realise that the first man who de-
stroyed the spell of the emperor’s personal
invincibility on land was not Wellington
but the Archduke Charles of Austria when
he broke the greatest French army that had
been assembled until then at Aspern and
Essling, and made a drawn battle of Wag-
ram. With a less vacillating sovereign to
back him there was even a chance at that
time that he would have made a Waterloo for
Bonaparte outside Vienna. Also it is nowhere
mentioned in the history which feeds Bull’s
infant mind and the infant mind of young
Australia, that almost the worst single blow
of the Peninsular War itself was the capture
of an entire French army by Castanos at
Baylen and of a French fleet by the Spanish
patriots at Cadiz, or that the French power
in Spain had been broken once by Blake,
Castanos and Palafox before the British in-
vasion commenced. Whether it could have
been broken again without British assis-
tance no one knows, but even the great
Peninsular campaign wasn’t all Wellington,
or all John Bull, by a very long way.
* * * *
And, while this side-issue, which Napo-
leon regarded as of but little importance,
was being fought out in Spain, the doomed
emperor lost 500,000 men in Russia, and
330,000 more in the awful campaign which
Blucher and Schwartzenburg finished up
when they climbed over the corpse of the
empire into Leipsic. Nextyear, they followed
Napoleon into France and ended the empire
without Wellington appearing on the scene.
Possibly, if Wellingtoii had not been carry-
ing on his campaign in Spain, the French
troops which he kept occupied there might
have been sufficient to turn the scale at
Leipsic—or, again, they might not. Pos-
sibly the Spanish insurrection alone
would have kept them sufficiently em-
ployed. Or, possibly, if Blucher and
Schwartzenburg had not fought their
way over 100,000 dead into Leipsic,
Napoleon might have got into Spain himself,
and met Wellington, while he still had an
army worth calling such to meet him with,
and no one knows what the results might
have been. It was Wellington’s luck never
to run against Bonaparte until after the
Grand Army was practically buried and for-
gotten, and until its leader was far past his
prime, and also to carry on his campaign while
the bulk of the emperor’s gaudy legions were
employed many hundred miles away. Also
it was his luck not to appear until the wreck-
age of Aspern and Essling had partly broken
the spell of Napoleon’s personal invinci-
bility. He was a very great man, and an
amazingly fortunate one as well, and there is
no reason why John Bull shouldn’t regard
this brilliant Irish commander as the greatest
Englishman of his day, and teach Bull
junior that he wiped out the French Empire
all on his own. The dust of Blucher, and
Kutusoff ( who drank horribly), and Charles
of Austria (who used to have fits when he
was alive), and old Bulow, and Castanos,
and Blake, and Schwartzenburg, and
Benningsen (who had amazingly swollen
feet), probably doesn’t mind. Singly none
of them—except Blucher and Benningsen,
and Charles of Austria—amounted to very
much, and Wellington, anyhow, was the
biggest single dog in the pack of twenty or
more. If Britain likes to regard him as the
only dog in the pack it matters very little to
anybody.
* * * *
All the same, The Bulletin reckons that
Young Australia might as well get his history
undiluted. Wellington was Irish, and
Australia in the main isn’t, and this country
has no sacred call to lie about him. His
armies were a weird mixture of English,
Scotch, Irish, Welsh, Portuguese, Dutch,
German and miscellaneous. This country
was once mostly English, Irish, Scotch and
miscellaneous, but it is. steadily becoming
Australian (whether it will be better or worse
for doing so is another matter, but it has got
to be Australian and must needs make the
best of it). And when it does become Aus-
tralian it will take it all its time to lie about
its own history. Already, though it is very
young and has no war-record, it has a history
behind it which requires a good deal of able
lying to make it presentable, and it is only
fair to add that the owners of that history
seem quite capable of doing all the perjury
that is required—so long as the borrowed
money for the statues of its early gaolers is
available. Even 80 or 85 years ago, at
the time of the great Wellington legend,
Australia had a tale of its own which requires
all the romance that an unreliable record
can throw over it—a tale that was mostly
written in bits of mangled convict and a cat.
And when its educational system spends so
much valuable energy in casting a glamour
over the British doings in Europe, at a period
when the glamour was so badly needed for
local consumption, it somehow-seems a waste
of valuable inaccuracy.
Concerning the Cronk Assurance Office.
Australasia, of late years, has commenced to
work up an unsavory reputation as a haunt of
small cronk life-assurance companies. In this
respect it hasn’t yet begun to approach Britain,
which possesses some of the very best, and
many of the very worst and awfullest, assurance
institutions on this earth ; still, in the matter
of the life-assurance swindle, these provinces
are making very fair progress. The Bulletin
can lay a linger on three or four concerns now
assiduously gathering in the money of a confid-
ing public which, if the available evidence
counts for anything, a decent system of State
supervision should blot out of existence inside a
month. To all intents and purposes, Austra-
lasia has no life-assurance law whatsoever,
and any blatant swindler who advertises
largely, and gets in enough premiums to pay
death claims and expenses, and issues a lying
balance-sheet, can defraud the public for an in-
definite period with impunity. This particular
fraud, too, is likely to come into greater favor
as time goes on, because it can be carried on
longer with less assets behind it than any other
fraud of its size. The bogus bank may come to
grief anj 7 time when there is a run on the
deposits. The bogus assurance office can go on
for 20 years, or longer ; it only needs to close
when it can’t get in enough premiums, or
raise enough money on overdraft or by
pawning the office furniture, to pay some
claim, and the executors refuse to wait
for their money any longer. And, as
premiums can almost always be obtained if the
concern employs enough agents, and pays them
a large enough commission, and advertises
enough, and presents a good enough balance-
sheet, and declares large bonuses out of the
large imaginary profits, there is no reason why
the cronk assurance office should close up until
the liabilities are £1,000,000 and the free assets
only 2d. In fact, there is no reason why it
should close till the liabilities are £2,000,000
and the unencumbered assets only Id. Under
really able management, the only person who
could detect the real inwardness of the swindle
is the auditor, and The Bulletin doesn’t re-
member one single case in the Seven Provinces
where any private auditor ever detected any-
thing until after the smash.
• ♦ * *
Now and then some one so far realises the
blind foolishness of this system that a feeble
attempt is made at legislation on the subject.
But the public, which will apparently keep on
confiding till some big life offiee'goes broke and
buries millions of savings in the ruins, takes
very little interest in the matter. Also the
attempt, as a rule, is very weak and miserably
inefficient. A measure lately introduced by
politician Cross in Queensland Assembly
is a good sample of its kind. Cross’s Bill
starts by providing that every life assur-
ance office doing business in Queensland shall
deposit £5OOO with the Treasury as security for
the due payment of claims. This demand may
prevent the very smallest and meanest and
most squalid kind of assurance swindle from
starting, but it is a very, very small and squalid
concern which can’t raise £5OOO in some way or
other. Also, considering that it is a very small
concern that isn’t liable for at least £1,000,000
under its policies, the idea of £5OOO being any
kind of security to policy-holders is wildly
grotesque. Further, each company is to show
every year the receipts and the expenditure of
its Queensland business, and to deposit one-
fourth of its surplus receipts with the Treasury
until its deposit reaches £15,000. Considering
that a very ordinary insurance concern may
easily have a possible liability of £5,000,000
under its policies, the idea of protecting the
policy-holders to any extent worth mentioning,
by demanding even a £15,000 deposit, is also
somewhat grotesque. Undoubtedly this pro-
viso would make things a little better than they
are, but the improvement in many cases
wouldn’t amount to more than a few coppers in
the £.
* * * »
Cross’s proposed law also sets forth that an
assurance office may be wound up if five or more
shareholders or policy-holders make application,
and give security for an unlimited sum in costs,
and establish a prima facie case before they get
a hearing at all, and finally prove to the satis-
faction of the Court that the concern is insol-
vent. This is very good, in a limited sense ;
the trouble is that, under present conditions,
there is practically no means by which five
policy-holders, or even one policy-holder, can
find out w'hether the concern is insolvent or
not, and apparently the applicants have to
prove their case without access to the books or
papers or securities or any other evidence. It
is also proposed that, when the insolvent affair
is being wound up, all the Queensland assets
shall be seized for the exclusive benefit of the
Queensland shareholders. This is another
clause which doesn’t make the business any
more honest; it merely provides that after the
dishonesty is fully exposed the Queensland
creditor shall, if he gets the opportunity, rob
the N.S.W. and Victorian and other creditors
to the best of his ability. It is further pro-
posed that the accounts shall be presented in a
certain form, which is a remarkably clear and
definite one so far as it goes, and a number of
valuable ideas are embodied about the protec-
tion of policies from seizure by creditors, and
the filing and publication of accounts, and other
etceteras.
* * * .
Then Cross’s scheme stops short just when it
might have commenced to grow interesting,
and just when it was in danger of being of
some real use. It doesn’t declare that any
specific mortality table shall be used in reckon-
ing the liabilities; even the most insolvent
office can make itself solvent on paper bv
reckoning that its insurers will live long
enough, and there is a wide range for imagina-
tion in this respect. It doesn’t provide that
the future interest estimated to be derived
from the accumulated funds shall be not more
than a cast-iron maximum, and any office that
has any funds at all can make itself solvent on
paper by assuming that these funds will bring
in a large enough rate of interest. I.t is pro~-
vided that if the balance-sheet is incorrect in
any way, and it can be proved that the persons
signing it knew it was incorrect (a matter
which can hardly ever be proved, for it is next
to impossible for any person to legally demon-
strate what any other person was thinking
about), the signatories may be severely
puxrished. But there is no proviso that they
shall be punishable for signing a balance-sheet
which is grossly incorrect without their know-
ledge, said want of knowledge arising through
gross and shameful neglect of duty. And
except in the case of an unspeakably idiotic
person, there is never any evidence that he
knew of the fraudulent character of the bal-
ance-sheet ; he was always led away by his own
sanguine disposition, or he trusted entirely to
the assurances of somebody else, who was mis-
led by a third party, who relied with unques-
tioning faith on a fourth individual, who was
grossly deceived by some one who is dead, or
has gone away. What is wanted above all
things is a law which will make somebody who
isn’t dead personally responsible for things,
whether he says after the smash that he knew
them or not—on the sufficient ground that he
said before the smash that he knew all about
the business, and took his salary for knowing
all about it. Moreover, even in the above
limited sense, Cross’s little Bill makes no one
responsible for the value of the assets. It is
only necessary to state truly that the sum lent
on inortgages is (say) <£500,000 without any
obligation to add that many of the securities
have so far depreciated that a loss of £lOO,OOO
is distinctly in sight. Also, that loans on per-
sonal security are so much, without adding that
the personal security has just done the
Pacific slope. Also, that agents’ balances are
so much, with no obligation to mention that
some of the agents have completely disappeared
with their balances; and that shares and
debentures are a certain amount, without any
call to go into details as to the depreciation of
the shares and debentures since their purchase.
Further, the account is to state that interest in
arrear is so much, but this item doesn’t read
“ all interest in arrear.” Therefore, the
management, when £25,000 worth of interest
arrears rise up to show that the mortgages are
largely irrecoverable and that the loans on per-
sonal security are very insecure, may truthfully
put £5OOO under this heading and bury the other
£20,000 among the principal, or drop iw c ut
altogether.
* * * *
There is no provision for a State audit and
valuation in Cross’s scheme. There is also no
definite provision for any audit. If there is
an audit it isn’t provided that the auditors’certi-
ficate must say that things are right or wrong,
which means everything, instead of simply
saying that they are right according to the
books, which means nothing. There is no pro-
vision for any regular valuation of the securities
by any one. The directors are not called upon
to say in the balance-sheet that the assets are
worth so much, or even that they believe them
to be worth so much—and the mere statement
that mortgages are held to a certain amount
counts for nothing. If an institution bought
a J-acre allotment for £lO in the name
of the office-boy, and he then mortgaged
it to the institution for £lO,OOO in con-
sideration of £1 cash, it would be abso-
lutely true, so far as that transaction was
concerned, that the co. had £lO,OOO in mort-
gages, and the fact might be truthfully inserted
in the balance-sheet as that document is now,
and as it will still be in Queensland if the pro-
posed law comes into force. No politician in any
of the Australias has ever ventured to propose
legislation upon any of these points, mainly, it
would appear, lest he should be accused of
making base insinuations about the solvency of
this country’s big life-assurance societies. The
average Australian views these concerns with
awe, and is proud of them, and takes their
solvency for granted ; he would just as soon
th-ink of subjecting them to the indignity of
any real supervision as a pious Israelite of the
ancient time would have thought of aiming a
dead cat at the Ark of the Covenant. He had
the same sentiment once about his big and
glorious banks, the Queensland National among
the rest; but that is past now. By-and-bye the
present sentiment may pass also.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Berry Pension Comedy.
Probably no Premier except Turner would
have taken seriously the proposal that old
Graham Berry should be provided for by
passing round the hat among the Vic. legis-
lators. Also, it is probable that no one except
Turner supposed that the legislators intended
it to be taken seriously. The general feeling
was that Berry had to be provided for at
somebody else’s expense, because, if the grand
old warrior was allowed to drop from one
depth of poverty to another in his last days,
and w'ander in frayed raiment about the scene
of his bygone glories, the electors might so far
remember their Tribune as to say or do some


tiling unpleasant over the matter. I hey might
not subscribe handsomely for their fallen idol
themselves, but they would probably sympa-
thise in a cheap sort of way, next election time,
by hooting at the men who left Berry in the
lurch. No one, probably, really wanted to put
up his own money for Berry. No one had the
courage to cold-bloodedly say, in so many
words, “Chuck him out ! ” No one wanted to
take the direct personal responsibility of
saddling him on the taxpayer as a pensioner in
these times of retrenchment, but if Turner
was willing to take the responsibility any
number of politicians were willing to follow him
reluctantly, and explain afterwards, if neces-
sary, that they only did it to avoid breaking
up the party. But Turner flatly refused to
take the responsibility, as something that wasn’t
in the regular day’s work ; his tacit attitude
was that if the party would unanimously
resolve upon establishing an embarrassing pre-
cedent he might be driven into agreeing, but it
must be clearly understood that he was driven.
Also Turner refused to take the responsibility
of leaving Berry out in the cold, as something
that was also not in the day’s work ; he simply
proposed to be a private member of an amateur
benevolent society and lend a listening ear like
any other member. As for taking any definite
lead, that wasn’t in the day’s work. Under
these difficult circumstances the meeting
was driven into stating that it would gladly
sacrifice part of its own salary in the good
cause, though it didn’t look at all glad. The
idea probably was that, at the worst, the
voluntary hat would go round, and anybody
who liked could be judiciously absent that day,
and when the subscriptions fell off the State
would come to the rescue after all. But the
callous Turner either took or professed to take
the offer in dead earnest, and is introducing
a bill under which a percentage is to be
forcibly deducted from every member’s salary
to pension Graham Berry so long as he
survives. If Parliament doesn’t assent, all
manner of unpleasant things will be said about
the meanness of a very mean majority. If it
does assent, it won’t even have that inward
glow under the waistcoat which comes of volun-
tary benevolence; its benevolence will be
forcibly deducted from it every month. Pro-
bably the average member will vote for the
proposal with an inward hope that the other
fellows will vote against it, so that he can go
round afterwards and say that he wanted to
provide for old Graham Berry at his own
expense and was forcibly prevented. Parkes
would have simply revelled in the irony of the
situation, yet it is questionable if Turner even
sees the humor of it. Anyhow, he spoiled a
beautiful dramatic effect. If things had gone
right, when that generous offer was made
Turner should have risen with tears in his
voice, and said he was deeply touched by the
generosity of hon. members, but he really
couldn’L permit such a noble sacrifice, and he
felt it his duty to give way, and a vote would
be put on the estimates, &c. Then there would
have been cheers and drinks, and the meeting
would have presented a fine aspect of self-
sacrifice at no personal expense, and Turner
would have advertised his yearning for economy
at no expense also, and the Berry incubus
would have been off everybody’s mind. And
instead of doing his part gracefully Turner
didn’t even thank the meeting; he merely
went off in a grumpy, business-like frame of
mind, and drafted a dashed, infernal Bill.
♦
Panton’s Logic.
In this country the man who blows down the
muzzle of the Law to see if it is loaded gener-
ally discovers that it is, and has his eye wrecked
in consequence. For a long time the Mel-
bourne rum-interest persistently objected to the
presence of magistrate Lormer on the bench in
licensing cases on the ground that Lormer,
being a teetotaller, was almost certain to suffer
from unconscious bias against publicans in
general. Solicitor David Gaunson was one
strong objector, and every time he appeared
before Lormer in a licensing case his voice was
raised in protest like the stentorian yell of
Alexander the Coppersmith. Finally, the
Supreme Court considered the case, and decided
that Lormer had better not adjudicate in such
cases. Then the Cold Tea party started.
Police - Magistrate Panton is alleged, on
good or bad authority, to be part - owner
of a vineyard somewhere, and so directly
interested in the wine industry—anyhow, the
statement about the alleged vineyard has never
been disproved. And, whether he has a vine-
yard or not, he is not a teetotaller, so far as
anybody knows, and a man who wants a little
liquor occasionally may easily have an uncon-
scious bias in favor of the publican. There-
fore, the Cold Tea party, quite logically
and respectfully, objected to Panton’s pre-
sence on the bench in a wine-license case.
Whereupon Panton exploded with a loud pop,
threatened to commit the objector for contempt,
said he had been insulted, and hove terms like
“blackguard” and “scoundrel” round pro-
miscuously, and, in addition, said the objection
was an outrage and the objector a “ creature,”
and that the Court had been “polluted.”
Therefore, apparently, it is one thing when a
Victorian grog-dealer hints at possible bias on
the part of a teetotal beak, and quite another
when a teetotaler hints the same thing
at a non-teetotal beak. Panton was, to
all intents and purposes, the defendant, on a
charge of “ unconscious bias.” And, instead of
the case being argued in a sober fashion, the
defendant was allowed to decide in his own
favor without a hearing, and slang the plaintiff
as well, and even to threaten him, by implica-
tion, with awful consequences. Then why
didn’t Victorian law simply settle the charge
against Lormer by letting him decide in his
own favor, with strong language thrown in ?
The spectacle of Panton deciding, in a whirl-
wind of rageful adjectives and abuse, that he
(Panton) is a perfectly calm and equal-minded
individual, with a judicial mind, is a trifle
ridiculous.
Another Shindykit.
The other day the- Lower House of the Q.
Boodle Parliament passed the second reading of
a Bill authorising the construction of a private-
enterprise railway from Mareeba to Chillagoe,
N.Q. Mareeba is the present terminus of the
brief but celebrated Cairns swindle-line, so if
the extension should also turn out disastrously
to the public exchequer, there will be no want
of concord and harmony about the matter, any-
way. The shindykit of the suggested line
announces that it wishes to extend the Cairns
railway due west about lOOmiles to theChillagoe
district, where the same shindykit owns leases
of valuable tin, lead, and copper-mines,
which leases it can’t work profitably
for want of carriage to the seaboard.
Its leases total 2000 acres ; and at present it
is supposed to pay 10s. an acre rent, and is also
supposed to employ one man per five acres—
unless it can evade the painful necessity by
exemptions and Ministerial concessions while
still monopolising the land. Under the new
Bili the shindykit proposes to annul the labor
conditions, and pay—or dodge payment of—<£l
an acre rent. Taking a miner’s wages at the
loeally-current rate of £3 a week, its present
liability is ,£62,400per annum, plus rent ,£1000;
and it cheerfully offers to waive this liability in
consideration of paying ,£2OOO per annum altoge-
ther! This is so very like a shindykit. Further,
the shindykit is to have land for its line and
stations given free, and is to be allowed to
charge half as much again as the State railways
charge for freight and passengers ; and its
monopoly of the mineral leases and the line
without further taxation is to be assured for
50 years, at the end of which time the Govt,
may, if it chooses, buy the line for whatever it
may then be worth. Perhaps the most amazing
thing about these proposals is the fact that
the shindykit apparently doesn’t intend to put
up any money or take any risk whatever. It
merely proposes that Q. Boodle Parliament
should give it for three years, in considera-
tion of its promise to build the line at the
end of that time, what it apparently re-
gards as a highly-valuable concession; and,
during these three years, the shindykit
may hawk its concession round the money
markets of the world, and sell, if it can, to a
bigger shindykit; and if, at the end of three
years, not a pick has been pu-t in the ground,
the project apparently drops dead, and the
shindykit is not a stiver the worse, and no line
is built after all. As it isn’t clear whether the
abrogation of the labor conditions is or is not
to follow immediately on the passing of the
bill, the shindykit may really design to be some
hundreds of thousands of pounds the better—
that is, it may, so far as can be understood,
monopolise its leases on specially profitable
terms for three years without fulfilling the
special conditions, and without being liable to
be called to any account. This confidence of
the shindykit in its own bonct-Jides is a remark-
able circumstance.
Tlie Fatuous Fat Men.
The great and wonderful incapacity of the
N.S.W. Legislative Council never stuck out
more conspicuously than it did last week. The
Upper House was undoubtedly in an unplea-
sant mood to begin with ; it had just been told,
for the several dozenth time, that it was an
incubus and an anachronism, and that the
mendiug or ending of it would be the Minis-
terial war-cry at next election. In addition to
this, it doesn’t like Premier Reid at any time,
and would gladly see that artful dodger of
finance run into a corner. And then a great
opportunity came to it to run Reid into a
corner, and burst his finance into small pieces,
and damage his reputation, and get for itself
the biggest and best advertisement it ever had,
and thereby discredit Reid’s schemes for
Council reform—and it made a horrible mess of
things, as usual. It had two finance bills before
it—the Loan Bill and the Probate Duties. The
former was an infamy of the worst description ;
it was a scheme for charging to posterity about
,£BOO,OOO of ordinary expenditure in order to
make a bogus appearance of solvency and keep
the Free-raid myth afloat; but it didn’t per-
sonally injure the pockets of councillors. And,
though every private member of the Council
who spoke on the subject denounced this great
swindle in the strongest language, not one
voted against it. There wasn’t even a division.
The Council, by its own showing, allowed a
swindle of the worst kind to pass without
serious opposition, and thereby advertised
itself as an institution with neither soul nor
conscience. The Probate Duties Bill did affect
councillors, or their families, personally ; the
Council spoke against it much less vigorously
than it did against the Loan Bill—and threw it
out by an enormous majority. If the N.S. W.
Upper House had known when to came in out
of the wet it would have practically reversed
the order of proceeding. It would have in-
sisted on amending the Probate Duties Bill to
bring it at least partly in line with the Victorian
Act (as Premier Reid distinctly promised to
adopt the Victorian system it had a fair excuse
for doing this); in other words, it would have
insisted, in addition to the £lOOO exemption
already granted, on letting the widow and
children off at half-rates when the estate was
valued at less than (say) £15,000 or <£20,000.
As the Victorian limit is £50,000 it would thus
have been keeping Reid to less than half of his
promise. Then it would have passed the Bill
with that amendment, and laid its jewelled
hand on its large white waistcoat, and drawn
attention to the fact that it wasn’t trying to
save its own big estate, but only looking after
the moderate-sized property of the “ widder
and the horphan.” Thereby it would have
widely advertised Reid’s broken promise and
its own disinterestedness, and also left its
enemy in a considerable difficulty about re-
venue. Then it would have throw'n out
the Loan Bill with a deafening bump, on
the ground that the practice of charging
£BOO,OOO a year of current expenditure to loans,
and thus laying huge burdens on posterity, W'as
a species of profligacy which was past endur-
ance. That would have left Reid financially
stranded, and it w'ould have drawn the coun-
try’s attention to his utterly insolvent financial
policy at a very awkward time. Under these
circumstances, the real issue before the country
at the general election would have been the
right of the Government to charge posterity
with new crockery for the Jenolan accommoda-
tion house, and things like that, as “permanent
and reproductive works,” and probably Reid
v >uld have gone down wallop, and a new
Government come in which would have taken
the Probate Duties off again. Now the issue is
the right of the Chamber of Fat Men to reject
taxation proposals which affect its particular
class—and probably that war-cry will save
Reid. Premier Reid has already started to
work up general hostility against the Upper
House by withdrawing the municipal subsidy
on the ground that the Council has refused to
supply him with revenue; whereas if the
Upper House had instead refused to supply him
with loans, and he had then withdrawn the
municipal subsidy, he would only have rubbed
in the damaging fact that the subsidy was
really paid out of borrowed money. A House
which misses opportunities like these deserves
extinction.
♦
On Behalf of the Undeserving Widow.
King O’Malley, who might be a useful and
influential Democratic legislator but for his
awful eloquence and his bursts of gas, has a
bill before S.A. Assembly providing that a
widow shall have an inalienable claim on one-
third of her late husband’s estate, no matter
what will he may have made to the contrary.
Curiously enough, O’Malley forgot to make
any similar provision for the young children of
the deceased. Still, his idea is a good one, so
far as it goes. No matter how much the widow
may deserve to be disinherited, it generally
boils down to this : she must either be sup-
ported out of her husband’s estate or out of the
estate of the general taxpayer. And no matter
how sinful or how horrid she may have been to
her husband during their married life, he at
least enjoyed the illusion of thinking her an
angel before they were married, which the
public didn’t. Also, it was he, not the public,
who made the mistake of marrying her.
Further, he promised to support her, and
the public didn’t. And, if she did turn
out a she - fiend, and kept him all his
life in misery and subjection, he isn’t wholly
deserving of sympathy ; if he hadn’t married
her some one else probably would, and that
other person might have been large enough and
fierce enough to keep her in subjection and
make her a model female of the most humble
and subdued description, and by rushing into
a contract for which he was wholly unfitted the
deceased probably, to some extent, caused the
lady to turn out badly. Even if the widow
drinks horribly she ought, at least, to have a
claim on enough of the defunct husband’s*
estate to supply her with a domicile to drink in
so that she won’t be more of a public eyesore
than is really necessary. Also, she should have
a claim on enough of the estate to enable her to
pay for her own gin ; a red-nosed and hair-
tangled widow who has to cadge for her gin is a
public nuisance. So far as The Bulletin can
see all the logic is with O’Malley’s view of the
case.
Stoush.
Lyne’s abrupt offer in N.S.W. Assembly to
personally bash Premier Reid may possibly be
a sign of assault and battery to come. The
growing desire in some parts of the House to
bash Reid almost anywhere arises mainly from
that unmannerly person’s habit of constant
interruption. When he is in really good form
he breaks in upon an opponent’s speech about
twice a minute, and if the orator is a con-
scientious, laborious man he is led away from
his point in pursuit of fleeting interjections, and
beguiled on to side issues, something after the
fashion of a dog that tries to run simultaneously
after ten rats all vanishing in different direc-
tions. After a quarter of an hour of this sort
of thing he doesn’t-catch anything and sees the
tail of the last rat vanish round the corner, and
the thread of his discourse is hopelessly gone.
There is no man in the House who can match
Reid at this kind of mischief, yet there is
hardly one who couldn’t lay him out in five
seconds if he could get a straight rush at the
Premier’s stupendous bingy. Lyne’s sudden
yearning to get back to savagery and bounce
a huge volume of “Votes and Proceedings”
on his enemy’s helpless corporation was the
yell of the undressed primitive man anxious
to return to first principles. For three years
Reid has mercilessly baited his unwieldy oppo-
nent, who is big enough, if he only got loose on
the foe in a free scrimmage with chairs, to make
every portfolio, save Jack Want’s, vacant
inside 10 minutes. Ten years ago, when the
N.S.W. Assembly was more aboriginal than it
is now, he might have settled a long score by
simply stoushing Reid in the refreshment-
room, when that ever - ravenous statesman
dropped in at 11 p.m. to have his little snack
of six chops and the best part of a loaf, and two
large plates of something else; but these free-
and-easy days have gone by.
At Cobar (N.S.W.), a few days ago, 19 em-
ployes of the Cobar Gold Mines Co. were fined
ss. each for working on Sunday. Previous to
this the co.’s battery, which is situated a mile
or two out of town, pounded away on the Day
of Rust just the same as on any other day, but
the Sabbath Observance law has now brought
it up short. But right in the town of Cobar
the smelters of the Great Cobar copper-mine
roar seven days in the week, and the grimy
toiler trucks the ore and hoists it into the fur-
nace on Sunday just the same as on any other
day, and thereby the people going to church
have their thoughts disturbed from peaceful
contemplation of the butcheries done by the
ancient Israelites. And no one, so far as The
Bulletin has heard, has even proposed to pro-
ceed against this co. for wreckage of the blessed
Sabbath. And Minister of Justice Gould is a
large shareholder in the enterprise which thus
disturbs the Sunday calm with impunity.
♦
Albert Norton, M.L.C., a discredited Queens-
land politician of the old MTlwraitii clan,
bolds a brief now for the bloated squattah.
He has been a bit of a coastal cattle-squattah
himself. “We want our expired and expiring
leases renewed for 10 years,” is the burden of
Norton’s cry. “We won’t stock up on annual
leases. The country we want won’t be asked
for, for close settlement, for years and years.”
In that case, of course, an annual lease, with
six months notice, is as good as a tenure for
years and years.” As a matter of fact,
Minister Barlow tried the same dodge and told
the same tale in ’95, and failed. The land which
-Barlow declared no one but the squatter would
take at any price was thrown open and eagerlv
taken up to the very last acre. “Anyhow ”
continues Norton, “the squattah should be
given a pre-emptive right to a grazing-farm on
ins run, instead of being only made equal to a
common stranger. A ‘ gross injustice ’ has been
done to the squattah by not including such a
clause in the Bill.” The wail of the insolent
cattle magnate about the gross injustice done
to him is interesting. He made a bargaijj
with the Sta.te. The State has faithfully
adhered to its bargain, and the Queens*
land squatter is now a sturdy mendicant
howling truculently at the gate, and de-.
manding concessions which were not in the
bargain and which were never paid for. When
Barlow, in 1895, proposed renewing the leases
of the coastal squatters for 10 years, and block-
ing settlement till well on in the twentieth
century, the Assembly threw out the proposal
with both feet. But the huge pastoralist
lamented at the gate and implored his suffering
country to “gib it tikpence ” ever since, and
the Leg. Council was so moved the other day.
by Norton’s woe and its own, that it inserted
a clause in the new Land Bill granting the ten
years’ renewal.
+
A Victorian State school teacher thus de-
livers himself in a letter to the Age on the
Scripture lesson question : —“All teaching
worth the name is dogmatic. In mathematics,,
grammar, geography, etc., we are nothing ife
not dogmatic, and religion when divided from!
dogma is nothing better than a body without ai
soul.” Here we have a good old orthodox
view, such as might have come from the lips bf
a bisliop. But it sounds odd from those of-a
schoolmaster. Who should know better than
he that the dogmatics of fixed sciences, such as
mathematics, are based upon evidence that is
incontestable ? Geography and mathematics
have been built up by experience, analogy, and'
proven evidence. But can the same be said of
“religion?” Does not all dogmatic religion
rest upon tradition, and does any one really
know what the tradition rests upon? Is there
a more doubtful thing than the “ trewth ” as.it
is taught by the dogmatic parson ? No sensible
man dogmatises very hard about history—at
least about remote history, which is always
shifting and changing, and having new lights
cast upon it. And a great deal of the Bible is
the remotest and least corroborated and most
incredible-looking history extant. :
+
Has anybody ever been curious enough to
analyse the Crown theory of “ design,” upon
which the whole case against Suffield rests,
and failing which it falls, like Lucifer ? The
Crown, not finding it convenient to disregard
the evidence of Mrs. Warren and her daugh-
ter while it was supported by that of James
Warren, had to accept Suffiei.d’s change of
clothes as a proven fact. Now, Suffield stated
that he changed his clothes for the following
reasons : —(1) He had to go to work some time
that night. (2) Prior to going to work' he was
tired and feeling out of sorts. (3) It was a hot
night: his working clothes were spotlessly
clean, soft, and cool. (4) So he put them on to'
lie down in, not only to save his good clothes, ;
but because they were more comfortable. The'
Crown lawyers obviously couldn’t accept reasons
so simple and natural. If they did, their case
was at an end. No ! Suffield changed his
clothes as part and parcel of his nefarious
design to waylay and rape Ann Chambers.-.
That is, he actually donned a pair of clean-
white moleskin trousers in which to perpetrate'
a horrible and gory outrage by night ! The'
Crown didn’t suggest what particular ad van-'
tage was likely to accrue to Suffield’s “de-
sign ” from his assumption of the white unmen-
tionables. Can anybody else ?
The Suffield Case.
The Bulletin will be glad to receive (with’
date, &c., attached) marked copies of or clippings'
from any newspapers containing comments on the
Suffield case.
Summing-up on the Suffield case, Judge
Windeyer glossed over the high testimonials as to
the character of the accused, volunteered by
respectable and independent witnesses. Suffield,
alleges that he bluntly directed the jury to dis-
regard this testimony, on the ground that the
witnesses “must be mistaken in their estimate of
the accused man’s character.” Why ?
Writes Mr. W. 0. Hodgkinson, formerly Q.
Minister for Mines and Education, and long a 1
police-magistrate and goldfields-warden
Sydney, 26th November, 1897. '
The Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—l have carefully read the’
Suffleld-ease pamphlet. My experience as a magistrate
and, may I add, student of sexual physiology, has long
since taught me how cautious oneshouid be in matters of
this kind. Take away Ann Chambers’ hysterical, incon-
sistent statements, give proper authority to the evidence,’
(unimpugned except by the cowardly sneers of the Judge)
of the Warrens, allow in a case of such doubt due weight
to SufSeld’s unblemished character, and what remains ?
“ Nothing but a voiceless bull ” and a further page in the
black records of Botany Bay judicature. Cannot some of-
the thousands who impartially applaud our athletes
clamor for fair play for a man eating out his soul with
perhaps the iron of injustice searing its very fibres? I
trust that The Bulletin will wrestle with this apathy so
disgraceful to a community which has the remedy in its
own hands, and on the eve of a general election has only
to demand the common justice of enquiry to make every
official reed tremble before the blast of popular indigna-
tion. It is strange the precedent, to legal mind so dear,
of Europa was not quoted. It is a classic instance based
on overwhelming evidence, vide Lerqprifere.
“The accused,” said Judge Windeyer, referring to Suf-
field in the dock, “ I regret to say, does not impress me
favorably. lam of the opinion that,, certainly possessed
of some manly advantages, he has been living in the
neighborhood of the Latnbtons, and using these advan-
tages for the purpose of seduction.” Not a shadow of
evidence to support this supposition. And where were
the arts of the professional seducer, according to the
story of the prosecutrix ? A brief “ Good-night! ” a crash-
ing blow on the head, with “ a fist”—“ a stick”—or “ a
stone” !
Relevant to the Suffield case. Baron Bramwell (at his
jubilee anniversary celebration) : “ In the course of my
long career, I have found that 70 per cent, of the accusa-
tions of women against men have been proved to be lies ;
4 per cent, of the remaining 30 percent, have not been
proved to be true. It is very hard to disprove such
charges.” “The last of the Barons” also spoke on that
occasion of “the amiable imbecility of legislators who
take the part of women against men.” “It is the men
who should be protected.”


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of tiie UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1896
SURPLUS
Increase in Surplus during 1896
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ...
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896
SURPLUS over LI AB!LiTI ES on every standard of valuation LA RG E R than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. ;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
£45,161,239
3,284,283
8,995,216
552,744
190,646,265
540,108
Queen Victoria was one of Mr. Thomas
A. Edison’s first constituents in England for
a Phonograph, and now she is to make
a record of her voice on the instrument for pre-
servation in the British Museum. Anyone who
purchases a “ Home ’’ Phonograph for JCI2 at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-sfcreet, Sydney,
oan make records of peoples’ voices ad lib., and
also secure a fine selection of musical and other
records of the highest quality. The manager
invites correspondence regarding Phonographs,
Cinematographies, &c.*
Neither the price nor
the quality of the worK
can be equalled by
any other fi rrrj
in the world.
<S* o'?*
4f\
Tb* IDEAL
CO.
480 George s*.
(ground floor, no stairs.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS 20
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood ” (Deo. 87).
Lyceum “ Dick Whittington.”
Royal “Jack the Giant-Killer.”
Tiv01i..../ Rickards’ Combined Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “Claudian.”
Royal “ Struck Oil.”
Bijou Biograph Vaudeville Co. (last
nights).
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Harnistou’s Circus and Zoologia.
At Sydney Lyceum on Saturday night the
new curtain with the boot advertisement on it rose
in the presence of a stupendous audience. It was
a bushy audience, which had mostly come down
from the dingo’s lair to see the cricket-match, and
was taking ‘ Arrah-na-Pogue ” in passing. It was
also an audience which breathed the breath of
gum-tree and wept copiously over the old Irish
drama, and it never noticed the dreadful anti-
climax at the end of each act. Every act in
“ Arrah-na-Pogue ” winds up with a strong
situation especially the first one and then,
when the audience had just melted into one
unanimous snuffle, a curtain descended on which
they were implored in large letters to try Hunter’s
boots. The management which puts up a boot
advertisement at such a moment may have a lot
of business instinot, but it has no poetry in its
soul.
• • • •
Grattan Riggs is taking a short rest at pre-
sent, and John O’Neill fills the part of Shaun, the
Post. O’Neill is a moderately brief man of enor-
mous girth, with a reliable brogue and much
humor. He tackles his Shaun with the largest
corporation that was ever brought to bear on the
}>art within The Bulletin’s knowledge or recol-
ection —also with the most stupendous treble
chin on record. And he carries the audience with
him all through ; even in the pathetic parts it
weeps with him instead of weeping at his mighty
stomach as might have been expected ; so the in-
ference is that O'Neill is an Irish comedian of no
mean order. The man who can throw so terrific
a weskit into a drama and make it go all the time
inspires respect. J. Driscoll Foley is another dis-
tinct success of the orthodox kind as the Informer
—the small rag of a man who never straightens
his knees or his back, and who rubs his two loamy
hands together incessantly. The small informer is
hallowed by time and long usage, but all the same
the present complainant would like to see ; a
long, gaunt one for a change ; surely the in-
former grew up occasionally. Miss Julie Woodville,
who toils after the character of Arrah, has an un-
even brogue, and acts somewhat patchily, and
looks as pretty as a picture ; also Miss Maud Wil-
liamson is reasonably good throughout ; and
Diver, who has made many good villains, doesn’t
make any too good a hero, though the gorgeous
he-millinery of last century suits him well. But
as long as the comic bhoy and the informer are in
good hands nothing can go very far wrong with
any Irish drama.
* * * •
The MacMahon management gets in early
•with its pantomime by opening on Christmas Eve
(Friday). Said panto, is supposed to be about
“ Dick Whittington and his Cat at least, it will
be as much about that person and his animal as
any pantomime is about anything. The main
fact is that Fanny Liddiard and the shapely Marie
Luella, whose limbs are a poem, are to take the
leading parts.
*m * m
The “ Royal Divorce ” ends its career at
Her Majesty’s on Saturday. The latter days of this
show were e'-en more prosperous than the early
ones, and only the facts that the co. is booked for
a Maoriland tour, and that the pantomime is due
on the 27th, prevents Bonaparte retreating from
Moscovv indefinitely. The Firm this year is going
back to panto, on the orthodox lines with “Babes
in the Wood,” and it hopes, if possible, to break
its past Xmas records in the matter of frill and
glitter and pictorial splendor. The “ Babes ” are
an old subject, but nowadays the subject of a
pantomime is so completely snowed up by the
miscellaneous accessories that it isn’t of the
smallest'consequence. Even if there was only
one subject, and all the theatres used it every
Xmas, it would be just the same. Some further
details about the bushed offspring may be looked
for in next issue.
** * *
Addie Conyers is now at Sydney Tivoli,
and the Kellino family of acrobats, who are
alleged, upon the management’s most solemn
colonial oath, to be engaged at a salary of j£L5O
a week, appear there on Saturday. There is a
certain freshness about this frank revelation of
the star’s salary, but the present writer rather
likes the new departure. Therefore he hastens to
mention that his salary is £165 a week, and, if a
bowelless management doesn’t increase it forth-
with, there is going to be trouble. The Haytors
and the loose-legged Wootwell are still at the
Tivoli, which is girding up its loins for an unusual
effort at Xmas.
** * *
Sydney Royal, which has been deserted
for quite a long time now, opens with “Jack, the
Giant-Killer ” under Harry Rickards’ manage-
ment on December 23. Rickards thus gets in a
day ahead of the Lyceum panto, and four days in
advance of Her Majesty’s. George Lauri, the
Haytors, the loose-legged comedian, and Misses
Addie Conyers and Lottie Moore are to be the
principal gems in Rickards’ constellation. How
Sydney will stand three pantomimes falling upon
it at once the Lord only knows.
** * *
For the present week, however, the Royal
is deserted, and the Criterion, Palace and Opera
House are in the same condition. So far, nobody
has announced any intention of opening the three
last-named, even at the season of the murdered
fowl when all manner of things are liable to
happen in the theatrical way.
** * *
All this time “The French Maid” has
been doing an extensive business at Melbourne
Princess’s, and the last two nights of that harm-
less fabrication will be rushed with mild enthu-
siasm. “The French Maid ”is less original than
the previous sample of broken-English humor,
but Melbourne seems to like it better. Pro-
bably the new people, Miss Ada Reeve and
Bert Gilbert, have grown in local favor since
they enlarged their sphere of usefulness and
let themselves go in an old-fashioned five-
act duet. It is much the same irrelevant duet
that other couples have treated for the last fifty
years, nevertheless the present revival has a cer-
tain air of striving to work on its own, and the
performers are distinctly brighter than the average
variety pair. “The French Maid” finishes on
Friday, and therewith a prosperous season of
cerulean jokes will cease to be. After which
Wilson Barrett.
** * *
Saturday is the appointed time for tho
first Australian appearance of Wilson Barrett and
his company of 23 souls, who will introduce them-
selves to the natives of this wild, untutored
country in “Claudian,”a play famous for a first-
class earthquake, and many other matters. Mr.
Barrett brings with him, in addition to the co., a
valuable personal celebrity as the author of the
“ Cross” drama, and unless the public feel dis-
appointed at not finding a halo round his level
head he will get a gigantic reception.
** * #
The calm that is apt to precede the Xmas
storm was a good deal in evidence at Melbourne
Royal last week, consequently “Trilby” bur-
lesque made way for “ Struck Oil ” on Saturday.
The season when a revival of Lizzie Stofel
wouldn’t fill the Royal has not yet been arrived
at, and the pulse of the treasury chinks health-
fully once again. Maggie Moore is always
young enough for the figure of the leading
lady in this frequent narrative, if we
make due allowance for the fact that Miss
Stofel was Dutch on her father’s side. Anil when
the popular institution comes to “The Chinese
Question,” and appears as a Chow maiden in black
overalls, The Bulletin is almost prepared to swear
she wasn’t more than 17 last birthday. Harry
Roberts nowadays gives a really strong perform-
ance of John Stofel in his Van Winkle stages.
The white-haired crank is more refined and less
aged than he ought to be ; he is wanting in the
suggestion of a fat man dwindled by sickness, but,
all the same, the power to hold an audience silent
as the grave for several minutes is in H. R.
Roberts, and he scores heavily. J. P. West, as
the oily Deacon, is likewise a very worthy sup-
port. “Struck Oil ” will hold the floor till Satur-
day night only, next week being required for
active rehearsals of the pantomime.
*# * *
The Biograph Vaudeville show concludes
a month’s run at Melb. Bijou on Friday. A
vision of V.R.’s Jubilee garden-party, also a
tunnel scene and Niagara, have been added to the
Bi. series, and the programme otherwise intro-
duces new matter in ail directions. The local
nobilities, headed by Gov. Brassey, were due at
the Bijou on Wednesday evening, and any mem-
bers of the common herd who wish to sample a
highly superior variety entertainment ere it passes
hence had better hurry up. The Opera House
show, which goes on as though no opposition had
happened, is rejoicing in the recent arrival of
Austin Rudd, a comedian who manufactures his
own songs and makes original grimaces whilst you
wait. Rudd is all right. Phil Newbury will
leave the Opera House shortly, but three gymnasts
from Paris and London are coming to fill the gap.
#* * *
Melbourne’s periodical craving for ivild
beasts, and beautiful ladies on bare-backed ’osses,
etc., is now being appeased by Harmston’s
Circus and Zoologia, a solid concern that pays
prompt cash to the printer and turns electric
light upon the arena. The first performance
of Harmston’s circus was fixed too late for
mention in this issue. Judging from the
magnitude of the tents and the dimensions of
the colored posters, and the florid eloquence of
agent Joe Brown, the entertainment ought to get
some favorable mention next week. Tho site
chosen for the new canvas town is a block of
desert land on the suburban side of Prince’s
Bridge, where Fillis pitched his tent in former
days: and the tramway co. offers special travelling
facilities to patrons.
At Poverty Point.
Haresfoot: “ Adelaide steadily goes down to the be-
nighted state of Geelong, where the theatre was first
turned into a brewery, and then into the Salvation Army
barracks. ”
Melb.: “The militia, in three nights’ terrific musketry,
over the Exhibition Tattoo, have not killed more than
half-a-dozen little ones in the Children’s Hospital
opposite.”
Haresfoot: “ Mr. H. R. Roberts’s Svengali is decidedly
pleasantei than Fax’s. I want to know why Roberts is
not in London as a rival of Seymour Hicks, and that
crowd, not to speak of the great Arthur Roberts, who
can no more live for ever than King Ahasuerus. Roberts's
Svengali indicates just the type of man in demand for
the fashionable musical comedy, nor would he be far
abroad in romantic drama of the ‘ Red Robe ’ stamp.”
Theorbo : “ Napoleon Boffard is quite the Melb. reign-
ing tenor, if Newbury be only regarded as a songbird of
passage. When Boffard was first announced I took him
as some masquerading joke, but he is a great reality.
This new Napoleon is a handsome, fattish little Victor
Emmanuel-looking fellow, or, say, a cross between that
monarch and Beaney. His being French seems to be one
strong point. A more palpable one is that he‘introduces
a sheaf of rattling French songs, the repertory of
Massenet, Saint-Saens, and the like, after our sickening
nauseation of ‘ Come into the Garden, Maud,’ * Death of
Nelson,’ and all that.”
Hilda Spong's part in the “Children of the King,” at
London Court Theatre (writes a Bulletin correspondent),
is entirely unsuited to her, and she accepted it against
her own conviction of its unsuitability. The piece is a
failure for adults, hut is to he tried as a juvenile attrac-
tion. Hilda has a six months’ engagement from the
lessee, Arthur Chudleigh.
The production of “ Franoillon ” at the Duke of York’s
Theatre has not found a happy family at that little house
(writes a Bulletin correspondent from London). Some-
how or other Arthur Elwood and Giace Noble did not
tender the most sympathetic support, and Nellie
Stewart's love of millinery induced her to tie knots of
ribbon on the furniture used in the stage setting, and so
spoil a really beautiful suite of real Louis yuinze. Then
the critics, even those —and there were many—who
acknowledged Mrs. 8.-B. as a leading actress, abused l.er
rendering of this play, which was too light to he drama
and too heavy to be comedy. Cora and Kyrle are going
to jaunt into the provinces presently and see how they
can manage “ on their own.”
May Glendenning and Herbert Sherwin lately ran two
concerts in Hobart. Miss Glendenning was in splendid
voice, but the public response for both concerts was
limited. Slowbart isn’t distinctly musical. Yet May
Glendenning should he good enough value for anybody's
money.
G. B. Allen, the best musician and composer who
has endured Brisbane for any consecutive number of
years, died, the other day, of kidney disease, aged 75
years. He was a sweet composer and a thorough musi-
cian, and in his day a fine vocalist. Of late years he has
been in the cold shade of restiLted means.
Gilgunnia, N.S.W., bellman announcing entertainment :
“ Roll up, roll up, and see what you never seen before—
Richardson's ministerial and hurleskew co., songs and
darnces. Price, men and ladies two shillings, hoys one.”
The Jubilee “cine." got a good, involuntary testi-
monial in Melbourne. A man who was once personally
acquainted with the Vic. Premier ran up to the screen
with extended hand and called out as the shadow went
by : “ Hello, George, old man.” He was quitp disgusted
when George took no notice of him, and went back to his
seat muttering that some people do get beastly proud.
All the different people who are running cinematographe
pictures of the weary Jubilee may annex this lie as their
own special advt.
Dear Bulletin,— Fancy old dead-and-gone Joe Dias
being described as “ the low comedian par excellence of
very old Bendigo and Ballarat,” and so on. The poor old
fellow was simply the traditional prompter —the old,
plain, ordinary, unvarnished prompter— of the Victorian
stage (Melbourne and Ballarat), dating from the late 40 s ;
and his steadiness and, later on, his antiquity, obtained
respect. “Old Bendigo and Ballarat ” that" is where I
come in—scarcely appreciate the idea that Joe Dias was
their favorite comedian of old days. — Ballarat.
Antoinette Sterling retains her old habit of firing
off “ Lost Chords ”at the weak and weary. After
singing, recently, at a Wesleyan chapel service, she heard
that several of the choir were absent through a typhoid
epidemic. Thereupon she visited the sick choristers, and
sang at each bedside. Result not known up to date.
Ada Ferrar, interviewed by Sunday Times, is reported as
saying : “ 1 have never had any experiences, either
amusing or otherwise.” “ I have never been taught any-
thing, except in the school of experience.” Further on :
“ The weather in the Bay of Biscay was awful; everything
was upside-down. After that experience, I intend to go
home again overland ! ”
Theorbo: “On the demise of Gladstone Wright, the
Melbourne musical coterie received its greatest shock
since Federici’s fatal disappearance through the trap, as
Mephistopheles. Wright tried England lately, but was
hardly good enough to cope with the many men of calibre
there in the basso line.”
Elsie Lander (Mrs. W. Freeman Kitchen) was a-hed in
Brisbane for about a fortnight with concussion of the
brain, the result of an accident met with during re-
hearsal, and her after recklessness in keeping faith with
the public on her opening night. She was billed to re-
open in “Demon Gold,” on December 8. That day's
Brisbane dailies contained telegraphic news of her hus-
band's suicide in Sydney. She did re open, however.
Not to have done so might have ruined the season, and
would certainly have put some members of the co. to
great distress and inconvenience. But there was very
little joy in the melodrama that night.
Another little prima donna goes down 40 per cent,
through everyone’s finding out she is married, and she
says she will leave ye stage.
During a case at a Melb. police-court the other day it
came out that two old cripple street-cornetists, whose
business formerly' didn’t yield one crust per diem, have
earned a decent living off “Ben Bolt” ever since the
advent of the “Trilby " craze. So in writing “Trilby”
Du Maurier provided a livelihood for two aged dead-beats
i” ■> corner of the world he probably never thought
about
kjnuiv business in Auckland since the Paulton-Stanley
co. left has been dull. On Prince of Wales’ birthnight a
vivid horror called “The Murder in Wellesley-street”
struck the patient city, but the stay of the corpse was
very short. Then another co. did a night or so with
“ Jessie Brown,” and left disgustedly'. The Greenwoods,
who have been doing fair business in the small towns
where people know no other gods, put up “Two
Orphans.” Business was reasonably good for two nights
—one night for each orphan. Then the invariable “ East
Lynne ” came along—as if the city of awful slump hadn’t
enough grief of its own just now without weeping over
the dreadful korf of Little Willie.
It is announced that Durward Lely and wife will make
an Australian tour next April. The gentleman in ques-
tion is an eminent operatic singer, with a more than
ordinary melodious voice. He was a member of DOyley
Carte’s co., and toured with Patti and Marie Rose. His
latest, appearances have been confined to England and
Scotland.
The Misses Griffiths, of Sydney—pianiste, violiniste and
’cellist—have, upon the advice of some London concert-
agent, changed their surname to that of Cowan, and, as
such, have started to storm the metropolis—musically.
Lady Mayoress prevailed upon Miss Beatrice to play at
the Lord Mayor’s reception. After this, the piaiiiste
played privately to Boosey, and Ada Crossley introduced
her to Mine. Sherwin s husband, Goriitz, and Ganz, the
composer. Daniel Mayer has promised her his patron-
age ; and, between Boosey and Mayer, Miss Beatrice
Cowan should be able to pick up a shilling or two at
’Ome.
Young Stanley Moses, of Windsor (N.S.W.), has, in the
absence of the great Belgian violinist, Ysaye, who is now
in America, been placed in charge of the latter’s pupils.
To have attained to such a height in the Brussels Con-
-Bervatorium required no little genius on the part of the
young Australian. Ysaye, his teacher, predicted a great
future for the youth.
The Bianchis—husband and wife—ran a grand opera co.
in the Sixties. The lady was an enormous woman, with
a splendid voice. The Signor—a good tenor —was shaped
like a football, perched on two little bandy legs. One
night, at the old Prince of Wales, in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, they were illustrating “II Trovatore.” Little
Bianchi came on the stage in a suit of scale armour.
“Bill, ahoy!” shouted a man-o’-warsman in the gallery
to a shipmate on the other side, “ don’t he look like a
blanky bull-frog?” The audience roared, and the show
was spoiled for that night.
Cockaigne : “ Excuse me, dear Bulletin, but Chas.
Wyndham is only 60.” [That means 70 for a pro.—Ed.]
Cockaigne : “Wilson Barrett has more endurance than
any other actor I have heard of. He performed in London,
for weeks together, a heavy- leading part every afternoon
and another every evening. His late brother, George,
was a good comedian, original Jaikes in ‘The Silver
King.’ Wilson Barrett was as poor as a rat three years
ago.”
Musically speaking, Sydney is now practically domina-
ted by Maoriland, or lengthy sojourners in that province.
The two leading tenors, the fashionable baritone, and the
two best-advertised instrumentalists and most prolific
song-writers, are all recent M.L. exports, and tenth-rate
vocalists and pianists arrive by nearly every steamer.
This, of course, doesn’t prove that the Maorilander is the
best musician, but merely that he has heaps more push
and grit than the languid local article.
Melbourne Waxworks was short of novelties, and han-
kered after a fasting man. Gippsland, which has sent
out both Ada Crossley and the fat family, seemed a likely
prospecting ground. Sure enough an out-of-work miner
hea'd of the job. “ Good enought ” said he ; “ I'd do it
meself for a pound a week and me tucker.”
How is it comedians have such a knack of dying handy
to be buried on Sunday ?
Melb: “The other night, at the Royal, I saw
H. R. Roberts in a bad part divide honors with such an
overwhelming favorite as Miss Maggie Moore in a good
one. He has a London future. Always easy and natural,
he has pleasant snatches of Leslie, and, like his father, of
Jefferson. He would act Romeo well. Some of these
days he may chip in with a more than good performance
of Hamlet or lago. Meanwhile, it is the mischief and all
for such a promising young actor not to have a chance of
turning his ability to high-class dramatic work.
Ed. Bui.lk.tix, Everyone (present writer included)
must he satisfied with “ Holdar M.’s” amende to local
plavwrights in a recent Bulletin. But scoffers are many,
and this scribe takes credit to himself for having been
the first to rudely “ bell the cat ” on behalf of the
resident drammer-inen in the columns of this “ influen-
tial oriran.” “H.M.” still objects to the pla,\-weaver
advertising (paragraphicallv) the local fate of his wares in
local newspapers. Let me give “ Holdar M.” one more
(and last) piece of information, which will perhaps
explain to him the wherefore of this advt. idiosyncrasy.
In an individual case it had recently two effects. It has
just secured for the person so advertised, throifgh an
agent, an English play-contraet covering a period of five
years, on exceptional terms ; and it elicited a query from
“ Holdar M.”—B.E.
Leoni Clark, who manipulated his trained cats in the
Firm’B last panto., was recently appearing at the Empire
theatre of varieties in Croydon (Eng.) with a boxing
kangaroo added to his menagerie. One day the mar-
supial escaped into the streets, and several of the inhabi-
tants who attempted to recapture it subsequently retired
into hospital. It was eventually' “ roped,” and Croydon
now knows more about the kangaroo than it ever learned
at school.
Recently a certain musical genius, whose signature is
familiar in Israel, for once in a way met his bill. The
lender's former experiences with the same paper having
taught him the vanity of any ordinary form of application
for payment, he wrote as follows and got his money forth-
with “You may recollect, in ‘days long, long ago,’
you cast a little composition of about. 40 notes upon the
financial waters. In the words of the Psalmist, it has
returned to me after many days increased fifty-fold. It
reminds me of that song you sing so exquisitely, which
ends up ‘ The bloom, the bloom is on the bill.’ It is ripe,
not to say ‘Cherry ripe.’ I would like to say ‘Good bye’
to it * for ever and for ever,' and trust that ‘ The hour of
parting’ may not be ‘Too Late.’”—Yours, &c., Aaron
Blankbnstbin.
“ Phoonix” wants to know why some inventive genius
doesn't strike a more secluded roosting-place for the
musical conductor, who, at present, has to make an absurd
object of himself in front of a chorus—wriggling, hoist-
ing, grinning, jerking, and utterly de-realising the stage-
effect.
One of Australia’s most prominent drapers, at an earlier
stage of his career, used to raise a moderately tuneful
voice at concerts, and was regarded as a songster with a
future. On one momentous occasion, he essayed to sing
some of the “ Messiah ” music. About half-a-dozen of
his employes went purposely to do some barracking, and
witnessed the discomfiture of their well-b loved chief,
who broke down ignominiously, after an unearthly crack
on a top note, and fled from the scene. The draper sent
for these six employes next morning, and swore them to
secresy. That top-note was an event of very long ago,
but in all these years, when employ! after employ! has
been sacked, those fortunate six are still undisturbed in
their billets.
In the Xmas Bulletin IS umber published
last week all the old favorite Bulletin writers
are represented by picked verse and stories; and
some new ones this year come to the front with a
bang. Illustrations adorn every page ; and from
cover to cover the issue is as original and charac-
teristic and Australian as it is possible to make it.
A few copies left. Price sixpence, as usual; post-
free from Bulletin office, 7d. elsewhere than to
Queensland, and BJd. to Queensland.
The Bulletin will be glad to receive, for
publication, from all quarters, tersely-expressed
comments on the Suffield case—which it regards
as involving one of the most cruel injustices ever
perpetrated by law in Australia. The ease is
forcefully set forth in Mr. A. G. Stephens’
pamphlet, published by The Bulletin and post-
free from this office for 7d. in stamps.
Nathaniel Levi, M.L.C., Vic., now at
’Ome, has a long, ungrammatical letter in London
Jewish Chronicle begging funds to save the
mortgaged synagogue in Bourke-st., Melbourne,
from foreclosure. His bitter wail winds up with
a description of himself as “ Member of the Legis-
lative Council of Melbourne.” The spectacle of
Moses vainly striving to get his synagogue out of
pawn is deeply pathetic.
Queensland Premier Nelson thus describes
MTlwraith :
He can’t walk, but, if he is supported by a person on
each side, he can shuffle slowly for a distance of a few
feet; he can’t even lift either hand to his face to brush
away any flies that may settle there. The most that he
can do with his hands, arid this only by making a tre-
mendous and exhausting effort, is to turn over a page of
a book, if the volume is placed advantageously before
him for the performance of such a feat; and he has to be
fed like a hab.v and attended continuously. As for his
means, these are precisely nil.
To which a Bulletin correspondent adds : “ That
MTlwraith is dependent on his wife is well-known.
Personally he is penniless, as well as bed-ridden.”


R. BELL & CO.’S
- - British. Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtainable Everywhere.
Ai'S. j
RErs. )
PIIILTPB & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney; and Wellington, N.Z.
The KOEIiSTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors' Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 Gurrie-st., Adelaide.
SIRJOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wise Merchants.
Quinlan Grat Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Rew & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Burns, Phtlf & Co. Lm,
N. Q’ld & New Guinea.
Australasian
Representatives:
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office 8s Chemical Laboratory,
Telephone"!
2444. J
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
LAY TO YOUR BOOK.
Our Book is Coachbuilding!
DO YOU WANT A SULKY?
There is nothing like a
SIMPSON
.. or a . .
BUCKBOARD
Simpson’s "EASY” is the Latest—
—the Newest
—the Best
For anything, or part of anything on wheels,
write
SIMPSON, COACHBUILDER,
Cash Only. 73 King-street, Newtown.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W. revenue for November (.£781,524) was
£2582 less than that for November, 1896, and for the first
five months (July to November) of the financial year the
revenue is ±223',222 less than for the corresponding five
months last year. Considering that Treasurer Retd’s
finances are based on the assumption that the 12 months
revenue will be £40,000 more than last year, the above
results are pretty bad—especially as there are now only
seven months in which to get straight. So far t.he expen-
diture is £211,343 ahead of revenue, so the deficit isn't
nearly so large as it was a month ago. Still it is a bigger
deficit, by ±144,000 than the one which existed at the same
date last year, and then the Treasurer, instead of being
able to make up the leeway, ended the year with a very
large shortage What does he think are his chances this
year with £223,000 less revenue, a larger estimate to over-
take, and already a bigger shortage to make good ?
» * * *
The Victorian revenue for November was
£514,009, which is £17,448 more than that for November,
1896. Consequently the slump of October is made good,
and the takings for the past five months are £10,780
better than those for the corresponding five months of
last year, and Premier Turner jumps on his hat no louger
—for the present, at all events.
* * • *
Victoria collected =680,511 probate-duty on the
estate of the deceased millionaire Thomas Payne—the
largest single payment under this heading ever made in
the province.
» • » *
Tasmania’s revenue for November was
£3960 better than for Nov., ’96, and, for the 11 months of
the financial year that are expired, the increase is £36,251,
*’* * *
Queensland revenue for November (£5281,G13) is
an improvement of £10,067 as compared with Nov., ’96.
This reduces the decrease for the financial year up to
date to £76,264—which is bad enough, certainly, though
hardly so bad as it seemed a few weeks back.
• • • •
With further referenoe to the Provident and
Industrial Insurance Co. of Maoriland, commented upon
in the issue of December 4, the writer has hunted up the
balance-sheet for 1892 for purposes of comparison. Even
at that early date the alleged assets of the institution
consisted, in great part, of expenses which were made
into a species of suspense account to be paid off by instal-
ments, only this impudent device has been greatly
extended of recent vears. In 1892 the P. and I. professed
to have accumulated an assurance fund of £1640, but as
the assets against this included money spent in “exten-
sion of business, t 620 ” ; ditto, £659; and preliminary
expenses (amount not separately stated) and office furni-
ture, together £636, it certainly appeared that there was
no assurance fund, or very little. In 1897 the assurance
fund is represented as ±3054, and the assets against it
include; “Establishment of agencies account, £1163;
extension account, 1896, ±934 ; and extension account,
1897, ±1465 ’’—total, £3562. As the purely paper assets
are now £5OO more than the alleged assurance fund,
whereas in 1892 they were only about equal to it,
the concern seems now to be even a little less
solvent than in 1892-in fact, it looks the very
worst thing of its kind in the Seven Provinces. The
following is how the writer would fix up the
Provident and Industrial balance-sheet, going by the
materials contained in Us accounts as they appear in the
Insurance and Banking Record ;
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital paid £4,875 0 0 Calls unpaid £730 9 5
~ called 730 9 6 Deposit ... 6,000 0 0
Advance (ap- Agency
pare nll y balances 275 3 0
loan or over- Unpaid Pre-
draft) ... 3,320 0 8 mi unis ... 727 9 7
Deposit ... 340 0 0 Premises ... 1,267 16 9
Sundry Dehts 366 7 6 Sundry
Commission... 144 6 8 debtors ... 201 19 10
Medical fees Furniture
unpaid ... 89 6 0 and sta-
Reserve Fund nil tionery ... 382 17 0
Assurance Fund nil Deficiency... 1,239 14 8
£9,825 10 3 £9,825 10 3
This is made up by inc.uding everything bearing the
slightest resemblance to a real, saleable asset that tlie
writer can find in the Prudential and Industrial’s balance-
sheet even the office stationery. And it leaves the
concern with no assurance fund, instead of the £3054
claimed, and with a large proportion of its capital missing.
The lurid feature of the Provident and Indus-
trial’s mode of compiling its balance-sheet is that a co.
could, if it pleased, by this method, make the assurance
fund look bigger and bigger simply by saying that it had
spent more money on expenses than was really spent, and
a mode of accountancy which opens up such possibilities
is very weird indeed. For instance, it appears that the
co. expended, in 1897, ±2082 in extending the business,
and instead of charging this to current expenses it is
temporarily put among the assets, to be written off by
degrees. On the other side, it appears that the co has
an assurance fund of £3054. And it naturally follows
that if the amount spent on extending the business was
put down instead at 1 12,042, or £52,082, the assurance
fund would have to be put down at £13,054 or ±53,054 to
square the accounts. A method hv which it. is possible to
make the assurance fund or the reserve fund look ±60,000
larger than it is simply by pretending to have blewed
±50,000 more in expenses than was really spent is truly
amazing.
The Australasian Temperance and General Life
Assurance Society issues a moderately good balance-sheet
so far as its ordinary department is concerned Renewal
premiums (±29,427) are £1963 more'tlian last year, and
new premiums (£4812) are £447 less, therefore the total
premium income shows an improvement of £1516. In-
terest on investments (±8548) is £1764 better than last
year. Still the Temperance and General even now barely
earns 4.) per cent, on its total funds; last year it earned
about £3 17s. per cent.—an absurdly low figure. The
amount saved and added to the funds is £15,589—£116
more than last year, which is only moderately gooff, see-
ing that the income increased by some £3900. The ex-
pense account is the one really dismal feature about
the Temperance and General. With a smaller new'
business than last year, the expenses are £ll,BBB against
£10,885 in 1896 and £8134 in 1895. This year 34% per
cent, of the premiums go in expenses, against only 33J
per cent, in 1896, 26 per cent, in 1895, and
25 per cent, in 1894. Also, the expenses absorb 27} per
cent, of the total income, which is something enormous.
The Temperance and General may be solid enough,
but with a very moderate rate of interest on invested
funds and an enormous expense-rate it offers no
particular attractions. The balance-sheet is not wholly
satisfactory in one respect. Outstanding and accrued
interest represents * 2060, but the sheet doesn’t say how
much of this is oniv accrued, and how much is actually
in arrear. The sum involved in this case is very small,
still the practice of lumping these two items is in-
defensible. The amount of interest in arrear is almost
the only available test of the soundness of the invest-
ments—when it is unduly large it is a tolerably reliable
evidence that the investments are not healthy —and
arrears of interest should alwa3's he set forth separately'.
The Temperance and General also runs an in-
dustrial department whose present condition is some-
thing amazing. In 1896 this department collected
£8242 premiums and £1259 interest total income,
£9501. To do this, it paid in expenses £4489,
and, after allowing for claims, the funds of the
industrial branch diminished from £35,049 to £32,568. In
1897, it collected £11,753 premiums and £1324 interest
and fees ; total, £13,077. To do this, the expenses ran to
£14,741— something like 112 per cent., or £1664 more than
the entire income. After paying claims, the funds
decreased from £32,868 to ±25,301, so two years vigorous
hustling after business leaves the Temperance and Gene-
ral’s industrial department nearly' £lO,OOO worse off. An
increase of £3500 in the 1897 premium-income apparently
cost over £lO,OOO extra in expenses, and, even in the
miserably shiftless industrial business, this is buying
insurance a vast deal too dear. A very large new busi-
ness has been done, which is a good feature if it only'
sticks, and industrial business, as a rule, doesn’t stick
much better than a snowball in Gehenna. But it is a
solemn thing to consider that, if the new business had
only been four times larger than it was, this great hurst
of prosperity would almost certainly have left the indus-
trial department with no funds at all.
* • * *
The South British Fire Insurance Co. (Maori-
land) realised £27,611 net profit on its year’s work, pays
17(<> per cent, dividend (£11.310), adds £lO,OOO to reserve,
and'has still < 6301 to the good. The South British has
now £176,000 of reserves and £10,211 to credit of profit
and loss. Somehow Maoriland is the only one of the
Seven Provinces where the local fire insurance business
seems to flourish, probably because it is the only province
where the inhabitant wouldn’t rather do business with a
foreign institution than otherwise. As a result its two
biggest offices—the New Zealand and the South British—
do almost, as much business between them as all the 16
institutions of Australia put together.
* • * *
Tlie National Fire Insurance Co. (Maoriland)
made a net profit, of ±15,229 for the year just ended, and
the usual 15 per cent, dividend swallows up £14,705,
leaving the co. only 1524 to the good. The National has
£98,037 capital, and ±111,317 of reserves and profit and
loss balance, and its assets all appear sound, so it may
fairly be regarded as a large and prosperous concern.
• * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co. got its
balance-sheet out just before the great Flinders-lane
blaze struck it. The year’s profit is ±BB4B, as compared
with £8790 in 1896, £8584 in 1895, and £8192 in ’94. There
is also a balance of £2029 from last year. A 6 per cent,
dividend absorbs £2250 ; £5OOO goes to reserve, making it
£15,000 ; £2OOO is put aside to start a fund for possible
depreciation, and £1627 carried forward. It is a very
prosperous-looking sheet on the whole. The only item
which looks at all doubtful is the investment of £6144 in
building societies’ shares, which—considering the painful
condition of many building societies just now—isn’t quite
above suspicion. Anyhow, the Colonial Mutual has done
a wonderful resurrection of late years. In 1892 it had no
reserve, and was £19,911 to the bad ; now it has £18,627
accumulated, and has a steadily improving business. If
the big Melbourne fire had come along in 1892 it would
have about Onished this institution.
• • * •
The Cornwall Fire Insurance Co. had a particu-
larly luckless time for the year ended 30th September.
The’ whole profit was £469, and the dividend was cut
down from the usual 6) to ±3 2s. 6d. per cent. Even at
this rate is amounted to £2500 or more than five times
the earnings. The Cornwall never seems to strike any-
thing very great in the way of good fortune. It has
£80,"00 paid-up capital, no reserve-fund, no re-insurance
reserve, no provision for possible depreciation of securi-
ties, and only £5420 of accumulations. For a concern
which has existed 66 years and has paid away over
£190,000 in dividends, this is a woefully unprogressive
state of things. Tasmania is the home of ver.v small and
very old financial institutions which never do anything
in particular ; they are ancient and honest and highly
respectable, and they badly want the dust blown off them.
* * * *
The City Bank of Sydney holds £l5O, OOOof N.S.W.
public money at fixed deposit, and £3646 on current ac-
count, and it. also holds £166,884 belonging to the Savings
Bank of N.S.W. Which makes over £320,000 of State
money, or money for which the State is more or less re-
sponsible-equal to nearly one-third of the City Bank’s
entire deposits, and also nearly as much as its entire
paid-up capital. The City Bank is apparently the only
one which holds any N.S.W. State money on fixed de-
posit, and in one way and another the State seems, for
some reason, to support that institution very liberally.
* * * *
Orlando Fenwick, softgoodsman, who died last
week, was worth £lOO,OOO, at the least, before the boom
collapse arid hanking smash. He and George Robertson,
the hookseller, were among the very few wealthy Melb.
men who paid their banking calls and land liabilities to
the last penny.
• * * *
The Barclay influence in Tasmania is still para-
mount. In the beginning of the year one Smith, a
brother-in-law of the mighty banker, was hoisted into the
billet of Government Geologist in succession to Mr. Mont-
gomery, who has been picked up by the Gold Estates Co.
at £1509 a year. Recently C. Gilmore, member for
Georgetown, moved that Montgomery he re-secnreil, with
the result that the Barclay clan influence nearly choked
him.
* * * *
Forrest (Alie.k), in defence of the W.A. Govt,
water-scheme for Coolgardie: “Everything must sink
into insignificance before it. That morning, he had to
pav 2s. 6d. for a hath. One hath cost more than the food-
duties amounted to in three weeks.”
• » * *
Block 14’s last half-year has been uneventful.
The co. has made a profit, of £17,763; £lO,OOO has been
paid in divs., and £6995 for plant and machinery. The
present position is that it has a surplus of liquid assets of
£27,372. But the most liquid of all assets—cash—was
scarce at the end of the half; the co.’s stock of it ran to
only £4B, while the Bank of Adelaide had advanced
£5878. Bulk of liquid assets consists of concentrates and
ore on hand (£23,094), estimated surpluses (£19,685), and
timber, &c. (£7641); there are sundry debtors, apart from
the bank, for £17,970. Certainly no reason is disclosed
why at the very least the ordinary two divs. shouldn’t be
paid this current half—in fact, it might easily be three.
* • • •
Block 10's half-year has been uneventful, too.
It has made a profit of 1 23,634, has paid £25,000 in divs.,
has a surplus of liquid assets (cash, concentrates, and
stores) of £22,644 over liabilities, and its directors see no
reason (assuming a steady market) why 3s. per share
should not be paid quarterly—£3o,ooo per half-year, that
is. This advance is relied upon in consequence of the
completion of the new concentrating plant, to be run in
conjunction wilh the present mill, while there are hopes
of locally treating the “ zinc ores ” (they aren’t “ tailings ”
any more, please note), instead of selling them at a mere
trifle, for shipment. Of these “ores,” which are not
treated as an asset, the manager estimates that 50,000
tons in the dump are worth 34 per cent, of zinc, 13oz.
silver, and 6 per cent. lead ; another 40,000 tons, 30 per
cent, zinc, 12oz. silver, and 7 per cent. lead.
Block 10 management is much more frank than
that of Block 14. The latter never quotes an assay.
Neither shareholders nor public know the average value
of either crude ore or concentrates; nor do they know
the grade of the new bodies exposed in the mine. Block
10, on the other hand, reports assay returns. Block 14
proceeds with its explorations below 300 ft. slowly, and
only says ore is plentiful ; Block 10 goes boldly into the
ore at 750 ft., and finds a good body, assaying 14oz. silver,
19 per cent, lead, and 28 per cent. zinc. Perhaps that is
the most important thing in this co.’s half-yearly report.
* * • *
Block 10 sulphide body at 715 ft. proves to be
14ft., almost pure ore, and averages 13 - 05 oz. silver, 21 ‘25
per cent-lead, and 26 percent zinc. That is fair, though
with depth the silver falls away seriously. Last half-year
the average assays of all ore put through the mill were
17 - 540 z. silver, 20 13 per cent, lead, and 28 63 per cent,
zinc.
• * • *
Mt. David, N.S.W. —another bitter pill. Second
crushing apparently worse than the first, and paid-up
shares down to 25., while the other sort have dropped
right out. One director wired —“ Am bringing down the
gold—3loz. 1” No tonnage given, but the mill should
crush 200 tons in a fortnight. No excuse given this time.
Gord-clp-it 1
* * * *
The special mining reporter of the Sydney
Evening News barracks for the amalgamation of the
Lady Maude and other shows in the Stewart’s Brook dis-
trict. “ They are sufficiently developed to be handled
straight away, for there is ore enough in sight to warrant
the erection of a plant of 20 head of stampers, to he in-
creased as development work progressed.” Then why in
Heaven’s name don’t they crush at one or other of the
water power batteries already available within sight of the
mines? All the shows at Stewart’s Brook, including the
Royal Standard (which is worth more than all the others
put together), cannot keep 10-heads running, and to put
up 20 on these miserable little holes called mines, in addi-
tion to the batteries already there, would be only repeat-
ing an old folly.
• * • *
The S.M. Herald reports that the mines of the
Grong Grong district (N.S.W.) “are looking well.”
Several men are employed in one mine, and an assay has
been made from the stone of another; and there are
several where mining operations are shortly to be re-
newed. One mine has actually crushed five tons, and is
reported to have 15 tons at grass. Of course, the best is
reserved till the last. “ The Harry Smith mine employs
a number of men, and has had a gold-record of 1200 oz.
up to date.” Look at that now ! It is fully a year since
it had a crushing, but little things like that don’t matter 1
» * * •
The forming of a co. to work the Mt. Kimo
mine, Gundagai (N.S.W.), is cabled from London, and, as
usual, the local hummer by wire has risen to the occasion.
“The ore-body is over 30ft. wide, extends for miles, and
assays have gone as high as 70oz. to the ton. A lot of
prospecting has been done, and plans for ihe plant have
gone to England, and, when erected, it will treat 500 tons
a day ; and, when in full swing, will employ fully 300
men.” Very easy to draw strong mining pictures in
newspapers. It probably never dawned on the Gundagai
men that it would take 200 head of stamps to treat 500
tons a day, and that, if the ore is “ highly mineralised,"
the working-capital of the new co. is not enough to pay
for the plant.
* * * *
Another great report from the Golconda,
Parkes (N.S.W.): “ On the foot-wall about 4in. of kindly-
looking quartz carrying a little fine gold. About 8 tons
of stone at grass.” Also another call!
• * • •
Dear Bulletin, —You refer to the holding capa-
city of Tamborah (W.A.) dishes. What about the £lO,OOO
worth of gold in two dishes—also in W.A.—advertised a
month or so back? Roughly, a ton of gold is worth
£lOO,OOO, so these dishes must have contained 2cwt. of
gold without any allowance for dirt. Half-a-ton of gold
could be put in a dish as long as the bottom did not drop
out in lifting it—and, if W.A. wanted a gorgeous ad.,
why in thunder didn’t they fill ’em up?—J.T.
Lake View Consols, for the month : 8551 oz., a
little over 2oz. average. Even this is regarded as disap-
pointing after the predictions of 10,000 and 12,0000 z. by
papers and persons who are fond of remarking that W.A.
has, in the L V.C., a bigger mine than Mt. Morgan. (The
Mount’s output for the month was over 18,000 oz.) Mining
men who have seen both mines say the comparison is
absurd. There is more ore in sight above the Grass Tree
tunnel, Mt. Morgan, than in any three of the Kalgoorbe
mines, well as they are developed. True, the average has
come down with tonnage, and so it has in the Kalgoorlie
mines and all others. Even if it were a question of turn-
ing out lOoz. rock. Mt. Morgan would win hands down.
No other gold-mine in the world is in the same street
with it.
* * * *
Great Boulder, fortnight: 135 S tons, 35530 z. It
manages t.o keep its output nearer the 3oz. mark than
any others of the camp.
J • * • *
Burbanks, Coolgardie. Month, 758 tons,
13220 z. The most consistent producer of the field. No
one ever hears anything now of Burbanks Consols, B.
Main Lode, B. No. i West, or B. North ; all English go's
working around the original Burbanks, and struggling
hard to live on its name. Some day they may strike
something 1 Burbanks itself was nothing to rave about
when the writer saw it.
* * • *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* • * *
Zeb. Lane having returned to W.A. the nowS-
papers of that province, in the absence of the almighty
Kaufman, are now worshipping the footstool and foot-
steps of the new mining god. Some men apparently can
stand a lot of sickening slobber without flinching. Be
foie leaving London, Lone wns banqueted at the Hote'
Cecil, and the British Australasian devoted three page*
to the event—one page containing a plan of the table
and the names of the guests, principally W.A. boomsters
of the deepest dye. Fingall was chairman, and ladled
eulogy all over Lane, who had sense enough to say little,
and then narrowly escaped putting his foot into it. He
admitted being associated with Frank Gardiner, and that
“ had it not been for one or two little oppositions, F.G.
would have had the Great Boulder.” Much was said of
the richness of the Great Boulder and Lane’s connection
with it, but not a word of the other mines floated in Lon-
don about the same time—the Empress of Coolgardie, for
instance. *
* * • •
KaJgoorlie wire : “ Owing to the failure of the
deep lead, prospecting near the Great Boulder has ceased,
and a party is being equipped to prospect elsewhere.”
And what has become of the Kanowna deep lead, of which
the public heard so much ?
* * * •
Charters Towers items: For fortnight ending
27th Nov. Bonnie Dundee crushed 360 tons for 2540 z.
A tributors’ crushing from same mine gave 87£oz. from
72 tons. East level of Kelly’s Block, w-hich lately looked
very blank indeed, has disclosed a foot of good-looking
stone. The Warrior recently commenced a large crush-
ing; when 87 tons had been put through and the clean-
up revealed only about 19oz. of gold the co. gave it best
and resolved to pick the ore more carefully in future ; it
will need it. Victoria and Queen, as predicted in a
recent par., is turning out a valuable property ; latest
crushing, 240 tons for 5130 z. ; fortnight's haulage, 256
tons; co. now £lOOO in credit, and a handsome Christmas
div. expected ; only 48,000 shares in co. Queen Cross
290 tons for 5240 z. ; crushing being continued at latest
advices; haulage for fortnight ended 23rd Nov,, 400
trucks; a mine with a promising future ; big lease ;
shares well held. Both drives in the Deep Levels mine
show stone of miserably poor quality. Big local and
foreign demand for Brilliant and St. George shares re-
cently ; holders, however, decline to part. Papuan
Brilliant and Victoria for fortnight ended 26th Nov., crushed
611 tons for 11610 z., and paid £2400 in a 6d. div.
Brilliant Block crushed 664 j tons for 3120 z. ; fortnight’s
haulage 820 tons. Share market dull, stale and unprofit-
able. The Brilliant has commenced sinking its vertical
shaft below the Brilliant reef, on the chance that other
lodes may underlie the last-named formation. The pro-
gress of this shaft will be eagerly watched, as prospects
of numerous surrounding mines will be affected by the
result.
» * • *
More C. Towers items: Reef of good size, but
poor quality, struck in Kelly’s Block underlie. Victoria
shares hardened about end of month, improvement in
footwall reef the cause. Moonstone Consols, at latest
advices crushing 300 tons for anticipated good result. ——
A Towers youth named Arthur Wales unearthed speci-
mens yielding about £2500 worth of gold at Green hills
(Etheridge) recently. Brilliant Nov. result 2741 tons
for 2735£0z. Phoebe, at close of month, had about 370
tons hauled for reduction. Victory for fortnight ending
Ist Dec. crushed 113 tons for 505*0z. Brilliant Ex-
tended fortnight’s ore haulage, 2605 tons. During past
half-year the Extended netted £8595 profit from ore treat-
ment ; 14,995 tons yielded £34,447 worth of gold. The
co. has now paid off Dick Craven the £6OOO advanced by
him to develop the mine, and is in credit. Dividends are
expected early in the new year. Day Dawn Block and
Wyndham delighted its Bull owners by paying a Is. div.
on’ its 500,000 shares (125,000); co. obtained about 6000 oz.
during last month. Total divided during current year,
£75,000. Clark’s Worcester fortnight’s haulage, 40
tons ; promising developments underground recently.
Brilliant and St. George cleaned up on 2nd December,
21160 z. from 1269 tons, and declared a shilling div. and a
shilling bonus (£14,400), making £41,400 dividend during
past half-year, and £63,000 during current year. Fort-
night’s ore haulage, 1200 tons ; slopes and levels looking
well, but only a small reef in the sink of underlie. An
attempt to infuse new blood into the directorate of the
Brilliant Extended at recent half-yearly meeting ended
disastrously for the new blood ; the proxy collectors held
full hands and voted solidly on both sides, but the old
blood panned out about 50,000 better than the new.
Therefore the venerable gore remains in possession.
* • * *
Towers calls for November, £8900; dividends,
£17,000. For 11 months of the present year the calls were
£BB,OOO ; dividends, £268,000. In the November returns
43,807 tons gave 34,7700 z. of gold. Of this amount mill
returns were 16,700 tons for 21,0000 z. gold—the rest being
cyanide bullion. For the past 11 months 386,400 tons
yielded 314,3000 z. gold, or 80,000 oz. excess over same
period of last year. It is calculated December dividends
will reach about £60,000.
• * * *
November gold-returns both for Charters Towers
and Gympie are very good. Gympie from 7112 tons gave
12,8630 z. 18dwt. gold, or loz. 16dwt. 4gr. to the ton.
Compare this with last year and it shows an increase of
over 100 per cent., while the average per ton isBdwt. lOgr.
higher. Dividends for month just closed, £26,926 16s. 3d. ;
calls, £5440 3s. 4d.
* * * *
At Gympie, from the Columbia Smithfield to
the North Victory, all the claims—North Smithfield, 1
North Smithfield, Phoenix Golden Pile, Smithfield and
Phoenix Golden Pile, 3,4, 6 and 6 North Phoenix, and the
North Victory—are on gold, the North Victory only ex-
cepted. With the exception of 3 and 6 North Phoenix
and 1 North Victory, all are paying dividends up to 2s.
Christmas crushings promise to increase these.
* • • •
No flourish of trumpets about this : “ Brilliant
(Charters Towers) Deep Levels, 50 tons for 7oz. 6dwt.”
This is from the official, Warden’s office, Nov. returns.
Two pennyweights, twenty-two grains per ton, and from
“ typical Brilliant stone,” as was alleged when co. bot-
tomed on reef.
• * • •
Mount Lyell continues to produce pups. Some
of the first, litter are dogs now, feeble with old age.
Others have wandered away into the wilderness and died,
and only their skeletons remain. Of the present litter
the North Lyell and Lyell Tharsis appear to be the most
healthy.
• • • •
Lakes Dora and Selina district, Tas., east of
Mount Tyndall, is being cut up into sections and floated.
It is a flat, cheerless, timberless hole of a place with the
usual formations, some miles across, running out of one
section into another from all points of the compass, with
the same old, unexplainable regularity. There is no
track wider than a platypus-run from Oormanston, and
managers and men hump’ out tools, tucker, and ammuni-
tion on their backs through indescribable scrub, cursing
like all possessed.
• • • •
New West Colebrook (Tas.) claims to have
found an immense lode “ equal to the Colebrook in size
and excelling it in value.” This announcement seems to
indicate that the Schlapp crowd has secured the bulk of
the N.W.C. shares at the knock-out prices lately ruling.
• * * •
Zeehan (Tas.) exported 1100 tons of silver lead
during November—value, £13,475. The Western, Volun-
teer, Smith’s Section, Argent, and Silver Queen the chief
contributors.
• * • •
It is understood in Brisbane (Q.) that if “the
Crown ” takes no action against any of the Q.N. Bank ex-
magnates, which it probably won’t if it can help it, a
certain private shareholder intends doing so.


r
ORIENT
" —. CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
( 0 S“ P 0 o tc )
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
“ COKTO ** ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
[?]lestin
COGMAG
The nine days wonder of the Merkara
Case is slowly fading from the Brisbane mind, but
it has left a bad taste there. The ground for this
action lay as far back as 1896, when the Rev. Jas.
Clarke —not the Rev. James Clarke Sydney
knows, but an aged and learned Church of Eng-
land clergyman from Ireland—went travelling for
the health of his eldest son, who was dying of
phthisis. Apparently the aged preacher-man
didn’t have any friends or relatives with whom he
uould leave his other four children—two well-
grown daughters and two younger sons—so he
decided to bring them all out to Australia, and as
his funds wouldn’t run saloon fares he brought
them steerage. So the 8.1.5. N. Co.’s Merkara
set steam, and presently Dr. Peters, the ship’s
surgeon (whose uncle, Sir James Mackay, is chair-
man of the 8.1.5. N. Co.), began to be friendly
with the eldest daughter named Maggie, and the
aged clergyman protested, and his life became a
burden to him. For that aged clergyman was
pelted with potatoes, and water was squirted at
him, and his respectable silk hat was filled with
water and kicked along the deck ; and, finally, he
was struck in the face, which is probably not the
kind of treatment that an aged clergyman expects
when he travels by the 8.1.5. N. Co. s R.M.S.
Merkara.
By-and-by the son died, but the daughter went
on, and was “engaged” to the doctor, and the
aged clergyman continued to protest when he saw
thedoctor’s arm round his daughter’swaist, and was
locked up in his cabin till the ship reached Bris-
bane, on the ground that be was “ a dangerous
lunatic.” His lunacy was affirmed by the health
officer at Thursday Island after hearing Dr.
Peters’ report, and was duly certified by Dr.
Peters. The captain of the Merkara “ bad no
hesitation ” in acting on the certificate—more
especially as he himself had observed curious
behaviour on the part of the aged clergyman, and
several passengers had signed a petition complain-
ing of the aged clergyman’s behaviour—a petition
which some of them say they signed because they
were asked to, and without knowing whether
some of the allegations were true or false.
When the Merkara reached Brisbane, the
dangerous lunatic was promptly emptied out on
the wharf, where the local health-doctor testified
that he was as sane as anybody else. So he
brought an action, claiming .£5OOO damages from
the doctor and some other officers of the Merkara ;
and a Brisbane jury last week gave him a farthing
damages against the doctor—-and Chief-Justice
Griffith found that this was tantamount to
a verdict for the defendants, and gave them
costs. As the costs run into thousands, the ques-
tion how the aged clergyman is going to pay
them seems to be a matter between himself and
the Church of England. Several witnesses gave
evidence that the doctor had behaved very kindly
throughout, and the aged clergyman had behaved
very badly, and had said naughty words, and
testified generally that the aged clergyman ought
to have been locked up. And Chief-Justice
Griffith summed up against the aged clergyman,
and the jury followed Sam Griffith’s lead, and prac-
tically affirmed that the aged clergyman deserved
all he got, and that the doctor, whose uncle is
chairman of the 8.1.5. N. Co., is a very nice
young man indeed. All the same, The Bulletin
advises aged clergymen of the Church of England
stationed in Ireland to give Brisbane, for the
future, a very wide berth—especially when they
have to travel in the steerage with a dying son
A MARE'S NEST.
FARMER (to visitors) : “And perhaps you would like to see the new foal, quite a baby, only born
yesterday."
ONE OF LADIES: “ We should like nothing belter; I have so often longed to sec a mare’s
nest !”
and four other children, of whom the eldest girl
is named Maggie.
Petone (M.L.), like Onehunga, has gone
in for a female councillor or alderwoman, and, at
latest advices, the lady was having a bad time.
Apparently the municipal bush-fathers resented the
presenceof a woman at their meetings, and, by way
of protest, some of them started to smoke. When
she complained they closed the door, and others
filled up with strong plug-tobacco and smoked,
and went slowly through the business while their
female colleague suffocated in their midst. Before
they were through the fumes stood in a dense mass
reaching five feet up from the floor, and the bonnet
of an asphyxiated lady just appeared above the
reek. When some pure air got in and the meeting
terminated, the Petone alderwoman made re-
marks about the councillors’ manners, whereupon
they recorded a vote of censure against her, and
fired her off all the committees. It has also been
demanded that she shall appear before the council
in a contrite spirit, and on all fours if possible,
and apologise, and, metaphorically, jump on her
own best bonnet in the council’s presence as a sign
of penitence. Altogether, the game of being a
Maoriland alderwoman seems hardly worth the
candle.
* * * *
Touching advt. from S.M. Herald :
YWANTED, a good, strong, gentleman, plain COOK ;
'' good Laundress. After 10, road,oity.
When the plain gentleman cook has also to do the
washing there is obvious need for a new word in
the British language. Why not call the he-
washerman a launder?
• * * *
The shepherd of a very unfinancial Mel-
bourne church was lately “ called ” to some dis-
tant region where his salary would rest on a firmer
basis. His late flock is now tracing the hand of
Providence in the fact that the shepherd’s new
church and most of his parish were blown away by
the cyclone before he had even time to formally
take over the business.
A young man recently lost the sight of one
eye, and consulted a certain Australian doctor
who told him that a tumor had formed, and that
the eye would have to be taken out. A few days
later he was put under chloroform by the aforesaid
surgeon, who took out an eye. It was the wrong,
one. When the patient awoke he was stone blind,
and he now has to be led about. Great efforts
were made to hush up the matter, but the story
of the dreadful mistake is getting about.
* * » *
Writing from Auckland (M.L.) to his wife-
in London, a dear hubby who had gone wrong'
with another girl pleaded custom as the cause of
his fall. One of his phrases : “No man here loses
a chance of immorality.”
* * * *
Suggested in South Australia, where the’
harvest has failed the third year in succession,
that N.S. W. Judge Backhouse should be hired to
go through the North with his “ Advantages of
Impecuniosity ” lecture. Of course he would
tramp it—that is one of the advantages.
THE SMITH FAMILY.
“The most singular feature about this huge family [?]
that rarely in all the centuries during which it has been .
growing has it produced a man or woman whose name
stands out in the annals of history.”—Daily Telegraph.
OUR SYD. SMITH (sadly): “And s-s-such is
f-f-fame! ”
The recent tornado in Vic. brought out a
host of begging parsons. Here and there a little
Bethel suffered from the gale, and immediately,
before the public mind had time to realise that
whole families had been rendered homeless and
penniless, the press was flooded by rev. mendi-
cants whose congregations had “ not where to
assemble themselves together,” as one gentleman
put it (why couldn’t they “ assemble themselves ”
apart?). There is much of the Spirit in this in-
decent haste to catch the first droppings of popular
charity ; there is also some considerable sprinkling
of the Flesh.
» * * •
The Jaypee once more. In the mountains
of N.E. Vic. complainant’s lawyer was about to
call his first witness, when up-spake His Wortehip
—“ Ye needn’t be after wash tin’ the toime av the
Coort, Misther Solicithor, fur Oi’ve known the
roights av this case a wake ago. Verdict for
Misther O’Hooligan fur the amount. Phat cossts
do yez be wantin’ ? ”
WEDDED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s us two when it’s morn in’,
An’ us two when it’s night,
An’ ns two when it’s troubled,
An’ us two when it’s bright.
An’ us two don’t want nothin’
To make life good an’ true,
An’ lovin’ sweet an’ wholesome
While us two’s got us two.
M.J.C.
SOUR GRAPES
yoa *rc
iovc |ooks fro^y^iir^i^xpakife/«
cteir /oj like a
jSif\ primal ;|
'\Mp\t in a
u|)oa Vo4/ ar\d day waify
fo yodr victim :-mar\
<M|\<i \n« breathe iKi incenje 50 bfle/
from the altar of <fcsir£. /':&/,
, u£ i> fa>m f arxC sMrrk-
jjfercdy flames in tyre
J\J|>4t- I shur\ thy \
\ pf%oagh Mty were the w\t\t of hfs
[por Gpjl’ 3o /nuch in
joti would n\ake too dear' a wij-£_
THE BUTTERFLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She trims at morn her gaudy wings (my words are meta-
phorical)
(I mean she twines her curls afresh, renews her rosy
hue);
She flits about from flower to flower (my style is alle-
gorical)
(I mean —when lovers old have fled she seeks for lovers
new).
She dips her lips in honev-dew, of dainty hud deflow’r-
ing it
(So Delia taketh toll of all who love a winning eye) ;
She shakes the blossom’s dust abroad, in careless humor
show’ring it —
(So Delia waves her little hand and Damon’s dollars fly).
She loves the light, the summer sun, the garden’s gay
variety—
(The chandelier is Delia’s sun, the ball her bright par-
terre) ;
In butterflighty lexicon no blockhead word sobriety
Offends us by suggesting ever creature had a care.
For life is all a joyous time for rioting and rollicking,
For flirting and for flutt’ring until blood be waxen cool,
And she who will not festive be and join us in our
frolicking
May wizen in her wisdom while we wanton with the
fool.
And so she whirls, the merry moth, in round of pleasures
numberless,
And when the giddy game is o’er her epitaph shall be :
“ She furled her wings when Winter came and closed her
Summer cumberless,
—She lived upon the blossom and she sleeps beneath
the tree ! ”
Q-
P. LUFTIG.


Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
The Hackshall Biscuib Company, at
Camperdown, Sydney, should commend itself
to the earnest attention of the public. This firm
has recently established itself in new and com-
modious premises ; got together the most experi-
enced workmen ; and, irrespective of cost, set up
the newest and most up-to-date machinery and
appliances. And the able i management guaran-
tees what is of still more importance to thte
public, viz., that the Hackshall Company’s biscuit
will be an absolutely pure and wholesome biscuit.
It intends making the purest biscuit only ; to
combine a maximum of nourishment with un-
equalled freshness and delicacy of flavor. Mothers
should make a note of the company’s name—
“ Hackshall ’.’ y they will find ifrnr boon. It is by
quality that the company intends to fight the
foreign biscuit which is now coming into the
market under, the Freetrade tariff, and, with: a
public that, is able to appreciate what is really
good, it is certain of success.* ;
3007 NEWSPAPERS'
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen," instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold every where. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
Soft Ca l) VaS Sbirts
Made to Measure. <
Post free 30/- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stanips, 5/6. .
*
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Gawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
TJOSE’S CELEBRATED
eye lotion
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; used with mar-
vellous success in the London Moorfield Eye Hospital.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-
street, Sydney. Open all Night—also Sundays
and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other JJ-NStIRiNKABLE .'SHtRTj*
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application -
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST?' ’ •]
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEE-
METS —White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/0 each. ;
Recommended by the leading Physicians q
Tropical Australia. i'--?'
B. MQUNTC ASTtE it Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The intellect of the average witness is a
fearful and wonderful thing. A witness recently
deposed'to the Brisbane P.M. that the blinds of
a certain house were drawn up on a certain occa-
sion ; that he wasn’t sure whether they were up
or down; that he was now dead certain they
were down. When asked by the amiable Pinnock
if he could conscientiously sign his name to his
evidence as truthful and genuine, witness breezily
responded “ Certainly ! ”
••* . *
The sort of woman who doesn’t get a hus-
band, according to her own testimony in Sydney
Sunday Times, is the “small, pleasant, neatly-
dressed individual ” who, instead of pounding the
piano and screeching after impossible top-notes,
cooks and manages for the household, makes her
own clothes, likewise “ our mother’s and the chil-
dren’s ” —and even repairs the family boots ! And
she reports that she is only 22. What kind of a
world is it where a pleasant, neatly-dressed girl of
22, who can repair boots, is thus neglected ?
* * * ♦
A Sydney municipal election incident : A
vote-canvasser called at a respectable-looking
house, and dilated upon the aldermanic virtues of
his candidate, but was cut short by the white lady
of the house with : “Ishe a real Christian ? Has
he got the Lord in his heart?” “He has,
indeed!” replied the glib canvasser; “and not
only that, but he conducts house-to-house services
on Sundays.” “Very well,” replied the lady,
“ when Ah Fat comes home, I’ll make him go
down and vote for the Lord’s anointed.”
CECILIA DIAZ JEWELL.
A reminiscence of the recent Spanish frauds. The
above is the alleged daughter whom the dying Spanish
parent has desired to entrust, along with an immense
fortune, to the care of a large number of Australian
residents—on receipt of money to pay some necessary
expenses.
■ A lady resident in the area to be irrigated
by a certain proposed S.A. water-scheme, peti-
tioned for the carrying out of the work “ because
she had not had a bath for 17 years.”
* * * *
, What a pious how! went through the City
of Smells quite recently when Miss Sutherland
hinted that some of the Melb. goody-goody owned
“ bad ” houses. Yet on a site now otherwise occu-
pied stood, not so very long ago, a dozen hovels,
the worst in Melbourne, averaging five “ unfortu-
nates ”to each. Robbery, &c., was a nightly
occurrence, and more than one murder occurred in
these dens. For years the rent, 12s. a week for
each house, was pocketed by two shining lights of
the temperance and religious world. And there
are plenty of shining lights in the same business
to this day.
* * * »
Dear Bulletin, —That “ a prophet has no
honor in his own country ” is false. Since my
name has appeared under yarns in The Bulletin,
I have received the following :
We offer a sovereign for . . . the best 24 lines of poetry
(sic ) describing our stock, business, and premises—not
less than four lines to end with the letters B.D.C.
The mystic letters stand for the Beehive Drapery
Company, located at a village 13 miles from where
I live, which village consists largely of a pub., rail-
way-shed, and the remarkable B.D.C. store. The
“ stock ” in question comprises “gum-boots, cream
separators, stomach and liver pills, sheep dip, new
summer dresses, frog in your throat, women’s
bicycle colored hose, 1000 high-class music at 6d.,
worm powders, scythes, perambulators,” &c.
“Perambulators” might rhyme with “cream
separators,” “bicycle hose” with “new summer
clo’es,” “stomach liver pills ” with “ all the flesh’s
ills,” and so on, but I’m jiggered if I know what
to do with the “1000 high-class music at Gd.”—A.
At Roma, Q., current temperature is
103 deg. in the shade. Judge Paul, the other day,
discharged three would-be suicides, with a hint to
make a better job next time. One man had tried
to. cut his throat with a razor ; a second opened a
vein in his arm ; and a third drove a pair of
scissors in the direction of his heart. Probably
they wouldn’t be any better pleased if they had
made a neater job of it. The temperature Down
There must be a lot more than 103 deg.
, * * * *
One Gorman knocked an old man down,
in Melb., the other day, and plucked his beard
out by the roots. The Bench let Gorman off with
20s. in the poor-box, “ because he appeared to be
respectable.” Probably, if Gorman had come
along with a freshly-severed head in his hand,
instead of only a beard, the same fat-headed
Bench would still have thought he seemed to be
respectable. About the same time, at Footscray,
another man stole a pineapple, value Is. He got
a month’s gaol. Until some one deliberately
jumps on the chest of every J.P. in Australia,
it will never dawn on the average Bench that it is
worse to maim a human being than to be found in
unlawful possession of an odd copper’s worth of
, . .
Penrith (N.S.W.) manse was burgled the
other day, and the parson’s jewellery, said to be
valued at £GOO, stolen. The beautiful gospel of
poverty again.
In a forthcoming Melbourne divorce-case
the husband met the co-respondent on the occa-
sion of certain trips down the bay. Ah ! these
litt|e trips—they-generally precede a fall.
Street - sweepers and “ gutter - snipes ”
working for Melbourne Corporation contractors
have to turn out and turn-to every Sunday morn-
ing at 4 o’clock to get the roads in good trim for
Sabbath-observers, who would swear if the streets
were not tidy for the church-goers. The holy
man often commits his sins by deputy.
* * * *
At a recent meeting of the Mothers’ Union,
an organisation of Melbourne matrons designed to
improve the methods of rearing other peoples’
children, a Miss Tripp read a long, lingering,
illiterate paper on “Literature for children,” and
harrowed up the assembled females with the.
shocking announcement that she knew quite
young girls who had read “Trilby,” and “The
Wages of Sin,” and “Robert Elsmere.” Even
religious books, she held, should not be placed in
the hands of the young if it was doubtful whether
religion or flirtation was the conspicuous element.
Then Miss Tripp instanced a few books as suitable
reading for children, “ and, above all, the Bible.”
Ah, yes, beloved “sistern,” the Bible is quite
safe, there is no flirtation there ; flirtation was not
invented in the days of the prophets and the
patriarchs. This accounts for the bald and awful
suddenness of the Bible love story, which often
begins and ends in one verse, and is always excel-
lent reading for children. The Old Testament
love story is generally a curt statement that some-
body took somebody and they had seven children.
What humorists these religious professors
arc. The other day several of them turned up at
the Melbourne Licensing Court to oppose applica-
tions for a couple of wine licenses at the eastern
ends of Bourke and Lonsdale streets. The chief
reason urged by the opposers was that the opening
of a wine-shop would disturb the quiet of the
neighborhood. Think of that ! The soothing,
restful peace of Lonsdale-street East, and the holy
calm of Little Bourke-street, where the Chow, and
the larrikin, and the lady with her hair a-hanging
down her back most do congregate. Further on,
one pastor strongly objected "to the “ temptation
which would be put in the way of church mem-
bers passing to and fro.” Apparently he reckoned
that a person who wasn’t a church member might
resist the drink-crave, but the member would rush
in and soak himself in liquor right off.
THE EFFETE ARISTOCRACY.
EVER-REST (on the road) : “ Here's Sandy cornin’!”
NEVER-WASH : “'Ave nothin' ter do with ’im, ole feller. Got too ’igh flown
hideas. Why, I sees him cleanin’ his teeth.”
“ May the Lord deliver Salvationists from
that sickly, slobbering sentiment called Love.”—-
War Cry. But, alas ! even the ugliest Hallelujah
Jill has her Jack, or wants to have him. Woman
cannot feed her soul on the big drum alone.
* * * *
An embarrassed Melb. citizen, annoyed at
the crowd of creditors who clamored round his
door every Saturday for a division of his hard
earnings, moved very unostentatiously to an
adjacent suburb, distant some two miles from
either tram or railway. The postman, however,
gave his location away, and the creditors
hired a ’bus, to run every Saturday afternoon to
THE SILENT MOSES.
“ The Perth (W.A.) police have prohibited bookmakers calling the odds.”—Daily paper.
This represents the vociferous Ikey shouting on his fingers.
the new address. The vehicle was filled with
clamoring sharks for a few Saturdays, but the
service suddenly stopped, owing to debtor having
cut his throat, to use his own words, “as a protest
against Victorian enterprise.”
* * • *
In a recent S.M. Herald memoriam-
notice six members of deceased’s family are to the
front, each with a separate “pome” of the usual
excruciating character. The unspeakable dread-
fulness of most obituary and memorial verse is
easily explained by the fact that the newspaper-
column grievist can have no sense of the grotesque,
anyhow.
• * * *
A police-officer, whose indiscretion led to
police-court proceedings and dismissal, found em-
ployment in Westralia, but his Eastern history
followed him, and he was asked to resign. This
is generally the fate of the civilian who has had a
“ bit of trouble,” and it is a policeman who “ puts
him away. ” The ease in question reverses the
order of persecution.
* * * *
The married settlers at a certain little M.L.
town have lately developed a unanimous tendency
to stay at home and work in the garden on Satur-
days. The new schoolmaster is young and hand-
some and unmarried, and there is no school on
Saturdays. They have also petitioned the Educa-
tion Department to take away the - beauteous
swisher of the rising generation, and send along a
married teacher instead—and, if they get him, the
settlers will probably want to go round and do up
his garden on Saturdays instead. Meanwhile, the
ladies of the district have requested that the pre-
sent teacher be retained, “ as he is quite up to his
work, and is giving every satisfaction.”
In spite of
boasts to that ef-
fect very few Syd-
ney swell tailors
really have all
garments made by
hand-labor only.
A fashionable visi-
tor to a big tailor-
ing establishment
was recently sur-
prised at seeing a
girl come down-
stairs with a coat
that had just been
finished. “Ihope
you don’t employ
women on my
clothes,” he said
to the head-cutter,
in the most ap-
proved haw-haw
style. “Certainly
not, Mr. DeVere.
Miss Jones has
come down from
the shirting-room,
and has merely
brought the coat
down with her
from the tailors’
quarters ! ”
* *
A back-country
(N. S. W.) man
married a wife
three weeks ago,
and a few days
after was sent to
Gladesville as a
lunatic. The un-
fortunate bride
now discovers that
a year ago he had
been confined for
lunacy in the same institution.
* * * *
A Sydney draper prints a text right across
his billheads, and immediately beneath his own
name. An invoice from this G-od-fearing person
reads somewhat after this fashion :—“ Mrs. Cash.
Bought of —— , family draper and importer.
‘ What must I do to be saved ? ’ Served by 29.
Examined by A.T. 2 pairs stockings, 9d. Paid,
with thanks.” Hallelujah !
* * * *
Holdar M. : “ Moonblindness ; another
case. Years ago I was acquainted with an other-
wise astute man who contracted the habit of sitting
‘on the benches in the Park,’ with the moonlight
rays streaming down upon him—and his best girl.
His vision quickly became obscured, and, as the
infirmity defied other alleviative measures, I ad-
vised him to consult a parson, after which he was
the victim of a wonderful recovery.”
* * * *
A scoffsome letter from Melbourne :
If the lost sheep wandering round this city on Sunday
evening aren’t gathered in it isn’t for want of effort on
the part of the shepherd. Last Sunday evening, peram-
bulating the city, I ran against no less than seven differ-
ent bands of soul-savers —two at corner of Russell and
Bourke streets, one at Russell and Little Bourke streets
(this was a fitful and spasmodic sort of combination, con-
sisting of a blind man, two women, and a dog, but it wds
very fervent), two at corner of Small Bourke and Stephen
streets, and, later in the evening, one at corner of Bourke
and Stephen and Bourke and Russell streets. In addition,
there were no less than five theatres or music-halls telling
the glad tidings. The Cambridge show comprised about
a dozen plain singers (and a parson, of course), and the
audience showed its appreciation by rolling up—-to the
number of 22. The Gaiety offered more attractions ; here;
was a string band of eight instruments, including two
pretty and young violins, but the shepherd was tedious
and a vexation of spirit. He had about 60 sheep, mostly
two-tooth ewes. At the Hanover dance-rooms a
minister and two M’s.L.A. were holding forth to a
full house on social matters. At the Victoria
Hall Pastor Edgar’s Central Mission held forth, assisted by
a brass band of 20 and presided over by a uniformed
nurse —Sister Alice, of Melb. Hospital. Here an audience
of about 300 cheered the soul of the worker in the vine-
yard. At the Harmy ’All—where was no band, but many
singers, plain and fancy—about 120 were present until
8.30, when quite a number of women —evidently taking
their religion, like their medicine, in large doses —arrived
from the churches for a further supply of spiritual con-
solation. Meanwhile, Bourke-street. was crowded with a-
miscellaneous assortment seeking a means of passing
time, and cursing the dismal Melb. Sabbath ; and in’eight
large churches I visited, including St. Paul’s, Presbyterian,
Unitarian, &c., the sum total of worshippers would not
amount to 300. All which leads to the unfortunate but
necessary conclusion that it is not the Gospel nor the
Shepherd that entices the lost sheep, but the brass bind
and the big drum !
Local Option in Rutherglen, Vic.': The:
Doma Mungi division has no “ bung ” at present.
They took a poll the other day on the question
(pub. or no pub.); 70 per cent, of the ratepayers
voted, and every vote, save one, was cast in favor
of granting a license. The solitary exception was
an informal -vote-. -
THE REASON OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My lips with sorrow’s stal are set,
The savour from the salt’s departed,
No gladsorreness from aught I get,
And I’m confoundedly low-hearted.
By one great tragic fact oppressed
I sit apart, nor end my grieving,
And hug unto my woe-racked breast
A sorrow' that is past relieving.
I have not backed a stiff’ned horse
Nor of my goods have “ bums ” bereft me;
I am not stricken by remorse,
Nor has my wife cleared out and left me;
But joyousness has fled away
And I am hopelessly despondent:
I met a well-known man to-day
Who W’as not named a co-respondent.
F.L.P.
THE UNJUST JUDGE.
“To enter his court was to enter the den of a wild
beast, which none could tame, and which was as likely: to
be roused to rage by caresses as by attacks.”— Macaulay
on Jeffreys.
The Judge was dead, his soul sped on,
It cleft unmeasured space, ! •
And came where fiery vapors shone
Above the Dreadful Place.
The gates flew wide, the woeful sound
Smote his appalled ear
Of billion souls in torture bound 1 ;
He shrieked in hopeless fear.
Within the gate awaiting him
He saw with horror then
The faces strained, and blue, and grim, :
Of many hanged men.
A halter hung about each throat,
And as he came the host
Seized each the red rope’s end and smote
The Judge’s naked ghost.
He ran with howls, and like a pack
Of Satan’s wolves they sped, ,
With hate-hot eyes, upon his track
And scourged him as he fled.
With lightning thongs their lashes flay,
With laughter wild they yell;
And so the men he hanged for aye
Will harry him through Hell.
E.D.


A Perfect
Boot Business.
We Bell perfect Boots and give perfect attention to every particular
in fitting the Feet. Nothing less will satisfy us.
If every lady and gentleman in New South Wales understood the
perfection of satisfaction they would receive in Callaghan Boots,
then our Boots would be represented well in every household.
Perhaps you are thinking about buying a pair of new Boots near
Christmas time. Well, why not buy a Callaghan pair ?
Post us your order If
you are in the
country.
Callaghan & Son,
595 George-street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &C.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “Travellers*
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. GOOK & SON.
\sN*>
puwij
* ® ®r.
® ©
) ©
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 14, 1897.
Mr Dear Myek—
From a dressy aspect, the test-match was a
brilliant suocess. All the ladies’stands exhibited
a gratifying collection of fine raiment, and all the
wearers seemed absorbed in the game—solid rows
of expensive millinery were unbroken all the after-
noon. Country visitors were chiefly on the grand
stand, where backblocks modes were seen in all
their glory. The Western men all look exactly
alike in the same kind of sad-colored grey tweed
of roomy cut, and most of them drape their hats
with fly-nets. The women favored white, stiff
and starchy and yellowed by many washing-days.
After a week’s quenching, plumes in many hats
looked like wet poultry, and it would have been a
boon if Saturday’s rain could have dropped a tear
on some of Monday’s finery and blotted it out for
ever. One or two conspicuously glaring costumes
with tinted hair and lavender cheeks to match
were flaunted up and down in front of the stand.
One was a pink chiffon frock, crisped up like
strawberry ice. A most beautiful dress of white
silk had a warm tinge of yellow glowing through
• the insertion-bars ; also a dove-like grey silk, with
flimsy bodice, represented much capital in its
demure little way. A pink-and-white plaid was
barred like a wax-vesta box. The turban toque was
universal, but the art of putting it on was not.
The woman who tries to arrange the jaunty shape
without a ribbon-loop at the back is lost. Lack-
ing that friendly backstay the structure wobbles
and droops tipsily over the left eyelid.
Somebody writes from Toowoomba to say that
the English cricketers appeared there to quite as
little advantage as at Glen Innes. On the second
day of their stay it is alleged that a lady and
gentleman provided afternoon-tea for them on the
cricket-ground ; and, when they had eaten abund-
antly, a local cricketer offered to introduce them
to their host and hostess. Whereupon the team :
“ No, thank you, we would rather not ” —and
marched out with noses in the air. Now, Messrs,
the Visitors, do you own this rude impeachment ?
The closing of the Society of Artists’ Exhibition
was socially a much - bewailed event. As a
pleasant meeting place, the show went with a rush
from beginning to end. But, totting-up business
done, the officials find that sales weren’t satisfac-
tory. None of the big canvases were carried off.
The artists should push trade by having a big
clearing sale, with a staring calico sign, and offer-
ing such attractions as a cheap line of good reliable
pictures in fast colors, marked down to half-a-
guinea.
A cheap but dressy circle greeted the first night
of “ Arrah - na - Pogue. ” The crowded houses
which the present Lyceum management rejoice to
behold have made a rule of their own about ap-
propriate theatre-garb. The front row is in regu-
lation dress, the boxes are worthy of a high-priced
house, but there is much shabbiness and faded
finery lurking in the back ground. The cheapness
of Australian shows makes visitors open their
eyes. I heard an English Johnnie, who was hang-
ing on to the back of the d.c. on Saturday night,
expressing his amazement at only having to
“part” two shillings for the best part of the
house. The most glitter in the stage-clothes be-
longs to H. Diver’s pink satin suit, in which, as
the rebel M'Coul, he roams around at night among
rocks and ruins. Arrah and her friends wear
much scarlet cloak, and their male escorts bright
trreen coats and robin-redbreast vests. Miss M.
Williamson, in sable pall, goes sweeping by most
of the time in a velvet riding-habit.
After the curtain falls on the quarrel-scene be-
t ween the two Empresses in the “ Royal Divorce,”
the rival royalties come on for an enthusiastic
call, and show their stage characteristics through-
out the applause. Josephine Ferrar seems pale
and exhausted as a lady would who had been
“ having words ” with a supplanter, and hardly
raises her eyes, while the stolid Marie Louise
beams upon the house or concentrates herself into
one killing smile aimed at one of the boxes. Miss
Page occasionally plays the second Mrs. Bona-
parte in her own brown hair, which is more be-
coming but less historically accurate, for Miss P.
studies old plates and authorities to get the true
Austrian carrotty hue for her locks, and usually
sacrifices beauty for soulless accuracy. Mrs.
Maesmore Morris, the understudy, rustled ner-
vously through Marie Louise’s part at a recent
matinee, and lay down to be trampled on by the
mob to great applause. As if any mob could be
so unpicturesque as to even dream of leaving its
bootrnarks on Mrs. Morris’s fair cuticle.
Managers this panto, season have had to deal
with an uncommonly large number of stage struck
damsels of sweet sixteen who respond to the advts.
for “extra ladies,” and meekly wait their turn
among the crowd of regular hands seeking re-
engagement. The professional pantomime girls
are all alike, they all wear enormous hats with
spotted veils twisted into a little knot under the
chin ; every girl calls every other girl “dear” at
sight; and every one has the same contempt for
playing “girl ” and ambition to be “ boy.” The
“lady” contingent are generally high-spirited
girls who think they prefer the stage to type-
writing or teaching as a money-raising concern;
they stand apart from "the other girls,” and
shudder when a blue-chinned super cheerily asks,
** Hullo, Siss, going on in the panto. ? ” and are
usually choked off at the wily manager’s first sug-
gestion that they should don tights. Then when
the aspiring amateurs have been weeded out, and
the final selection made, there is much mourn-
ing and weeping and even fainting among the dis-
appointed who are not chosen.
One would think that just about now was the
very worst time of year to «end out to the world a
new waltz tune. A perspiring public has just
shoved into oblivion memories of the strains footed
last season, and doesn’t feel inclined to take on
any fresh ones till the temperature is lower and
something beyond iced drinks and the lively
mosquito can be taken seriously. For all this,
W. A. Gilder has chosen the present season to
bring out a waltzlet (Nicholson and co.) appro-
priately entitled “La Reine D’Or.” The compo-
sition contains one or two distinctly danceable
movements, and will not tax the abilities of the
most modest performer. “ Love’s Lament,” a
song by Sydney Turnbull (Paling and co.) is a
mournful wail full of "Ah me's ” and other
lamentations. It closes a somewhat depressed
career by a succession of tremulous chords and
arpeggios.
Elsie Hall, the child-pianiste of ten years ago,
has come back to Sydney grown-up, staid, and
spectacled, with a long list of triumphs to recount.
She looks like a girl who would conscientiously go
through her work, and her record, as given to her
interviewers, shows that during the ten years sho
must have put in some hard study. Elsie Hall’s
musical loves are Chopin and Schumann, though
her studious appearance suggests rather a quiet,
steady-going affection for Mendelssohn than a
grand passion for the above stormy and erratic
mcslerns. While having her musical education
made in Germany the young Australian was
brought forward as a juvenile prodigy at a Stutt-
gart concert —an unusual compliment, declares
Miss Hall, "because in Germany the authorities
discountenance precocious platform talent as
much as possible.” The Germans, you see. are a
truly musical folk. On the same principle, in tune-
ful Italy barrel-organs are put down by law.
The Y.M.C.A. Hall was crowded at Mr.
Lawrence Campbell’s recital, which went off suc-
cessfully. Some ingenious decorators coped with
the customary dreariness of the platform and took
away the good-young-man-that-died look which
usually adorns that sanctified structure, by
draping the back wall with a cheerful yellow cur-
tain hung in full rich folds, and frivolously dotting
bright notes of color about by means of red lamp-
shades and green fern-fronds.
An unusual amount of farewelling, accompanied
with flowers and other tributes of affection, took
place over the departure for ’Ome by P. & O.
fast week of Lieut, and Mrs. Harvey and family.
The good-bye on the Quay has become quite a
feature of fashionable life, and gifts are distributed
around as at a wedding. Mrs. Harvey, whose
plump and pleasing personality has been a
familiar sight in many ball-rooms, will shine no
longer locally. Her friends souvenired her to the
extent of a large flat gold heart and numerous
diamond and pearl trinkets.
The duties of a Mayoress in Sydney seem to
consist largely of presiding at wearisome and
meaningless committee-meetings, where the assem-
bled talkers wrangle their shriekful way point by
point through the alleged “ business ” of the after-
noon, waste an hour or two over the hire per
dozen of tea-cups for charity picnics, or discuss
with warmth and much bickering the proper way
to wax a ball-room floor. The woman who can
preside at such functions without flushing nerv-
ously when called upon to read a statement, and
calndy quell half-a-dozen excited women talking
all at once, yet still preserve an unruffled
smile, is the ideal Mayoress. What the average
ladies’ committee wants is to be firmly trodden
upon. Mrs. Matthew Harris, wife of the newly-
elected Mayor, is an experienced committee-
woman, and ought to tread with success. She is
a dignified, handsome matron, usually dressed in
elaborate black.
When woman-questions are treated “in the in-
terests of humanity’’all men must feel thankful
that they don t belong to the down-trodden sex.
Women at first rush madly at a new opening “ for
love” instead of advancing on sound business
give-and-take principles, and find subsequently
that the enthusiastic overwork of the first moment,
is expected from them after the novelty has worn
off. The old brooms must go on sweeping as clean
as the new. That is how the bottom has fallen
out of the nursing biz. The list of duties of
Prince Alfred Hospital probationers in the notice
which Mr. O’Sullivan is laying before the As-
sembly, shows that nursing, as a trade, is too
arduous for anybody unless done on old Sairey
Gamp lines. The mistake lies in considering
nursing a trade at all. Human nature can’t stand
the pressure of the work unless there is a feeling
of personal interest in the patient. To cool a
fevered brow at so much per hour, or smooth a
sufferer’s pillow at regulation rates, can’t be of
much recuperative value in any contract. It is
this confusion of philanthropy with paid labor that
is at the bottom of all the much-vexed hospital-
nurse question.
Hobart folk are grateful to three local Naice
youths who went on a little escapade lately, and
so gave the sleepy town a new topic of conversa-
tion. It wasn’t a very direful deed which the
young men perpetrated, but as it involved spend-
ing money on two or three attractive variety
artists, and led to the stern legal father of two of
the delinquents rushing the hotel at which the
party of girls and young men were having a little
supper, and sending his boys home quelled and
contrite, it has been quite a boon in the way of
sensation in the slumbersome Tas. capital.
Hardly a day passes but the list of alleged co-
respondents in mythical divorce-cases is increased
by well-known names. It’s a kind of joke now—a
very poor one—for meeting acquaintances to ask,
“ Have you heard who’s in it now?” and every
fresh name is greeted with shouts of laughter.
The last two men “ in ” are an ecclesiastical swell
and an advertising draper. As to the printed
denials which have gone forth announcing a Very
Exalted alleged divorce-case (which never had the
slightest foundation in fact), the tale round town
is that “ all the papers have been squared.” The
public absolutely refuses to be deprived of its
Exalted divorce-case.
Photographs of the English cricketers adorn
cricket-shop and other windows. The white men
are all a-penny-plain in their pictures, but Ranji.
has a beautiful twopence-colored variety of photo
all to himself—brown skin, black eyes, blue-and-
whito blazer all painted correctly in. Is the boom
all genuine, or merely a well-timed ad. for the
dusky prince’s book ?
A lecturer discoursed in Sydney, lately, on the
art of reading character from bumps and facial
expression. Nobody believes much in phrenology
now, but everybody has a hankering, more or less,
to read his fellow man's life-story in the lines of
his face. There is no more infallible guide to dis-
position than the face, and there is, also, nothing
more conventional than expression. People can
train their faces to express anything—or nothing.
The Very Nicest people all contort their faces
with, the tame smirk of bored amiability, and a
drawing-room of fashionable matrons reflects the
same restrained simper on every face with irritat-
ing monotony. The lecturer took great stock in
noses as character-indicators, dividing them into
two classes—straight ar.d curly, or Greek and
Roman. Straight-nosed races originate, and
curved beaks propagate new notions ; folks with
pugs and snubs can’t follow their noses to any
distinction according to this expert. Come to
think of it, people are very like their noses.
Worried getters-up of charity concerts and other
shivoos have learned by bitter experience the
worth of the so-called patronage which adorns the
programmes with a list of high-toned names and
eats into the profits by swelling the printer's bill.
The personages written to by the promoters of
every weary little festivity faked up for asuburban
Bethel blighted by debt, or an out-of-harness pro-
fessional also badly stumped for funds, rarely re-
fuse themselves the free ad. of having their names
in the list, but often they return the tickets sent
them, and sometimes turn up at the concert and
send back the remaining tickets, conveniently for-
getting to pay for those used ; often they return
neither tickets nor money. Some sassiety lights
are heavily indebted to the various causes to vvluch
their lofty “patronage” was supposed to give a
propelling shove. They open a ticket-selling ac-
count which runs into double numbers, but they
don’t put in an appearance at settling-time, and
pay no heed to imploring notes of importunate
hon. secs, ui’ging an immediate squaring-up.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Pianiste Elsie Hall was a pale, sinall-sized
10-year-old, all forehead and musical precocity,
when she left Australia for Germany. Even then,
however, she was a hardened old harmoniste,
having begun her musical career at the age of two,
when she clambered on the piano-stool and did a
self-taught rendering of ‘Nelly Bly.’ Now,
after 10 years’ European study, the young Aus-
tralienne returns to her native land, a slim, dark-
haired damsel, far more girlish than her portraits,
in spite of her pince-nez.
“ As a performer, Miss Hall holds trump-cards
in her exquisite delicacy of touch, finished execu-
tion, cultivated intelligence, and artistic feeling.
Nevertheless, she displays less grip than Mark
Hambourg in her attack of stormy, stressful
passages, demanding vim and impetuosity of
treatment.
“ At the first Hall concert, the heroine of the
evening, in white brocade with a fan-tail watteau
train, lavished melody over-liberally on an audi-
ence which seemed lukewarm, in spite of the
stifling night. Sara Lewis, notwithstanding her
becoming blue matelasse, found her hearers still
less receptive ; and Napoleon Boffard fared little
better, though he, too, was arrayed in all his
glory in the shape of pleated shirt-front, diamond
ring, a red rose in his button-hole, and a fascinat-
ing little top-knot curl, trained to stand straight
up on end.
“ Talking of an attractive professional alias for
their tuneful townswoman, Rock ham ptonites
cling to the familiar ‘Florence’ with ‘Fitzroy’
(after the local river) as a surname. There might
be less euphonic titles than ‘Florence ’ or ‘ Flora
Fitzroy,’ though the choice of a name, like a hus-
band, should be left to the future owner’s discre-
tion. As a general thing, however, the poor state
of the marriage-market ties a woman down to
‘ him or nobody,’ giving her virtually as much to
say in the matter as she had in picking ‘ Sylvia
Keren ha ppuch,’ or whatever other insane appella-
tion ‘Pa and Ma’ chose to saddle her with in
those far-off times when they were drunk with the
wine of new parental pride.
“ Talking of the ‘ French Maid ’ clothes, Juliet
Wray is a bird of far finer feather than in the
‘Gay Parisienne.’ Her white evening frock is
quite fascinating enough to excuse Peachey’s
chronic yearning. The French Maid herself, in
parlor-maid uniform, tas a more wayworn expres-
sion than formerly, though later on she drives dull
care away at the Casino in her tri-color ‘ Merrily
round the Maypole ’ dress. Admiral Geo. De
Lara is convincing in his uniform, and alto-
gether Suzette Reeve moved in a brighter world
than when, in a former existence, she tripped
about as Julie Bon-bon.
“ At one time high-kicking juveniles frequently
figured at Austral Salon entertainments. Then
leg-iteins ceased abruptly, and members suspected
a disapproving committee of having put down its
foot. Anyway, at a recent ‘afternoon’ the smart
song-and-dance medleys, contributed by sprightly
Rose Musgrove and M‘Nieol Turner, were re-
ceived with some reserve. Miss Musgrove looked
fair and Frenehy in pale-grey befrilled with blue
chiffon and a hat caught up with black
loops and plumes. But ankle upheavals, even
when conducted on the airiest and fairiest of lines
and with pretty stage kissings and coquetteries
thrown in, seem to need gas, glitter, remoteness,
and what-not. In the garish day the airy dan-
seuse is apt to look like a mere business person
struggling to lift something heavy. As for the
19th century Adonis in plain, every-day costume,
who brandishes his long legs on a gim-crack stage
in the merciless l'ght of afternoon, for all his
smartness nothing under heaven could keep his
performance from setting spectators’ teeth on
edge.
“ At present a sad story showing up the heathen
in his blindness goes the round of local mission
circles. The other Sunday a young lady teacher
in a cabbagee suburb asked little Ah Sam, ‘ Who
was the first man God ever made?’ Her pupil
replied ‘ Lold Blassey ! ’ Benighted ignorance,
wasn’t it? And yet Yellowboy apparently is not
alone in his opinion. One vice-regal offshoot, at
all events, acts as if she agreed with him.
“ A rich Southern parvenu, with one sweet
daughter, chanced, some time ago, to find a
broken-down Oxford man, who could paint, teach
French and piano, tend and drive the horses, all
on the cheap. The retired shopkeeper has no
daughter now. She ‘ disgraced ’ him by marrying
the literary man-of-all-work for love, and they are
waiting, in a poor but respectable manner, for
‘ papa ’ to either relent or leave everything to the
hospitals.
“A Melb. morning pressman was ‘doing’ the
annual shivoo of one of the many children’s skirt-
dancing establishments which infest Melb. when
the dancing ‘ inarm,’ learning his identity, rushed
him off to a small private room. Expecting the
usual whisky and cape-and-dress descriptions of
several columns’ length, the man of notes awaited
developments philosophically. To his surprise
the lady shoved a gold coin on the table and said,
‘ There’s half-a-sovereign, and now I want you to
write me a nice leading article in the Aoegus to-
morrow.’
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Every man in Australia should read the
record of the Suffield case just published by The
Bulletin in a 64 pp. pamphlet, post-free 7d. in
stamps. The proceeds, after payment of ex-
penses, go to the fund for assisting Suffield to have
his case heard at an open public enquiry.
Both Premier Nelson and Secretary Tozer
told Q. Assembly that, if the Federation Enabling
Bill, providing for the popular election of Conven-
tion delegates, was carried, they would not stand
as candidates. Nelson said that “it would be
more his duty to stand aside and watch the pro-
gress of events.” Tozer merely stated wearily
that “ he had no desire ” to stand.
Cooktown (Q.) Independent, after indi-
vidually greasing each member of the Boodle
Ministry, remarks that but for “the time wasted
on the Q.N. Bank report and other matters of
minor importance,” these people would have done
something really great this session and been a
blessing to the country generally. “Minor im-
portance” is particularly good in such a connec-
tion.
Anarquia : “ How delighted I am with the
full reports —the many columns—about the gowns
worn by the female baggages of the aristocracy in
England at their races, fancy balls, and what not.
The upper-classes used to have a wise instinct,
which kept them from publishing such inflamma-
tpry details, but got so eaten up with vanity
that they say, ‘ After us, the Deluge. It will last
our time.’”
A Q. shoe-shop proprietor found his best
workman hanging under a staircase behind his
shop the other Monday morning when he opened
his establishment. Did he cut down the body?
Not he. He ran around, with bulging eyes, to
call his neighbors, or passing acquaintances, to
“come and see tfie thing.” Tr-en, on advice, he
went for a policeman to officially cut down the
corpse. In this case the man was dead enough,
but in seven such cases out of ten a live man is
left to dangle and strangle because of the absurd
law-fright which deters a private citizen from
cutting down suspended man-meat. What the
exact nature of the generally prevalent fear is re
the cutting-down of a suspended man or body
would be hard to define ; but the general public
impression seems to be that “ you’ll get into
trouble if you do.” Why ? And how ?
Under severe pressure, Premier Reid so
far agreed to let up on the widow that estates
worth less than .£lOOO were to be exempt from pro-
bate duty in N.S.W. As £lOOO, at present inte-
rest rates, means about ,£35 a year, the proposal
to take .£lO from the old woman, to start with—
about three and a-half months’ income—was
pretty rough. Even the revised idea, however,
was far less merciful than the Victorian system,
which Premier Reid declared he was going to fol-
low, and this was the ostensible reason why the Leg.
Council threw the Bill out so decisively. Victoria
exempts all estates under £1000; on estates under
£5OOO, it exempts the first £lOOO ; and where the
inheritor is the widow, child, or grandchild of the
departed capitalist, and the estate is worth less
than £50,000, only half-rates are levied. The
Vic. system may be a trifle too lax, but the
N.S.W. one, even with the £lOOO exemption, cer-
tainly wouldn’t be.


BAKER S ROUSE, Limited.
The Pall's Eye Hand Camera, £ 1 17s. 6d.
The Poelet. Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £8 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £4- 4 s -
Catalogues Fuke.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
370 George Street, SYDNEY;
2<>o Comjns Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld La
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
I Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHfN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Brisbane (Q.) police-sheet, t’other day,
spelt the name of a drunk “ M‘Entire.
Bowes Kelly, the Mount Lyellite, is Melb. ’s
boss millionaire, now there is no more Payne.
An Australian public servant wears, with-
out flinching, the name —Charles Napoleon Bis-
marck Bowel.
Cabled that the body of Miss Arbuthnot,
an English lady overwhelmed by an Alpine
avalanche 30 years ago, has at last been found in
the ice. Death had preserved in youthful freshness
what would otherwise by now be a withered old
woman.
Fitzgibbon, of Melb. Metropolitan Board
of Words, believes that the big Vic. strike of
1890 was knocked out by a little “pome” of his,
and he reprints the “pome” in proof. If that
poem killed the strike, the strike perished without
rhyme or reason.
Vosper, of the Mane, Westralian M.P.,
instantly attempted to atone for doing so conven-
tional a thing as getting married by spending his
honeymoon at, of all places on God’s earth, White
Feather—a treeless waste relieved only by heaps
of day, more or less suggestive of graves.
Vic. : “Graham Berry was undoubtedly
the best Agent-General Victoria ever had, and he
might have kept the billet to this day, only
Munro wanted it for himself. James M. only
kept it a few weeks ; the stink of his broken banks
made his recall absolutely necessary. Neither
Munro nor Gillies nor Smith was a patch on
Berry as A.G. Now the billet is vacant why not
let the old man have another turn at it. There is
no better candidate in view at present.”
Grevillean : “ Napoleon 111.
wanted Princess Mary of Teck,
before she was Teck (of course,
though, it is never surprising in
a monarch to want a lady after-
wards, for he is above the pre-
judices of inferior men). So she
had the pick of the French or the
English throne. Then Nap. went
for Princess Adelaide of Hohen-
lohe, and, it is said, would have got
her but for the opposition of a very
near relative, the British Queen.
Having hawked himself to the
Czar’s sister and all round the Euro-
pean courts, he popped to Eugenie
in an alcove at a State ball in the
Tuileries. Before this, Vandam
relates, he cried to take advantage
of her after returning from a hunt,
at Compiegne, but she struck him
on the face with her riding-whip.”
Dear Bulletin,—Re Mar-
garet Catch pole. Born 1773. Tried
before Chief Baron Macdonald and
convicted of horse-stealing, Aug.
9, 1797. Sentenced to death. Re-
prieved—seven years. Served a
little over two years, then broke
gaol, and bolted with her lover.
Was caught, tried again 3rd Aug.,
1800. Condemned to death. Sen-
tence altered to transportation for
life. Arrived at Sydney Dec. 20,
1801. Assigned to Mrs. Palmer,
matron of Female Orphan Asylum.
Free 1811, married 1812. Died
Sept., 1841. Lived for many years
in a cottage on the site of the
present General Post Office : it
was standing in 1860. Theßeibeys
of Tasmania are her descendants,
and, all things considered, ought to
be proud of the fact. If they in-
herit her virtues, Tasmania should
be proud of them.— G.B. N.B.—
There used to be a fine portrait
in oils of M.C. in the lodge-room,
Hero of Waterloo Hotel, Fort-
street.
Rossi, one-time police-magis-
trate at Sydney, had a weakness
for lecturing delinquents. An in-
corrigible was brought before him
one day—an Irishman. “Aha,
villano ! ” screamed the magis-
trate, “ah-h-h-h ! is it you again
I see? I will give-a you sixa
montha, brute, to eata of the
hominy ha!” “Faith, yer
honor,” replied the man, “ I’d just
as soon eat skilly any day av the
week as maccaroni—so I would —
and that’s all, they tell me, they
get where you came from.” “ Six-a
month-a ! ” yelled the Italian, “ in
the irons.” “It can’t be done,
yer honor,” said the prisoner,
“ even in this counthry. Sure,
ye’re not George the Fourth ! ”
“ Takea him away-a,” sobbed
Rossi, “and hanga him to the
lamposta.” In the old days the
Sydney magistracy often threw
awful sentences about promiscu-
ously, and its understrapper got
over the difficulty by entering the
maximum legal sentence in the
book. Sometimes the maximum
was three months, and the beak
had wanted to have the prisoner
flogged and disembowelled, but
they had a way of getting over
these little discrepancies.
When George Bean, the Vic. Lands Office
accountant in trouble over illegal adhesion to
a sum of £7BB, was before the police-court it
transpired that the departmental cash is inspected
at the end of each month, so the accountant could
blew a whole month’s takings—one-twelfth of a
wear’s land revenue —at poker if he liked before
there was any serious risk of discovery. And the
man who had such a tremendous temptation put
in his road received a salary of £lBB a year—after
13 years’ service—to keep him straight.
Victoria owes a deep debt of ingratitude
to one “ Deaffy ” Thompson, who, in days of old.
used to assist Duncan Gillies’ political career, and
finally bequeathed £5OO to the same undeserving
object. Still, there was some unconscious satire
about Thompson ; £5OO wasn’t much, but it was as
much as Duncan deserved, and quite enough to
lend all the encouragement called for to all the
career that Duncan was capable of.
When the Melb. City authorities looked
for the landlord of the burnt “ Fink’s Buildings”
that they might order him to shift the dAbris, not
a soul would plead guilty to the ownership. Ap-
parently about the biggest structure in Melbourne
was an orphan which collected its own rents auto-
matically. It is seriously alleged, however, that
Bismarck is the real proprietor, and also that he
owns two other huge tenements thereabouts.
Keast, the young man who has just been
awarded four years’ gaol in Maoriland for for-
gery, has been evangelist, circus clown, carter,
engine-driver, also it is alleged that he once eloped
with a waitress. His evangelical career began at
Bendigo (Vic.), where he appeared as one who
saw visions. His most successful dream included
a sight of the enemies who had spoken despitefully
of him hanging by their tongues on hooks driven
into one of the main girders of hell.
John Norton, of Sydney Truth, now has
in hand five or more first-class libel-actions, in-
cluding the two criminal-libel charges brought
against him by Lands Minister Carruthers. John’s
tenacious pugnacity recalls the bull-pup at whose
nose the present writer saw the end of a Manilla
rope dangled from the top of a tall warehouse-lift
the other day. The pup instantly seized the rope,
fixed his teeth in it, refused to let go, and was
hauled right up to the top landing, five storeys
high. The Bulletin hopes that John won’t let
go the rope.
At Ut minutes to .1. ThiHijts, Ihe other
umpire, with all due doremony walked forth
( and elbSfsjy examined the pitch and felt the
> turf with his thumb. • 1
p A great deal depended upon
it S®, w * n «f th» toss.
* The result, them- ;
I tore, « ouid. be that
« tire match would !«;
determined by an ncei-
» dent almost—such as
th§ winning of the toss
■ —and there would he
no test of the skill of
the players.
- JSgßf' r X Mr Lloyd moved*-* rl
• ''Timt a deputation
Plbc appointed to wait upon the true- j
• tcua ar.d requital* irn v.\planAti<u. a
: to the action i»4utorferibg7’;&e.
*''■ ■ - >■■■■■ ——
Though the bowlers would have
; beoD able to break, the ball could 1
have been easily tbilowed.
■■ “ I didn't come 'oro'W see a bloomin'
: wimmin' . AV’liete’s y«r cricket!
J.AC<WMWS. OimrnS Back iqy bob 1 ” - M
“ lloxtvy - »peci«!."
ENGLAND v. AUSTRALIA.-THE PROTEST MATCH.
The Premier of a distant Australasian
Government was lately held up to pity, by a Melb.
preacher, as one who “turns not away from the
wine-cup.”
Barney Barnato’s alleged millions have
panned out less than one ; .£960,000 is the lot. In
fact, this much - advertised person had barely
as big a pile as T. B. Payne, the lately-deceased
Melbournite, of whom very few people had ever
heard.
HOW RANJI RECOVERED.
DOCTOR: “I must prescribe some very nauseous medicine!"
R ANJI: “ Well, make it in the shape of a BALL, and I’ll take
it easily! ”
Labor-member Trenwith lost his dignity,
and agitator Fleming, who hasn’t any dignity,
sacrificed the greater part of his Sunday shirt by
descending to fisticuffs at Melb. Trades Hall, the
other night.
Dargo : “Met a vagabond in Royal Park
(Melb.), other day; old, bleary-eyed, ragged,
destitute. Said he : ‘Give Berry a pension ! No,
sir ; not a penny. I was one of the men he fired
out on Black Wednesday.’”
The illustration of a new edition
of Dickens should prove a tough job
even for Phil May and C. D. Gibson.
The personalities of Dickens’s leading
characters have become so crystallised,
as it were, in the public consciousness
that an entirely fresh reading would
probably be resented, even if it could
be attained. We can no more have a
new Pecksniff or Pickwick or Sl-iggins
or Swiveller than a new Sliako'p.-are
or Napoleon.
Old Possum : “To my mind none
of tli£ various obituaries 1 have read of
the late ex-Judge Windeyer fairly put
the man as lie was. Long of intellect,
strong on the scon- of duty, and abso-
lutely unassailable in his devotion to
the principles of moral rectitude. This
was the this side-up Windeyer. Weak,
cruel, and stubborn was the other Win-
deyer—the dominant Windeyer—the
Windeyer, totally without ballast, who
sat upon the wall of impartiality and
dropped bricks of partiahty upon
those who came, or were dragged, be-
fore him. Impulse, indignation, and
a dangerous gift of intuition were
his ruling incentives ; to accuse, with
him, was to condemn, and to con-
demn, to call for revenge in the
guise of Justice. In short, lie was
a woman —a new woman.”
“ Better a good name than great
riches,” etc. A country member of
the First Australian Horse—who is also an
enthusiastic cricketer- - had his six - days - old
boy christened the other day The lucky
child was given the beautiful appellation of
“Ranjitsinhji Australian Horse.” Not bad, but
The Bulletin prefers “Jubilee Record Reign
Gufen ” as being more aristocratic, don’t you
know.
The lately-deceased Mrs. Shirley Baker,
wife of the fallen boss dictator, and missionary-
premier of Tonga, claimed descent from Henry
VIII. of England, and was supposed to present a
marked personal resemblance to Queen Elizabeth.
Albert Nixon, who recently tried to
murder his wife and her friend, H. M. Addison,
then chairman of S.A. State Bank, has had his
term of 18 months’ gaol reduced to nine months.
It will be remembered that he threatened to
“ complete his work ” when he came out, which
makes the situation interesting.
G. H. Reid is the only one among recent
N.S.W. Premiers who had not to rough it in early
manhood. Even Alexander Stuart took a turn at
the gold-diggings and live-stock trucking. Jen-
nings, Farnell, Dibbs, Parkes all earned their
bread for years with the work of their hands;
but Reid has belonged to the lily-handed brigade
all his life.
Philpott, accused of having shot his mate
Hawthorne from behind and buried him in a misfit
grave at the Hutt Valley (M.L.), is almost the
only person accused of a sensational murder in
recent years who wasn’t piously dragged up. The
“ draggings-up ” of Philpott, so far as is known at
present, were of the godless variety—which is a
refreshing change.
Concerning a recent par. to the effect that
Judge A. H. Simpson has never yet taken his
seat on N.S.W. Equity Bench, but always tackles
it standing—a Sydney solicitor, who lately had
judgment given against him, wanted his barrister
to apply for a new trial on the ground that the
court wasn’t sitting during the first hearing. The
barrister refused, so a beautiful legal point was
lost.
Melb.: “ Demise, barrister Duigan. His
long, strawy. Dundreary-like weepers of whiskers
bordered a sharp, shrewd aquiline hatchet-visage
of parchment, whose indication was not so very
much in advance of his capacity, though, indeed,
he always looked just a little more clever than any
ordinary man could manage to be. I daresay he
would have made nearly as good a County Court
Judge as Casey.”
Vic. : “Graham Berry should get a sub-
stantial dole from the police. As Premier, he
squelched a plan, by Chief Commissioner Standish
and Supt. Winch, for the establishment of a
cadet school to furnish gentlemen officers as in-
spectors, leaving the ranker only the meagre
chance of promotion to sergeant. Berry’s stroke
of promoting six sergeants to the rank of inspector
revolutionised the force, from a democratic point
of view. Every constable ought to look in the
pockets of his first captured drunk for something
grand to put down to a Berry testimonial.”
The Sewer Bard, Fitzgibbon, has un-
earthed the poem in which he pointed the nioral
of the maritime strike, and had it reprinted in an
Argus letter. In the Pantheon of Bathos it forms
the twin companion poem to Douglas Sladen’s
“condensed milk ” lyric. Sample slabs
It plainly says to labor,
Be more thoughtful of your neighbor;
Don’t sacrifice the innocent to gain your selfish ends.
Farmers, traders, clerks, shopkeepers,
Squatters, mothers, babes (poor weepers),
Be certain if you do they will not reckon you as friends.
Ricardo: “Melb. financiers acknowledge
that a past-master of their craft has departed in
Robert Guidemann, ex-Under Treasurer. His
name betokens Swedish blood. On Black Wednes-
day, Berry, Lalor, and co. did not dare to sack
Guidemann, who was practically in himself the
whole Victorian financial system. Guidemann’s
Under-Treasurership dates back to the wild,
whirling times of M'Culloch and Higinbotliam.
And, at the age of 70, the veteran suicided by
hanging. Old age, melancholia, and loss of speech
through partial paralysis were the causes of his
exit.”


“ THREE good things
■ . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
“38 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook s o&u c 6 has been awarded more Prigs Msdcils
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Worcestershire
Pure English
Pure Malt
Sauce
Pickles
Vine mu
Holbrook's Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR,
Holbrook’s Vinegar
,S THE FINEST ENGLIS# GRAIN, AND
Io GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
MR. F. TRESCOTT, of ALICE-ST., NEWTOWN
near Sydney, who SUFFERED from SEVER!
INDIGESTION, writes
“ Two doses of Loasby’s Waiioo relieved me, and by tin
time I had taken haif a bottle I was entirely frer
from pain, and have been well ever since.” '
Loasby’s 6 "VST 3E31 o> O,’"
3s. 6d. .Everywhere; Post Free from
Loasby’s ‘Waiioo’ Manufacturing- 00. L'l
171 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
FRANZ JOSEF .
PXX«S£]NrE!R.
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Quit lilies.
Aboriginalities.
In a little N.S.W. country town recently a
shearer got on the spree, and came to blows with
a local resident who was also spreeing. It was a
very cordial scrimmage. The shearer knocked his
man out, and a little later found himself collared
by the local policeman and run in for being drunk
and disorderly. He was taken straight into the
court, and found tho gory ruins of his late anta-
gonist sitting on the bench. Before the prisoner
had got over his first astonishment at this unex-
pected re-union his old friend spat out two teeth,
and mopped up his blackened eye, and passed
sentence of two years’ hard labor. When the
magistrate had sobered up the C.P.S. had an
interview with him, as a result of which the
prisoner was again hauled into court and asked if
he would like to have a little knocked off bis sen-
tence. He replied that nothing would please him
better, and the Bench thereupon took off the two
years, fined him a pound, and told him to get out
of the town. The shearer paid the fine, saddled
his horse, and got out “quick and lively.”
* * * »
Mbs ton on th j Gayndah (Q.) aboriginals :
“ Painfully conspicuous is the number of quad-
roons and octoroons ; some of the younger girls
being sufficiently light-coloured to be mistaken for
Europeans. The Chinese strain is apparent in a
decided majority. Some of the young girls are of
fine physique and have beautiful eyes. With
regular diet and proper care these girls would
grow into very attractive womanhood. More
than one respectable European resident is mar-
ried to women showing both aboriginal and
Chinese ancestry, and these women have made
excellent wives.” Meston thinks they should not
be married to full-blooded aboriginals. To whom
then ? As a rule the white man won't marry them.
I lie task of suitably mating quadroons, octoroons,
and nondescripts of Chinese and aboriginal ’’
ancestry might well puzzle a wiser head than even
that of the Sacred Ibis. In nearly all countries in
the world the hybrid female ’is the sport of
both parent races and rarely recognised as a fit-
ting mate for either.
* « * •
Writes “ Cornstalk ” : “It is no uncom-
mon thing for loco.-engine men to be struck by
bats and nocturnal birds. When I was on
the - mail-train as fireman, I was stunned on
one occasion (for a second or two) by a bat, and
nearly every night I would find one or two dead
birds in front of the boiler near the sinoke-box, no
doubt attracted or dazzled by the glare of the
head-lamp. On another occasion, going to
I was looking out for the Granville distant signal
OBSTRUCTIONS.
FARMER (from out
back) : “ This, Eliza,
is Sydney.”
ELIZA (on her first
visit): “But yer
can't see the township
fur the houses!”
when I received a smart slap on the cheek. As it
Slfttle more bterThTn was good for
been growling at me all the time since leaving
Sydney. So, when I felt the blow, I didn’t spar
for an opening, but instantly turned and landed
mm one on the jaw. He looked a bib surprised
for a second; however, he returned the compli-
ment, and as the tram rattled over the Duck
Haver bridge l measured my length in the coal-
bunker. At. Granville he said he would report
me for striking him when on duty. I replied that
I would repoit Am for striking the first blovv. He
6wore that / started the fight by hitting him on
the jaw. To which statement I gave him the lie
direct, which led to an agreement to settle matters
with our fists when we reached Campbelltown.
When we were steaming out of Granville, and I
opened the fire-box door to pub on some more coal,
my mate picked up something that was lying on
the foot-plate in front of the fire-box. At Fair-
field he handed me a dead bat, with the remark:
‘ There, you d d fool, there’s the fellow that
struck the first blow.’ ”
* • * *
A Bulletin correspondent : I recently
travelled the “Gilbert” district and heard several
stories of the gang. Saw the tree under which
Gilbert was shot, and the ruins of the hut he last
slept in. Two of his gang were once run pretty
close by the police. They reaohed a house. Two
of the girls dressed in male attire, and mounted
the rangers’ horses, carrying firearms. The police
saw them and at once gave chase. The rangers
got away. After a merry ride of some miles, tt o
girls surrendered. Tableau ! On another occa-
sion Gilbert’s horse knocked up, so he went to
the stable of a pub. kept by one Magennis, and
took a fine-looking mare, the property of the son
of the house. The boy showed fight until Gilbert
told him who he was, and gave his promise : o
return the mare. A few days later she was found
tied to the fence, with a boy’s brand-new saddle
on her. One of Capb. Moonlight’s amusements
while he held up Wantabadgery was booting the
men who showed signs of disapproval. They were
ordered to stoop, and the captain then drew back
and let them have it. Everyone suffered the
humiliation at first time of asking, as the request
was backed up with a loaded revolver.
• * * ♦
I’ve heard a lot about Dockett, of Monaro,
that was a bit strong, but he told us this himself :
“ Ride ! yes, I used to be reokoned champion.
But I never told you’s about the six-year-old out-
law stallion I broke-in up at Parkins’. They got
him into the yard by a fluke, and got a rope onto
him, to stop him lashing out at the others. Well,
they got the tackle on him, and I got up. Let
go ! Well, it was let go ! He cleared the six-rail-
and-cap first pop, then he lunged and plunged, and
pawed and reared, and reached and kicked and
pig-jumped—sometimes one at a time, sometimes
all together. But I stuck till I beat him. And
how long do you think he kept it up?” “All day!”
“Humph! Talk about living in the saddle ; he
kept it up for a week.” “ A week ! Holy smoke !
How did you live?” “ Why, the boys used to
ride past and shy boiled pumpkin at me, and
T lived on what I could manage to catch or what
stuck to me.”
• * * *
Ed. Bulletin, — Re
“M.D.’s” interesting
dissertation on the mis-
sion station at New
Norcia, W. A. In
Brough Smyth’s “ Abo-
rigines of Victoria,”
vol. 2, pages 262-3-4,
Mr. P. Chauncy tells
how the mission origin-
ated, and states that
a young Englishman
(who came out in the
vessel that brought the
40 priests who started
the mission) settled at
a place called Bindoon,
where there was a large
tribe of natives. The
Englishman, a merry,
good - natured fellow,
made up wi t h the
natives and picked up
their lingo. He used
to amuse himself with
jokes at the expense of
the mission priests, and
told the blacks, among
other things, that if
they wanted to get
plenty rice and pota-
toes all they had to say
was “ Bloody end to
the Pope ! ” One day
the tribe at the mis-
sion and the tribe at
Bindoon arranged to
have a corroborree, and
without saying a word
to the priests cleared
out. The bishop and
two priests went after
their flock, and were
shortly met by a num-
ber of natives who sur-
rounded the bishop
yelling, “ Bloody end
to the Pope ! ” The
effect on the bishop and
the priests can be im-
agined. Warrackna-
BEAL.
A man may meet his death accidentally in
ten million ways, and if a person with a lively
imagination were to guess for twelve months at
improbable possible methods of joining the great
majority, it is millions to one he would noc strike
the one from which a Vic. Wimmera settler
escaped on the occasion of the recent big local
cyclone. A settler working in one of his paddocks
rushed for home when the storm arrived, saw a
big white gum coming at him, and propped sud-
denly. The instant the tree crashed down, a rock
weighing fully a cwb. whizzed over the settler’s
READY SYMPATHY,
V ISITOR: "I'm try in to make my way to Melbourne , sur; can yer give me any assistance? ”
QUEENSLAND SQUATTER: "Certainly; if you take the bridle-track across my horse-paddock you
will save at least half-a-mile."
head, taking his hat on one of its edges. The
rock had been torn from the soil on the roots of
the falling tree, and hurled as if from a mighty
catapult as the gum jerked out of the ground.
• « * *
Editor Bulletin.—From our local (Q.)
paper:—
A man named John Oatey died suddenly at Nocundra
last week from a general break-up. No enquiry was con-
sidered necessary. Con Yek, one of our pioneer Chinese
gardeners, passed away yesterday and was buried to-day.
He was 68 years of age, and suffered from a complication
of diseases, but gallantly hawked his “ cabbagee” around
until about a week ago.
Observe ! the white man merely “ died ”
pegged-out, anything you like. No inquiry neces-
sary. The Chinky “passed away”—gradually—
perhaps piece-by-piece—while dispensing—ugh !
cabbagee to the grateful Caucasian trash.— Exile.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken 0/ communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily, submitted, whether sent by po.t or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Pigeon ; But then the State audit of banks and
insurance-societies which The Bulletin wants is an audit
and valuation of the . securities. No audit which takes
the value of the securities for granted is worth a hang, or
a straw, or a curse, or anything else. The Q.N.B. did
have a decent State audit—the time when thev found out
the two or three million deficit John Borthwick :
Can’t spare space for full account of City of Glasgow
Bank swindle F. Clayton : No, it isn’t Prepuki :
Not funny. Only broguey Probable Victim; If the
estate pans out for £230 you will probably be charged £1
probate-duty, and about £1 Is. succession duty. Law
costs in such a case are too indefinite to offer an opinion
about.... Hardup : Don’t care to jump on the poor old
folks who maunder over their dead daughter and tell
kindly lies about her memory Toorak :No figures
going any further back so far as we know. Until a very
few years ago Australian statistics were very imperfect on
many subjects Truculentos : For various reasons
which it would be unkind to particularise this paper
prefers to stand out Klepto : Many thanks
J. : Dialect-items want a double allowance of humor.
......R.B. : W.B W.P.; “Prayer” needs it X. :
Who was the Q. Cabinet Minister who used to come to
hotel breakfast in bare feet, and stroke his toes with the
buttered toast? 11.V.N. : Empty as—Treasurer Nelson’s
financial guarantee . J.M.A. : Not up . F.L.P.: Dull
rhymes Corowa ; Ventilate locally. J.T.M. : They
don’t look overwhelmingly novel Horace (W.A.) ; Pars
long and dull Malva : Sonnet ends tamely; pars all
tame G.S. : Not up R.G. : Nine unemployed hired
to call and club you Chris. B. : No, thanks Snag •
Wrecked ... Marlow : Off-side Klepto : You don’t see
where “ the loving Fatherhood bf Providence” comes in
the Nhill cyclone. Well, it didn’t wreck t'he pub., did it V
Steve : If you want MS. returned, why don’t you
follow printed instructions and send stamps?.... Clifton •
Nice honeymoon-poet you are! No. 10 : Possibly
W. : No doubt some democratic candidate will be found
to eject Minister Just-Ice Gould from Greta. His attitude
in the Suffield case stamps him unfit to represent any-
thing but an electorate of cat-fish .... J.B.R. : Bulletin
has the base injustice to refuse to print vour lengthy
defence of Burns chiefly because of its utter unreadable
dreariness L. Shandy : Well-written but well-worn
Tussock : The worm fought for it, but the fire hath it
X. : You've got the oyster, but don’t quite know how to
open it Gemini: Not up Mulga: Can’t use
Terence : You deserve encouragement—with a nullah
F.C. : “Toffs” no good Scotty : “Generals” not up.
A- Con.: Considering “ Aulnlaria.”.......T.McL. :
Won’t do G.H.C. :No wonder we feel dull, with such
stupefying yarns to handle “Fraud”: Too long-
winded .....Ettie P. : Idea not well enough handled
K. : Sony unsuitable A.P. : Considering “Nor-
folk.” M.B. (M.L.): Hopeless ... Harry M. : Yarra
poem about as beautiful as its subject Australian:
Crawl into a hollow log and recite your poem to the
d »igo James Guy : Have no opinions to offer —it
passed over this paper’s mind like a simoom, blotting
out everything. As you wouldn’t think of the retort
that simooms are only found in deserts, we tell
it to you confidentially Ad (Buenos Ayres): As
a cockroach, you might make your mark; as a poet ■
you fail damnably Dryblower : None usable Kis-
met : There’s no reason why a good thing shouldn’t be
well said 100 times in 100 ways. But you say it the 101st
time so badly that it looks like a darned bad tiling
D. Busch : “Song of Time ” too long, and the slow “ tick!
tick ”is a maddening refrain Ralph Nickleby :As vou
say Premier Turner is “ damned mean.” After the fine
old generous rioters had wrecked the country, someone
must be horribly mean if things are to be put straight.
The other Australian Premiers avoid meanness for the
present by using huge sums of loan money for revenue
purposes; but when these provinces really face the situa-
tion they will want seven of the meanest Governments on
earth to pull things through Jeff: One too long;
other too broad Dust: Not in our eyes, please ! Old
yarn under new name... The Fool: See no present reason
to contradict you on that point Margery : Pretty
verse, but ideas are mere echoes B.E.J. : Have in-
vested in a meat-axe for benefit of next miscreant who
brings us pun on “Ranji’s” name R.F. : Par used;
pleased consider story 11. F.: Abject futility T. de
B. : Couldn’t stand the widow .. Boar : 11V spell you
with an “o.” A. J. M‘G. : Dead-and-alive style
Birdie; Gone to roost Steve O’B. : “Three” too long
and weak in the back; other sketch may use.
Boy : May possibly do as a suggestion C.The man
who, after years of press experience, could sit down and
commit to paper such a yarn as that digger-storv in the
serious expectation that it would he printed hasn’t
enough judgment to be a potato-peeler ... J.H.G.P. :
Letters re Q.N. Bank say nothing new and say it feeblv.
W.B.P. (Hobart): Will do John Kelly : Not bad!
but the fact that it has been already published elsewhere
is an insuperable difficulty E.P. : Only the skeleton of
a story ...E.N.P. : Unusable .... T.S. : Dying stockman
No. 2007 murdered. Like Saul, we’ve slain our thou-
sands ; and we’ve got our eye on David’s'tally F.F. :
You’re about right, and will try and mend ’ F. I, P •
Worthless.... H.A.M. : The verdict of the Suffield jury
was unanimous ; but as you will see by pamphlet, one of
them said afterwards : “I’m sorry we"gave that verdict,
but we were forced to by the Judge.” .... T.P. : Received.
D.H. : Local opinion regarding it begins with a d
Tom F. : Some merit; not enough .... A. Dal. : So far as
this paper’s concerned that type of yarn was cemeteried
18 years ago Icelos : Pugh’s “Man of Straw ’’ is good
reading, as reading goes. “Blasphemy” only exists in
the umntelligence of the man who mil cut the Almighty’s
corns with his rusty little razor ... Locksmith : Try
strychnine Facilis : Yes —descensus w.p.b. , Percus-
sion : Couldn’t print such a thing Smith. Esq. ; The
man who sends along an envelope-for-return addressed
“ Smith, Esq.,’’ invariably encloses a sample of unspeak-
able idiocy. Your idiocy is of the average Smith, Esq.,
brand W. H. Pritchard : Polly? Please tell us what
you are alluding to ... A Hair of the Dog : Under sub-
section 3 of sec. 4 of Vic. Licensing Act 1890, any regis-
tered chemist or qualified doctor can sell spirituous or
fermented liquors for medicinal purposes .. . S.A. :
Thanks Observer :So far as this paper is concerned
they can'play nap in the local School of Arts till all is
blue I.F.D. : You say “the Jewish shining lights out-
side the financial world are few.” Great Scott ! In pro-
portion to their numbers the Jews have done twice as
much for literature and art as any other nation on this
earth O.H. : Idea for issuing £16,000,000 of paper
money in N.R.W. duly noted... G.C.F. : Please solid
full name and address to accountant Iko • Common
everyday drunk M.T. : Yes—empty indeed ! Mulga :
Putting his wife down a well didn't cure her. All wasn't
well that ended well, then J.T. : “Govt. Stroke” no
striking merit W.M.F. : More sound than sense ; ideas
apparently born of verse and not verse of ideas. ”


Packets
■s
&JS*%*4UGARS
P(/AUTf
f MKi# Pl/R£
f /ionuTaoured by > ' &
7 .a * -•• jsjli
Paverne
Is.
Bi
a
toi
# *
in
As Poster-people do,
hy do the Poster Races
No longer inter# you"?
Simply a gift for Bardea-
Yof blow lie rides aSwift?
CYCLES
(Fitted, with Dunlop
Tyres).
In connection with these easy-running machines, we have just issued a daintily
got-up brochure, fully illustrated , entitled “ Cycling for Ladiescontaining
some very useful hints for beginners , and for those who are anxious to look as
smart as possible when wheeling. A really good hint given and received at
the right time often decides the all-important question of whether a lady looks
awkward or elegant when cycling. For those interested in cycling from the
racing standpoint , we have also issued a little souvenir booklet , containing an
account of the distinguished
rider , C. F. Barden , whose appearance ALONE on the scratch mark of the
Austral Wheel Race made the Swift the cynosure of all eyes. This Xmas
season we are sending to all our old customers an entertaining Xmas story ,
entitled “ Xmas in Australiaillustrated by our own special artist. Should
any of these esteemed patrons be accidentally omitted from our list which is
a very long one a post-card to any of our depots will command instant
attention.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 georgke Street, Sydney.
139-141 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Rundle-street, Adelaide. Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Hay-street, Perth. Chatters Tewere
Warmambool. Christchurch. Dunedin. Wellington.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Recently a M.L. policeman received £6 from th®
Govt, police reward fund for saving the life of a boy who
had wandered on to the straight of a certain racecourse
just as a galloping finish was on. The boy, apparently,
was right under the hoofs of a horse when the man in
blue snatched him away scatheless, but not quite in time
to save himself from being knocked down and much hurt
by another animal. Now, at the time of this particular
race, the backers of the favorite (which didn’t win) and
the newspaper - scribes (who most likely baoked the
favorite) said that—to quote a local print exaotly—“ the
chances of were spoilt by an over-offioious policeman
running across the track and throwing the horse out of
position.” t t , ,
They were fishing off Manly, and in a few minutes
hooked and hauled up four young pointer sharks, which
they put their knives into and let go. Same thing went
on for half-an-hour until lawyer Ayrault Burns brought up
a shark nearly six feet long, which, with his arm under
the fin, he yanked into the boat. Then, two or three
thumps on the nose with a stretcher, and the fish was
apparently dead. “Full of this, boys,” said Burns,
“ let's pull in.” They did, and about 20 yards from shore
Burns slid the shark over the gunwale, thinking him done
for—but as he was sinking he moved his tail, and they
yelled at each other for not knifing him. They ran the
boat on to the beach and were getting out when, swim-
ming along by the shore, came the shark, bumping and
floundering about, and evidently not knowing where he
was. Burns ran into the water, put his arms round the
fish under the fins, lifted him, and threw him kicking on
to the sand. Some hundreds of persons were collected on
the beach, and were so amazed to see the gallant lawyer
rush into the water and seize the shark that a crowd
gathered round the hero, who stood in apparent dignified
indifference to the whispers of “ That’s him —that’s him 1
Caught a shark with his hands!” “By gum, it’s the
hottest thing I ever saw ! ” —and so on. And when
presently an elderly gentleman asked, “Did you really
catch that shark with your hands, sir ? ” he answered—
“ Certainly, sir ; I have caught many that way down at
the Islands. Come on, you chaps 1” and he strode mag-
nifioently away.
* • • *
A Southern sporting community takes great in-
terest in the local angling competitions, and a good deal
of money is wagered at times on the results. The fact of
onesporting genthaving won several competitions straight
off aroused suspicion, and he was watched the night
before a recent match, and seen to plant and anchor half-
a-dozen big live bream in a certain portion of the river.
The rules don’t permit of any boat starting to fish on the
fishing-ground before sunrise. Before daybreak the
watoher shifted the suspeoted one’s “plant” to ground
his friend intended to fish, and the sporting gent, during
the matoh, had the mortification of seeing his own
“p'ant” lugged up by a rival, who eventually won the
match and let the sporting man in for a heavy amount he
had wagered at odds on himself ; and he dared not enter
a protest either.
* » * *
Knowing cyclists make a rule of placing oovers
of elastic round the stamps on new machines. Preserva-
tion of the trade-mark on a good-grade often means a
difference of three or four guineas in the seoond-hand
Belli n;-price.
» • * *
Dear Bulletin, — That was a plucky wheel-
ing trip of Murif’s across the continent alone.
Away far north to Barrow Creek the camel-track runs
through stretches of God-forsaken desert country, lonely
laps of sand and spinifex, with here and there “ good
going,” where many caravans have trodden the path as
hard as a cinder-track.—Overlander.
» * * •
Prof. R. C. Carpenter, of Cornell University,
U.S., after elaborate experiments on cycle friction, con-
cludes than no form of gearing can possibly equal the
best chain for efficiency and durability. With the best
chain, the frictional loss is i to J per cent, of the total
power transmitted, this result being attained with a
chain which had previously been ridden over 2000 miles
by a rider soaling over list. With ohains not so well-
made, the loss was 2 to 6 per cent.; even an old chain
which did not fit its sprocket properly lost less than 10
per cent, of power. The very best level-geared bicyoles
lost four times as much as a good average chain, and over
six times as much as the best chain.
* * * *
Weekly Scotsman, 9th Oct., ’97 :—“ Profes-
sional cyclists in N.S. Wales are obliged to dress like
jockeys, in silk jackets and white knickerbockers. Every
rider obtains a number and a distinguishing color from
the Government, and these he is obliged to use in every
race he takes part in."
* * * •
“ If men must gamble,” quoth Tom Price, M.P.
(S. A.), “ let the plague-spot fester in one plaoe instead of
allowing it to spread through the community, and force
them to that quarantine of the betting disease, the race-
course. Then the coward, the sneak, and the hypocrite,
who affects to oondemn gambling and who yet slyly puts
his money on the street and shop ‘ totes,’ will be forced
to do his betting openly.” In common with other Labor-
members, Price demands that if the totalisator is given a
monopoly the raoing clubs be compelled to start a “ Is.
tote ” for the use of the poor.
* * • *
A new variation of the confidence-trick which
failed at a late Hawkesbury meeting. Young man from
the bush, apparently a “ mug,” is accosted by dapper
swell with a request to see race-card, which leads to talk,
and statement by dapper one that he is waiting for his
uncle, who will presently bring him the straight tip for the
next race. Uncle arrives, irreproachably got up, says he
is not quite sure yet; is introduced to bush youth, de-
parts, returns just as race is starting, a little breathless.
“ Only just in time—Echo carries the pot, it’s certain. I
got two hundred on for myself, fifty for you, and twenty,
five for your friend.” Bush youth appears to regret that
his cash is held by his mate, now lost to view in the crowd.
Swell accompanies him to hunt up invisible mate, and
they continue hunting till the race is over and Eoho a
bad second. Then the bush youth suddenly lands the
uncle a stiffener on the nose and yells “ Police 1 ” “If
Echo had won,” he reported afterwards, “ I’d have made
him pay up or knocked his gizzard out.” When the police
did arrive the bush youth was gone, and a disconsolate
uncle was pouring nose-blood over the railings on to the
oourse, and the uncle’s partner was denouncing him as a
flat and a bloomin’ mug.
* * * »
Great things are usually prophesied about crack
scullers’ sons, but they seldom come-off. Bill Beach’s
son, as a youngster, promised well, but he never even-
tuated, and there are several young scullers able to beat
him on Lake Illawarra. Mick Rush’s son also was spoken
of as a likely champion, but he too faded out. Young
Pearce, son of “Footy” Pearce, looks the most likely
amongst the present lot, but time alone will tell. The
eighteen-year-old son of American professional Ten Eyck
this year beat all the English amateurs at Henley, the
victory being received in a dead silence by the crowd for
an alleged breach of etiquette in doing his trial on the
quiet. However, there is usually a deathly quiet when,
the Britisher is beaten on his own dunghill.
(Continued on page 24 )■
This is the sun’s picture of Arthur Hoey
Davis, the young Queenslander whose selection-
sketches, over the pen-name of “ Steele Rudd,” 1
have delighted so many readers of The Bulletin.
Mr. Davis was born on the Darling Downs in ’6B
—eighth in a family of 13. The father was (and
is) a warm-hearted Welshman ; mother, Irish.
Of young Davis’s history till 74 nothing is re-
corded; after that, when he wasn’t watering cows
or driving plough-horses, or hunting kangaroos or
bears, he was at school—until the age of 12 or so.
He doesn’t know if he was very bright at school ;
ARTHUR HOEY DAVIS .
Photo., Poulsen, Brisbane.
but the schoolmaster did once call him the smartest
boy in his class—for a good while he was the only
one in the class. Stuck by the selection till he
was 18; but the last four years were mostly
spent on stations. Made a trip or two
with cattle, and took a turn at . Jiorse-
breaking. At 18, found himself deciding be-
tween the Bush and an office. Preferred the
Bush, but was persuaded into the office. Charmed
with oity life for about a month ; then yearned to
clear out—but would have had to walk, and never
liked footing it. Until he entered the office Mr.
Davis had only read one book beside school-
books ; and he was 20 before he discovered there
was such a paper as The Bulletin. Now he is
making up literary leeway, and at every holiday-
opportunity getting back to the selection. And
when The Bulletin publishes his collected stories
—some time next year—it may be found that old
Dad, and Dave, and Joe, and Sarah have come ta
add permanently to the realistic humor of our
growing literature.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Co., at Waterloo,
Sydney, opened its big brewery, the other day,
-with a magnificent fizz and bang. An army of
leading citizens—2oo ’strong—led by the capacious
Premier Reid, rolled up to do honor to the festive
and momentous occasion. And Premier Reid
never before looked so jolly and fat as he did with
his face beaming behind a glass of the new brew.
And thereafter, being primed with his subject, he
spoke with the joyous success which his inspira-
tion warranted. He gave the bier the praise it
deserves for its admirable digestive qualities, for
its trifling percentage of alcohol, and for its deli-
■ciousness of flavor. It is necessary in a climate
like N.S.W. for a brewery to be independent of
■climate, therefore the new brewery makes its own
temperature. All air used in making the bier is
filtered through sterilised cotton filters well known
ito bacteriologists. All water used is perfectly
filtered—how is a profound secret. After the
bier is boiled for three hours in the immense
■copper kettle, sterilised so that bacteria and germs
are, rendered harmless, the problem for the brewer
then is to save it from contact with bacteria-
laden agents such as air and water. All practical
brewers know that this desideratum cannot be
reached with the ordinary mechanical appliances.
In this brewery, however, the bier is passed from
■one boiling kettle direct, through the deckebach—
a patent cooler —so constructed that the bier does
not contact with the atmospheric air. Filtered air,
however, plentifully saturates the liquid with
oxygen—the essential for good and healthy fer-
mentation. When cooled the bier reaches the
sterilised starting-tanks, where the yeast gained
by Dr. Hansen’s system is “ pitched.” So far, the
bier has been cooled under absolutely sterile con-
ditions and “ pitched ” with absolutely pure yeast.
Next, the bier is transferred to steel glass
enamelled tanks (3000 gals. each) wherein fermen-
tation is conducted under a partial vacuum ex-
cluding infected atmospheric air. After fermen-
tation the bier is cooled to the freezing point of
water; then filtered through two high-grade
filters; and on leaving these it is perfectly bril-
liant. It is now re-charged with its own gas—the
carbonic acid gas generated during fermentation.
The old way of giving the bier its life (froth and
foam) was by adding 10 to 25 per cent, of Kraeusen
■ a very young bier which, though it re-started
fermentation and generated the needful carbonic
acid gas, necessarily deteriorated the older bier’s
quality. To sum up—the new lager bier, from the
time it leaves the kettle boiling hot, until it
reaches the glass of the consumer, never once
comes in contact with atmospheric air.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
A GREAT CRAZE
has set in for Odgen’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes,
purest Virginia. The fashionable Smoke of the
day.


1 We may soon expect blizzards
m Sydney with all the modern
improvements.
The cave of the winds on Aft. JEosciuiko.
Mr. Clement Wragge has established a weather factory on Mount
Kosciusko—" And,” adds & newspaper correspondent, Mr. Wragge
eeems perfectly happy.”
W
AO* 6
S\V \>6 * •
■At ~ r »* AC> V
os>® M
.b..sl™itS'rsiS:x“ M ' w ' w ~” 8 up “■ «•*»-
From sand-shifting to snow-shifting is but
a step, so that Mr. Reid’s visit may bear fruit
in the “ jolly and fat ” direction.
Rumored that astronomer Ruseeli
will start an opposition show in the
very hottest shop he can find in the
Never Never, " where the desd Juen-
lie ” —and weather-prophets do not.
s / y'-' Assistant Weather-I
Prophet: “My word;
Clement, my corns arei
-giving me particular ”
Boss Prophet (taking out note-',
book) : “ Stop ! this is important;
' I are you quite sure your snow shoes
are not too tight ? ”
Assistant: “Oh! quite. I had'
them made two sizes too large a-pur-
pose.”
Boss : “ Then it is as I expected.
Another Arctic disturbance coming. I i
dreamed of eating whale’s blubber last ;
, flight.” r ’"~ "
WRAGGE ON KOSCIUSKO.


/o 77/e sy/w/zvc,
EXP£KT. ,
c r?~i e t?a TUrzfho ia, L
//?16 cAi rt v ~ "
r ITTTTT7 'lfl
A RfcMAfHCABMJ STORY.
A brief telegram Lri a morning eon-
oemporary reports the arrest in Ballarat
of* a man named James Watson,
was posing as a doctor of medicine and
a mining expert in the Golden City fpr
over a week. It turned out that Wat-
son was an escapee^from the Yarra Bend
Lupatic Asylum,.
ff PROBATE DUTY.
A CHEQUE FOR £11,122;
£143,966 FROM THREE ESTATES.
/
</
AV/m/y,
m
j /VS-'
11 ~y'
JfJl^PO^sd
f ctres s Lor
aftf'ct 7f/Vl»/a7so
im/OEo \Ted
method <sy£
Loo/h steel
aet/o/'i <s of-
-7m
THE-
/ ft' s l/\/cu/ to fJx c
£ flouncl f
THfe IvfELBOURNE CONGREGATION.—AIC j
EARNES" APPEAL.
Sir.—lt is with profound regret l have beeh
urged to appeal to the members of the ,
community on behalf of the‘BoJOrkfeistreet Mefr
bourne JRebreW congregation. Victoria. AUB- |
traHa, for aid towards saving that venerable
institution from passing out of the - hands of
the congregation through mlsforiune over •
wbihh they have no control,: for want of . mean*
■ to liquidate a mortgage debi tbtft>hte N 1
andxhat they are 'xooet/ hnd havv
failed iii ducat Btrcnudns efToTt» to obtain;
funds to. sty <therol^tnarw^iiCU~now amount'
t» ttm t yPn felie* hjd
oOa.h Lew/" M.l*C. 7 in
hto*t /cXe.”
"Jeoo-/sh-
/ mmr\ */ • iih
stc<' Cut>t)p 3est. oza-/~ 'oy- V
'ura.y' C<atz/~ ? *’
C't£y~ Cou -net ? - - " ”J
Jca.i'i sm-aise. -Urt/A. f
PtfJ/ /fW/
v ) ■ Ifr* t ,d U
ij p' J a-aK^
°-v
MELBOURNIANA.


Tl)?S6ffi?ld Case-
To Newsagents & Others,
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage.
Just Published. Price Sixpence.
Wholesale on Application.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
brjuidh refrigerator.
. . FOR . .
Keeping Butter, Meat,
Milk, etc., COLD.
The Potter the Weather, the Cooler
it is, as the evaporation of water is
greater. No ice or chemicals re-
quired. 6in.x6in., 35.; 10in.x8in.,
55.; 12in. x 10in., Bs.; and upwards.
By post, Is. extra.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
and 422 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Bedstead and Woven Wire Mattress Combined.
Made with extra strong, double rolled sides, and our No. 3 Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire
Mattress attached to each Bedstead by a new Patented Method, which dispenses with the use of loose
clips and shaky joints. Made to tighten at the head end. Any size Bedstead can be set up in two
minutes. No tools required to fix them.
tft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. Cin. 4ft. Gin.
French, lin. posts, very strong ... ... ... . 25/- 27/- 28/- 30/-
Half-Tester, lin. posts, do. do. ... ... ... 30/- 32/6 35/- 37/6
SPRING WOVEN WIRE
No. 0, The Alert, close woven single wires
No. 1, The Sydney, wide woven double wires ...
No. la, Extra close woven double wires
No. 2, The Perfection, close woven, with 11 bands
No. 3, The Trusty, close woven, with 14 bands
No. 7, Folding Stretcher, double wires...
■:jg .is
m
mmm
■
■ :
RsiW
mi
i BSS
H
Sffias
JOHN LAWLER & SONS
MAKE A SPECIALITY OP MANUFACTURING
Purified, Healthy Bedding, and
Superior Woven Wire Spring Mattresses
which give satisfaction, and that is the kind you want 1
FOR CLUBS, HOTELS,
BARRACKS,
SCHOOLS,
HOSPITALS 4, OTHER
INSTITUTIONS.
ALL WE ASK.
Try us for your Bedsteads,
Bedding, Kitchen, Dining, and
Bedroom Furniture, Austrian
and American Chairs, Java
Kapok, Horsehair, Feathers,
&c., &c.
Country STOREKEEPERS
and DEALERS.—Now is the
time to Replenish your Stock.
Do not hesitate, but Call and
See, or Write for our New
Wholesale Catalogue, with De-
signs and Prices. If you want
to buv in the Cri EAPE,ST
MARKET, WE ARE READY
with LARGE STOCKS to give you just the kind of value to draw Trade to your Stores, and letting your Customers
know you are alive. Let us talk the matter over with you. When Goods are Cheap, buy freely. Ours are always
Cheap' and Saleable ; population must increase. Do not delay until you see signs of getting busy. Begin now by
sending us your orders. You are somebody’s customer ; why not ours ? We have been established more than 30 years
on the same spot. No change of firm. No failures, nothing but continued and steady progress. The above facts are
certainly evidence of merit and fair dealings.
John Lawler & Sons
608, 610, 612 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES—No. 4,6, 8, and 10, UNION LANE.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
Make it
a
Rale
!to always Smoke |
OGDEN’S
‘GUINEA-GOLD
I CICARETTEB. I
XMAS PRESENTS AND NEW YEAR'S GIFTS.
Most Artistic, Unique and Up-to-Date Jewellery Display. Beautiful Chased Silver Plate for Presentation.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 5s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £8 ss.
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
A, Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Pure Diamond, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Ame iiyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A. Sminders.
Large-size 8-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold „ „ 455.
SIC
® °
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
fra
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold 5 Pure Double-cut Diamonds, £i.
Neat and strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
/Bc. Solid Gold Nurled Edges
Dress Keeper, engraved, 255.
Raised Flowers, 80s.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 150.
Gold, 20s and 30b.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.
265, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Diamonds,
£3; Double-cut Dia-
monds, £3 10s and £4.
Send for illustrations.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, J 63; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
Hand - made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for
card.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s 6d.
sma
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s; Large, 21s
15c. Gold, 255, 80s, 355, 12.
Pure Silver, Bs, 4s, 6s.
A. Saunders.
Pare Silver Plated Butters, Cut
Glass, 15s 6d ; Large size, 20s.
Send for illustrated lxiok.
L,
Ik
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; extra,
£3 ss. 15c. £3, £4,
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
A. SAUNDERS
FOR STRONG RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest, cheaue
and best timekeepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10 .
£6, £7, £8 —3,4, 5, and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key
or Keyless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Shortwind Keyless, 7s 6d,
11s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 16s 6d. Extra quality. 20s guaranteed. ' Gold, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherham’s and Waltham Levers.
Send for price list. Send for price hook.
No. 1.
2.
3.
15c. Gold Front Stud Diamond,
No. 1,15 s; Nos. 2 and 3,14 s ;
Ruby or Sapphire, 13s 6d,
12s 6d, 10s 6d. Pin and Screw
Front Stud, No. 1,25 s and 30s;
Nos. 2 and 3,21 s, 255.
Plain Gold Studs, 3s 6d and ss.
Newest Style, very pretty.
wm
W/irTT'
■
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin.
Ss 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s,
255. Gold, 26s 6d.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Bedstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Bedstone, 35eu
A. Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 13s 6d.
Links to match, 13s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Initials on Brooch Free.
Our Silver-plate Department is worth inspection. Butters from 3s 6d to
30s. Jams, 10s to 20s. Dinner Cruets, 32s 6d to £4. Entree Dishes,
67s 6d (4 pieces). Hot Water Teapots, 33s 6d.
Send fur Complete
Illustrated Price Book.
Post Free.
Tea and Coffee Sets, £2 10s, £3 2s 6d, £4 4s, £5 5s to £l5 15s. Teapots,
10s 6d to £2. Mind—We sell cheaper than down-town sellers, because we
“ buy for cash and sell for cash ” only.
Send for
Price List.
A.
“ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
TEE JEWELLER, 815 George Street (nearly
opp, Railway Station), Sydney, N.S.W.


COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
" Melbourne,
“ 24th S pteinber, 1897.
“To MESSRS. FISHER & C< *.
“Gentlemen,—
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it. —Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
FISHER’S TOKTIC
—IS THE —
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. P. H. Fauldinq & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Fauldinq & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S Cnjbrocatioo-
J)0 YOU SHAVE ?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. od. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d , 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
si** *rsi ! i
sPEcwel
uni
m
. i
m
zi m
m >
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
a
55*
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It Is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS GREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“fIS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,* I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT ’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH ; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.- I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
kk two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I-was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ' FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
— Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. -Ex--, mine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WORTH L£SS imitation . Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
(6
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS
NEV 7 SOUTH WALES.
JUBILEE
LIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending November 30,1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5O
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE -
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “ Premier ”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s „
30 Sets of Carvers „ £t Is. „
Cloth round Books „ £lOO
SEND THIS TOP PORTION
GHTSOAPf
yi mr does
{ " A WOMA N
’iddx old"
SOONER THAN
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to LEVER BROS., LTD., 63 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
I
"
.Air;
. PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP . ,
Gold, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores $ products.
WOEKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake lllawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays,
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Lik-k Builmnus, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, 'i
{lascotte
TOBACCO.
V-
V-
<
Id
u) v “
o
vU
OOA
MASCOTTt
MASCOTTE
Tfce Leading Pipe.
GBD
Wholesale Depdt:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Hotels.
ill
M*iy
tocbj
rOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOTEL - -
VICTORIA
ym
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HAYES ... Proprietor.
Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
Choice sree puncheon from 11 a.m.
Visit Jack and see for yourselves.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the - Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A. Q»XT3I3XT,
LOWER DONIAir


Mens Sana in Corpore Sano.
And especially WOMENS.
Fair England gives us CRICKET;
Auld Scotia gives us GOLF ;
Australia gives us 6111117 TEA,
By which we play ’em both.
If “Cornstalks,” then, would “hold their
own ! ”
Their every rival beat !!!
Let them “ train ” upon GRANUMA,
“ The finest of the wheat,”
If Sweethearts, Wives and Mothers,
A vigorous race would see !
Make your Grocer stock GRANUMA
And THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA !
f From- “ Bards of the Wood Blocks
N€W YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ESTABLISHED 1845. PURELY MUTUAL.
Assets - - £38,513,664.
RESIDENT BOARD,FOR AUSTRALASIA
(With Power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, &c.):
The HON. SIR JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chaibman (President Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
G. C. WESTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney*
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Hale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 321 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh. Street,
Sydney.
‘ova CHIEF,’
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic. M.P. : “ Let’s see. There’s Income-
tax—and Berry-tax. D ! ”
When J. P. Abbott drops out of Went-
worth, Allan Lakeman, formerly of the neighbor-
ing Balranald, will probably drop in.
N.S.W. Leg. Council threw out the Probate
Duties Bill by 28 votes to 9. Of Reid’s 10 Free-
trade Democrats, one-half didn’t roll up.
“Hypothesis again ! ” interjected Premier
Nelson, in Q. Assembly. “ Hypothesis? ” turned
Kidston, “ the hon. gentleman is more like hip-
popotamus ! ”
Queensland Labor-member Stewart : “I
seldom pray, but I do pray with all my heart that
the Premier may be removed to another place, for
which he is better suited. And, you know, ‘ the
prayer of a righteous man availeth much.’ ”
During the “stonewall” in Q. Assembly,
the other morning—when the House had been
sitting over 22 hours—Labor-member Dawson re-
ceived per messenger a parcel. Opening it, he ex-
tracted a large rock bearing the inscription
“ Every little helps ” !
All the members of Q. Assembly were
ready to spit at the distant carcase of MTlwraith.
But even members of the Opposition were ready
to fawn on Premier Nelson—the man who is still
on the spot able to dispense patronage that can be
converted into dollars. Human nature.
Tas. Parliament is just about adjourning
until April. The cognoscenti aver that Braddon
will never lead another session—he suffers, The
Bulletin is sorry to hear, from a serious internal
malady. Another zoological collection (Fysh—-
Bird) is quite on the cards as the next Ministry.
According to Longmore, there are now
only four teetotallers in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly. In the glorious days of Munro and
Mirams, they were about 18 strong, and when old
James, of the Federal Bank, reached the Premier-
ship they reckoned the Gold Tea millennium had
begun.
Gillies is now fairly reaching out for the
leadership of Vic. Opposition. Over the Danger-
ous Buildings Removal Bill he simply brushed
away the impossible MTntyre, and took command,
and the Tories followed him from force of old
habit. Even the Age sees Gillies leader of the
Opposition in the near future.
If a man be tried for his life on a murder
charge, the Law is of opinion he should be defended,
and the Crown provides (somewhat stingily)
therefor. But if a man be tried for his life on a
charge of rape, the Law is of opinion he should not
be defended, and acts accordingly. Smith, of
Gympie, recently sentenced to death for the latter
crime, was totally undefended during the trial.
Moral ? If you commit rape wind up with murder,
and things will go better with vou.
REID AND UPPER HOUSE REFORM.
" When the appeal to the constituencies is made
the electors will have a ... specific cry before
them.” —Reid in “Telegraph.”
At Trenwith’s instigation, a clause was
inserted in the Vic. Dangerous Buildings Remo-
val Act providing a minimum-wage of Is. 3d. per
hour for workmen engaged in removing danger-
ous buildings, and large compensation in ease of
injury or death through the premature collapse of
the structure. The minimum-wage idea keeps
moving on. Strange to say, the Vic. Leg. Council
accepted this Democratic idea quite peacefully.
Berry and MTlwraith, both ex-Premiers,
both great men in their day, and both announced
as practically penniless, rise up as joint evidence
of the unprofitableness of polities. Parkes’ con-
stant poverty was proverbial. Dibbs was only saved
by getting a billet and a legacy in his old age.
Robertson would have been a stony-broke patriarch
but for his .£lO,OOO grant. Vogel is supposed to
be hustling for a very moderate living. Ditto,
James Munro.
AT THE CHURCH CAKE FAIR.
LYDY STALLKEEPER : “ I'll give you a kiss if you buy one of my kikes.”
BOLD BAD BALD OLD GENT : “ I hope, my dear, your kisses are lighter them your cakes.”
S.M. Herald: “The only desire of a
number of gentlemen,” Mr. Reid pointed out,
“was to land him in a deficiency. . . . He
had pledged his word to the people that that
should never happen under his administration.”
And the callous N.S.W. Government Statistician
has just published another annual return in which
he charges Premier Reid with having added over
£440,000 to the accumulated deficit of N.S.W.,
and asserts that the last year when there wasn’t a
deficit was 1894.
A shriek of horrid mirth went up from the
Sydney Free - raid press about “ M‘Laurin’s
widow ” when Mac., M.L. A., objected to Reid’s
proposed taxation of very small estates (com-
prising, perhaps, some clothes, and a silver watch,
and the cottage furniture) left by the old man
who is dead. Yet, when Dibbs’s duties went on,
these same papers were full of bitter grief about
the alleged girl who found that the price of
her dying brother’s cod-liver oil had “ riz.” Who
was that girl with the dying brother, by the way ?
Bryan O’Loghlen, Victorian M.L.A., says
that for the House to adopt the referendum is to
abdicate its function. Pathetic gag. What are
the functions of a democratic House, anyhow ?
It has only one —to do the will of the people—and
the House can’t be abdicating its functions in
allowing the people to explain what their will
really is. According to the bald Irishman from
Warrnambool, Parliament is an institution created
by the people for the purpose of denying the
people those things which the people most ar-
dently desires.
Special to Wanganui (M.L.) Chronicle,
Oct. 30 :
The most severe speech made in the debate (on the
Financial Statement) was contributed by Mr. Taylor,
member for Christchurch, who literally dragged the
Premier all over the floor of the House, and metaphori-
cally kicked and buffeted him to his heart’s content. The
Premier, meantime, sat with pale and cloudy eyes, and
squirmed on his seat. . . .
The author of which glittering piece of special
journalesque is a M.P., who is spoiling for the
position of Minister for Education —agin the time
when Seddon is defeated.
Q. Chief Justice Griffith’s explanation to
the Brisbane newspapers concerning his Govt.’s
borrowing of £600,000 at the end of ’92, to pre-
vent Q. from becoming a defaulter (to prevent the
Q.N.B. from going bung), has polished up public
recollection that, the following year, Sam made
the salary of the next Chief Justice £3500 a year
(£lOOO increase) and rushed into the luxurious
haven himself. Did he foresee ?
The idea of the Poxton lands administra-
tion (Q.) is that one-fourth of the “plums” re-
purchased from the squattah should be reserved
for Englishmen. “It is not fair to ask the English
farmer to come out here unless we can place him
among conditions approximating to those he
leaves.” The mere Queenslander is to keep on
pioneering in the back-blocks and the scrubs,
while the new-ehum is to be given, on easy terms,
farms ready-made !
The proposed Aliens Restriction Act shuts
out the Chinese missionary from N.S.W. in the
same way as any other Chow. Which is quite
right; but why, in the name of logic, doesn’t some
one try his hand at a law to prevent the anaemic,
hysterical Cornstalk she-dreamer going on missions
to China ? If China isn’t strong enough to eject
that lady, is it fair, in view of the above legisla-
tion, for this country to take advantage of its
weakness? Besides, the periodical yarn about
the horrid butchery of that mission girl is fast
ruining the digestion of this young country.
N.S.W. Parliament has as little love for
Local Government as for Federation. The man
who can’t keep in Parliament by his ability or his
eloquence keeps there by hustling industriously
after grants, and the Local Government system
would knock that resource from under him. Of the
£31,000 spent last year on unclassified roads,
Garrard got £1568 for his electorate, Frank
Farnell £314 for his, and Smailes not one penny
for his. Now, if Smailes were a Gladstone (which
he isn’t), what chance, as constituencies go, would
he have for re-election in opposition to either of
the other two ?
Premier Turner asked Yic. Assembly to
hustle through the Dangerous Buildings Removal
Bill, because the burnt shell of Fink’s huge struc-
ture was tottering over a busy city thoroughfare,
and liable to wreck adjacent buildings in its fall
at any moment, and the City Council had no
power of compulsory removal. Then Tory Mad-
den got up and from sheer force of habit entered
his usual protest against “hasty legislation,”
Madden will probably be heard at the general
resurrection telling Gabriel, the archangel, that
the matter requires deep consideration, and
mustn’t be hurried.
The official cry re Suffield (and in all other
instances where a sensational miscarriageTjf justice
is the outcome of a criminal trial) is—“ We must
not interfere with the verdict of the jury.” As if
the jury-verdict were held sacred in other cases
where the finding is against facts ! If a jury in a
tinpot libel-case returns a verdict against evidence,
that verdict cannot stand. If a jury finds against
facts in a trumpery promissory-note dispute, the
verdict is upset. Why should a verdict be only
“ sacred ” when it involves a man’s life or liberty?
Why should a citizen be able to appeal against an
illogical verdict only when it affects his breeches-
pocket, and not when it affects his neck or his
liberty ?
H. : “Even Gillies, an inexpensive old
man with neither wife nor family, could not save
largely as Agent-General. Berry entered on the
billet just as his three girls were at the most ex-
pensive period of education. He had to keep up
style. His mining affairs went wrong. When
recalled to Melb., he had to sell out most of his
Melb. Mercantile Bank shares to pay passages.
He entered on the Speakership cumbered with a
load of debt which it was impossible to wipe off,
still less was it possible to make any provision for
the future. He has not lived with miserly
economy, but has been far short of the slightest
extravagance. Do the Victorians want a mean,
hunky Speaker ? They need not look far for one.”
The results of the Sydney aldennanic elec-
tions show that the people of the metrop. either
take no interest in municipal affairs, or else are
too thick-headed to perceive when a change of
men in the council is urgently needed. One of
the successful candidates, at a public meeting
which he addressed in his ward, refuted the charge
of incapacity hurled against him by his opponent,
in words somethinglike these : “ They say I’ve got
no ability. Good God ! I’ve got a shop. I’ve
worked up this business myself. I treat my work-
men well; I let them go at 6 o’clock,” &c. The
mover of a vote of confidence in this gentleman
said, among many other wise things, that Mr
Blank must have ability, because he was a
licensing magistrate !
John M’Kenzie, the evil genius of the
M.L. Government, has been breaking out again.
The Ministry recently appointed as public valuer
an insolvent whose certificate, had been refused
by Judge Kettle in the most uncomplimentary
terms. Naturally the Opposition attacked the
appointment, and did it when Big John was on
deck—with a blessed conviction that that roaring
Highlander would drive another nail in the
Ministerial coffin. And M’Kenzie promptly got
up on his two hairy legs and accused the Judge
who refused his friend’s certificate of being a
“ tool of the Bank of N.5.W.,” and otherwise
acted the giddy bear, and when he sat down the
Seddon Government was another long stride
nearer its downfall.
Nobody seems quite certain what Drake
meant by his suggestion that the Q. Parliament
should vote <£2so to Thomas MTlwraith, whom
Premier Nelson declared to be bed-ridden and
penniless. Possibly it was intended to express
Drake’s sardonic opinion that MTlwraith’salleged
poverty and wretchedness were not quite so
awful as alleged. A few years ago, when finan-
cial institutions were going down like houses of
cards, almost every boomer was announced more
or less definitely to be so poor and broken that it
was better not to harry him at law, but rather to
take a refined vengeance by leaving him to the
horrors of his position. And when the storm blew
over, how these pathetic wrecks rose again to
affluence through the unexpected death of a rich
relative in Yurrup !
J. L. Jacobsen, chess champion of Aus-
tralasia, was born in Hull, England, in 1862,
where, at the early age of 14, he was recognised as
a first-class amateur. He won the chess champion-
ship of Queensland and gold medal on March 1,
’B7. Mr. Jacobsen is a prominent chess-journal-
ist, having successfully conducted the chess
J. L. JACOBSEN, chess champion of A ustralasia.
columns of the Queenslander, the Illustrated
Sydney News, and other papers. He is at present
chess-editor for Sydney Daily Telegraph. Since
arriving in N.S.W. in Nov., ’B9, he has won
numerous championship tournaments, and his
recent record of seven games to one gained by
Mr. Wm. Crane, jun., in a match for the cham-
pionship of Australasia, proves anew his remark-
able chess talent.


.TOHN HUNTER
FOR.
|harming
jorrect
omfortable
ainty
Iressy
urable
p
perfect
opular
leasing
JUST LANDED, a Choice Assortment of GENTS.’ BUTTON and LACE
BOOTS; hand sewn; Best Quality; Moderate Prices. Every pair Guaranteed.
THE CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
esr Branches Everywhere .
Ladies’ CUTLERY CASES.
FOR CHRISTMAS
The Companion Size, when closed,
Bin. x 6in.
BEAUTIFUL, USEFUL, ARTISTIC.
A, with Plain Scissors, 30/- each complete.
B ~ Nickel-Plated do., 35/- ea. complete.
C „ Gold Gilt Oriental do., 37/6 ea. „
Smaller Sizes, 7/6, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-.
tSST Post Free to any Address in Australasia.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler,
3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Gold Medal, Albury; 16 First Prizes Royal
Agricultural Society.
Send for Illustrations and Prices Unique Australian
Cutlery, FREE.
ITCHEME! * DllllSOn, ltd.
CO-OPERATIVE COMPANY.
SHARES 10s. on application, and 10s. on allotment. Full Pros-
pectus and Forms of Application maybe obtained from the
Brokers,
Messrs. BATT, RODD & PURVES, Limited,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
or from the
Company’s Offices—Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
PROMPT APPLICATION IS ADVISED, as
The Share [ist (loses on 21st December inst.
TN€ NATIONAL CASH R€<SIST€R.
Saves
Time I
Saves
Worry!
■
m
Saves
Work !
Saves
ME!!
Suitable for Any Business. Prices from £5 to £6B.
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. A. LINO-HAM, General Manager for Australasia.
PATENT SOSTENENTE
WHY DO
PALING’S PIANOS
11.
INI
Sell so readily, and prove easily VICTORS over
all competition ? It is because of the over-
powering magnet of well-known and honor-
able names, such as
Steinway & Sons, New York PIANOS
John Brinsmead & Sons, London PIANOS
Rich. Lipp & Sons, Stuttgart PIANOS
Julius Feurich, Leipzig PIANOS
Gors & Kallmann, Berlin PIANOS
Uebel & Lechleiter, Heilbroun PIANOS
Estey Organ Company’s
AMERICAN ORGANS
Boosey & Co., London,
BAND INSTRUMENTS
Besson & Co., London,
BAND INSTRUMENTS
Couesnon & Co., Paris,
BAND INSTRUMENTS
etc., etc., etc.
These names are sufficient in themselves to vouch for all that is meritorious and excellent,
but to make assurance doubly sure we add our own guarantee that in every instrument sup-
plied the very best material and workmanship have been used, and that they excel in all-round
LEADS THE WORLD.
merit and intrinsic, value. Jn beauty and
chaste elegance of design they are far in advance
of competition.
VI
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited
Sydney, Newcastle, and Brisbane.
HIKED
sou
HIDE
imS
91!
you feel Safe
Knowing
that they are made on the simplest and best principle,
of the finest material, and manufactured only by skilled
workmen.
Guaranteed 12 months.
Write for Artistic Booklet,
“All about Dunlop Tyres for 1898.”
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Ctd.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
And at
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE; FRANKLIN STREET, ADELAIDE;
KING STREET, PERTH; and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
The Maoriland Government is considering
the advisability of appointing salaried State soli-
citors throughout the country to advise poor
people gratis, adjust disputes, draw up wills, and
the like. As the State solicitor would have no-
thing to gain (while the private lawyer has every-
thing to gain) by promoting litigation, it is
reckoned that he would probably save the State
almost as much directly in the cost of running the
law-courts as his salary would amount to. And
the amount of the possible indirect saving would
be enormous.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
IKloney to Lend.
fiibtheb reduced bates.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch-262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every <£l to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Banlc of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
1,950,000 6 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total ' 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackei.lar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. F. W. Utiier, Esq.
London Offlce-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects lor
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J.; RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH&CASTLEBESGH STS,
SYDNEY.
©©• • © ©
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IH
AUSTRALIA.
0 9 9 0 GO
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CEOWIEY,
Manager.
Business Announcements.
X
Rsgioald A. F. Hurray,
■ • F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
; prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
j National Mutual
! Collins Street,
Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/0 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, i/& per oz.
\Ve are the cheapestin Aus*
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w. H. wTisz«ii,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps {or fu!l Price List.
Prompt attention'gjven to Country Orders
Elliotts
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
IShould be read by all Investors. It will be
(forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
'377 COLLINS ri I’LtISHT MELBOURNE.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godb'REY, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,706,590 12 10
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 43,409 7 2
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett. Eso.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot., Esq., J.P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direo-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP _ - £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY ... ... 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. .. 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THF.—
Queensland national Bank,
** LIMITED.
(Incorporatedunder “The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 455,361 17 7
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C,
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc.; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thon ley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
iNsrECTORS: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool,
H. Jj. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
■PL.! is noted for its Prompt
I QIS VO 11/P3 1/y and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Kiemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec 18, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, December 21, 5 p.m.
Ashley, Thursday, Dec. 23, 5 p.m.
Leura, Friday, December 24, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, December 21, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, December. 21, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 18, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Dec. 21, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Friday, Dec. 24, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 18, 2 p.m.
-Peregrine, Friday, Dec. 24, 5 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Dec. 28, 5 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIKKENT FAKES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Si SONS, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney-.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, m : Melbourne.
Testing Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen street,
Telephone No. 1716. Melboftroe.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MEZBOZTRNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, December 28.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, January 4.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to • ' -
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. „
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, December 28.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, January 4.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
December 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Alling-a, Tuesday,
December 21.
Best & Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steainships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Pares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & go's Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Koyal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly. '
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street,
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare —London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare —London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. - Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co ! s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies. J.
MERGELL, Gen, Agent, Ex. Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney


CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. NEW YEAR GIFTS.
ONLY VISIBLE DEMONSTRATION CAN CONVEY AN ADEQUATE IDEA OE
STEWART I>A.W SOKT GO’S
MAS.VSIiI.OnS EXHIBITION
OF SUPERB AND CHARMING NOVELTIES
NOW ON VIEW AT THEIR
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE ESTABLISHMENTS.
EVERY VISITOR TO EITHER OE THESE CITIES IS CORDIALLY INVITED TO CALL AND VIEW SAME.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2s.
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, l7s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 ss.
mem
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
B|in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
r*
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, Csa
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
m
2 9
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
@1
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artisti
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; 5-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
7-Mi n -> £1 Is.
Ladies’ A 1 BERT, 9et. Gold, 12 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, Oct. Gold,
15s. 6d. ; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
m
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss. ‘
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
4 '
W;'m?jstU
Very Elegant flue Dia.uoiiu BRACELET, £45,
This design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
fAi
ik.
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes —10in., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s.; 14in., £3 ss.
\ 8
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15et. ditto, £4 10s.
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
0 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ot. Gold, £8 10s.
wm
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ot. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
Q-iOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles*
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 ; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, ills.
15ot. Gold, £1 17s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
a
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
ISct. Gold, £4 10s.
1
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 5s
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
by OJxlin., £6 17s. 6d.
r 'T
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling 1 Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths,'2ls., 255., and 30s.
saw
No. 589.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 ss.
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
▼
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds, .
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d
llllillilllKS., l
.
'■iiiiimß/
No. 587.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in -Quality and-Price
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE.—'The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE FOE. PRESENTS, have never been approached.
Over Twenty Thousand Pounds value having arrived by reeent mail-boats, our establishments are a complete constellation of brilliancy and a panoramaof artistic show. Everything NEW, ELEGANT, and
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings ill the pound. .
G-eorge-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


The American Tobacco Co. is distributing
to smokers of its well-known Cameo cigarettes
button-hole pictures of the English cricket-team.
As if one of the best cigarette-brands on the mar-
ket needed any such adventitious aid !*
KTewman. & Snelson,
. . Tub Governor’s Chemists . .
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have eclipsed all other Headache Remedies with their
New Specific. Safe, sure and speed}’. 10 doses by post, 1/1.
r.
WITH
book
How to Disinfect
SC NT FREE
The Sanit as C° L
u Bethnal Green x
LONDON
-RED BIRD.
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co.
Australasian Branch— 64 King St., Sidney.
Ltd.
Aoxxtr akd I
Depots j
EVKRTWIISRB.
Agents and )
Depots f
Everywhere.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY
I
THE “ BED BIRDS ” ARRIVE SHORTLY.
Tiibsb are the melancholy daj's,
Because —to put it straight —
We’re raising- the dust with which to buy
The Red Bird of ’9B.
Bb on the square in doing business. It won’t pay
to be crooked.
To-morrow the undertaker may And it necessary
to put you in his ice-box.
Tub Red Bird Wilson chain, when in conjunction
with our cycloidal sprocket make a perfect running-
gear. The chain-wheel has raised a centre which ob-
tains a half-inch pull on an inch pitch chain.
They are made with the only practical hardened
rivet which is proof against wear; unlike the roller
pattern, they do not stretch. When you buy a cycle,
select one with a chain which has the greatest speed
and does not require to be replaced every few months.
Tub Red Bird Wilson chain with the half-inch pull
on an inch pitch sprocket.
The world’s mile record in competition is held by
Martin on this chain; time, 2min., unpaced. This
chain also won the great Austral Wheel Race in
record time.
SIIE DIDN'T RIDE A RED BIRD.
“ And when your wheel broke down seven miles
from home,” said the old man, “ you repaired it all
by yourself, did you ? ”
“ I did,” answered the typewriter proudly.
“ It seems mighty funny to me, then,” he continued,
“that when the ribbon on your machine needs shift-
ing, you have to call on that dude of a book-keeper
to fix it for you every time.”
All the good points of bicycles are not confined to
one wheel. There are wheels and wheels, so there are
distinguished features in each. The RED BIRD
combines more practical, progressive improvements
than any other cycle. Light, swift, and rigid, it is
pre-eminently the wheel for racers and road-riders.
Its past record is convincing proof of the strength
and easy running qualities.
The new model is improved beyond all others. If
you have not examined one, it will pay you to look-up
the nearest agents.
Don’t waste your time disputing figures; they sel-
dom lie, except in cyclometers and gas-meters.
Don’t think every sad-eyed man you meet doesn’t
ride a cycle. Most likely it is because he hasn’t a
Red Bird.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . #.5 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Oalcotts
St. Swithin
The Boule d’Or—a sort of Brassard, giving the
three placed men £2, £l, and 10s. a week respectively—
fell to Walne, Walker, and A. H. Clinton. The race, a
scratch mile, brought out all the champions, and was
noticeable principally for the failure of Joe Megson in the
preliminary. The final included the two Clintons (A. H.
and J. E.), and as the crowd came round the final turn
200yds. from home J.E. collided with Payne, and, touch-
ing Green and Ainsworth, the whole four fell. Walne, at
the rear, rode wide, and walloped Walker and A. H.
Clinton in the last run.
The Victorian Mile was Kellow’s, that erratic
rider making a splendid dash in the last lap; while in his
Austral heat he faded away to nothing when most
required.
After two falls, bald-headed Britisher Green
managed to stand up in the Ten Mile scratch, and win it
with comparative ease, little Gargurevitch being a popu-
lar second, and Body third. Green's winnings during
the last month reach the nice little amount of £205.
* • • *
A fancier of A. J. Body for the Austral sent
along this belated conundrum :
Gin A. Body meet a body
In the Austral spin,
Gin a body spill A. Body,
Can A. Body win?
• * * *
The Austral Wheel Race of 1897 proved an
eloquent object-lesson on the inutility of flat grass tracks
for men accustomed to banked asphalt. Both in the
heats and the final the race was an utter fiasco. Even the
champions on the first day were unable to steer straight,
and Englishman Green, who had a mortgage on the big
prize, fell when the heat was all his own. He tumbled in
company, too, for scarcely a heat was run without half-a-
dozen or more sprawling beside their machines, while the
final last Saturday, composed of really the cream of Vio.
cyclists on the different marks, saw no less than six men
come down out of the 20 starters.
Taylor, who ran Walne to a few inches in the
preliminary, came down early and alone, but. another lap
saw all the chosen men of the race knocked out in a lump.
“ Newhaven ” Jackson touched another man’s wheel, arid
recovery being impossible on the slippery grass, over he
went, bringing down Farrell, the lightning lad on 180yds.,
who won his heat by a street. Bucknall and Jewell came
on top of them, and Walne, riding over a fallen machine,
was thrown out of his saddle and out of the race also.
For the Queenslander this was especially hard
luck. The arrangements for pacing between Herd, Buck-
nall, Herman, Farrell and Murray, all on 180yds., were so
complete that few thought that Body and Walne (on
20yds. with a 40yds. gap ahead) would ever catch the
field. But both these men rode so well that the field was
all one long string before the first mile was scored, and,
as far as Walne was concerned, the race was his, for there
was not a man riding who could live with the Banana-
lander’s flashy finishes. He made the fatal mistake, how-
ever, of following the field instead of working into second
or third place. The result was that another’s fall snatched
200 sovs. out of his hand.
The last lap saw Body go out to leave the field
as he has often done before, but though he gained a
break of three lengths towards the end the veteran
“ Jimmy ” Carpenter dashed across the gap and battled it
out with the Maorilander, crossing the line a short length
ahead. Carpenter started from 85, and though he has
been doing little of late, the veteran —he is 27 years old,
but veterans age early on the cycle track—has a long list
of track successes as well as his road performances.
The Austral final had a lamentable failure at
the very start. Lober, on 180, fell as he was being pushed
off, and “no race ” was called in error by one of the
judges. J. T. Scott, the limit man, heard and sat up, not
knowing the race was going on until the front batch
rushed past him. However, he lost nothing by the mis-
take and got third place, so his growl is not worth con-
sidering.
The same Scott rode well, qualifying for the
finals of the Austral, the M.B.C. Plate, and the Flying
Stakes, but going no further. The M.B.C. fell to March,
the pacer, and the Flying Stakes to W. Matthews, who
has been a favorite for the two last Australs.
The Five Miles scratch was Body’s, the Maori-
lander following up his sterling Austral performance by
walloping Jack Green and Ken Lewis out in the final run.
Barden showed himself on the ground on both
days of the Austral, but did nothing beyond disabling a
couple of machines, which is little to be wondered at,
considering the clumsy way in which he gets going.
Though big, Barden does not impress one as particularly
powerful, but he must be, for it is nothing but strength
that gets him along. The average sassiety female of 18st.
is a more scientific rider than the much-advertised Eng-
lishman.
Despite the threatened loss of interest in cycling,
the Austral attendance on Saturday was the largest on
record, the takings being £l24o— as airainst £lO3B last
year. Also the “ deadhead ” reserve, by reason of the
improvements, held over 1000 more than previously. The
attendance is estimated at 27,000.
The League of Vic. Wheelmen again published
its spine|essneBs by inflicting a month’s disqualification on
A. H. Clinton. Clinton started with his brother, J. E.,
in the final of the Scratch Mile, on Saturday week, and,
according to the statement of several witnesses, he called
“ Run him out,” loudly, as Jack Green was making his
sprint. J. E. Clinton, at the moment, collided with
Payne, and Green fell with the two of them. The English-
man got up furious, and protested loudly that J. E.
Clinton had upset him wilfully, owing to instructions
from his brother. The truth or otherwise of this allega-
tion is immaterial, but, after finding J. E. innocent, the
L.V.W. exhibited the blatant idiocy of declaring A. 11.
guilty, and awarding him a month’s disqualification. If
there was no satisfactory proof of Clinton’s guilt, he
should have been acquitted ; if there was, he should have
been, wiped out for life. The offence of which he was
accused was absolutely the most brutal and dangerous
any cyclist could be arraigned upon.
As compared with the Austral meeting of 95,
where Martin, Porta, and Harris were new luminaries and
the rather absurd Parsons “ pedestalled ” in all his glory,
this year’s gathering was a tame show. The great Barden
fizzled ignominiously ; Green, with the best of luck, will
never be a sensational item ; Bill Martin stood around in
his straw Ilalpine ’at trying to spot winners ; Porta, who
is but a ghost of the idol he used to be, was out of form ;
ditto Megson, Payne and Kellow ; and VVajne is not a
sufficiently well-established Australian champion to excite
much national sentiment.
• * • •
Eleven of the more notable riders came to grief
in one or other of the Austral heats, including the final—
Green, Tebbutt, Forbes, L. Barker, Ainsworth, George
Carpenter, J. A. M‘lnnes, “Newhaven” Jackson, Matter-
son, and Walne. Yet the public will roll up in their tens
of thousands to witness these rough-and-tumble contests
on the M.C.C. grass-track so long as the game retains its
popularity. Sporting interest has evaporated in a great
measure from cycle racing, but the catastrophe element
appears to have a charm for the average sightseer, and
the show this year flourished more than ever. Under the
circs, the possible refusal of L.V.W. patronage to any
further racing on this Tom Tiddler's ground raises a ques-
tion as to whether the M.B.C. isn't in a position to raise
an insurrection against the League’s authority. After
all, the ruling power in bike racing is the power that
draws the biggest gates. Where there is likely to be a
champion attendance, the attendance of “ all the cham-
pions” can be commanded.
* * * ■
Two causes combined to make Carpenter’s time
for the grass-race Usee, slower than Ivellow’s last year.
Limit man Scott didn’t begin to travel till he was caught,
and thereafter the dread of tumbles at “Sleight’s bend”
and other slippery points gave a certain amount of pause
to the bolder and more sprinting spirits.
* • * •
The half-mile “ Flying ” Stakes, cut up into
eight little heats with only £l2 as ari inducement to fly,
was about the slowest entertainment ever placed on an
Austral programme. A Megsonian spurt enlivened the
N.S.W. man’s heat, but the final was an uninteresting
race between three long-starters. Even the hoisting of
the wrong number on the board failed to thrill the audi-
ence. Talkie* of the board —that cheap arid complicated
arrangement needs reforming altogether, also the youths
in charge of it ought to be born again.
* * * •
If t.ho Austral stake could have been allotted by
a plebiscite vote of the multitude Berry would have got
it, as a sort of token of good feeling for the ex-Speaker.
The wish being father to the t hought, Berry was a popu-
lar “lip” ali around the oval, and when his grey
guernsey was seen to have lived into the final lap his
name sounded loudest of any. The Jewish-lookingyoung
fellow achieved just the empty honor of fourth place.
Little Gargurevieh had a try at the grass records
during the week, and managed to cut down all world’s
times between one and 10 miles ; but (so careless are
many sportsmen in things like this) he had the disqualified
A. A. Middleton on one of his pacing-machines, and it is
questionable whether the records will hold.
* * * •
One busy Sydnoy man posted up this notice
when the present cricket season commenced :—“ Visitors
please note that no interest in cricket or cricketers is
taken in this office. I neither know nor wish to know
anything about the game.”
* * * *
When the last English Eleven was visiting Aus-
tralia a patient suffering with cancer of the tongue was
admitted to a private hospital in Sydney. The operation
performed was the entire removal of the unhealthy mem-
ber, a kind of surgical lapsus lingua!. Two days after, the
man, well enough to sit up but. now entirely speechless,
motioned to the nurse for pen and paper. Being supplied,
his first request was to know the result of the last test-
match, which had been finished during his illness. He
afterwards read the account of the game with absorbed
interest and, being English, satisfaction.
* * * •
The first test-match with the Englishmen was
preceded by a squabble in the daily papers about isjdney
Cricket Association’s action in changing the date. Last
week, the rain was continuous ; the ground was mush ;
and the authorities showed their sense by postponing the
match till Monday. Stoddart and co. (who are beginning
to presume a little on Australian hospitality) protested,
and sent indignant cables to England, and the English
papers promptly protested also—knowing nothing at all
about the matter. It was said that, according to
cricket rules, the umpires are sole judges as to
whether the ground is fit for play. So they are,
when their duty begins. Similarly, a‘captain commands
his vessel as soon as the voyage begins, but the voyage
doesn’t begin till the owners give the word—and if they
choose the owners may postpone sailingdates for a month.
And the umpires are precisely in the captain’s position.
Stoddart & Co. apparently thought they would have
prospered in a mud-fight—the inference being that they
wanted to win a lot more than they wanted to win on
their merits.
Results showed that the Englishmen had pro-
bably cried before they were hurt. The match com-
menced on Monday on a perfect wicket, and at close of
the day’s play the visitors had scored 337 runs with the
loss of five batsmen. Stoddart, in consequence of the
death of a relative, did not play ; and Ranjitsinhji was
only included at the last moment, being barely convales-
cent after a fortnight’s illness. MacLaren cap-
tained the team, and scored 109 to his own
bat the first half of his innings being per-
fectly played, which makes Mac.’s third century on
the Sydney ground this trip, and he put up another in
Brisbane. Hayward made a smart 72 before he was
picked up by Trott at point. The Australian bowling on
the first day was shared by M‘Kibbin, Jones, C. M'Leod,
Trumble, and Trott; but there was no devil in the ball,
and runs came fast or slowly, but always came. The
fielding was spotty—Jones being a good spot and
M'Kibbin a bad one. And it was noticeable once
more that the Englishmen played to win—played as
if they were playing for their lives —as if this
was the only match in Eternity—and never threw a chance
away. The Australians, or some of them, played as if
there were lots of other good matches to come ; and,
although it would be pleasant to win this one, what was
one match, after all ?
Clem Hill had a bad buster on the asphalt
cycling-track. The trustees, grabbing Mammon with
both hands, have turned their first-rate cricket-ground
into third-rate or worse. A fieldsman at full-speed may
break nothing when he slides over the asphalt, or he may
break his neck. So the sensible man goes quarter-speedi
gingerly, and the game becomes third-rale too.
The demnition total of the Englishmen’s first
innings on Tuesday, when this paper went to press, was
551—0 f which sick man Ranji made 176 ! And this with-
out their captain. Verily, he that winneth the toss on a
good wicket is greater than he that taketh a city.
• * * »
Dear B., —Regarding Ranji. and his plati-
tudes. His eye and his ball-bearing wrists make
him a cricketer. Now, the Australian native black
has as good an eye as any. Witness his tracking feats.
Also witness his boomerang throwing as proof of the
suppleness of his wrist and the power of his arm. Catch
a blackfellow young, give him an English (cricket)
master, send him to a university to study more cricket,
and if he is an ordinary nigger I don’t see why he
shouldn’t beat Ranji. at his own game.—P.
• * * *
Ranji’s cheeky references to the England v.
S.A. match, in Review of Reviews, are very amusing.
“ There can be no doubt the S.A. score was mainly the
result of one man’s batting, but. for whom it would hardly
have reached 200.” Yes! And Ranji made nearly 200 in
the same match, giving, in all, six chances (Clem Hill
gave none at all), the first one before he scored ! What
would the English score have been without India’s con-
tribution ? Ranji contemptuously says the S.A. bowling
lacked class. The w r riter saw every ball bowled, and avers
that the trundling of Jones, who got seven wickets, and
had chance after chance missed, was superior to anything
on the English side.
* * • *
Ranji. ’s nasty references to Australian ericket-
dressing-room accommodation recalls that one-half the
Hinglish dressing-rooms, to the disgust of visiting Aus-
tralians, don’t even boast a shower-bath.
* * • *
“ Bill ” Holden, the Sydney boxer, travelled to
Melbourne recently, looking for fights, and was taken on
by M’Gowan, one of the cleverest of the Melb. light-
weights. They met in the Victoria Hall, for £25 a side
and all the available glory. Holden fights from the jump,
with all that’s in him, but on this occasion he was “ for-
ninst”alad with icy head and the temper of a well-fed
saint. M’Govvan is neat and nice, but as solid as a pyra-
mid and as hard as a brick chimney. He fights with the
calm and benevolent appearance assumed by a young
curate at prayer-meeting, and plugs the other fellow on
the chin or the eye as if he loved him like a brother.
Holden 8 vicious right got home several times on M'Gowan
in the place where his corporation will he when lie retires
and becomes an alderman, and this stroke would possibly
have told on the Melb. man in an hour or so had he not
knocked all the vim and stiffening out of the visitor
before the end of the third round. Holden stood up for
two more, and M‘Gowan hammered him with judicial
severity until he was an unpleasant red object. Then he
retired, and the Melb. man took the cash.
* * » •
The Vic. sculling championship on Saturday
was a sorry farce. G. Brown, of the Essendon club—a
man not up to the form of the average maiden—was the
sole representative of Victoria. C. Chapman, of M.L.,
was the only other starter, and before half the distance
was rowed he had almost lost sight of Brown. The
Champion Fours, on the other hand, provided a tip-top
contest between the Mercantile and the Banks—the
former winning by a couple of lengths after a hard-rowed
race.
• * • •
“ Ernie Cavill reduced 151 b. to swim the Ameri-
can champion, M'Cusker, a quarter-mile in the West-
minster baths,’’ writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “and about fifty persons all-told witnessed the
contest. The water in this gorgeous municipal nata-
torium—no other word is grandiloquent enough—was
warmed by three steandng hot showers o’erhead, and to
such a degree as to interfere with the time record and to
color Cavill with a boiled-lobster hue. The odds were 3
to 1 on the Australian without takers, a level £lOO taken
the same afternoon settling all business. The Yank did
not appear to have a show after 88yds. had been covered.
He swam more weakly and less straight than his oppon-
ent., who apparently had his measure soon after the plunge.
M'Cusker is two inches shorter and an older man than
Cavill, and says he will revenge himself in the 300yds. go.
One individual spectator who paid his half-dollar only to
find most of his companions were deadheads, indignantly
demanded his coin back, and got it, and then looked on in
comfort."
* » * *
The Prince of Wales has had a covered cycle-
track laid down at Sandringham ; all the Royal family
are enthusiastic cyclists; the Princess of Wales rides a
“ Singer,” and the Emperor of Russia and the Duke of
Cambridge also ride “Singers.”*
* * * 9
Dunlop tyres won every final on the first day of
the “ Austral.” The new special Dunlop racing tyres
weigh 21b. soz. per pair, including tubes and tapes.
* * * *
Two pounds a week for six months was well
earned by Walne in the Boule d’Or. Walne, like Jack
Green (winner of the 10-mile Scratch race), rides Dunlop
tyres.
• • • *
J. W. Stocks’ ride of a mile on Dunlop cycles
and Dunlop tyres in lmin. 35 2-5 sec. just beat the race-
horse Salvator’s record for a mile of lmin. 35Jsee.
* • * •
What the Sydney bicycle boom last year was
worth to a good business man and a good bicycle can be
estimated from the “ Acme” business done by Mr. J. M.
Maud—£4ooo for new bicycles alone. Add to this repairs
(a speciality with this firm), sundries, &c., Ac., and it can
be understood why the “ Acme ” and J. M. Maud still
figure prominently.
Thomas M‘llwraith has finally retired from
his nominal membership of the Queensland Minis-
try. As he is now t»2 years of age, very ill, and
very much discredited, this is (barring miracles)
his final disappearance from public life. He
entered Queensland politics in ’69, so he has had a
28 years’ run after the loaves and the fishes. And
now he apparently hasn’t got the money, and the
Q.N. Bank certainly hasn’t got it, and no one
knows where it is.
The death of J. A. MacPherson, M.L.A.
leader of S.A. Labor-party, is a serious loss to
the politics of his province. MacPherson was
straight and honest, an intelligent politician, and
one of the best samples of the Labor member in
Australia. N.S.W. has a good Labor-party and
no leader worth mentioning. Victoria has an
able Labor leader in Trenwith, but not much in
the shape of a* distinctive party behind him.
has a strong Labor-party, and until Mac-
Pherson died it had a good leader also.
On Nov. 26 the shade register at Broken
Hill at Bin the afternoon was 106. A dust-cloud
presently rolled up from the Never-Never so
dense that work had to be suspended in the after-
noon newspaper-office till candles were got (the
town’s electric-light is not available till 5) ; and
then within eight hours the glass had fallen to 54.
The Bulletin supposes this was the storm in
which (as another correspondent reports), in order
to let the Broken Hill express out, a special train
had to take down a party of navvies to clear the
line. From one cutting, through solid rock, 70
trucks of sand were taken—say 350 tons.
The recent Victorian hurricane, which
mopped up the town of Nhill, was even more
thorough-going than the one which blew away
Nevertire some 12 months ago. Nhill lies out on
the sandy western plains, and presents a beautiful
mark for a tornado, and, in 10 minutes, half the
town was blown into the mallee. One woman,
with a baby in her arms, was carried 100 yards
and blown over two fences ; and a soulful tale is
told of two girls who were caught by the storm
out on the open plain. They lay down and hung
on to a root apiece, with both hands and their
teeth. When the trouble was over, one of them
was still there, and the other was 400 yards away ;
the one who iDlew away lost a good part of her
clothing, and the one who hung on is alleged to
have lost all hers, except her corset, and the sleeves
of her dress, and her boots. Luckily it was nearly
dusk by that time, and, being concealed by the
tail-end of the duststorm, the pair fled across the
plain in pursuit of their lost skirts and things, and
ultimately overtook enough of their wardrobe for
all practical purposes. Nhill, at latest advices,
looked as if it had been sacked by Joshua and
those enthusiastic wreckers, his army of bygone
Israelites. Also, the Nhill hurricane did something
towardsaunion of the local churches. Fourwooden
tabernacles mingled their ruins at various points
of the township, a special feature of the proceed-
ings being the aerial flight of the Baptist pulpit
to the place where the R.C. building had been
established before it blew into violent collision
with the Presbyterian kirk. The hurricane, for
some reason or other, was very rough on places of
worship. Perhaps it regarded them as windy
rivals.


GOOD! a Bicycle
BETTER !! a High Grade Bicycle
BEST!!! the MASSEY-H ARRIS
( BICYCLE.
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Establishes
1847.
Australasian Branch! 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 294 Bouvke Street, Alelbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney
Queen street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
No agent who speculates on his own
account is looked upon as a thoroughly reliable
representative. People in the country hundreds
of miles away from the scene of action are really
at the mercy of their agents, and it must be a
sweet satisfaction for them to entrust their busi-
ness to such as Pitt, Son and Badgery Ltd., who,
during a long financial life, are able to pride them-
selves on their business purity. Verb sap.*
A French medical man has just discovered
some very curious effects produced on all the
members of a family, owing to the lower part of
the house where they dwelt being used as a coffee-
warehouse. The volatile essence of the coffee had
penetrated every portion of the living apartments,
and the nervous systems of the inmates had
becotne entirely demoralised. Hypochondria,
hysteria, and angry demonstrations were the
order of the day, but these symptoms disappeared
on the family taking up new apartments. This
points to a moral, if coffee has such effects when
«e live in its vicinity, it cannot but be injurious
when taken as a drink.' On the other hand
cocoa (that is not simply ‘ pure,’ but also properly
prepared cocoa, not mixtures, mind!) while afford-
ing the necessary amount of stimulation, does not
injure the nerves. The cocoa known as ‘Van
Ilonten’s,” is perfectly pure, and owing to the
special (the original) method employed in its
pn paration, it is rendered soluble, while the
flavor and aroma are developed to a maximum.
1 1 is easy to make, delicious to taste, and one of
the cheapest drinks in existanee.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Amusements.
FITZ-GERALD BROTHERS’
HUGE
COMBINED SHOWS,
INCLUDING
Carl Hagenbeck’s Zoological Circus,
Direct from Hamburg, per s.s. Cornwall.
op:n:ns Wednesday, 22nd December.
The general verdict of West and South Australia: —
“THE BEST AND MOST WONDERFUL EVER SEEN
IN AUSTRALIA.”
LOCATION : RTGHT OPPOSITE REDEERN
RAILWAY STATION.
THE GBEAt YrOGBAMME :
THE ELEPHANT AND LION SENSATION
One Full-grown
LION ! LION ! LION ! LION!
Will Ride on the Back of a Huge Elephant, and the
ELEPHANT WILL MOUNT A TRICYCLE and RIDE
ROUND THE ARENA.
This Act is Enclosed in an Enormous Iron Cage.
The Elephant will also appear as an ORGANIST
(Herr Zalph, Trainer), and also with a
RUSSIAN BLOODHOUND and MONKEY
111 a Most Wonderful Act.
GEORGE HARMSTON,
The World’s Champion Rider.
MDLLE. LE BLONDE,
The Far-famed Equestrienne.
THE WONDERFUL LEVON TROUPE.
TOM TOM, the Queen’s Jester.
MDLLE, MILLIE DAGMAR,
The Lady Tandem Rider and Driver.
THE ALMA SISTERS,
Wire Walkers and Tumblers.
CHARLES BURSHALL,
The Dashing Somersault Rider.
THE ROYAL MIKADO TROUPE OF
JAPANESE
In their Wonderful Featsof Balancing, Top-Spinning, &c.
LYCURGUS, HARRY CARDELLO, and ERNEST
SHAND,
In Sensational Riding Acts.
ABSOLUTELY the GRATEST and MOST SENSA-
TIONAL SHOW
Ever Brought to Australia.
v DAY PERFORMANCES :
SATURDAYS and WEDNESDAYS.
PRICES— 4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
FRANK JONES, Press Representative.
MORRIS, Agent.
<r
& &
*v\
A NOVELTY!
AT/T, KINDS or
SYNTHETIG SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
i natural perfumes, ,
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or diiect from
Str
the person who is imt a millionaire, there are
J ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE MtKM EYI',” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell*s’ King-street t offee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
—
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4§in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(aret/illc TCirijcr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
I*ll6 ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLEST
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
Wolf American Highjjrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALLF-FRXCE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. /tar Everything fancy but the price.
English American fpcycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
(}
MACK LIN
I.ENLEY
<,iIMLEY
k-ADRANT
BOULEVARD a .
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
<f DOWRIMM
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobaxc,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
ECIN6 OF
CYCLES
Price,
£l2 10s.
TN€ ROAD
THE MOST WONDERFUL VALUE EVER OFFERED.
SPECIALITIES.— WeIdIess Steel Tubing through-
out, Gear to Order, Handle-bars 3 shapes, Oil-retaining
Barrel Hubs, Frames 24 and 26 inch.
CATALOGUES POSTED. EASY TERMS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
“ Fhiz ” Cycle Worli3,
DRUITT STREET (Next Town Hall),
SYDNEY.
“liperisr’ Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by tlie Ames 8s Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an < iiwipc-pini >
Duplicate parts always in stock. 1 ' '
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT.
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES OF A POPULAR
COMPANY IN A POPULAR PLAY.
A ROYAL PIVORCe.
In 5 Acts and 4 Tableaux. Written by the late W. G. Wills.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
Lyceum theatre, sydnev.
Sole Directors ... Messrs. J. and C. MacMahon.
The Superb Production of
“ A_rrali -na-Pogue.”
Another enormous audience last night crowded the
Lyceum to witness this unprecedently successful pro-
duction.
XMAS EVE. LYCEUM GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
“DICK WHITTINGTON UP TO DATE”
Always the Startling Prices—2s, Is and SIXPENCE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Each and Every Artist Acknowledged Favorites.
Saturday next, Re-appearance of ATIIAS & COLLINS.
J. W. Winton. The Waldrons- Nellie Sheldon
CHAS. FANING. Miss EVA LEE. FRANK YORKE.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.tn.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Managing Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Magnificent reception of England’s character comedian,
Mr. Auistin. nuclei.
Splendid Success of FRANK LEON, LIZZIE KIRK,-
ATHAS and COLLINS. THE LUCIFERS.
CHAS. COGILL. WILL WHITBURN. B. GALLATLEY.
And the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s fid, 2s, Is, & 6d. Plan at Allan’s, Collins-street.
Matinee Performances every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m.
JpitINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
“TH€ FR€NCN MAID.”
SATURDAY, December 18— “ CLAUDIAN.”
Plan at Allan’s and Merizies’. Day Tickets at Bentwiteh’s.
Haros PON’s gigantic circus and
ZOOLOGIA OF WILD AND PERFORM-
ING ANIMALS.
LOCATION : PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
A CYCLONIC SUCCESS!
EVERY EVENING.
Matinees Every Wednesdays and Saturdays.
R. Love, Manager; Col. C. B. Hicks, Representative ;
Joe Brown, Press and General Agent.
SB
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
TANGLEFOOT
A
%
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
Fly paper.
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. & W. THUM CO.,
MICH., U.S.A.,
MVt’rs.
Sold Everywhere.
PILES.
milE Advertiser having suffered for years from Piles and
- 1 - tried all sorts of ointment, cures, which only gave
temporary relief, accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Note for 55., to pay for advertising, &e., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address—
D. C. DAVIS, Rockhampton, QUEENSLAND.
For Sale.
TCXAWKERS, DEALERS AND OTHERS.
On receipt of lOd. Stamps a book of extraordinary
value will be sent to any address. This book shows a
large profit and will sell freely in town or country.
A. LINDSAY, Bookseller,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Tichborne Case .
Is Wm. Cresswell Really the Missing
Sir Roger '/
Contemporary journals speak of Cresswell, the
lunatic, as “ the new claimant ’’—but claimant to
what? They also refer to him as “the probable
heir ’’—but, in the language of Richard 111., “ is
the throne unfilled?” They forget that even
'though Sir Roger Tichborne a hundred times
over, he cannot inherit the estates of that name
in England. First, he is a lunatic; second, the
Tichborne estates were finally settled on the jamily
now in possession by Act of Parliament. It may
be argued that the law which gave can takeaway,
but this is unlikely. The long-lost Sir Roger may
be dead on earth or alive in the Parramatta
Asylum; he is certainly dead in British law.
What is infinitely surer of a successful issue
than the efforts of the gentlemen now interesting
themselves in Cresswell’s behalf is a course of
Minerva Tonic, the greatest restorative known to
modern science, and which is invaluable in all
cases, no matter how pronounced, arising out of
general debility. A few of the “ signs ” of this
are : Nervousness, palpitation, irritability, dizzi-
ness after exertion shortness of breath, alternate
fits of depression or elation, loss of energy, uncer-
tain memory, shooting pains in the limbs,
numbness, neuralgia, insomnia, frequent head-
aches, restlessness, feeling of faintness, &e., &e.
Minerva Tonic is a phosphorised iron syrup
combined with certain well-i< nown strength-pro-
ducers of very great value, and shows its efficacy
by enriching the blood, promoting the formation
of bone and muscle, increasing the secretions,
stimulating the brain and nerves, improving the
appetite, and giving a healthy tone generally.
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, private secretary to
His Eminence the Cardinal Archbishop of Syd-
ney, says that Minerva Tonic is “ appetising and
energising”; Mr. Hart, F.H.M.S., Melbourne,
that it “has the desired effect”; Mr. Cole, late
head-master Petersham C. of E. school, that
“four bottles of it made him feel ten years
younger.” Compare such names with those ob-
tained in support of some of the nostrums now on
the market villainous compounds which are testi-
monialised, by unknown or irresponsible persons,
for “ a consideration,’’ and whose affidavits are not
infrequently obtained, lest, later, they should “ go
back ” on those who employed them.
Minerva Digestive is a purely vegetable prepa-
ration, consisting of a number of remedies which
have a, specific action upon the liver, stomach and
digestive organs. Taken in the prescribed doses
immediately after meals, it will assuredly stimu-
late the liver, cure constipation, tone up the
bowels so that their action becomes easy and
regular, and increase the proper flow of bile, and
purify the blood.
Minerva Liver Pills (pink) are guaranteed free
from calomel or other mineral ingredients. Small,
sugar-coated, and therefore easy to take, they act
as a gentle aperient, steadily, surely, and without
griping.
Minerva Preparations are on sale by all
chemists.
Special Notice. —Minerva having been openly
praised in letter and print by some of the leading
citizens of this country and the best papers pub-
lished in Sydney respectively, unscrupulous per-
sons, conscious of the great inferiority of their
nostrums, have pretended doubt as to the genuine-
ness of Minerva testimonials. The Minerva Co.,
therefore, offers .£lOO to any person proving that
a single one of these is not strictly what it pur-
ports to be, and further extends an invitation to
all persons curious enough to call at the Sydney
Depot, 56 Margaret - street, and inspect the
originals of the different complimentary letters
published free. —Advt.
Established Over 50 Years.
foe. sale s
Collins’ American AXES, 4id. to 6d. : slightly touched.
365. doz.
Mixed PAINTS, 3d. lb.
Single Breech-Loading GUNS, 30s. ; Double Breech, 40s.
British BULLDOG REVOLVERS, 6s. each.
CHAFF KNIVES, Is. each. CHAFF-CUTTERS, £2 10s.
HAY COLLECTORS, 30s. each.
42 lj 17g. WIRE NETTING, £22 10s. per mile.
Bamboo BLINDS, 2000 ft., 2J Black Pipe, 7d. per foot.
7in. Centrifugal PUMPS, £22. Yellow Ochre, ss. cwt.
Cross-Cut SAWS, Is. ft. ; PITSAWS, Is. 3d. ft.
SANDPAPER, Bs. ream, lxx COKE PLATES, 135.:
lxxx, 15s. ; slightly touched.
Parsons’ Green, White, Black PAINT, 14s. cwt.
Walker’s HORSE-NAILS, Id. lb. ; Globe Horse-Nails,
slightly touched, 2d. lb.
HAMES, Is. pair. Octg. STEEL, 20s. ton.
Screw AUGERS, Jin., 6d ; fin., 9d ; lin., Is ; ljin., Is 3d.
Hay KNIVES, 2s 6d each. Flax Engine Packing, 56s cwt.
INDIA RUBBER, 56s cwt WALL PAPER, 2Jd. roll.
AXLE GREASE, 2s 6d doz. 21b. packages.
Blacked BARBED WIRE, £lO ton.
Platform SCALES, 4cwt., £4 ; Scwt., £7; 10cwt., £8 each.
ONE of the LARGEST STOCKS of IRONMONGERY in
AUSTRALIA, at the CHEAPEST PRICES.
John Macintosh & Sons,
307, 321, 276, 280,
PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A SILVER WATCH
GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE: —
O* R W*T *H * S A* E
E * L*A* L*
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing- and advertising our goods.
EVERY WATCH GUARANTEED.
The above Watches are Warranted Silver Cases,
Jewelled Movements, etc., and the Chains are Splendid
Patterns, of First Grade Solid Sterling Silver.
Address— THE MANAGER
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS (2nd FLOOR), PITT
STREET, SYDNEY;
And at S 3 and 35 OLD EXCHANGE, ADELAIDE.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
“The Suffield Case,” a 64 pp. pamphlet
containin ; the evidence at the police-court and at
the trial in this notorious case, with a commentary
and plan, is now published. Post-free from
Bulletin Office, 7d. in stamps. Proceeds, after
expenses paid, go to help Suffield.
When the Loan Bill came before the
N.S.W. Legislative Council last week every pri-
vate member who spoke (nine in all) denounced it
in the strongest terms. And then the Bill passed
its second reading and went through committee
without even a division. What is the use of tho
Leg. Council, anyhow?
Hindoo plague story about a corpse which
didn’t lead trumps, given on the authority of the
British Medical Journal
A party of searchers came upon a group of natives in a
house intent upon a game of cards. Something in the
stolid appearai.ce of one of the players attracted atten-
tion, and one of the search-party placed his hand on the
man’s shoulder. The figure swayed, and fell over prone
on the floor. On examination it was found the man had
been dead some time, but, to avoid the house being
branded plague-stricken, the friends of the dead man had
propped him up and stuck some cards in his hand on the
news that the search-party was approaching.
The North German Lloyd S.S. Co. makes
a sensation in Australasian shipping circles every
time the magnificent Kaiser Wilhelm Der Grosse
comes into Australian waters. This great steam-
ship, the largest afloat, demonstrates the pro-
gressiveness of German ship-building. She has
steamed 5(14 nautical miles in one day—the world’s
record. She has ample accommodation for 750
passengers—4oo first and 350 second. Her crew
numbers 450 all told ; the engines total 08. The
pumps for fire can pump 3000 tons of water per
hour. The main boiler installation is divided into
four groups, each divided from the other by bulk-
heads. The ship is remarkably steady at sea, and
is handsomely furnished throughout.


Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As the swift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
I,ose fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
spare
Who wears youth’s coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s
-*• Hair Vigor
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “ A woman is as
old as she looks,” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s ♦. ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At the World’s
Chief Expositions.
Ladies. - can and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES,from‘2Os
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents in Australia for
STURTEVANT’S FANS
FOR BLOWING, EXHAUSTING,
VENTILATING, &c.
MINING MACHINERY
and MINING SUPPLIES,
—INCLUDING—
Lick’s Celebrated Frue & other Vanner Belts.
Please A ote Our New Address :
74 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
435 IB our lie Street,
Melbourne.
and HEAD
.Vilson’sCommon B : «J
Sense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book -Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NOISES
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
I Daily, 9 to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. *
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and ®OY *he BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing - in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12/6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &e. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3: Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/ti. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
JEST" Though our Premises have been Destroyed by
Fire, business will be carried on as usual at 14 and 16
RUSSELL ST., and 234 FLINDERS ST. All communi-
cations to be addressed to 30 ELIZABETH ST., where
our Temporary Offices are situated.
XMAS PRESENTS AND NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
THOUSANDS OF VERY LATEST NOVELTIES.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Pine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-,50/-, 60/-
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
18c. lia Parisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
Send size of finger hy a piece of wire or a hole in card-
hoard. We have 1000 other designs of Rings in Stock.
18c. Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40 '-, 60/-,
100/-.
Ruby or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
20 Other Patterns
from 10/6 pair.
CURB CHAIN AND PADLOCK BRACELETS
9-carat Gold,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-.
CHILDREN’S—
-16/6, 20/-.
15-carat Gold,
£2 10s., £3, £4, £5.
CHILDREN’S—
-37/6, 42/6.
9-carat 13 6 Pair.
15 „ 27/6 „
20 Other Patterns
from 10/6 pair.
English Hall-Marked, Highest Finish, secured with Safety Chains.
WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCHES.
Silver-Mounted ... 4/6 each.
Gold-Mounted ... 13/6 „
LINKS.
Silver-Mounted ... 4/6 pair.
Gold-Mounted ... 13/6 „
a
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE VALUE, £1 Each.
NEW
Pendant Brooch
with Amethyst Heart,
9-Carat, 10/6
16-Carat, 12/6
9-carat, 23/6 Pair.
15 „ . 42/6 „
Silver 5/- ~
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s., £5,
£7 10s.
Quality, Finish, and
Durability Guaranteed.
Post Free.
Hall-Marked Pearl Gold Set,
2 BIRD BROOCH, 17/6 Each.
Remarkable Value.
9-carat, 22/- Pair.
15 „ 37/6 „
Silver 4 6 „
atr',.
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
the most delicious sauce in the worud.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES,
•a'i'ivxinnv alos
sH'ixxoa ao SNorrmu
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTfiOI^S.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2 - each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, EIMG
Sole Agents for Kew South Wales:
TH.I.OCK & CO., KEKT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SVDIfEV.
SHE
‘ Plum ’
Pm
THE
‘ Flum’
'i ENTLEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered,, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We Guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price i Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
[.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
BIT ROYAL WARRAKTT of A-PFOINTMEKrT to “ THE Q■o■EE3]X^. ,
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE”
Schwepp
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SODAWATER, &c.
supplied to all the leading hotels, clubs, and steamship companies throughout the world.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
“/r
9
m.
m.
Benger’s Pood is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., evterytvhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
A Mias Bedgood, who has recently been
be-Bibling the Maoris, was horrified to ;be told by
some of them —
We have heard that there is a God, but we are not sure
that there is really one, and we are looking 1 for Him, but
cannot find Him.
W hich is exactly the last word of the most elabor-
ate intellectual research of the day. The meet-
ing of the extremes again !
Clergymen should, according to Mr. H. S.
Martin, 8.A., LL.B., be superior sort of people.
Speaking at the Baptist Union yesterday, he
greatly disparaged the idea of clergymen being on
too familiar terms with the hewers of wood and
drawers of water whom they condescend to visit
occasionally. “A clergyman,” he remarked,
“should be looked up to,” and as a means to this
“consummation devoutly to be wished,” Mr.
Martin advocated a good collegiate training for
all ministers and missionaries. “I like,” he said
in conclusion, “ to see a family which would make
a knife and fork go round when they are by them-
selves put on a full complement of cutlery, with
an extra knife for the butter, when the minister
comes along.”— Melb. Argus.
A male correspondent of Modern Society
(London) deplores in print the “ decay of
modesty.” The latest culprits are the bonnie
lasses o’ Scotland as represented by some
half-dozen Paisley girls, who (so writes their
accuser) not only bathed from the open beach
“ mid nodings on ” but coolly asked the complain-
ant aforesaid, as he strolled blushingly by, to
mind their clothes neatly piled up on the beach.
Later on, when the mermaids came out of the
water and approached their garments, they
thanked the custodian, after a preliminary titter
or two, for his watchfulness, explaining that the
day before some joker had hidden their “olaes”
amang the rocks, giving the owners siccan awfu’
fash. After all, perhaps, the poor things were only
commendably economical. Siccan sinfu’ waste, ye
ken, to drabble good raiment in the water. [Also,
there is no more beach at Paisley than there is at
Broken Hill.—Ed. B.]
Gavan Duffy, in his new Contemporary
article on “An Australian in England 30 years
ago,” relates an anecdote of Disraeli which throws
a sidelight on Vic. history. Duffy called on
Dizzy, who was then Premier (it was in ’6B). The
trouble about Gov. Darling had lately occurred.
Duffy says he told Disraeli that the row was
“attributable to the blunder of sending a man
to work responsible Government who had never
seen a Parliament.” “Well,” replied Disraeli,
“that grievance disappears, for we have now
sent you a man who was born in Parliament
House, and bred up in the shelter of the Speaker’s
robe.” As a matter of fact, Darling had had as
much experience of Parliamentary affairs as
Manners-Sutton, and that was none at all. And
if the sending out of Darling was a blunder for
any such reason, it was equally a blunder to send
out Governors Hopetoun and Lamington. The
Governor who has had most Parliamentary experi-
ence is Brassey, who is a notorious and tiresome
failure in the part.


KCEPiIR, s :m: TTS S E 2ST,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFAIIMC NCRBAL R€M€PI€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his hhMhbThS nrmtflin
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Jear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you (bat a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R'SSMus-en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. eeker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Butt >n writes later:— “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony' to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagbrman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
f
m
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
T am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, nut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on inv complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
aoiAav
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. B. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. 1 might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Hear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to he, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Xaiver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows:
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9/3/97.
Hear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, ar.d which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W. A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Bear Sir, —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Bear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
O/o Mr. Bavidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Bear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that the a
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUBGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S A LI A LINE REMEDIES.
PS
m
ftim
ALFA LINE FILLS?
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u. NERVES.
p AWARDED
prwo GOLD
WIEDALS
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
cours ■, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutelv free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
'SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. • r
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
» 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
H rRR RA-SMUSS<N will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Infoi rnation for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS MUSSFN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERrt RAsSMOSSEN'S
HEM DIE-t can only lie obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Branches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches:
[ Queensland
New Zealand
c Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
I Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
91
Lambton Quay,
Wellington.
South Australia :
Adelaide-v-154 Rundle Street.
Victoria :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Fremantle—Henry-street, next corner of High-st.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar 3V one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON ’S OINTMENT purely
the prodacti on of the colony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo c ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man eoual to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARI.ES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1830.
Baron Berzilius v
Bnchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronio
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on tiie
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, at d restores healthy evacuations iti oases
of habitual costiveners.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.-8888-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
. George Heivett, do hereby solemnly ant
sincerely declare as follows
‘‘That I feel it a duty I owe to the public t<
state that I have been suffering for many year
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI
GESIION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been curec
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, anc
1 hope others suffering from the same complain
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“213 Pitt-streeb.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
AU who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of Ihe Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW'S YOU'LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All'who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’f WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
I Ops 1C answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. Jt will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.
Before
r
>*»
BUY A BOTTLE OP
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Remedy for Sea-sickness.
BT Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2sa. 6d. and -a=g. 6d.. ALL COLONIES
Also at tub
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
•yiOLINS, 7s 6dj 12s 6d>
v 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s ;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355; Auto-
harps, 12s 6d, 21s, 255, 355;
Aecordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
17s, 18s, 25sand 30s; Cor-
nets, 308,405, 50s, 60s. ’’Os and 90s! Banjos, best, 63s and 90s;
Zither Banjos 'ss and 90s; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang Mouth
Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert's New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash, or Is. weekly. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges. Send for our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
PO WER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
%
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from 2J to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Fxplos oaa Impossible
Always Ready for Use.
We have one of these Engines running at onr prem-
ises, where full particulars can be hail on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO-,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
57 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONIC*
FERBRAYAIS
FER BRATAIS
FERBRAYAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, )
an ! enabii g the consti-1
tution o resist climatic 1
influences.
Invaluable in all cases oV
anaemia. Influenza and
general debility.
Highly recommended for l
weak and debilitated chil-
dren. |
LANCET •* A beautiful and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all
the good effects of tron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all tiie world oveil
ATKINSON’S
Newest Perfume
“ Most Refresh mg'.” <Regd )
NICE ALWAYS, BUT
DELICIOUSLY REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMS.
A true natural perfume
made from flowers.
Not a Chemical Preparation.
PERFUME.
“Most Kefreshing.”
TOILET SOAP
For the complexion.
TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
SACHETS.
Delightful for Handkerchiefs,
Gloves, &c.
TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
<l. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OP THE CELEBRATED
“WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
“A Charming Scent.” — 11.1t.H. The Duchess of l'ork.
“ AOLINE ’
“ AOLINE”
“AOLINE”
“ AOLINE”
“AOLINE”
COMFORT IN WALKING.
fife
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
[t softens and removes alHrard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GUTMWADE & CO.,
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Melbourne;
EASY RUNNING
SEWING MACHINES.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and ail the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
hand machines
(Made by the New Home Co),
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns.
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a, stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittingß to suit
any Sewing Maoliine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
STYLE No. 14.
£9 98. CASH. £lO 10a. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine,
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
-280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
H
H
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
H
O WARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
OWARD'S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
n
H
H
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms; W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Wool 1 aim*.
OWAKD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st-., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (5 tone), from 6d.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
21s., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
M
u
U
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
_ Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from Od. to 2ogs.; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, bras*
and silver; cash, fcc. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Reader, man Houow Ground
fIfSPP
aw
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONEO*! "
Pubications..
TJLLAIJi:
'AUSOLUTLY'
,
They Contain
"( WANOSOX.OS 1
I PIANO DUETS Li
S rocxLDutrs v
L songs + c >
,f K£
V
Sunlight Year Book FOR
1898.
JP rice Oil : ... I‘o.it I'ree lOd.
(Well worth half-a-crown).
800 Pasres, handsome reel cloth cover. Full of more solid
and valuable information on all kinds of subjects than
was ever (riven for Sixpence before. Contains new story,
entitled “ Hurler's Secret,” by the celebrated author,
Conan Doyle.
ALEX. LINDSAY, Bookseller,
63 Pitt. Street, SYDNEY ; and all Booksellers.
/*
G-eo. irlobertson & Co.,
BCI & 303 Ckoruk Strkkt, Svd.vry.
Wholesale Si Retail Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BV EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies' Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photon tatph aof Kauliali A Colonial Celebrities
T-l ENUY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,’’ “Robert le Diable,"
“Crown Diamonds,’’ “ Lucrezia Borgia," “tVdliain
Tell,’’ “Faust,” “Un Hallo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2". o<l. each. Of all Musicsellers, of
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Strkkt, MELBOURNE.
mew ivrxjsxcT
11 Rose of the Morn” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms,” a right merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Boriheur; “La Gracieuse”
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, IF.
Pi A TOX it CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over IQUO songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
fkIAMOND SONG BOOK.
JLr 600 SONGS, WORDS, & MUSIC, complete,
the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of Every Country, including war, patriotic, comic,
sentimental, and other songs. Many old-time favorites
long since out of print, and cannot be had elsewhere.
Complete list of the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful
book will be sent (post paid) throughout Australasia for
Postal Note, 2s. 6d., from ANGLO AM. PUB. CO., Box
1163 G.P.0., Sydney. Stamps, 2d. extra. Agents Wanted.
Public N otice3.
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
With reference to an advertisement appearing
in the Sydney Morning Herald of the ‘*oth
instant, I HEREBY GIVE NOTICE that l
had previously resigned my position in the Firm
of “Messrs. George Robertson & Coy.,” and that
I have not any further business connection with
that firm.
I have also much pleasure in announcing that
I have completed arrangements to enter the Firm
of Messrs. HENNESSEY, HARPER & COY,,
LTD., carrying on business in Ilunter-stroci]
Sydney, as Publishers, etc., for which company I
solicit that support which would otherwise be
accorded to me.
Dated at Sydney this 30th day of November
a.d., 1897.
~r t _ GEO. W. ROBERTSON.
Witness— David Chknhall, Solicitor, Sydney


nicy, isees # cn.
Have Received
1063 —Cases and Bales —lOB3
of
Summer Goods this Season
up to the present, and they
HAVE TO ARRIVE,
per Buteshire and other Mail Steamers this
week, a further
134—Bales and Cases—l 34
The STOCK of GENERAL DRA-
PERY, CLOTHING, GOODS, &c.,
is by far the LARGEST and the
Values the BEST in Queensland.
Toys, Dolls, Games,
Christmas and New Year Cards,
AND
TXTovelties for Presents
at the Festive Season,
in Great Variety, at
Finney, iscns # cos,
BRISBANE.
lELLIIS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
HAIKDItESKEKS ANI» WHUIAKiKS
To tlic Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches BeStqnalit.y English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
varietv of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mil ors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clappers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, ''Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Bair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern ot hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITHEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
* Voon Life or thatSigajet tobacco l
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
J " Pkick Wakung ; Is. 3d. posted.
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
I'll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part, of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (><!.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
A BOON to SYDNEY.
0
/FOUR
U O *T
Ou\
I^VES
BY THE
Centennial Insect powder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MFG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
OF VITAL INTEREST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “WORDS OF
WISDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Truly a boon to men.
Thousands of sufferers have been Permanently
CURED after trying all other means.
If you have been humbugaed and disappointed, write
to-day for the Book, and 5000 Testimonials received from
Colonial patients, POSTED FREE, SEALED, and with-
out marks.
A HOME TREATMENT. NO FAILURES.
Address : DR. IRVING CO.,
Comer HUNTEE end BLIOH STREETS, SYDNEY.
X
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
i For the House, Conservatory
<;<! and Garden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
1 Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from {
Moth. !
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of
Parasites- »
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. —Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
PAKRoT
s?R.A\t\s \VoUjMDC
<bU(6MS C°L p 5 £c
“eware of y
Jmitati°ns
MELBOURNE.
HBSIt?
POST FREEv^
\&tcHes-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
Wedding z CHristeHiHg Presents
H* N ev/m afJ • i 75 s 177- Elizabeth sr*
OPPOSITE G:P.O. •
MELBOURNE.
Cheese
" ” The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
I—gocla.t la. Bac on
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
■ jodalla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
239 SUSSEX STREET, SYHNEX.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS& BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St..
Sydney.
p€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vie.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficult}' of breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness m the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally' sufficient, and a complete cure is
certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many' different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the" beginning of 1883, 14 y'ears ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria,.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents. .
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYNE.
■
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHOHITIS,
DIAEEHffiA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.” ,
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that wa
have the ONLY genuina
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Kucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gribbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are ir vited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS ,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NcrVo6& WcakQc&s - - -
AND
Cercbro-SpiQal Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist thein
by every means in his power.
Dr. aiBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY. '
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention this paper when writing.
Melb. : “ Lady Munro is extant here
again. Really a nice, quiet, modest woman to
talk to, as she meanders along a retired street
knitting. A little genuine feminine sympathy
would make her a charming Methodist.
“ A Brother-Shark The patriotic Mr.
C. G. Heydon, Q.C., in replying to the eulogiumß
on his self-denying labors in codifying the hf.b. W.
statutes, seems not to have mentioned that tne
first Commission (which cost the country abou
£7000) left a legacy of several bills already
drafted which he has utilised. Mr. Heydon
also appears to have omitted to acknowledge
the services of the two draftsmen the
secretary who prepared the work for him, and
for whose services the bleeding country has to
pay. Mr. Heydon has certainly undertaken a
large amount of labor for no direct reward, but so
far as he is concerned, it would appear that the
work was being done by him alone and without
cost to the country.
Gipsy Poll was a notability of old Hobart
—a big, swarthy, beetle-browed dame, with the
voice of a boatswain, the tongue of a bullock-
driver, and the heart of a true woman. She
“ came out ” in a ship called the Twelve Apostles,
and was proud of it. She was then very good-
looking; but she could take care of herself, and
worked out her sentence an immaculate. Then
she .went in for making money, and made it.
Cared for nobody. D d everybody who
offended her, from Governor to pot-boy. You
ought to have been a man, Polly,” said Sir John
Franklin. “ A man ! ” she echoed. “ What pull
has the man in the picnic? She has the babby, he
pays the doctor, and she knows best whether he
ought to. A man ! Not me ! ”
Duffy, in a recent Contemporary, has Ho.
2 of his reminiscences of the Commons. He
found Lowe always weighty there, but not of
much personal influence outside. Lowe had ms
speeches by heart. Yet they captivated. He
could not see his hearers, which was a drawbaok.
Clever Mrs. Lowe did all she could, so she told
Duffy, to persuade Lowe to return to Australia.
Lowe said : “ Oh, how I used to enjoy my ride
into Sydney every morning, through the intoxicat-
ing air ! Nothing like it here.” Mr. and Mrs.
Lowe, by showing pictures of their Sydney home,
and what not, had much influence in persuading
Duffv to emigrate. Duffy cannot say enough m
praise of Disraeli’s kindness.
A Melb. barrister in criminal practice re-
lates how he was once asked by two hard-jawed
persons to defend a friend who had been arrested
for burglary. Jotting down the points of the de-
fence, the man of briefs looked up and said that it
would cost ten guineas. The deputation looked
embarrassed. “ Well, yer see, sir, we didn’t
know as how ” “ Haven’t got the coin, eh ?
interrupted the prospective defender. “No, sir ;
ter tell ye the truth, we ain’t. But,” with a
sudden lighting up of the eye, “ we’ll pet it fur
yer ! ” Shortly after midnight the barrister was
awakened by a knock at the door ; and, on attend-
ing in his pyjamas, a bull-necked gentleman
shoved 10 sovereigns and a handful of silver into
his hand, with the observation: “ Ef it’s all the
same to you, sir, I’ll ’ang behind yer ’edge till the
cop goes by.”


THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United. Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
SYDNKV—II4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE—B 62 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LA UNO ESTON —Hedley Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particulars of tree Trial.
m
]dams’s Hotel and Marble gar
and
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER* EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
:()
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation' Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
Hotel and Caf(s have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option, of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728. WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
IRO-A-D
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Kailway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0.,
&c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
.. „ WALTER M. NOAKES, Colonial
Also Representative for the “THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
Manager.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
~r“r.Hslss l 1s"“ ,
BESSON’S “ PROTOTYPE BAND INSTRUMENTS fr T . £2 ?*■ each.
VTOT TVQ f n (S ° le - A9Cnt Victoria > T * sm ania, South and West Australia™ “ W ° rld
Makers. CONCERTINArSh^ ’ G.raao EnguT V
genuine Neaped,,
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
direct importer,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOXJRJJE.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass
pins are extra.
long and. plated. All
ba.Bs wires copper
covered. The clavia- ~
ture (keyboard) is of Com pass, seven octaves
new pattern and accu- Frame of homogeneous
rath workmanship. ,ron » anci exceptional
Wires are two sizes strength. The photos
thicker than are ordi- show the exterior. The
narily used, bence Hapsburg Pianos can
security against break- had •!“ walnut or
ing, and a fuller tone ebony, with or without
RenaiSSanC f The touch T„d
in the middle comDais°- a f ,“ B °K < !H u i' i volume m the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
sustaining and Stoning ■' bell 'l£ e sweetness m the treble. Singers find the timbre
freight to port of entrv* <Mce * . Yf® take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
chasers will be snhmitSl lr l sl . ral ? ce ’ ant *. ut y- Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
colonies, churchV .ch^i^’Jnvinf'” 8 ' ™«sicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
Street.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES. ■
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delirious to Sinf lns: ' Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kiuds of Puddings.
Delicious to everythingDehcious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kiuds of Fruit.
tt », . ~ Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone
Dnequalledfor the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
mphcitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article and
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent inThe preparation ofagood Custard. Giveita trial
„ , . . . Proprietors : QOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 'll - each,
■ Telephone, 25 KOGABAE— connected with Sydney Exchange.
n . ■f IjIcIs: House Hotel ”
lady ROBINSON'S BEACH, 0„"£1 offS, b./
lofty KPrißnriMs" " j THE TAVORITE HEALTH RESORT.
LOFTY BEDROOMS, L™„„„, y READING ROOMS, BILLIARD
«to.,TSSIIty"”S-«» We ? d ' nB *"<« Mv.te Dinner.,
and Hot Salt Water Baths (a Sure Cure for onlv”n no L ? r ? e Swimming Baths; also, Electric
Boating ; also, splendid Stabling Accommodation oon ' plaints) - on, >’ one "’»™te's walk from hotel. Fishing and
Terms: From **/- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
___ I»ICK HOUSE HOTEL,” or 16 York Street, Sydney.
PIANOS.
Tb« Fio«St at)d Largest WarcboGS*
iivr
THE
THE
THE
THE
THE
THE
AliXi
WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
SUPERB BECIISTEIN PIANOS.
DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS
WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS
the newest music
AT
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
°* PIANOS
IN
NICHOLSON & C 0.%
George Street,
SYOKIEY.
Cellular AtUetic
Shirts.
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling-,
Boatingf, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/-and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
. ru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6!
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
• • Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note Newl
Address: /
73
& 75 Xing Street,
(near York Street), Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
POKER MACHINES.
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE EOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE EROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
CICARS FREE
IBS
CENT Mjcr<_SljyiMO
m
DROP 3 “IN THE SLOT
illllHimilllllllll
AGENT for the following
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OE TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brush ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
—AND —
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE CAN’T
BE AI BF^™ R ® Eei6hts > bully, leger
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY
WILLIAMS. ’
ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A LA
T rFEWp"’ n L^ rU i S I)0 ( Heay y Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAG&, HANSA
ALPINA MANILA, &c„ &c.
lobaeconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
,X F Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance The r j
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in The colony Bupplled
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer, "
HATMAKKET, SYDNEY.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
AS AH ESS is
FULL OF MEAT,
MARK FOY’S
R«pl«t« Wltb
Seasonable Benefits.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article — _ , . _ _ ,
A. Soyer’s BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Mates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoo H.SoOI & Co., M’sp.s.
15S, IGO. and 268 Pitt-street, S y d ney; and at
Church*street, Parramatta.
9
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO OEFY COMPETITION.
WINES Bwt onhJ ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Ask for VELTEN . .
/ /
MEDITERRANEE
As Supplied to
The Messageries Maritimes
Company.
LAGER B€€R.
Mr. John Young.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have made up my mind, owing to unkind re-
marks by fair-weather friends of ours—friends who
used to smoke papa’s cigars and go to his theatre-
parties —to write the true history of my sister
Bertha’s marriage.
Before the stoppage of the banks, papa was
quite well-off ; he had building-society shares, and
bank shares, and a fine station on the Murray.
Ah ' those good old days of Goternment-house
balls, and dances on the warships, and the subtle
pleasure of being introduced to the very Nicest
people as “the Misses Conobie, of Conobie s run ;
and the delight, the pure delight of hearing the
introducer whisper to his friend — heiresses to
the finest station in the southern district, dear
boy, and heaps of oash in the Longwool
and Tallowfat Banking Company ! I want
you to understand that we two girls, Ber-
tha and I, were right up on the very
front seat of the band-waggon of the social circus.
I don’t mean to pretend that poor papa is quite a
gentleman, although he was a colonel in the volun-
teers, and used to clank round in his warlike iron-
mongery. Any big man who likes to put soap
on the points of his moustaches can look convinc-
ing in a gaudy uniform. He was brought up in
the haberdashery, you know, and I have always
had an intuition that well-bred people who kow-
towed to him in the days of our prosperity could
detect in him little vulgarities reminiscent of the
commercial-traveller, and that they recognised in
his pseudo-stateliness but the magniloquence of the
shopwalker.
Now, mother is a lady. Her grandfather was
an Irish viscount, although she herself was only
a poor governess at Albury when papa married
her. Ido not mention this out of any feeling of
pride, but to show that we girls can claim to have
some good blood in our veins, which perhaps still
further increases the remarkableness of Berthas
marriage. .
After the bank-smash and poor papas insol-
vency, he got a big brass-plate made, and called
himself a commission-agent. He told us hope-
fully that with his social and military connection
he could easily make a couple of thousand a year.
“ Mary,” he would say to mamma, “ we will
have our carriage again in a brace of shakes, but
meanwhile we must go into a small house at Pad-
dington. Just you wait and see how my friends
will rally round us! Very few months will see
us back at Darling Point again.”
And then mamma would shrug her shoulders
doubtfully, and I am sorry to say that her want
of confidence in papa’s rose-colored prophecies
was justified. Oh, the misery we have endured !
For he could not earn more than a beggarly pit-
tance, and the barest necessaries could scarcely be
obtained for our poor home. Our dresses grew
old-fashioned and dowdy, and the people we
hardly recognised in the old times—the Mosely-
Melehisedecs and the Cholmondeley - Smiths—
started to cut us; we “got off ” the books at Govern-
ment House, and even the young fellows in the
“Lands” bowed to us coldly. Papa’s friends
did not rally round him, and poverty and neglect
became our daily portion. Sometimes we girls
earned a few shillings addressing envelopes, but,
fenerally speaking, our affairs kept on going from
ad to worse.
One morning Bertha, who was reading the
Sydney Mobning Herald— it’s only a penny now,
you know-exclaimed “ Wilhelmma ” (that’s me),
what do you think of this ? ” and then she read
the following advertisement: —
AYATRIMONIAL. The Advertiser, a gentleman
_LYL owning a large and lucrative business in a coun-
try town, desires to correspond with a well-educated
young English lady, O. of E., with a view to the above.
References exchanged. Please forward photograph
in strictest confidence to Mr. John Young, Boggin-
gully, N.S.W.
“ Just fancy girls replying to an advertisement
like that! ” said I, who had strong caste notions ol
the methods whereby, and the environments in
which, ladies should be wooed and won. Ah, yes !
The soft echoes of one of Strauss’s waltzes stealing
into a conservatory, dimly lighted with fairy-lamps,
flowers and lycopods and tree-ferns, glimpses of a
crescent moon shining through the waving ten-
drils of wistaria, the air laden with stepnanotis
and jonquil, and the kneeling swain in full war-
paint hanging rapturously on to one s twelve-
button su&de glove and entreating permission to
provide one with board, lodging, and pin-money
for ever and a day.
I conveyed these vie ws to Bertha,but Berthabeing
so “ practical,” replied : —“ Oh, stuff ! Those are
dreams of the past. I believe the gentleman who
advertises here really wants a wife, but is too
much engrossed in his business in an out-of-the-
way country district to go looking for one. And
the name, John Youngs, has a manly, honest ring
about it—the sort of name that you could fancy
written in a firm, round hand, without any
flourishes, at the bottom of a good, big cheque.
“Rubbish!” I interjected, hotly; “more likely
it is some clod-hopping boundary-rider’s joke. I
can fancy him laughing as he scans his easily-
acquired album full of would-be missuses.
But Bertha refused to budge from her impres-
sion. She urged that the Fairfaxes, of the Hekald,
were very nice people and would not permit their
journal to be made the medium of any low practi-
cal joke. Now if it had appeared in some papers
there might have been a little in my contention ;
but in the Hekald, never ! The more I bantered
her the more stubborn she became, and next
morning I was not much surprised when she told
me half-jocularly that she had replied to Mr. John
Young’s advertisement.
“ And sent your photograph ? ’ I asked m
dismay. .
Bertha nodded with an affectation of brazenness.
“ And how did you get the stamp ? ” I queried,
knowing that there had not been a penny in the
house for the last two days.
“ I sold half-a-dozen bottles to a ‘bottle-oh,
she answered, quailing a little under my indignant
gaze.
Bertha’s conduct, including that awful recourse
to the bottle-dealer, placed her beyond the pale of
criticism, and, besides, I was too much mortified
to pursue the matter further.
* * * *
Some weeks passed, and my sister’s indiscre-
tion had almost been driven from my mind by the
chronic unpleasantnesses of our every-day life —
the worry of duns, the heart-breaking, hopeless
trudge round governesses’ institutes and registry-
offices in search of employment —when one morn-
ing Bertha came bounding up the stairs, blushing
to the ears, with a large envelope addressed to her-
self in a neat, small hand-writing. Nervously she
opened it and exclaimed hysterically : 4 Yes,
Wil., it’s from Mr. Young,” and then she read
this epistle :
My dear Miss,— „ . ,
From a large number of replies to my aavt.,
after long consideration, and after consulting my friend,
the Rev. Josiah Jackson, who has been twice married, I
have selected yours as the most likely to be from a, lady
who will meet my wishes. Mr. Jackson says that your
face shows vou to be good-tempered and refined, and that
your letter'indicates culture, and your admission of your
father’s poverty is evidence that you have no false pride.
I think he is right. I regret that there is no photo-
grapher here, so I cannot send you my photograph. lam
35 years old, healthy, belong to the Church of England,
and have no relatives in this country. I enclose letters
about myself, and if, after perusing them, you are willing
to become my wife, please name the time when you can
come up here, and we will be married from the parsonage.
Yours very faithfully, John Youno.
The enclosures were letters from Mr. Jackson
certifying that his dear friend Mr. Young was a
member of his church, most prosperous in busi-
ness, and “ prominent in all good works in this
district,” while the other was signed by the
manager of the Bank of New South Wales, Bog-
gingully, and was addressed to Mr. Young. It
ran as follows : “In reply to your inquiry, I beg
to inform you that the amount to your current
account on this date is .£1625, while you have also
.£14,000 at fixed deposit, and securities valued by
the bank at £5OOO.
“Well?” I asked, feeling that, despite every-
thing, Bertha had scored.
“ I am going to marry him,” said Bertha, with
decision.
“ Perhaps he drops his h’s, or, maybe, he has
got a hare-lip, or a squint ? ” said I, a little spite-
fully. .
“My mind is quite made up. I will write this
very night,” said Bertha.
Of course, mamma had to be told, and, as I an-
ticipated, she nearly took a fit. “Oh, Bertha,”
she moaned, “ that a daughter of mine should do
such a thing ! It is terrible, terrible ! ”
Bertha was much distressed at the shock she
had given to mamma’s susceptibilities, but she
gently pointed out that desperate diseases needed
desperate remedies, and that a monotonous, plea-
sureless, hopeless existence in a mean street cer-
tainly came within the category of desperate
diseases. By marrying Mr. Young, she urged,
she would, no doubt, in some measure be able to
restore the family fortunes. Mr. Young was,
beyond question, a substantial man, a good citizen,
and possessed of religious principles.
Poor papa threw all the weight of his influence
on Bertha’s side and pooh-poohed mamma’s
scruples. “ Besides, Mary,” he said, “ a man with
a store like that must have a turnover of £30,000
or £40,000 a year, and he should need a buyer.
Now can you tell me, Mary, who could buy better
for him than his father-in-law, Colonel Conobie,
at your service ; and wouldn’t it just give tone to
his business to have a real live Colonel to do his
buying! And a partnership would no doubt
follow, with a city branch. Young, Conobie and
Co—-or, perhaps, as lam the eider, Conobie,
Young and Co.” And papa fairly glowed as he
built these airy castles.
The difficulty of providing funds to obtain for
Bertha the very simplest trousseau, to say nothing
of the money for the expensive railway - fare,
seemed insurmountable, but the very next day
papa announced that he had borrowed £lO on the,
furniture, “ which, Bertha,” he added, “you will
be able to get out of John before the honeymoon
is over.”
So it was arranged that Bertha should take he*
matrimonial leap in the dark. There was not
enough money to admit of any of us accompany-
ing her. The night she left Redfern station poor
mamma cried for hours, and I had a most uncom-
fortable premonition of disaster.
m # * *
Two days later a telegram came from Bertha
“ Arrived safely this morning. Was married at
noon. Writing. Love.— Bertha Young.”
Mamma and I breathed more freely, but it was
a fortnight before we heard any further from our
darling
“ Dear Mother and Wi11.,” she wrote, “ I could
not find it in my heart to write before. I was so
wretched.”
“Humph!” interjected papa. “Meregirly-
girly nonsense. They soon get over that. Haw,
haw. Don’t they, Mary ? ”
Mamma looked at him disapprovingly.
I proceeded with the reading of the letter:
“ And I am glad that I did not write, because 1
feel in a little better spirits now. I reached here
with half-a-crown in my pocket, and when I first
saw John —I am managing to call him John now
—I nearly fainted. My first impulse was to ask
the station-master to give me a passage back, but
then I remembered all our wretchedness —the
mortgage on the furniture, and the utter hopeless-
ness of everything in Sydney, and I determined
to go through to the bitter end. All the town was
decorated with flags in my honor. After I had
dressed we went straight to the church and were
married. I felt quite dazed and went through it as
if everything was a long way off. The house is
lovely, and John is—oh ! —so kind. He speaks
English quite well
“ Wilhelmina ! ” said mamma, as if she had not
heard me aright.
“ Hail smiling morn ! why shouldn’t he ? ”
blurted papa.
The letter fell from my fingers as though it had
burnt me. For the last words in it were—“ I
didn’t mean to tell you, but I can’t help it. John
says I must. My husband is a Chinese.”
Mamma and papa and I just sat for an hour
without saying a word.
J. A. PHILP.
Suffield is still in his living grave, and the
N.S.W. Justice Department is jumping on him
with all its feet to make him fit that grave.
Suffield is a victim not only of Windeyerism, but
of Government by Contradiction. Both N.S.W.
political gangs, the ins and the outs, are interested
in justifying the actions of their respective Minis-
ters of Justice. A pamphlet fully dealing with
this monstrous wrong has just been published.
Post-free from The Bulletin office for 7d. in
stamps.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Ladies First.—lf you come to Sydney to spend
your Xmas, be sure and leave your measures with our
dressmaker for future reference. Gentlemen next. - Our
tailors will be pleased to take a correct record of your
measures also, for future reference. Ladies and gentlemen
unable to call in and personally select their requirements,
please write, and we will send you what you want, de-
livered free to your door at Sydney prices, if the parcels
post reaches your district.— Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street only, Sydney, between Market
and King streets. (No charge made for registering
measures). 1 *
- - CONTINUE TRIUMPHANT!
m ■ ii■ i in mi
TINT TONIC PILLS have effected
MIRACULOUS CURES in our Midst,
After Doctors and Hospitals have Failed.
Female Weakness, Debility, and
Influenza Cured.
AN ERSKINVILLE LADY SUEFERED FOR
SIX YEARS.
PHYSICIANS AND PRINCE ALFRED
HOSPITAL UTTERLY FAILED.
GOULD’S TINY TONIC’S SCORE A GREAT
VICTORY.
In this trying climate of ours the woman who is
exempt from troubles peculiar to her sex is a great
exception. Mrs. Messer, of “Glenbrook,” No. 6
Union-street, Erskineville, Sydney, is no exception
to the rule. To a reporter, a few days ago, who
interviewed her, she said : “ For several years I
have had terrible bursting headaches, throbbing in
the temples, indigestion, dizziness, insomnia, and
various other ailments, the results of female ail-
ments. I became so ill that I went for a course of
outdoor treatment at the Prince Alfred Hospital.
Here I was treated for acute indigestion and severe
headaches, but never a bit of good did the medi-
cines do me, although I took them religiously.
Then I consulted my doctor —a well-known physi-
cian in Erskineville—and so seriously did he regard
my case that, at the beginning of this winter, just
passed, he said to me : ‘ Mrs. Messer, you’re suffer-
ing from a chronic ailment. It’s no good for you
to take medicine. A change of air is the only
thing that’ll benefit you, and, if you don’t go
away, you’ll never get through the winter.’ But I
have lived through it! ” the lady remarked, with
a smile, “ and I hope to live through many more
winters yet,” she continued. “How did you
cheat the medical faculty ? ” we inquired. “ Well,
one day,” was the “I read an adver-
Pills for cases somewhat similar to mine. I con-
cluded to try them, and after a few doses I was
surprised to find my appetite improving. This
went on, my spirits rose, my strength increased,
and all the pains from indigestion and influenza
slowly left me. Sleep came to my aid, brightness
to my eyes, and agility to my step. Not even the
headaches remained, and with every trace of in-
fluenza and indigestion, and their attendant
maladies, gone from my system, I felt a new
woman with a new body. Gould’s Tiny Tonic
Pills worked this marvellous change, and
worked it entirely, for I used no other remedy.
My husband and family and my friends were not
less astonished than myself at this most unprece-
dented recovery ; and their delight and mine
knew no bounds.”
; 4> :
A Leading Newcastle Chemist
Restored to Health.
NINE YEARS OE MISERY.
CONGESTION OF THE LIVER, CONSTI-
PATION, AND JAUNDICE.
DOCTORS AND HOSPITAL UNSUC-
CESSFUL.
TINY TONIC PILLS TRIUMPHANT.
Mr. Hutchinson, of King-street, Newcastle,
chemist and druggist, was called on by a represen-
tative of a Sydney paper to get some information
regarding his marvellous recovery from a long and
severe illness.
Mr. Hutchinson said, in answer to an inquiry,
that he was 52 years of age in January last, and
that during the last nine years he had been a great
sufferer from liver trouble, which got so bad that
hi.s skin became perfectly yellow, and he was so
vcakthat he could scarcely walk. He suffered
also from terrible pains in the shoulders, and had
awful splitting headaches. At times he would
become terribly depressed in spirits, and felt that
he was at death’s door. Mr. Hutchinson continued
this way for years, and notwithstanding the fact
that he tried every possible remedy, and consulted
■3 \ (flfoi? r =
.c j ?.t, “103k • ■■■ p pi
i fj|k
ltr 1
ww
the best physi-
cians in Austra-
lia, he continued
to get worse,
until in despera-
tion, hearing of
the marvellous
cures that
Gould’s Pills had
wrought in
others, he de-
cided to give
them a trial. The
following letter
written by Mr.
Hutchinson him-
self, which we
give, would prove
that a really mar-
vellous cure has
been effected in his case. Mr. Hutchinson’s letter
reads as follows:
King-street, Newcastle, Feb. 4th, ’97.
Messrs. Gould, Sons, & Co.,
Dear Sirs, I was a great sufferer for many years
with Congestion of the Liver and Constipation.
My skin got quite yellow, and I suffered from loss
of appetite, depression of spirits, &c., &c. I was
under three of the leading Sydney physicians,
and was told to give up my professional duties
and go into an hospital, which X did, going to
Walker’s Hospital, Parramatta. I was five
weeks there, but only got worse, and came out to
die. I was recommended to try Gould’s Pills,
and, taking the Pills, I commenced to improve,
and in a short time I was quite recovered. The
Pills are really good, gentle in their action, and
there is no gripping. It seems strange that a
chemist could not help himself, but the medicines
- -calomel, &c. —I took only gave me temporary
(Signed) S. Hutchinson,
Registered Chemist.
IM
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Pills
are an undoubted specific
for Indigestion, Headache,
Constipation, Debility,
Heart Palpitation, Pale
and Sallow Girls, Female
Weakness, Pimples and
Face Sores, Lack of Ambi-
tion, &e., &c. Obtainable
from Chemists and Stoffe-
keepers. Price 2s. 6d., six
bottles 14s. 3d., or the Aus-
tralian Branch of the E.
A. Gould, Sons and Co.,
19 Macquarie Place, Syd-
ney. See that you get
Gould’s when purchasing.
Matilda Maude’s Penchant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sing of Maude Matilda, who
Got spliced the other day,
And, just to give the girl her due,
This much I’ll truly say :
She must have been an instrument,
Within the hand of Fate,
To carry out the high intent
Of something good and great.
For Maude was good—that is, not bad —■
As far as we know wrong,
But from her kiddyhood she had
A curious penchant.
Of all the tints we gaze upon
One only charmed her view ;
For Maude Matilda doted on
A yellowistic hue.
Her clothes were yellow to a dot—
Down to the boots and socks,
And gen’rous Nature topped the lot
With flaming yellow locks.
Each budding fancy, too, brought out
The ruling passion strong,
Until the neighbors talked about
Her curious penchant.
When Maude Matilda reached the age
Of childhood’s greatest joys,
She soon evinced a perfect rage
For yellowistic toys.
But, chief of all, though least in size,
The darling used to hug
One perfect porcelanic prize—
A yellow China mug.
And thus the keynote of her fate
Was struck in saffron song—
As though to fitly celebrate
Matilda Maude’s penchant.
At seventeen our heroine
Became an “Army ” lass,
And sighed that such a thing as sin
Should ever come to pass.
’Twas hers to caution in the street
The unregenerate;
To stand where politicians meet
And warn them of their fate.
And when she painted hues of Hell
You’d smell the sulphur strong —
Till sinners fell would cry, “How well
She sticks to her penchant 1 ”
There was a Chinese gardener
Among the favored few,
That every Sunday followed her
To learn “ what you must do.”
She promised him in Heaven above
A lasting, rich reward :
Until, inspired by Christian love,
He worshipped—“Missee Maude.*
And that was how in time there came
The sequel to this song :
For yesterday she signed her name
“ Matilda Maude Pong Chong.”
BUCKENFOURA.
Bats!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rats ! why, you never saw none; leastways*
none like them" aboard the Runnymede.
She was a bit of a barque, owned by a widow
woman, out of Port Chalmers, and run by old
“ Oarnaru ” Black ; and if ever there was a “ balla-
hoo ” kept afloat by the devil to damn the sailor-
men’s souls, she was one. She was chock-a-block
of rats ; big, grey devils of things, with tails on
’em as thick as your finger. The whole ship stank
of ’em. When she’d be knocking about, we on
deck could hear ’em, above the groaning and creak-
ing of the cargo under hatches, squeaking and
scrambling and scuttling about in the ’tween-
declcs, and up and down the stringers, like as if
they had charge of her. There was nothing in the
cargo for them to eat but cement, so they chawed
holes in our oilskins and sea-boots before we was a
week out.
Of a rainy night the rigging, half-way up from
the sheer-pole, would be alive with them, licking
the rain off as it ran down the shrouds. How we
got to hate the brutes ! They’d fight and make
love, and eat one another down in the fore-scuttle,
as we lay and watched them from our bunks. If
one of us hove a knife or a boot at them, the old
bucks of the crowd would sit up and grin at us,
twitching their whiskers and showing their ugly,
yellow teeth.
We caught them all kinds of ways, but, durn
my rags, there was no getting to windward of
them. They thieved our biscuits, and sugar and
beef; and never failed to leave circumstantial
evidence behind them. We got it in our limejuice
cold, and hot in our coffee and pea-soup. Them
as shipped aboard the Runnymede couldn’t afford
to be dainty.
There was one of them rats as we used to call
‘ The King,” on account of his size—a big, mangy
old buck with a blind eye ; the daddy of the lot, I
reckon, for he was silver-white about the head and
nose. The others were all afraid of the old terror ;
and we were always trying to catch him, but he
knew too much for us. But one night a chap
called Laban, or some such name, gets the blind
side of his majesty and harpooned the old beast
with a sail-needle on the end of a stick. He was
a bit careless in taking a hold of the brute though,
and the “King” managed to mitten him by the
thumb before the life was squeezed out of him.
Well, after the old buck’s death, the rest kind
of fought shy of the fore-scuttle, and Laban he
nails the skin up on the bulkhead alongside his
bunk. But in a couple of days his thumb begins
to throb and swell, and he has to lay up.
His whole hand and arm seemed like poisoned,
and he’d lay in his bunk and rave away about the
rats till we, as was below, would wish him and the
rats to the devil. We was in the forties then ;
and one night, when it came on to blow, all hands
was roused out to shorten sail, and we was hard at
it for a couple of hours before we got the old hooker
snugged down. We was short-handed, and nothing
worked easy on the Runnymede, for she was
rigged at second-hand from all the wrecks on the
Maoriland coast.
The fore-scuttle was closed down, for the craft
always made foul weather of it, and in anything
of a sea she was as wet as a half-tide rock. When
at last we opens up the hatch and goes below the
slush-lamp is out and all is dark.
“Laban’s feeling easier,” says somebody; my
foot goes squelch on a rat, and then we strikes a
light.
The slush-lamp had been knocked off its hook
on the beam, and was lying on the deck in a pool
of stuff that looked like treacle. Another match
was struck, just as the first went out, and twas
then we saw Laban, huddled all of a heap, up in
the eyes of her. The stuff on the deck was blood,
and came from him. His face, and throat, and
hands ! Well, never mind —it was good that he
was dead, anyhow. ,
We all makes a break for the deck, and fetches
the riding-light. The place was strewn with dead
and dying rats. Laban had fought like a madman
for his life, and they—well, they had fought like
We was cabin-passengers for a-while, and slept
aft in the saloon till the fo’castle was tidied up a
bit. We put Laban, or what was left of him, over
the side the next day.
No, we wasn’t troubled over-much with them
devils the rest of the passage, and I didn’t make
another trip in the Runnymede, neither. That
one was enough for me.
MAREYAT NOBRIS.
An Irish paper lately referred to the
“ enthusiastic local reception of the Duke and
Duchess of Pork.” Pig-land!
One of the staunchest trades-union bodies
in Australia, bitterly anti-alien, has been charged
by some of its non-official members with having
accepted the tender of a German band to play
at its recent picnic in a Sydney suburb. One
official’s reply is that “ the tender of the German
band was lowest, and we haven’t money to throw
away”; another official’s reply is “that German
bands are nearly all Irish.”
A Manly Beach camera-fiend exhibits
as an advt. a photo.-group of Lady Hamp-
den and daughter, with an aide-de-camp on each
side, taken on the beach. The other day two
stout ladies, fresh from the green isle, stopped to
inspect and admire. “An’ I suppose the man
standing for’ninst her Ladyship is the Governor ? ”
said one, pointing to the presentment of Oapt.
Stanley. The other regarded her companion for
a second with fine contempt. “ It’s aisy to be seen,
ye know little of the quality,” said she. “ That’s
a unicorn. Sure, the Governor’s lady niver
thravels a step widout two unicorns at the laste
wid her !”
Remarks the Kwong Yik Wah Bo (Sydney
Chinese paper):—
A Christian sect called the Wesleyans have decided to
send Christian missionaries amongst the Chinese in
Queensland. They decided to do this by only one vote. In
all these Christian bodies who do missionary work, pre-
ference is usually given to the kind of work that appeals
to their sense of the picturesque, that enables their mis-
sionaries to wear foreign clothes and to go amongst
foreign people. The decision of the Wesleyans is a
common-sense decision. Surely, if Christianity is good,
it is well to make Christians of those who are close at
hand. If they convert any of the Queensland Chinese to
their way of thinking, the converts will make good mis-
sionaries to send to China, but it is useless to hope to
convert many of our people while the Christian teaching
is so far away from the practice of the Christians. The
best way to convert the Chinese is to treat them with
absolute justice, so that when they return to China they
will be able to say that the European Christians practise
what they preach.
The Musician.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
L ™ vv aC aTnon f? st the sweet green grass
where the lilies glowed like white faces in thefight
of the. new summer moon, Bill felt the world
swinging under him to the strains of delicious
music. Ihe music came, prosaically enough, from
the open window of a neighboring house, but it
stole through many blooms under the dark clus-
tering boughs and then there were the moonlight
and the young man’s mood. At any rate, the en-
chantment waff complete. At first it was the
music only ; it came to him in the evenings, and
took hold of him—possessed him. He had dreamt
of such melody, had heard of it on starry lakes,
and swelling mysteriously in scented avenues in
the untrodden bush, and he had awakened with the
haunting cadences in his ears. Then the woman
was suggested : young, tall, dark, beautiful,
radiant., _ Bill was big and fair.
The neighbors were new arrivals. Bill had seen
none in the family to correspond with his idea of
the sweet pianist, and he was as eager as a lover.
The thing had become serious. He longed, with
a ridiculous ardour, to see this beautiful woman.
Ordinarily music had not appealed to him; but her
music enslaved him. It was wonderful and uncanny
in its glory; it led his thoughts; and this big,
healthy, hearty man of affairs relapsed under its
influence into a helpless sentimentality unspeak-
ably delicious.
To-night the music was all of love; women’s
voices seemed to whisper all about the young man
arid soft kisses rippled in the air. He fancied he
heard through all an appealing cry.
Bill suddenly arose, and made his way to the
dividing fence, which he scaled with little diffi-
culty. Then, keeping in the shadow of the trees
and shrubs, he stole to a fir from the boughs of
which it was possible to see into the room where
the pianiste sat. The young man climbed the tree
very cautiously, and presently leaned forward and
peered through the open window.
A woman sat at the piano, and Bill’s face
blanched as he gazed at her. She was young; her
face, deeply seamed and scarred, was hideous in
its deformity. Her body was small and twisted,
and her thin, stunted arms terminated in mere
distorted bunches of fingers, piteous to see, and
repellent beyond expression ; but they swept the
keys with marvellous dexterity, and made divinest
music.
Presently the girl ceased playing, and dragging
herself across the room on sprawling limbs tremu-
lous under the weight of her poor wasted body,
passed from the sight of the man without.
E.D.
Recent portraits of the German Emperor,
in Hungarian military rig, show that William the
Mountebank is becoming a very bloated lager-
laden monarch.


DEBILITATED BY HOT WEATHER.
D ILL.
IREI
Tonics (so-called) do co good, but Ayer’s Sarsaparilla builds up and restores to bealth Mt
J. Gough ot Cape Town, Cape Colony, who sends his portrait and writes as follows*
m
///
w
m
m.
m
n
f
//-
i
s
%
vx
s
fc *
&
r
“During the past summer the extremely hot weather made me seriously
ill. I lost all appetite, could not sleep was incapacitated for work, and
suffered from severe pains in the head I tried several tonics, but they did
me no good whatever. A friend, who had been similarly affected, told me
to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as he had done. I followed his advice, and
soon began to regain my strength, and after using three or four bottles my
health was completely restored.”
Very many people suffer from the effects of a prolonged season of warm
weather in the same way as did Mr Gough. Their blood becomes thin, food
distasteful, and life is positively burdensome.
makes new, pure blood: restores strength and vitality, and has been the
salvation of thousands who, prior to its use, were, as they expressed it,
“both tired out and worn out.” . t .
See that the name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla— is on the wrapper and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared, by Dr. J. O. Ayer I: Co., Lowell, Kut., U. 8. A.
BRA€MWR HOUS€,
WOODEND, VICTORIA.
The Momtain Health Resort of, Australia.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
Golf, Tennis, Fishing <£' Shooting .
Letters and Telegrams to Miss BUCKLEY,
Lessee, will receive Prompt Attention.
Visitors to ■—
—Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centra
of City. First-class Board and Residence wfil per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
HEADACHE
Readers of this paper should
know that Bishop's Citrate of
Caffeine, which obtained the
highest award at the Chicago
Exhibition of 1894, is an imme-
diate cure for headache, tt is
pleasant to take and will be
found most refreshing after
shopping, or as a morning
restorative. The “ Lancet" com-
mends it Of ail Chemists in two
sizes. A Booklet on Headache
sent post free on application.
Inventors and Sale Makers—
ALFRED BIBOOP, Ltd..
48, SPBLMAN ST., LONDON, S.
CUBED.
Whitehead’s *JBSZt®?U *
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store: Washington-fit., H/vmvssiW**
near Druitt-street. WUIQpSJIy.
Goods Delivered to and from er-ery Suburb Daily.
Special Vans\any hour. Furniture, See., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Kfmoved, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
i m
- K
- ■
EMPIRE HOTEL
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY,
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Ter
From 10s. per Day, ;ni
£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
THE GRANfk CENTRAL
QW SffB e.KQ.
THE <SRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITK G. P.O.
H B ST mSbr. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Gahtrnlly Situated.
ISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
. Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. POX, Proprietor.
BOOMS
OE BOARD
AT OPTION-.
DON’T BE NERVOUS
Nor trembling, nor go about in timorous mood, filled with
unreasoning dread. A few doses of
BSEiCHAM’S PILLS
will so effectually tone up the nervous system and fortify the general health
that you would be able to remain unshaken in the presence of
m
/
fS
\
J
«
TIOOK OF NATURE
—AHD—
Complete Medical Treatise,
Bj Dr. LAFAYETTE H. BTRH, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVING®.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/k
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, Is;
past fp *■ Is 2<l.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Doe, complete
and un briiLred, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, It; by
post, Is 3d.
Abbe Moi bet's Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, hy Paul de Koek, post free, is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl's Bathroom, price, la
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Seorets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heftameron, unexpurstated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Beaant • Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be. by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is Ski.
Mademoiselle de M.mipin, Romance of Love Rnd
Passion, post 2s. A Wilt Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Mark tar all oooasione
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, 1/6 post.
Amativenbss, by O. S. Fowler, pest free 8(L
Maria Monk, Is M; post, Is 9d.
Tub Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. Mr Uncle Barhabsou’s Harem, post free Is fid.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Bast, l>y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tub Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French, ut>expurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorC. 2s 6d.
Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 64,
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is fid, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Bbautt Revealed —Guids to Female
Lovefiness, prioe. Is.
Maiiombt’B Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is: post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest iaformation
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, Hew work, Is, post free.
OOKS
ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
V v
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieatp Book Depot,
1« PAU STREBT, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE Is ... per Poet, Is. 3d.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Bt “PRICE WARUNG.”
- a aaaaaajLaaaaa
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.


NO
HIGHER-CLASS
EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES
than
Cousis DUBEC.
SHIPMENTS received EVERY FORT
NIGHT by R.M.S. P. & O.
T> §a!letgirl
With 22 Racy Illustra-
tions, depicting- her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid.
Post Free, Is. 6d.
‘On the Diggings,’ & Other Tales of the Golden Fifties.
ILLUSTRATED. POST FREE IS.
To be had Only of
Madame 3pamza.,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
Convict System.”
WortbiQgtoi) PdiDpiQg Ei)gii)e Con>pai)y.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
ence-st
rthington
TRACS MARK*
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies i
It 1 ?*
REGULAR PATTERN
Victorias WELCH, PERRIN * CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia s AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARPE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER * CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
catalogues and prices on application.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised.. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TllY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxkord-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they ass
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where*
ever situated , will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies): the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which hae done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING. '
The Company sells only the rery Best A*tMe«. Bopplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Oream, loe, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc,
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)—B3 Street and 88 Boy nl * rondo far
rivi 171 TO IT O TTAT* ' - ™.-Arran gem en* «*«"»*»•»* of ‘ h «« D*POte *» AFTERNOON TEAS fer Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE ‘‘HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION
Everywhere. _
-- H. PATESON, Manager.
IMPROVED 6ft FRUE CONCENTRATOR
(with NEW “LIP FLANGE” BELT)
m
Is distinctly the leading machine of this class,
and there are probably more “Frues” sold to-
day than all other vanners put together. Users
are cautioned against being led into purchasing
machines which are represented by unscrupulous
dealers as being ‘‘just as good as the Frue.”
There are worthless imitations in the market.
Genuine Frue Vanners are uow all fitted with
“ lip flange ” belts, and are only obtainable from
the undersigned, or their lawful and authorised agents.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED. SYDNEY
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
PRICES AND CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
THE
THE -
1
1.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE -
ALL SINGER SR WING MACHINES.
CHAIN
Bafho’s
INSOLVENT ESTATE
WEADON, THOMAS A CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
i Double-barrel Breeeh-loadirig Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete
Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrel'-, choke bore, steel locks with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual mice
£lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel -Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
eachcon> erS COniplete ' Usual ■ l jrice ■614, reduced £5
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar* actfoifhiirhlv finished with „ii •
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesand cleaners complete Usua price f2l ’ reducer *7i nttjV pr ,°! e '
8 Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock ItTel
with fridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £6, reduced £2 7s fld each, complete *" ’ P ’
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £4 lSs’each, complete. provements > cartridge
’ 8,26 b ° re> b ’ eBt twist barrels - flra,nufc sfcook . UU at 160yds. Usual price £l6,
6 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very test quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 ISs
Cartridges can -be supplied for the Boseoh-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, dwnagcVd to juiyaddress in any of the Austrafasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun
B0QI}il)gt0l)’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or CO'LDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver.
Is. a Box.
