

McEWAN’S ALE.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET .
R. G. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining - and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mininsr Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE. DRYSDALE
& GO.,
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
-1,000 Tons M Orb ” andL 44 Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron,
10,000 Casks Knignt Bevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PUKE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
ZXJ
4,
&
n
O
o
*
4-
RAck; A*
o
o
c
o
JS
o
■/>
''.'B Y, Ayei.i, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Buston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England, BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured bv Matiier
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
And see that you get it.
mm
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported,’ and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lys&giit Bros. Sc Co., Ltd.
Offices Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
mm
m
PROOF
$
rONE'ft
Bonningtons Sarsaparilla,
AN ALTERATIVE TONIC AND BLOOD PURIFIER. Removes
Sores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic
FOR LIVER, STOMACH, & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. Stimulates
and Creates a Healthy System.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST!
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Before visiting the Cit/ write to the Manager for
o»rd of Tariff, (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
TZEEEIEC - -
<arosVsi)orNot*l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDKTBY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
JJcU/Im/U
PIONEER
LEATHER
\m
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World’s Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ecliswan - Lamp
BDlSWANl ■■V-.l'-SrSia
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THI EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
tST’ Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
XSfSv
Hadley’s Qrient |jotel.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
li Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
' -r • • -
ROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS
X
PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is
I
The Bulletin
Yol. 18.—No. 926. j
[Saturday, November 13, 1897.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Limited.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), paper Is., posted Is. 3d. ; cloth 25.,
posted 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Faveno, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Waruncj paper, Is. : posted, Is. 3d.
Post-free from ‘THE BULLETIN’ Office,
214 George-street, Sydney, for postal notes or
stamps of any province to prices named.
George robprtson & co.,
George Sthket, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MON I GO.YI KEY’S - TORIES (.from Tub Bulle-
tin ; iirioc, is. (id. ; post ed, 1~. Oil.
TALES OP THE Old ’ REGIME (.new series, from TnE
Bulletin, by Price Wurutijj; price, 25.; post-free
2s. (id.
MOSIYN STAYNE, by Roderio Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d.;
posted, 2s. led.
Write to us for any Boole or Magazine you want.
AG. STEPHENS,
• TI ITER A
I ITERARY AGENT
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal
All work involved between Author ami Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
CAMEO
THE RED PAGE.
That is the situation. But this is how “K.”
put it in his comment of 30th October, and the
sentence I quote contains nearly the whole pith
and substance of his reply to my observations :
‘ Generalised, the dispute between Brunton
Stephens and the young school of Australian
poets is the dispute between the Romantic and
the Realistic School of Art.’ Now, in this short
sentence there are no less than four assumptions,
all equally groundless, and two of them, to my
mind, particularly arrogant as well.
• • * »
First of all, it is assumed that the coterie of
railers against whom my remarks were directed
represent, nay, are, the young school of Austra-
lian poets. This is pretty large to begin with.
Bless my soul, when I think of the up-to-date
school of’ Australian bardhood, I don’t think of
these men at all. I think of men who have done
positive, independent work. I think of Lawson,
and Paterson, and Boake, and Farrell, and Victor
Daley, and O’Hara, and my dear friend Essex
Evans (for though Essex does his bit of denuncia-
tion now and again, his fine mind is essentially of
the constructive order), and half-a-dozen others
who are all linked together by the common desire
to give expression to the life of this strong young
country, and not merely by a bond of dismal
wretchedness and apparently a common poverty
of resources. These, whatever differences of
opinion there may be as to the value of their
work, are men who do. My little quarrel is with
men who don't —for work that is not of a positive,
independent character counts for very little in
my mind as a contribution to the literature of the
country. Between the method of these men I
have named and that of the objects of my animad-
versions there is all the difference that exists
between begetting and expectorating.
* * * *
The second assumption is equally groundless—
that there is a dispute between me and the young
school of Australian poets. There is nothing of
the sort. Far from being hostile to the young
school of Australian poets, the composition of
which I have already indicated, I love them. I
brag about them, with a pleasant sense of reflected
credit. I make myself a nuisance to my friends
on their account by shoving their works into my
friends’ hands, and insisting on their being read.
I even get snubbed and sat upon on their account
sometimes, and rejoice in martyrdom for so worthy
a cause. It is very neat, though— more. ingenious
than ingenuous—on the part of ‘ K. to isolate me
thus, and place me in a position to draw on me
the hostility of the whole literary forces of Young
Australia.
* * * * .
The third assumption is that this band of railers
represents ‘ the Realistic School of Art! Really
this is too much. lean only say as the Yankee
champion-swearer said when his cart of potatoes
up-ended on the hill and the eager crowd gathered
round to enjoy the expected volley : 4 Gentlemen,
lam not equal to this occasion.’ If ‘K.’ is one
of the set—and internal evidence shows that he
desires to be identified with it— then I can but add
that if ‘K.’ has ever prayed the well-known
prayer, * Lord, give us a good conceit of ourselves,’
it is his bounden duty in common gratitude to
bear aloft, in this unbelieving age, the testimony
of his experience that the Deity does hear the
prayers of His creatures.
* * * •
I have no quarrel with the Realistic School (we
are now, by the way, at the fourth groundless
assumption), nor with any other legitimate School
of Art. I have no idea myself what School of
Art I belong to, or if I belong to any, though if I
have any predilections at all they are rather in
favor of Realism. I don’t make much account of
Schools of Art. I enjoy all good work, from
4 Treasure Island ’ to 4 Tales of Mean Streets.
I begin to doubt if I did right in
calling the writers under consideration a
school at all, as it seems to have put notions
into ‘K.’s’ head. I called them the Autistic
School, but this seems only to have led, God
knows how, to a confusion with the Realistic. So
I must find another name to express more clearly
what I mean, and Providence, assisted by an
apparently respectable workingman, has supplied
the want.
* * • *
I was seated on the front of a ’bus some months
ago between two workmen —a position in which
this alleged intellectual dude (vide ‘K.’ passim)
always experiences the pleasurable.feeling of being
amongst his own sort— perusing with accustomed
relish the pages of the week’s Bulletin. My
companion on the right was similarly engaged,
and presently he passed the paper across to his
mate, indicating with his finger the passage he
wished him to read. I spotted the place, and
turned to it, and read also. What I found was a
poem of the denunciatory sort, of good technical
quality on the whole, but (excuse me, Mr. Bulle-
tin) made up of the usual cheap material. Anon,
my neighbor on the left handed the paper back to
its owner, with the observation, ‘ By God, don’t
he give ’em slops, eh?’ and it occurred to me at
once that this expression precisely defined the
very class of poets which is my pet aversion. It
is the ‘ give-’em-slops school.’ I think ‘K.’ and
I will understand each other better now. Only
he needn’t run away with the idea that I have laid
it down as a rule that no poet shall ever give any
man, or any system, or any anything, slops in
metre. I only go the length of saying that the
school the main scope of whose work is defined
by that expression is one which I would warn any
son of mine, who gave reason to fear that lie might
develope into a poet, not to join, or, having joined,
to come out of as soon as possible. And if 4 K.’
would but sensibly realise what it is that I am
fighting against, he would recognise the utter
superfluousness of insisting, as he does, that he
has 4 just as good a right to select from the wealth
of material everywhere ’ as I have. Why, my
grudge against these men is just that they don’t
take the trouble to select anything from the wealth
of material everywhere ! What sort of 4 wealth of
material ’ does a man employ when he’s giving ’em
slops ?
* * » »
Before passing from this part of my discourse,
let me slip in a remark about ‘K.’s’ attempt to
make my advice appear as the advice of the con-
servative, slow-paced, old fogey to the bounding
young. Chronological reasons have compelled me
to refer to the writers in question as young, but
chronology or no chronology, it is just because
they are so confoundedly old that J object to
them. Railing and wailing, grumbling and growl-
ing—are these the things that give assurance of
youth ? Come out from your Cities of Dreadful
Night and your haunts among the cinder-heaps of
burnt-out universes, and give us some manifesta-
tion of your youth, and, as old Dr. Johnson said,
4 I’m with you, boys,’ whatever form the mani-
festation may take f But no; it won’t do ; they
are too old for me. —Of course, it suits ‘K.’s’ pur-
pose to represent me as an antiquated intellectual
dandy, holding myself aloof from the stress and
strain of life, contemplating abstractions, dealing
only with the rosy-hued and aesthetic, touching
the realities of life, if I touch .them at all, with
lavender kid gloves on my fingers (I knew those
lavender kids would come in ; there is always a
3a,ir of them floating in the ‘ slops ’), shutting my
jars to the discords of life, cherishing delusions,
and all the miserable rest of it. What a mercy it
is my mother’s dead ! And all this because I re-
fuse to fill my inner man with the east wind,
which is all these men have to offer me in the way
of fodder. From which refusal, too, the.inference
necessarily follows that I have no stomach for
strong meat. Well, well; where the tokens of
youth are so scarce, even a rash inference is wel-
come as a sigh of it. It is funny, moreover, that
this imaginary Postlethwaite-Bunthorne should
be the creation of a professed representative of
‘ the Realistic School.’ Why, ‘K.’ turns out to
be a ‘ Romantic ’ after all.
* * * *
So much for the ‘ generalised.’ We now come
bo the ‘particularised.’ Says ‘ K.’—‘Particu-
larised, it means that the modern socialistic idea
is pervading Australian poetry ’; and of course it
means also, ‘particularised,’ that if I remark un-
favorably upon the methods of a certain number
of Australian poets, I am making war upon the
socialistic idea. I had really no notion I was
doing anything so big that. Will ' K.’ allow
me to tell him that, f • the point of view of
literature, I don’t c,-.i a button whether his
poetry is socialistic, or capitalistic, or feudalistic
—if it’s only good stuff. Give me a good socialis-
tic poem —a poem, mind ; it’s poetry we’re speak-
ing about —and I’ll boom it for all I’m worth, and
it won’t be the first time I’ve done the like. It
must be poetry, though—not a mere projection cf
slops over other people. ‘ K.’_ does not say that
he and his confreres are Socialists, but if they are,
then I say that they ought to be ashamed of
themselves for doing so little for so grand
a cause beyond the poor, shabby, ciieap-and-
easy work of denouncing and railing and
jibing and jeering. I say advisedly ‘so
grand a cause,’ for, though not a Socialist
myself. I am not blind to the nobility of
Socialism as a system, or insensible to its power
as a source of lofty aspiration. All the poet
w itliin me thrills to the possibilities it presents of
social redemption, and universal mutuality of
brotherly and sisterly kindness, and were it not
that the practical man witlun me keeps constantly
asking the question, ‘Would it work?—would it
work?’ and as constantly answering ‘No, it
wouldn’t—no, it wouldn’t,’l would be a Socialist
to-day. God !if I had the stimulus of such a
creed, I wouldn’t be the mere minor poet I am!
Were I animated by such a creed, I would strain
to"make my cause illustrious by showing to what
noble work it is capable of inspiring a* writer, by
doing something that would raise men’s aspira-
tions to its lofty level, by proving that ‘ the other
side ’ bad no monopoly of creative thought and
daring imagination. I would strive to build out
of the music of verse such a City of God as would
make all men turn to it. saying, ‘Lo, there ! The
Kingdom of Heaven!’ What a chance these
fellows have ! What a chance ! And what do
you do with it, oh, unpregnant of yonr cause?
Ah, pardon me, I forgot. You give ’em slops.
* * * •
‘K.’ informs me that ‘the great mistake ’ I
make is in the belief that the school of poets in
question is purely destructive in its writings.
Well, if the school he means is the school I mean,
I don’t see muoh to alter in the belief, unless per-
haps “ purely ’ is rather stronger than I pub it.
But surely the best condemnation of such a belief
would be to cite the particular writings of the
School which have a different tendency. Where
are they ? ‘Oh,’ says ‘ K.,’ ‘ Shelley, Swinburne,
James Thomson, William Mor ’ Hi! stop!
Wbat have these to do with your School ? These
are men who did, and I have already told you that
my little quarrel is with a particular set of men
who don't. This is another of the curious assump-
tions of ‘the School,’ that if you meddle with
them the reputations of Shelley, Swinburne, James
Thomson, William Morris, ‘and many another,’
are endangered !
* * * *
I am further informed that ‘ Mr. Stephens ob-
jects to the “ brutal truth ” primarily because it
“ makes us wretched.” ’ I wish these champions
of the brutal truth would have the brutal truth-
fulness to quote correctly. What Mr. Stephens
objected to was (to give the precise words) ‘ what
they fondly call the “brutal truth,”’ which is a
very different matter. The remark clearly refers
to their subjective view of the truth and their ob-
jective presentment of it, and I freely confess
that the latter does often make me very wretched
indeed. But the cool assumption that ‘ what they
fondly call the “brutal truth”’ and the actual
truth itself are one and the same thing is the worst
instance of its kind I have yet adduced, and the
bigotry exhibited in it is only equalled by that of
the Presbyterian laddie'who declared that his was
the only possible true Church, because God was a
Presbyterian.
• » * *
I am credited, too, with saying that ‘he (the
poet) must (the italics are mine, hut no f the word)
learn to express the most dreadful sentiments in a
pleasant way.’ This also is given in quotation
points, as if literally mine. However, it is not
much of a perversion, to be sure. But suppose,
for the sake of placating ‘ K.,’ I retract and reverse
the precept, and say instead, ‘ The poet must learn
to express unpleasant truths in an unpleasant
way.’ How’s that for an Ars Poetica ?
» * * *
Another misquotation (and there are several
others still). lam quoted as saying that it is the
mission of the poet ‘ to make society worth saving.’
What I said was ‘ to make society more worth
saving.’ There is a mighty difference between
these two versions. But, of course, the passage,
as misquoted, serves the purpose of the lavender-
kid theory.
Just one word more. The whole tenor of ‘K. s
article justifies one in believing that he regards
Art and Truth as things opposed to each other.
Now, telling the truth —the brutal truth, if you
like—the truth as it is, the truth in its full and
proper relations, is a far more difficult Art than
telling lies. The poet can never get away from
Art, try as he likes, and it is stupid even to try.
The art of being artless is the most difficult Art
of all. In fact, none of us can ever tell the truth.
It takes an Infinite mind to do that, and even an
Infinite mind can only do it when speaking to
itself. M oreover —no, there shall be no moreover.
Things are getting too big. Good-bye, ‘K.’
Here’s my hand. Put it there. I wonder which
of us will look the bigger fool to the great critics
at home, if they chance upon the spectacle of this
little tempest. But perhaps you have settled that
question in your mind already. No matter; put
it there again.
In ‘ Aphasia and the Cerebral Speech Mechan-
ism’ (Loud., 1897) Dr. W. Elder, physician to
Leith Hospital, formulates more decided views
regarding the graphic centre of the brain than
those recently referred to. His conclusions from
a study of the whole subject of agraphia are—
1. Tnat agraphia and disorders of writing may
be symptoms of any of the types of Aphasia.
2. That there have been no true agraphias alone
proved by a post-mortem examination to be due
to a destruction of a special graphic centre.
3. That if cases of paralysis of the right hand
be considered as agraphias, then many post-mor-
tems have shown that the centres for the hand are
in the middle of the ascending frontal and ascend-
ing parietal convolutions.
4. That the fact that no authenticated case of
agraphia pure and simple, verified by post-mortem
examination, has been recorded, tends to show
that if there is a graphic centre it is not patho-
logically separable from the centres for the hand.
5. That the cases on record where agraphia re-
mains after return of speech in motor aphasia are
probably due to lesion in the fibres joining the
psycho-motor articulatory centre to the graphic
centre or centres for the hand.
6. That a theoretical study of writing, as well
as a study of mirror-writing, tends strongly to
the conclusion that there is a special graphic
centre in the left cerebral cortex.
* * » *
Mirror-writing is writing that can be read in a
mirror. It is written from right to left instead of
from left to right; and Dr. Elder, as the result of
testing 451 ordinary patients, found that 5.1 per
oent. were mirror-writers with the left hand.
Over the age of 15 no less than 14.73 per cent, of
females, and 3.39 of males, were mirror-writers
with the left hand. Dr. Elder's theory of the
matter is that mirror-writing is precisely what
one would expect if the left hand were guided
entirely from a left cerebral centre, and no advan-
tage were derived from sight ; and his explanation
of the phenomena is highly interesting. It
amounts, in essence, to the affirmation thatowing to
some interdependence between the brain centres
for the hands, it is easier for the hands
to make the same kinds of movements—such
as twirling the thumbs in the same direction
than to make different kinds of movements—such
as twirling the thumbs in opposite directions; and
the muscles which the left hand uses in inirror-
writing are homologous to those which the right-
hand uses in ordinary writing. ‘Patients who,
when they get paralysed on the right side, learn
to write with the left hand, require to call in the
visual centres to guide the'left hand in writing,
and therefore left-hand writing m the. usual form
is directed at first by tin- visual centres. Through
practice, however, the left hand gets more expert
at writing, and a special graphic centre gets
specialised on the right side of the brain for ex-
pert left hand writing, just in the same way as
on the left for expert right-hand writing.’
THE MARSEILLAISE.
(On hearing the Press Band play in the Embankment
Gardens.)
A band a-playing ; a few sooty rods
Of London garden in a foggy cloud;
Mill’s effigy and Forster’s for sole gods;
Pale workmen, a tired crowd.
Oh, but the dullest scene is oftenest rife
With gleams and visions, and that witching power
Which charms the flagging fancies back to life.
So now, at this dead hour,
The drums confer, according to old use,
In low, restrained, yet strangely-stirring ways ;
Then, like armed Pallas from the brain of Zeus,
Leaps forth the Marseillaise !
Song that was framed where my forefather dwelt,
As thrills the Clansman when old pibrochs shrill,
I bred in Saxon schools, I nowise Celt,
To thee I always thrill!
The dark-faoed rabbles of the past arise—
Maenads and beggars in untoward rags,
Exalted faces, fierce ideal eyes,
'Neath a Republic’s flags.
O’er the huge rounded cobbles of the street,
By the gaunt beetling houses, in a throng,
They march and pass with bare but steadfast feet
And mouths rotund in song.
The tocsin shrieks : the kennel underneath
Blackens with blood: there’s blood in dew and rain:
All things are sullied by the crimson death,
Save that august refrain !
You oannot say of fire or tide “ they err,’*
Or predicate of joy and anger shame :
Laughter and tempest are commingled here,
Billows and wrath and flame !
And if to some this Song that greatly comes
Out of the past bring but a tale of wars—
Of sweating horses and of roaring drums,
Sword-strokes and heroes’ scars,
To some it brings, not these, but Man’s old rage
For Truth, Peace, Justice, Life’s augusl er plan,
The poor man’s Hope, the meek man's Heritage—
Not France alone, but Man !
VICTOR PLARR, in The Speaker.
WRITES J. BRUNTON STEPHENS:—
In an article published on The Red
Page of The Bulletin of 2nd October, I took
occasion, while giving my estimate of Boake’s
Poems, to animadvert pretty strongly upon
the methods of a certain number of Australian
poets—l said “too many,” but that does not
neoessarily imply that they are even numeri-
cally formidable—who instead of adding to the
literature of their country by contributions in
the shape of original, positive, independent work,
give themselves up entirely, or almost entirely, to
denouncing this, that, and the other thing, and
complaining of the universe generally—or, as I
expressed it (not very beautifully), who are
‘always on the anti-lay.’ Not that I said, or
implied, that no poet is ever to denounce, no poet
ever to bewail, or even, for that matter, to curse.
What I complained of was the excessive devotion
of the faculties to a form of work the exclusive, or
almost exclusive, cultivation of which is hostile to
original production —and 1 ought to have added
(though I couldn’t possibly guess till now that it
was necessary to do so) that nothing of all I said
was applicable to geniuses, of the first order, who
are a law unto themselves, and to whom no poor
animadversions of mine could possibly have any
relevance.


Medical*
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADINC SPECIALIST) and
K
I
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trustf d
Eriki> bsoi sutt'ei ers
Second to IS cub in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult, these able
.... Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt, 'lbat
they have investigated fui tlier into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SY UNKY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
YOUNG MEN,
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfulness,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r'en.
HHII-181 « OLD 111.
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
MAIL
means
• you
By this
can describe your
i roubles to the
doctors if living
away from the
city and unable
to come to tlieir
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-
tises, NEItVOUS
ANI) PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
I *■
gSilrt!
niMi
r
i
Si
All Trams stop at the Door.
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
hi by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
bt eatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box', 1359.
» Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Rooms.
If we cannot Cure yon, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABoro Physical)-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.It.C.S,, Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention* this Paver
Medical,
Dr. SPEED,
7 York street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
I3T MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send (or the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases. \ 1 ,
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHN'BUR ANTI
nm
m
FULL DIRECTIQUS'
ENCLOSHOf
John Durant's Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Sjpeer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. T York Street* Sydney.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-.
ppropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
ps RICORD's
ISSAiL -JfNiil
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.,
In cases of Vis, or four quantities in one for GGs. Freight
extra. Pamph'ets free on receipt oj stamped addressed
em fgen's for Australasia—Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N.S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt st., Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
New Up-to-Date Publications.
rpHE Soiled Dove, the history of a young lady who ran
away from home and eventually went to the do^s,
also Miss'Skittles, the girl with six husbands ; Sappho, or
Life and Love in Paris, each post free 16. The Ballet-
Girl, her theatrical history, “illustrated,” before and
behind the scenes, post free 1/-. Maria Monk, Ovid s Art
of Love, Byron’s Don Juan, each post tr p p 1,9.
R. W. SKINNER,
, . The Noted Second-Hand Bookseller . •
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
I stories). Is. 3d
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Eooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the baek or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the firsb letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your ease, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your ease, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very puresb
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
are destroyed by fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, Gr.P.O., Sydney.
iting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday,
7 to 9.
ion this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IMRfiOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the ease is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don't
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible. . .
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly cohjidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments,, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable ,
letters an d particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
<ss*
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months afro I wefit from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted ta
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been ' a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
1
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
m
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —■
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : * The only chance you
have is to pro to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who wul
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all 'disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of live different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whatr
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes “ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over ±'2oo
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
pgn
jm
! I
J.l 1» *■ A
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could ne done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76 iuwao.


TATTERS ALLS
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart
SANDHURST C
Nov. 24.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Newcastle Tattersall’s C. Dec. 11.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
SUMMER C. December 27.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
IN ame ,
Address ■
iS 5 *
CARRINGTON S. Jan. 1, 1898.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
ANNIVERSARY H. Jan. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
Name,
shares in the above.
Address.
LAUNCESTON C. February 2.
50,000 StiTbscrilaera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name
Address .
Hobart C. S)th February.
50,000 SOBSCRIB€RS at 5.
To TATT ERSALL.
Please allot me.
Mnves in the above.
Name,
Add ress
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


flnthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
• * •
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ON€!
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USE
Spooler’s
IROYALMAVY DRESSIHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
EOGTS & SHOES
OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
| l ltt.R.h.«li l »iiilll»»l»iltMjS
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING-,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and [Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &o.
P.O. Box ISS, MELBOURNE.
MASON’S STEAM AND WATER REDUCING VALVES.
Sole A r/ents in A ustralia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.
T^TCrrs-TKTBERS.
Please Note New Address :
345 Bourkest., Melbourne; 74 Clarence-st., Sydney,
Prof. DURCOT’S MDSK AL
Speedily produces a luxuria> t growth of
Hairon Smoothest Face or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. The only Rem< dy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d.. Double Size, 10s.
S. D. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
fect i t has been used (.secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
oensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient's knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
k .sealed free. Consultation tree and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Em.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Memo, for would-be Australian warriors
of all nationalities : A Greek society in London
selected volunteers there, and forwarded them to
Athens, for enrollment against the Lurks m the
late belligerent fiasco. In many cases, the wives
and children of these volunteer Greeks tell to
public charity, and were turned over to the work-
house authorities. When the valiant descendants
of Leonidas returned they were promptly billed
by the authorities for the sums expended on their
families, and, wherever the money was not forth-
coming, they were ordered to gaol by the com t».
Those who went wept profusely. Moral: It takes
more bravery to fight the common doorstep-wolt
in esse than a turbaned Turk or other foeman m
poitc.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
DOUBLe'bUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
ner set Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
?os. PARK SADDLESI 58S. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney ,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc. Send for a Catalogue,
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. -The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony ' The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one, (lo so : If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station m the colony.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS »
Tb« aod Largest MtiSic WarebotiS*
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKIEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO defy competition.
WINES Best *&** 0/ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared asa Beautifierof the Ski Complexion.
Or. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED _ _
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
, ineredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
rFEEMikisz
Arseiiicaf loilet' eicelleutd* _S_ HARVEY, 5, Dennum Street, London Bridgc^Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES- >
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
SRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion ol the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD
can he obtained
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
wherever
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Bianc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
musical INSTRUMENTS. . .
« aNOS * h-ke ,
BRASS * 2, each.
BESSON’S
PROTOTYPE” BAND J INSTRUMENTS’ the Ernest in the World
("Sole Aaent for Victoria, Tasmania, South, and West Australia).
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
tv/ttht /ROTTRUE.
THE
* Plum ’
THE
‘ Plum’
/ < FNTLEMEM who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to g've our celebrated Plum
( i Razor a trial This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public,
n \ Sally- to npered? perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
® to the general public. Being practice "
t ,nw the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use tor
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
Single Razor, in
Single Razor, in
strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case 2La.
ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and senTPost FreVto any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland, and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
A Dream Flight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Weary was lof Earth. My body lay,
Its fires turned down and slaked to faintest heat.
My soul went out into the night away
Where wing hath never beat.
The green earth like a marble ’neath me spun ;
The shoreless ether and the island-stars
Rose up before, and sun and mightier sun
Flamed on their chariot bars,
Cleaving the blue abysmal without sound ;
Pressed on my soul I felt the awful seals
Of that vast Cosmos without depth or bound,
Blazing with golden wheels.
I marked Orion’s armour glitter cold,
Where o’er dark bars the milk-white river runs ;
I marked great Sirius flood the heavens with gold,
The sovran of the suns.
All stars grew dim, all suns changed sullen red,
Waned, and went out in that victorious light—
Heaven’s mightiest star swung on a viewless
thread
His mightiest satellite.
And like some storm-tossed pilgrim of the sea,
Who hails the savour of the shore afar,
I felt the challenge and the mystery
Of that majestic star.
The giant planet in the golden stream
Turned all her niassv bulk against the glow,
I watched her storm-blue mountain-turrets gleam
Crowned with unconquered snow ;
And all her table-lands and wooded leas,
And emerald plains through which white rivers
run,
And all the smoke and thunder of her seas
That shout unto the sun ;
And all her marble cities and her towers
That climb the hill or shine through deepmost
brakes,
And all her dazzling valleys, soft with flowers,
And all her silver lakes ;
And, lastly, with a strange new majesty,
The face of man did pass before me there,
King of the Earth, and Victor of the Sea,
And Lord of all the Air ;
Whose fleets have lit the caverns of the deep,
Whose wings have breasted all the winds that
blow,
And flashed his signal from his airy keep
To worlds above, below.
On the faint limit of the air to north,
On utmost marge of that gigantic girth,
The grey-haired Warden of the sky looked forth
And called : “What news of earth ? ”
“ Ah, woe is me ! ” I said, “ that T should bring
To this fair orb the shadow of my pain ;
The earth is full of toil and suffering,
And the fierce lust of gain.
“ The earth is full of travail and unrest,
And hearts grown old and weary ere their time,
And shameful yokes upon men’s necks are prest
That some may ride sublime.
“ They love the foot that spurns them. Let them be
Slaves to a conquering name or flattering breath.
Heroes have sought to teach them to be free,
And their reward was death.
“ The salt of earth—the blood that loved them
best,
Out of the ground it cries that all may hear,
From the dark cross on sullen Calvary’s crest
To Bruno’s flaming bier.
“They gave to Socrates the poisoned bowl,
They closed Hypatia's noble eyes with fire,
They drove proud Dante forth, an exiled soul
Reft of his heart’s desire ;
“ The Spaniard laid an Empire at their feet
And died despised. In chains Italia’s sage,
Great Galileo, at their judgment seat
Knelt in his hoary age.
“ The cell, the cross, the gibbet, and the chain
Thus have ye crowned, O World, your mighty
sons !
The Earth is drunken with the blood and pain
Of all her noblest ones.”
Then answered he, and o’er his face there shone
A sudden rapture, as the lightning breath
Of some strong thought that quickens and is gone,
Yet bids us smile on death.
“By what strange guidance of the central power
Thy soul draws near I know not, but I know
All that has crowned with joy this world of ours
Was won through bitter woe.
“ Out of the hearts’ blood of the hero few,
Out of the lonely strength that scorned to flee,
Out of the sorrow of the souls that knew,
We made the world you see.
“We too, have swung the mighty orbit round,
Chained by the toils that hold ye bound to day,
When all men’s eyes were fixed upon the ground,
And no man saw the way.
“ Yet was the germ within us, and the power
Of that great Unseen Truth to which we draw,
That from the seed may come the perfect flower
To crown the perfect law.
“ The white suns sail the waveless seas of Space,
Where once their bulk was but a starry flow,
Down the long curves each System keeps its place
Around some mightier glow.
“ From less to greater, through the scale of change,
All things ascend in their appointed time.
Who shall adjudge to Man the utmost range
His thoughts may climb ? ”
GEO. ESSEX EVANS.


Australia!) Ho tea I
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established * * \'\ « | ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Thirteen and Tnree-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1596 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £425,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is roost
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night —advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
DATES:
12'6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
n. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
CIGARS FREE
llliliflii
mOP 3? IN THE SLOTVI
mm
mill!
mf
A New biiipmeni ot
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
er machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Jo.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
RUSEROID gg ROOF|m
/a
/
c<
4
L_
v,a
cjo
R*3
:ar?d
J
J
1
s
v
x
■gT damp-gou'rse. BU p a d '-
AGENTS E.Rich&C924&26o’Conneu.St SYDNEY. ER "
Mg
Srery Variety of
TEA |
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson
257 George Street, Sydney.
SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Summer Suita!
Summer Suits!
~~ *♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Tl)€ Lofydoi) & Tailoring Co.
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have one of the Largest and most Varied Stock of SUMMER SUITINGS in the City.
Call or send for Patterns and Measurement Forms.
** SUI PS—45/-, 50/- to 90/- TROU3ERS-12/6 to 25/- tb*
PERFECT FIT OVAU^rZ *’"*
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH EltOM £1 is. A SET,
The London Dental Institute,
f>B King-streefc ( Sydney (only).
DR. §. LEVER,
Graduate in i>eiit&l Surgery
attd Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
fpHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised ih
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dehtai Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, ahd Porcelain; als'6
Without bif MtertMs 'of livid//eii'or];.
Gold and Other Stopping's. Gold and Porcelain Crowhs.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to. fit ahy mouth With Teeth, no matter
how difficult, With or Without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM PEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 Kins -st., Svdney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
MELBOURNE CUP
VISITORS should STAY AT
FEDERAL PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining 1 Rooms; and Caf6 open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOR
Farmer's Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Asrents N.S.W.),
472 Georye-.street* SYDNEY.
eECOND-H/VND
AVI)
TVjf EYV FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FftOM US AND
.SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best,
quality at fully 50 per cent; less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO ,
278 Georjre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
Telephone 1023.
— ■— Public Companies.
Insure with an
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL IFIRE
insurance company, ltd.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offiee.fi :05 I*iff St., Sydney
Chairman : The H ,n. John See, M.P,
Victorian Brahe!) !
Empire nniidl„f}s, 4id VniUnx Sired,
MELBOURNE:
RoBSrT A. Barton, Local Mahager,
AL *-|, F^ OS IN AUSTRALIA
RATES LoVVesL SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Loss3s Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
£3T INSURERS SHARf in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BO'US PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of po’ieies. The BONUS
makes £917,Y63, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years*
Fire Insurance at Lowest Hates,
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KELSO KINO, Secretary,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith,
Resident Secretary : A. Ross MittEß,
Funds exceed ) 2,000,000,
Policies issued, 73.1,72 -assuring £23,075,820,
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and Without restriction as t@
travelling-. Libera! Bonuses—equitably distributed,
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager,
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. I Ad, of it.
fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. taahilty.
Accidents, Jyphoid, Diphtheria, elc;
W. M‘MiLLAN\ M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E; It. PeAchry, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. CtYNE ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
FARQtJHAR. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. o. IHIIjIDIRIDG-lE] & CO..
DYEIiS & CLEANERS,
40 YOlilv .STItMiOT, SYDX3OY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by yost rum all the colonies prom,■tin
attended to .
80 Toos rijore Imported Leaf
tljao all the other Tobacco
Factories Pat Together
were used by DXXSOH & SOWS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of BilfSOn’s
Brands. I) IXBON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
tiling made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT. lor the SIX MONTHS
CbanjpioQ-
The 0 loicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Coi)q(i?ror.
New and Old The Work in grnan’s Choice.^
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Dark Plug and Twist.
)orted). The Club Favorite
Poth'diilds.
*! p onopo!e >
JSoUcIUZBi —4 Havana and American Cigai
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Toleacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 926.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1897.
Price, 6d.
*P Q
"
v-
( “BACK FROM THE CUP.”
- f “ S S“ e ° pini ? ns b ? Car dinal Moran. The Melbourne Cup a national
_„A‘ romotes harmony and union among citizens. The Cardinal’s sym-J
. y 1 ederation. *lt baa become a national feast, and these
national feasts always tend to pro-
mote harmony and union among all
citizens. It is a sigh to a certain ex-
. tent also of the great prosperity of
a country, and must in some way lend -
itself to promote that Federation of "
desire’"™ 9 Whkh we 80 “uoh =
JACOB’S LADDER.
(The elections are very close now.-)
NEW LABOR LEGISLATION, _
As has already been announced, the Mims-,
ter for Labor and Industry has three bills
in hand to deal with trades conciliation 'andi
arbitration, the early closing of shops and factories,
and the inspection of land boilers. (Same old bill.)
IS 3, THERE* NO'ONE TO SHOW HIM THE * WAY ?
In the wilderness and with such a heavy load
A MELANGE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia fov the Austvaliaus•
and Published by William Macleod of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... % m 6
Half-yearly ... 0 6 6
Quarterly...
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added where requued
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Me,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian pi °»ince,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you ever y
Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Maclf.od, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. i •
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, m
any other part of the contents of this number, istmeby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
•Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable.;,
Paragraphs , Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie (Bulletin will return (ill unsuitable Mo. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
twe are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Jilacle and 111 life.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
■other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.— R A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street. Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :-F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Flu. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
■ Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Lntervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be. £1 6s. 6d, per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1897.
A Matter of Mere Sentiment.
Graham Berry is old ; Graham Berry is
feeble ; Graham Berry is poor. It is 75
years since be was born, 45 years since he
landed in Victoria. Of the vigorous writer,
the stirring agitator, the enthusiastic poli-
tician of the sixties and seventies, there now
remains only the empty husk. Graham
Berry’s career is over ; he is no longer of
any use to the Victorian democracy, and at
the recent general elections the Victorian
democracy threw him away like an old shoe.
* * * *
And all the logic, all the reasonableness,
is on the side of the Victorian democracy.
Not only is Graham Berry old and useless :
he is even noxious. Advancing feebleness
of body has brought feebleness of mind in
its train ; and Graham Berry to-day is no
longer the staunch Democrat of old. He
looks and talks like a typical Tory ; opposes
reform ; upholds abuse ; and shakes a dismal
grey head over the prospects of a country
which passes strict factory-legislation and
establishes a minimum wage. How much
changed from the Hector we knew of old !
' • * * *
There was a Man ! The young generation
never knew him ; but there was a Man!
Protection ; payment of members ; a land-
tax for land-monopolists ; —he was foremost
in the fight for all these, when the Tory
oligarchy was far more powerful than now.
It was Graham Berry who advocated the
first Australian referendum, in the plebiscite
through which he wished to make the Vic-
torian Upper House bow to the national will.
It was Graham Berry who, year after year,
struggled to break down the privileges of
that Upper House—still the most obstinately
Conservative in Australasia. Imagine what
it was before Berry’s Reform Act reduced
the money-qualification for voting and mem-
bership ! For* 25 years, as journalist and
politician, he did all that in him lay to pro-
mote Liberal measures ahd establish a Liberal
policy. No man was so feared by the
squatting and importing rings ; no man
Wrested from them so much of the power
which they used to obstruct progress
and to plunder tbe people. And now the
veteran lags superfluous on the stage, his
mantle torn, all his fripperies faded, unable
to mumble a word of the part which once
won him welkin-shattering applause —and is
hissed by the young Victorian democracy.
* * * *
And all the logic, all the reasonableness,
is on the side of the Victorian democracy.
If Graham Berry gave himself without stint
in the service of Victoria, he gave himself
because it suited him, because it paid him.
The country owes him nothing. Politics—
that was his metier :he liked powet and to
wield power ; he loved combat and to be
victorious in combat; he has had his cheers,
and his incense, and bis Salary as he went
along. It is true that Cheers and incense are
like the west wind for filling and sustaining
a man ■; that for every pound of Australian
political Salary there are ten —twenty —a
hundred beggars ; and some of them can
show a substantial claim, many of them a
claim which it is practically impossible to
disregard. Nevertheless, Graham Berry
deliberately valued the game and the candle,
and decided that the game was worth the
candle. The rules of the game were clear :
if he was not satisfied with the reward of
politics why did he enter politics ? Why
was he not content to stay by his news-
paper ? Decidedly, the country owes him
nothing.
Besides, if, as some suggest, the Victorian
Democratic party should pension Graham
Berry because he was a good Democrat, and
because it has at present command of the
country’s cash, then the Tory party, when in
the natural course of things it succeeds to
power, will have an admirable precedent for
pensioning Gillies, because he was a good
Tory, and good Tories will have command of
the country’s cash. From the Tory point of
view, Gillies has been just as good a ser-
vant of his country as Berry from the Demo-
cratic point of view. If Berry, why not
Gillies 1 and if Gillies, why not Tom Bent 1
and if Tom Bent, why not—well, why not
Matthew Davies ? There is no political
system more subject to abuse than the pen-
sion system ; and every fresh pension-prece-
dent created —no matter with what good
excuses or what excellent intentions —is
liable to bear fruit in a host of bad practices.
* * * *
On the other hand, Graham Berry’s case
should be judged on its merits, irrespective
of what went before or what may come after.
If Victoria owes Berry a pension from a
Democratic point of view—or if, without
admitting a debt, it grants the expediency
of the favor—then Berry should get his
pension, and the shadow of the coming
Gillies has nothing to do with the case.
Yet, again, you cannot consider any political
act fairly without looking to its probable
consequences to the country. When Berry
gets his pension the matter indeed ends so
far as he is concerned, but it does not end so
far as the country is concerned ; and the
country has a right to consider itself first.
So for every pro there comes a con ; to
every argument there is a more effective
counter-argument. And the age of chivalry
is gone : your young Democrat is a sophist,
an economist, and a calculator, and he mea-
sures out his gratitude on a strictly cash basis.
» * * *
He is quite right : gratitude and the need
of it are myths nowadays exploded. There
is not an altruistic emotion which is not con-
ceived and nourished by the purest egoism.
The mother who sacrifices herself for her
child, the patriot who gives his life for his
country, the individual who throws himself
beneath the iron wheels of an idea—what
are these but egoists seeking each the satis-
faction of personal cravings, most selfish
when to the common eye they appear most
unselfish ? All the logic, all the reasonable-
ness, are on the side of the young Victorian
democracy. And yet
* * * *
You may consider Graham Berry, if you
choose, not in relation to what he was, but
in relation to what he did : not in relation
to what he earned from the country, but in
relation to what he saved for the country.
And, so considered, Victoria’s debt to Gra-
ham Berry can never be paid. Paid for his
time he was, indeed ; but Graham Berry
was never paid for his services. As member,
Minister, Agent-General, and Speaker, he
has drawn from the Treasury many thou-
sands of pounds—possibly much more than
he could have earned out of politics ; but
how many millions of pounds was Graham
Berry worth to Victoria as a Democratic
Force, a Samson who shook the pillars of the
Tory temple and brought many a time-dis-
honored fetish thundering to the ground ?
Granted that Berry merely did his duty by
the Victorian democracy, and that for doing
his duty he was fully paid on a liberal
scale and on well-understood terms, can any
democracy afford to sell to the knackers the
old war-horse who no longer keeps pace
with the young colts, whose worn-out temper
is no longer trustworthy 1 The Bulletin
admits that many very potent arguments
plead in favor of the knackers, and that it is
clear loss to maintain old servants who are
far past service. It is a matter of mere
sentiment. Graham Berry was Graham
Berry. And Graham Berry is poor ;
Graham Berry is feeble ; Graham Berry
is old.
Compensations of the Crapulous.
Protracted practice and a predisposition to
aqueous delirium tremens have enabled the luiid
professional “temperance 1 ' apostle with the
rolling eye, raucous voice and mouth, to paint
in a sufficiently blood-curdling manner the
pains, penalties, and tortures which, he alleges,
are the inheritance here and hereafter of the
dipsomauiacal child of wrath. Put the herald
of the glad tidings of the water-tap is severely
silent concerning the drunkard’s compensations
—those agreeables of his condition which
temper the severity of his jim-jams and assist
him to bear up under the snakes., sCObpions,
and pea-green hyenas which hover about his
bed and board. Silent, chiefly, because these
pleasantnesses are not in the humid missionary s
brief; partly, because nature, art, and a
water - logged brain unfit him to view
more than one side of a subject -and
that crossjack - eyed. There is no chiaro-
osouro in the great teetotal portrait of the
unmitigated boozer. It is all obscure. Of
course, when the arid sinner turneth away from
his wickedness that he hath committed, and
doetli that which is lawful and right —and re-
deems his Sabbath coat, Waterbury, and the
ancestral blankets, and puts the price of “deep-
sinkers ” of hell-wort into the apostle s collec-
tion-plate and wears a renovated shirt, and, on
his nose, a less vivid magenta —-he shall save
his soul alive. Otherwise lie is, according to
temperance logic, doomed to unceasing torment
here and to eternal wrestle with the undying
worm in the bitter by-and-by.
* * * *
The writer, however, desires to show that
the hardshell toper has, speaking generally, a
far more gaudy time here than either moderate
drinker or total abstainer. The argument may
be succinctly started with the proposition that
nearly everybody thinks inconceivably more of
the average drunkard than of the average
person who refrains from wallowing in fusel
oil, who never pervades the district, mad, with
straws in his hair, and never hunts his kindred,
simply attired in a tomahawk and uncorked
bottle of sudden death. Take any two men of
the same trade, profession, or calling, of equal
natural mental calibre and original attainments,
the one intemperate the other temperate, and
what will, as a rule, be the verdict of their
contemporaries ? Ninety-nine per cent, of the
persons who know both will aver the drunkard
is a genius of heaviest tonnage and the tern*
perate man a painful mediocrity. They may
neither, or may both, be men of exceptional
talent. If both are without ability, many will
still contend for the genius of the tippler,
accounting for its non-manifestation by the
man’s “ unfortunate ” inebriety. If both are
naturally gifted, rum will add triple lustre to
the drunkard’s large-sized halo. Who has not
had his attention directed to some barnacle-
encrusted derelict, with awful hair protruding
through appal ling hat, with sockless, un laved toes
writhing among the gaps of detestable remnants
of dust heap boots, with trousers deep bitten
at the heel by mire and stone, with eyes blood-
shot and bulged as octopus eyes, and with
breath more deadly than was breathed in the
faces of Sennacherib’s host ? And who, on
such occasions, has not listened to some such
hoary lying legend as—“See that man?—
cleverest lawyer” (or liar, or butcher, or
journalist, medico, policeman, or something) “in
Sydney ! —toonderful fellow ?—drink, you know ;
yes, drink ! — might have been anything—any-
thing ’.—perfect genius ! ” And who that has
ever taken to verify the myth has not dis-
covered that the allegedly-gifted two-legged
swill-tub has, at best, shown only the most
intermittent symptoms of cleverness? Who,
pursuing research, has not found that there
are at least several men in the glorified grog-
guzzler’s own line, with twice his intellect, and
scores with 10 times his power of concen-
tration and industry, who have absolutely
no glittering reputation at all? Surely,
here is one compensation for any little
inconvenience experienced by the drunkard
when green-eyed cats with mauve eyebrows
caterwaul upon his chest, and tarantulas large
as lobsters toy, the long nig jit through, with his
amaranthine whiskers !
* * * V
But mere effulgence of reputation, however
glorious and gratifying, like the soft word,
“ butters no parsnips.” More tangible com-
pensations are, however, showered upon the
crapulous hero. Let a man bear a life-long
reputation for temperance, and, in his maturer
years, but once look, in public and ostentatious
manner, upon the rum when it is red, and, un-
less he be a member of Parliament, a teetotal-
lecturer, or of independent position, his fate
will be as surely sealed as that of the woman
detected in her first sexual faux pas. He may
plead of his first drunk—as pled the girl of her
initiatory illicit baby—that it was “a very
small one,” but Society, ever pining to
heave half-bricks at good reputations, dooms
him and downs him. And though he may
for many subsequent weary years abdominally
collect the snowballs of frigid abstinence,
neither society, employers, nor friends will
ever forget or forgive, and the wife of his
bosom will awake him on the night of his
golden wedding to remind him he “ made a
beast” of himself 45 years before.
* * * *
How vastly different the soaker’s fate ! What
sympathy he evokes when he sells the family
bric-a-brac, the fire-irons, and the bed from
under his wife to afford funds for the royalest
variety of paralytic burst ! His employer, if
he have one, under dominance of the glandered
legend referred to, forgives him not seven but
seventy times seven times. And even when
the wreck has lit his pipe with the ledger, and
been unwell in the safe he w r as trying to rob,
and has permanently vitiated the atmosphere
of the office with mingled odors of a decom-
posed Chinaman and a three-penny bar when
first opened on a Monday morning, and has
stolen the petty cash, his employer generally
refrains from prosecuting, contenting himself
with idiotic gurgles about the “accursed
drink,’ and maudlin reflections about the tradi-
tional “genius” of that animate colonial “purge”
pail when it was sober, which was possibly
once in 20 times, and not then.
And when one philanthropist leaves the
creature grovelling in the gutter, another picks
him up and starts, with unreasoning faith, the
sisyphian task of rolling a temporarily sorry
soaker up the hill of sobriety. And even
women, good, pure women, will essay the
repugnant labor of reform, will succour, bear
with, and weep over the unregenerate sot; will
triumphantly exhibit him as a brand snatched
from the burning, when he happens to suffer a
spasm of sobriety, and, when he goes on the
familiar razzle dazzle, will lavfe his miasmatic
brow and nurse him until lie is sufficiently
recovered logo on another whooping gin-craw 1.
But the temperate man who falls upon evil days
and sickness may, as a broad rule, cure himself,
because he, not being a genius in disguise—dis-
guised by liquor, that is—fails to interest the
philanthropists of either sex who like sensation
in theirs.
* * * *
And when this gilt-edged drunkard dies the
chances are he is more sincerely mourned than
many hundred-weight of just men, and that his
family, rejoicing over his release and theirs,
will have to return more “ thanks to kind
friends who sent cards, telegrams, letters of
condolence, wreaths, floral offerings, and ex-
pressions of sympathy ” than if the defunct
boozer had been many kinds of a cast-iron saint
or only an honest, hard worker unaccustomed
to delicious triangles and gravel-rash. Also it
is possible much marble will be heaped above
him to keep him down and obviate the danger
of firing the cemetery fences should he spon-
taneously combust.
» * * *
So much for the compensations of the crapu-
lous here. If, in the hereafter, there be per-
sonal continuance, and, as logical corollary, re-
membrance, there must also be, Unless miracles
intervene, a continuance of personal idiosyn-
crasy, Therefore, presuming that hereafter as
now “the gods are just, and of our pleasant
vices make instruments to plagUeus,” the drun-
kard will even then Snatch Compensations un-
known—for he can be speechlessly drunk, with
no necessity for sobering up through the endless
cycles of eternity. And we may be moderately
certain that his reputation will precede him,
and that the ghouls of Gehenna will think a
great deal of him, and murmur to strangers t
“ Might have had any position in Paradise life
liked if he’d only kept sober !—quite a genius 1
—a devil of a genius 1 ’*
♦ * * *
Nothing here set down is intended to convey
that the drunkard should not be picked up, and
patched, and mended, and soldered, and re-
hooped, and rescued generally, if possible.
Also, it is not affirmed that the State,
which connives at his intemperance, should
not connive at his real reformation by putting
him in a State asylum, and, while there, mak-
ing him work for his family, and scientifically
treating him for a “sin” which is really, mostly,
a disease. And nothing is here urged against
the State softly smothering the patient if proved
to be incurable. The sole object of this article
is to solemnly and seriously protest against
Society giving the drunkard a reputation for
genius which be seldom, if ever, deserves, and
giving him also a thousand chances while giving
the sober man of equal or superior ability only
one, and very seldom that.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tasmania on Toast.
The folks in the Island of Bad Dreams are
finding the bars of the railway gridirons quite
hot enough for comfort. A meeting of Hobart
citizens, prompted by the Railway League
which represents the Great Western Syndicate,
resolved, the other night, to call upon Fysh to
resign the Treasurership of the province in
order to burst the Braddon administration
into little bits and, incidentally, save the grid-
ironed honor of Van Dobson Laud. Apart
from the fact that Fysh will probably see the
Railway League “ further ” before voluntarily
throwing up his billet, the absurdity of the re-
quest strikes outsiders as ludicrous —even for
Tasmania. Fysh is member for Hobart in the
Assembly, and it is quite within the province
of his constituents to ask him to resign his seat
if he misbehaves himself; but to ask him to
resign the Treasury billet while retaining bis
seat in the House at once brands Hobart as the
possessor of the most stupendous cheek ever
owned by any single constituency. A parallel
case would be for the electors of King Division
to call upon Reid to resign the Premier-
ship of N.S. Wales and burst up the
GoD-fearing Ministry because it proposed
to build another bridge at Monkey, instead of
one to North Shore. Moreover, Fysh, unlike
Attorney-General Clark, who left the Ministry
because his professional feelings were piqued,
has no quarrel with his colleagues, and has no
constitutional shadow of excuse to rat on them.
Yet, virtually, the Hobart meeting requests
Fysh to blackleg on his mates. The Bulletin
doesn’t particularly admire Fysh, and looks
upon Tas. politicians generally as a somewhat
hopeless batch; but to expect Fysh to
sacrifice the remaining shreds of his personal
and political reputation at the behest of a cor-
morantic railway syndicate, is to place him far
below even this paper’s estimate of Tasmania’s
elongated figure of speech. Meanwhile, the
embroglio is just as tangled as ever. Though
both syndicates are undoubtedly “on the
make,” the Great Western crowd is the chief
sin-dictator. The Emu Bay co. has made some
sort of a start at its railway, and looks fairly
in earnest; the Great Western spent so much
time in hawking its concessions about before it
found buyers in the Baker - Rymill - Elder
crowd that it has now less than seven
months wherein to float in London and
make a start at construction works genuine
enough to secure a refund of its £lO,OOO
deposits. As experts say the business cannot
possibly be done in the time, it is only reason-
able to infer that a Supreme Court dividend is
hoped for. Great Western agents are under-
stood to have a writ ready to serve on the
Government which allows any other syndicate
to come within 10 miles of their terminus at
Mt. Lyell ; the Northern end of the island


“The Respectable Press and the Re-
spectable Child-Plogger.”—A Correc-
tion.
With reference to an article under this heading
published in The Bulletin of 6th November,
dealing with a case heard at Narandera (N.S. W.)
Police-court on Oct. 21 and 22, it has been
pointed out that a paragraph did appear
reporting this case in the Sydney Morning
Herald of Oct. 26. It was, therefore, untrue
and misleading to say “ the Herald up to date
of writing, Oct. 30, suppressed all mention ” of
the case.~ The Bulletin is glad to have been
shown its error, and sincerely regrets that the
Herald should have been in any way misre-
presented in these columns.
The reason why N.S. Wales was not re-
presented at Hercules Robinson’s funeral is that
baronet Dan Cooper, the acting Agent-Oeneral
(who for a year is keeping the billet warm for
Premier Reid or his nominee) is very old and
very rich and gets no official pay, and forgot^all
about the deceased ever having been in N.S.
Wales. In fact, Dan Cooper now forgets (except,
at remittance-time) that he himself was ever u>
Australia.
threatens tp rise up and! sm'ite the Government
if the Emu Bay co. is pot allowed to tap Mh
Lyell; while the South threatens ditto ori
behalf of the Great Western, and asks I YSH to
blackleg on Braddon. To further complicate
matters, the general manager of railways goes
straight for the extension of the State railway-
system, and reports adversely on all syn< iea e
proposals. It certainly is a pretty kettle o
fish, and Chaos is King in the Land of Sleep.
Under all the circumstances, it is not to be won-
dered at that Tasmania slumbers uneasily ancl
requests Fysh to go and fry himself.
Now that N.S.W. Public Works Committee is
blitting the finishing touches on its report upon
the new Houses of Parliament the public
should bear in mind that the Government
possesses authority to incur expenditure on
account of that structure as soon as the design
is approved. Under a Loan Act of Gov.
CarlnGton’s day £lOO,OOO was set aside towards
the erection of new Houses, and that sum is
still available for its original use. Bibbs and
Parkes had fads for big Houses, and this new
Parliamentary stfuctitre overshadows ill the
same way the Heid intellect, arid with
an approved design and rrtoney. available
a start might be made with the £lOO,OOO 1
hopes that the remaining million or so would
then have to follow. If Parliament takes the
report as an abstract thing and lets it throng 1,
the country will be at the mercy of the Minis-
try, or in reality of Premier Reid. And if new
Parliament Houses on the colossal scale repre-
sented be approved and begun in or about
Sydney, will they not amount to a sinister mti-
mation to Australia that the Federal Par-
liament will be expected to assemble under
their roof? 'What is this but the erec-
tion of a fresh obstruction on the road to
Federation ? Can the provinces be expected to
sit down to a discussion as to where the
Federal capital shall be if one of them prac-
tically postulates that it shall be in a particular
place ? The decision of the Leg. Assembly the
other night, raising the N.S.W. approving vote
from 50,000 to 80,000, pointed in a certain
direction. Many of that same body of mem-
bers will, still looking in the same direction,
see that their object will be well helped by
indulging Premier Reid’s fad.
As a sample of what the N.S.W. Protectionist
cause has to endure, and a complete exposition
of the self-advertising method of getting
on in the world, it would be impossible to
beat the manifesto lately printed to his own
honor and glory by “ Alderman I. Reginald
Cohen,” a well-known Sydney money-lender,
announced as “ the selected Protectionist can-
didate for the Annandale seat at next Parlia-
mentary election.” This is the modest and
unassuming person who, at 17 —presumably
quoting from himself—“ launched on the path,
of fiction,” and who, 14 years later, published
a novel “ to which one journal referred as much
approaching the earlier works of Disraeli
but which began its outrages upon common
grammar in the very first sentence. “In 1896
he removed to Annandale, where his fame had
preceded him ” —from the loan-office—and at a
recent civic function of that municipality he
“ delivered a speech on the Press which was
alluded to by the Leader (Balmain Leader)
as one only heard once in a hundred years
thank Heaven ! I. Reginald C. also takes—
still presumably quoting from I. Reginald C.
“a deep interest in music, and is a student
of the violin, on which instrument his
son is regarded as a coming player, and
“amongst his other studies ” —by way of hors
d'eeuvre, as it were —-“ he has applied himself
to veterinary medicine — and, although not
adopting such avocation professionally, liis ad-
vice is frequently sought. . . Alderman Cohen
is now engaged in writing a psychological
work,” and “ amongst the various positions held
by Mr. Cohen are as follows :
Alderman of Annandale (and on the By-Law, Lighting,
and several occasional Committees), Secretary of the
Annandale Protection Union on the Printing, Central,
and Executive Committees of the National Protection
Union, President of the Leichhardt Homing Pigeon Club,
President of the Annandale Borough Cricket Club Piesi-
dent of the Rose of Annandale U.A.O D Cricket Club,
Vice-President of the Annandale Cricket Club, Vice-
President of the Leichhardt District Cricket Club Vice-
President of the Annandale Bowling Club, on the Adiusory
Committee of the Ladies’ Benevolent Society, A loe-Presi-
dent of the Annandale Orpheus Club, and Sitting Primo
of the Sir Henry Priestly R.A.0.8. Lodge.
Which rivals the glories of Frank Farnell!
What a fool was he who wrote that “ the world
knows nothing of its greatest men !
In combating the notion—strictly enforced in
England, by the way—that a Judge’s relatives
should not be allowed to practise before him,
the S.M. Herald refers to a Judge as a
person whom the State “ takes away from a
lucrative practice, to place him in a post of ease
and comfort, where 16 hours’ work a day is
probably the longest he is called upon to do.
But there is another side to the question. A
Supreme Court Judge in N.S.W. is a (never
young) personage who —besides being saddled
from the hour of his appointment with the dis-
tressing knowledge that his disablement from
duty will at any moment secure him, for the
rest of his days, the paltry pittance of about
£36 a week—has further to struggle with exist-
ence upon a miserable present stipend of £5O
a week—£6s, or so, in the case of the Chief-
Justiceship, with a commensurate retiling
allowance, claimable, like those of the puisne
Judges, at the end of 15 years’ service, or im-
mediately upon previous incapacitation from
duty. And few indeed are the barristers
whose “ lucrative practice ” pans out anything
like £3OOO a-year—to say nothing of the cer-
tainty of continuance, and the security of
future provision, which pretty well double the
nominal value of an unfortunate Judge’s screw.
An autobiography is not necessarily a full and
complete confession. The author, like the
Presbyterian divine, is understood to exercise
his right of reservation. But when a man
deals with well-known historical facts, and
dishes them up to suit his own glorification, he
gets into the domain of cheek. And that is
what Charles Gavan Duffy does in a series
of articles now appearing in the Freeman’s
Journal (Dublin) under the heading of “ My
Life in Two Hemispheres.” Mr. Duffy is an
adept in the art of setting upon t/tjier people’J
shoulders the burden of blame which should
test upon his own. And, according o ,
there was only one person in the early days o
Si", tionafGflv.fnm.mt, in Victor,..worth,
rap’. He jibes and sheers at men like OS HAS ass
as P icmorarit 6?, Parliamentary form and
practice. He tells vvfth gusto hoW he com-
pelled burly .Tagit (o’ back dowti met a
miserable matter of Hturfnpg thahfcs OH
behalf of Parliament and the Municipal
oil a t one go. Well, there are thosO Viho
lived in the davs Duffy writes about, and who
remember how that tricky, sinuous gentleman
intrigued, not for the country or the Liberal
cause, but for his own and his friends mteiests.
He strove his best to induce Cashel Hoey an
others of his political clan, in the old country,
to come out to Victoria and be provided tor
He sickened Wilson Gray (who was a true
man, and therefore had to go under) w th l. s
nestilent intrigues and conspiracies in the al-
feged DemocraUc cause. He sold Democracy
even as he declared to the people, in bis memor-
able speech and alto screech, that e
have no Lord but the Lord on High 1 Ann
he milked the cow to the extent ot thousands
hi salaries, and a pension of £lOOO a year, wine
he draws even now. Right through this ho tus
siectis of reriviniscence We discover that, unto
this last,- GavAn Duffy remains vain, egotistic,
intolerant, and necessarily UHsctupnlotts,
♦
Dear Bulletin,—! have seen a Melbourne
suburban policeman making an arrest, and
wish to describe that arrest for the enlighten-
ment and edification of policemen m general.
The street is deserted, saving for the victim and
constable O’Hooligan O’Halligan. lhe vic-
tim is in a condition of baby drunk and at
peace with mankind and all the animals ; he is
delivering a non-partisan speech to a paling-
fence. Suddenly O’Halligan swoops, grip-
ping his victim by the collar, with huge
knuckles digging into the back of Ins nee .
“Come, move on, will yeh ? cries tie
officer of the law, giving the man s collar a
twist that makes his tongue shoot out ridicu-
lously and his eyes goggle like bubbles in a
washtub. The victim chokes, and struggles
for life and air. “Oh, yeh won d
go, won’d yeh ? ” cries O’Halligan, and
then begins a ferocious struggle in which the
amiable drunk acts the part of a spineless
dummy. O’Halligan goes down pulling the
drunk atop of him, then he rolls over lus
prisoner, and his prisoner rolls over lnm, and
they continue rolling, the desperate encounter
reminding one of Whitburn’s life-aud-death
fight with a man of straw'. Presently the brave
officer lets up, flushed, dusty, and bedraggled,
and bears his prisoner off in triumph, taking
with him evidence of a gory battle. Later 1
read in the local paper of the heroic conduct ot
O’Hooligan O’Halligan in arresting a drunken
ruffian after a desperate struggle, and of the
proper punishment of the “ruffian” for drunken
and disorderly conduct, insulting behaviour,
resisting the policeman, assaulting the same,
and tearing me uniform.—S.S. *
Isn’t this something like the philosophy of the
well-established tendency of the Ezekiels, and
Jedediaiis, and Ebenezers, et hoc, towards
brutal sexual offences? The parents who in-
flict such labels on their progeny are mostly ot a
mental and moral tvpe in tune with the brutal
fanaticism of early Bible times—whose predomi-
nating affinities are with so-called religion of
the kill-the-man-and-dishonor-the- woman type,
but whose tendencies—in further transmission
to offspring more liberally-nourished and more
sensuously environed —develop more along the
line of sex than of slaughter. Natural religion
means reasonable self-restraint; doctrine is fust
cousin to cruelty and lust.
By some curious kink in the legal mind the re-
tail publican is always held responsible for the
quality of his liquors, even though he proves
that he bought them in all good faith, and sold
them in the same condition as when they were
received ; while the wholesale man, who traded
off the objectionable stuff to him, goes free.
For instance, a Melbourne publican was hauled
up lately for “ falsely applying a trade descrip-
tion to"a bottle of rum,” the said falsehood
be in" that he said the rum was Jamaica, while
the Customs rum-expert and connoisseur in
schnapps alleged that it wasn’t. Then the
wholesale dealer was called :
The merchant from whom the rum was bought deposed
that he was agent for a London firm, who, he believed,
imported the rum from Jamaica. Rum was made in the
islands of the West Indies, but was exported from Jamaica
in different qualities, though they all bore the name of
“ Jamaica.”
Then the publican was fined <£l and £2 costs
for deceiving the community, and nothing was
said about prosecuting the wholesale man who,
if there wasanv deception, had plainly deceived
the publican. Yet, as the person who deceived
the wholesale man was beyond the jurisdiction
of the court, evidently the said wholesaler was
the first responsible person within reach and
the one who ought to be fined. If the importer
deceives the licensed victualler, and the licensed
victualler unconsciously deceives the public,
and the public unconsciously deceives its own
stomach, it is impossible to see wherein lies the
justice of fixing the responsibility on the mare
intermediary. Probably the explanation is
that the importer is mostly in Parliament,
while the retail publican isn’t. So the im-
porter makes the laws under which he can sell
anything he pleases with impunity.
Lady Windeyer’s suggestion to London Daily
Chronicle of the necessity tor a law to prevent
libelling the dead involves a confusion of ideas
under which her late husband certainly didn t
labor. Not only is J udge Windeyer not being
libelled, dead—he was never libelled, living.
Hi 3 private character was never for a moment
aspersed, and not even the fiercest assailant of
his glaring maladministration of his elevated
function ever hinted that he was not act-
ing honestly according to his lights and
doing what, unfortunately, he considered
most in accordance with the interests
of justice. The wide distinction herein in
volved was probably the only consideration
which could have induced Judge Windeyer
so tamely to submit to the desperately-plain
1 an tmase applied to hiM, far and wide, in hw
oublic capacity. It is a' case in which the con-
water for a! moment, because hob y
believe that so combative and vindictive a m
as Windeyer would hstv6 allowed a P P
Melbourne Argus, for instance, to sUgmatise
him, in so many words, as a worthy successo
to the infamous and bloodthirsty Jm (
lie had therein considered himself libelled
Within the limits of the law as a private P«son.
The' probability, indeed, is that in the latte
ease judge WtNDEYER would have considered it
his imperative doty, as a superior officer ot the
law, to take care thatstich law—as theoretically
no respecter of p'efsans—should be as com-
pletely vindicated in his own case as in that ot
the most obscure layman. And when Lady
Windeyer further observes that it is tiie jury
—not the Judge—which convicts, she not only
largely misstates the facts, as far as this par-
ticular Judge was concerned, but lrresistib y
suggests a parallel with N.S. W. hangman
Howard’s habitual declaration that he never
kills a man!” He merely soaps the rope,
pinions the doomed wretch’s lnnbs, puts the
iioose round the neck, the death-cap over the
head, and then—his assistant draws the bolt!
Dear Bulletin, “The woman-snob,” de-
clared a recent Bulletin paragraphist, ‘ is
the snob”; and, as it has further been
recently made abundantly evident that the
Woman-royalist is the royalist, there is in-
terest in a closer investigation of these pie-
siunably allied phenomena. Very little obser-
vation will demonstrate, in the first place, that
the average woman is much more keenly inter-
ested than the average man in the personal or
concrete aspects of existence. Drop suddenly
upon the conversation of any two women, in
any rank of life, and, ten chances to one, the
talk is of “ her ”orof “ him of what is said
or done by, or to, or of, some person or persons ;
whereas, in the case of two men of any but the
lowest intellectual grade, the odds are at least
as great that the exchange of ideas will be about
something which more concerns mankind m the
mass than as individuals. The mere “ person-
ality of a personage,” therefore, is always ol
vastly more immediate interest to a woman than
the personage-making social conditions about
the broad significance of which a man is more
likelv to concern himself. Woman, again, is
more mechanically reverent than man fuller ot
unreasoned veneration ; and with no hook ot
steel does she grapple herself more closely to
the characteristically masculine soul than with
her proneness to place affection where it is not
deserved, or to preserve it where it is not re-
ciprocated. And since, in human nature, we
have always to accept, with the good, more
or less of complementary evil, man can well
afford—for the sake of these, its indirect
developments—to condone in woman that over-
appreciativeness of personality for wluo 1
“snobbery,” as man applies the term to man,
is perhaps too harsh a designation. In this
matter, as in others, the standard of each sex
for its own conduct appears to differ, after an
ill-defined and elusive fashion, from its standard
for that of the other. The characteristic faults
of each sex—simply because they are charac-
teristic —are as necessary as its distinctive
merits to its complete appreciation by the other.
Woman, without what have come to be regarded
as her special weaknesses, might be so much
the more theoretically admirable a creature,
but—she would he also exactly so much the
less woman ! Departure from type in one sex
commends itself only to correlative departure
in the other. The sub-masculine woman—
physically or mentally—repels rather than
attracts the man who is not himself in some
degree sub-feminine; which is probably why
the most intellectually robust and virile-
thoughted men appear to take their woman-
kind none the less seriously for being over-
reverent of pomps and dignities ; for being
royalists —lord-worshippers, Queen - worship-
pers, priest-worshippers —sentimental reaction-
aries, generally. And it is just here that the
New Woman—because, though she has ceased
in some degree to be woman, she has
failed' in any degree to become man
fails utterly to apprehend the masculine point
of view. “Man pretends,” she shrieks, “to
admire these futilities in woman', because he
knows that only by carefully fostering such
weaknesses can he hope to retain his supposed
intellectual supremacy.” Not so! I lie man-
complete dreads no advance on woman s part
that is not made at the expense of some of her
womanly essentials. But, of these, the very
smallest is, in his eyes, an exceedingly real
price to pay for an exceedingly problematical
advantage. And, the only man who can recog-
nise any possibility that his sex will ever be
relegated by the other to second intellectual
place, is the man who already occupies that
position. —A.M.
<< Lictor ” returns to the attack :
Dear Bulletin, —Re Hainault. Just a few lines in
answer to a Mr. Norman’s letter on page 7 of your issue
of Oet 16. He simply traverses the old ground. No one
denies that the Govt, said the rent was paid in time, and
that Mr. Norman, late in the day, said the same. What
is denied or doubted is that the rent u;as paid. If the
“ proofs” referred to by your scribe—which, by the way,
are not proofs, since the documents may have been mani-
pulated—were available to the Select Committee of the
Upper House, why were they not produced when asked
for next day in the Assembly ? And how is Mr. Nor-
man’s statement that these proofs were before the
Select Committee reconcilable with the Premier s ex-
cuse next day that “the documents were not
iust then available and the officer who received
the rent could not be found?” Then Mr Nor-
man savs “ the Bill reinstated the Hainault co. as the legal
owners ” ; but if the Hainault co. were “ the legal owners,
where was the need for the Bill, more especially as expen-
sive cases were then in process in the Supreme Court to
decide as to the legal ownership? This cocksure writer
again gives himself away, for he repeats what he had
already written to a local paper, that the number he paid
on was 224, for this was never the number of the Hainault
lease the old number of which was 223. Mr. Norman
savs “ not a link was missing before the committee, over-
looking the fact that he himself was “missing. Your
scribe further says that the jumpers received ample
remuneration,” but who elected him as an assessor m the
matter? Suppose, for example, that the Govt, saw fit to
remunerate someone for arranging post-facto evidence,
how could an outsider be justified in deciding whether
the remuneration paid him was “ ample or not. 10
sum no • If, by any chance, the rent was legitimately paid
and in time, then the co. should have been held harm ess j
but, since the “jumpers” had really become the legal
owners of the ground, it was the bounden duty of any
reasonably honest Govt-., quite apart, from any considera-
tion as to the impeeuniosity of the State—a posit,on
brought about solely through their o#* bad government
—to atone for their own administrative? bfcndering and
fairly compensate the men whose prouerty bhey' were
about to resume, as provided for in thes Goldfields-A
framed by themselves.— Kalgoorlie, Oct. 25.
Ed'. Bulletin, —Let me draw attention to the
practice which, prevails in the N.S.W. Crown
Law Department of sending opinions on dif-
ferent matters to country police-magistrates,
With the result that, when those questions
arise, they are decided in accordance with the
opinions given by either the Crown-Solicitor or
the Attorney-General. A matter of this kind)
lately came before the Licensing Bench alt
Moree. The Bench refused to grant transfer
of an hotel license to a woman who had
obtained a decree absolute for dissolution of
her marriage with her husband. Looking at.
section 29 of Act 45 Vic., No. 14, and at sec-
tion 46 of Divorce Act of 1893, I think the
Bench was wrong, but that does not matter..
In the process of giving their decision, they
produced two opinions—one by Mr. Jack
Want, as Attorney-General, and one by the-
Crown-Solicitor —and, as these were against
the woman, the magistrates refused the ap-
plication. The case, therefore, st amis thus: the
judgments of country P.M/s are not their own
judgments at all, hut are very often the halt-
considered, cut-and-dried opinions of some
Jack-( WANT)-in-office. The question arises,
too, why the bench is to be swayed by the
opinions of the Crown-Solicitor or Attorney-
General in preference to the opinions of any
other lawyer. The pair are only lawyers, and
by no means the best lawyers in N.S.W. It a
P M. is not fit to administer justice without
opinions from the Crown Law Office, then he
is not fit to sit on the bench ; and if he is fit to
administer justice, then it is an insult to him
to send him opinions by which he (having a
billet to keep) practically must be bound. it
the Crown Law office is right in what A does
in this respect, then it ought not. to send the
opinions to mngistrat.es only, but to all the
Judges in the land, for surely a man should
get as good justice (in his sphere) from a I.M.
(who has to pass an exam, in law) as from a
Judge (in his sphere). Anyhow, I submit that
the proper exponent of the law is not the Attor-
ney-General, but the Supreme Court.—Attor-
ney Smith.
A Poor Scribe
Why should a picture-maker have any greater freedom
under the gambling laws than a novel-maker, a poem-
maker, or a bootmaker ? The other day an alleged artist is
reported to have “sooled” on the police to suppress
Chinese and other gambling-law trangressors, w hile on his
wav to assist at a Tombola or some other pedantically-
named game for easing pockets by lot. Taking them in the
mass, artists-those who draw or paint-are, next to
blind organ-grinders, the most inveterate and insatiable
of social beggars. If they are not posturing and dancing
before wealthy people—“ leaders of society —to obtain
“distinguished patronage,” they are rigging up some
sort of lotterv to shove their wares off their hands. Ami
yet they assume to be cuts above pak-a-puh men and
boss ioc-keys, and with tine free trade chests tell the local
bard'and novelist, “ Well, you see, you «)«** n
vour merits ; to put a premium on local matter would he
L cultivate mediocrity. Haw!” The ehairmaker and
bedsteadmaker—the maker of anything has as much
right to claim exemption from the scope of gambling-
laws as anv other workman in Australia, and politicians
should get up pluck enough to brave the Haw- . and
say so in the Act.
The lapse of a couple of Legislative Assembly
Bills in N.S.W. Leg. Council lately, because,
as the Attorney-General explained, there was
no member of that latter Chamber prepared to
take charge of them, calls attention to a serious
oversight in the constitution of Parliament.
The Bills, as it happened, were not of wide
importance, but wliat befel them may befall
any private member’s measure that lias passed
the Assembly. A Govt, measure can always
command attention in the Council, because the
Govt, is directly represented there. But a
private member’s Bill which has received the
sanction of the Assembly may be refused an
audience in the Council, not necessarily because
the Council is hostile, but .sometimes through
sheer indifference and “ that tired feeling. In
many countries—among others Cape Colony and
Natal—a private member who carries a Bill
through his own branch of the Legislature is
permitted to attend and explain his measure in
the other branch. Something like this would
seem to be necessary in Australia.
The hopeless futility of diseased-meat regula-
tions which apply only to centres of population
is well illustrated by the pleasing discovery
that on most pig-breeding stations cancerous
and tuberculous cattle, after being shot, are
skinned and deposited in the pig-paddocks,
where, according to a Sydney weekly’s corres-
pondent, little piggy-wiggy may be seen dis-
porting himself within the horrible carcase
from which his elders are assimilating disease
for broadcast dissemination, in due course, pet
medium of bacon-curers who are alleged to
give a good price for pigs thus fed. Pigs, it is
in fact asserted, are only bred on stations for
the express purpose of thus utilising diseased
cattle. Good care, of course, is taken not to
use any of the pork on the station and d n
the other fellow !


THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT :
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084
Public attention is called to 1 he following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors \
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life •
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years,
and to be free from business cares.
srsisr®b!! m » i ' p, - a ■
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
lm Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor 1 , has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
talking machine,” costing only £l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (102 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
the number of babies that
are born and die in infancy,
the wonder is that more
portraits are not taken of
these children. Life is un-
certain, especially during
infancy
Our portraits are taken
with deliberate care and
judgment. We get good
likenesses, and the work
is positively guaranteed to
be PERMANENT.
Can we serve you ?
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits, witli
Beautifully Finished Enlargement in Per.
manent Bromide or Opal.
Any style or pose. No extras
7/6
The IDEAL PORTRAIT CO.
480 George Street,
(GROUND FLOOR. NO STAIRS)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS 28
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Two Little Vagabonds."
Lyceum “The Prairie Kins'.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Combined Co.
Royal “ Tommy Atkins.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Gay Parisienne.”
Royal “ The Brand of Cain."
Bijou Prof. Bristol’s Educated Horses.
Athenaeum Hall Lynch Family Bellringers.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Though far from “ pressed-down and run-
ning-over,” the Centennial Hall was well popu-
lated on Saturday night by people desirous both
of giving the “ sacred cause ” a lift and speeding
•the Hambourg brothers upon their conquering
way. For which reasons the tornadoes of applause
that raged violently as ever around the principals
had probably less in them than usual of that
bogus musical ecstasy which it has apparently
been considered in Sydney the correct thing to
fall into over this couple of clever boys. The fact
that the net proceeds of the concert were to go to
the Consumptive Hospital-fund had also doubtless
a share in the sound and fury signifying “recall!”
—and yet again “ recall! ” In which the audi-
ence, for sudorific reasons, was kind even unto
cruelty; for, while the temperature appeared to be
quite rough enough on Jakoff Hambourg, Mark
came out of each terrific encounter with the piano
a victorious but badly-busted man. Of the open-
ing “ Fashingschwank,” The Bulletin has only
to say that it was as fashingsohwanky as heart
could desire, and that the piano didn’t afterwards
appear to have suffered material damage. Mr.
Woodhouse artistically wailed a tenor-wail from
good old “ Don Giovanni,’’ Jakoff Hambourg
fiddled delightfully in all the colors of the rain-
bow, Mr. Lemmone’s enchanting flute “ put him
away ” for more encores than the thermometer
had any use for, Miss Edith King lifted up her
voice and whooped in a satisfactory manner over
the injudicious Mr. Ernani, and Mark Hambourg
topped off with an earthquake in three acts that
must have gone near to breaking the Sydney
acclamation record. After which Mr. R. Teece
fell figuratively upon the necks of par nobile
fratrum, bade them Sydney’s collective Godspeed,
and thanked them for an undertaking which
will benefit the Hospital fund by about .£l6O.
** * *
In this column, last week, it was noted
that the management of the Lyceum Theatre, in
staging “ The Prairie King,” expected great
things from the Tank. The Tank more than
realised the wildest expectations. In fact, it is
doubtful if any Tank ever before seen on the melo-
dramatic stage was so well up in its “ business,”
and won such enthusiastic plaudits. Before the
play commenced, the Tank suffered a little from
stage fright, as was natural in a beginner with
such an important rdle. It was studying its part
behind the scenes when Charlie MacMaKon noticed
that it was trembling, as if about to faint. Know-
ing that it had been too nervous to eat anything
all day, and that nothing but a few thousand
gallons of water had passed its lips, he hastily
ran to support it, but was unfortunately too late.
The Tank’s legs gave way under it, and 160 tons
of eau-de-Nepean dropped dead to the dramatic
world. Restoratives were brought, but it was
long ere the Tank became conscious. Mean-
time, the play had been proceeding. Maud
Williamson had been captured by infuriated
Indians, and was being borne off in triumph
to the wigwam of Potted Bear, the great
Sioux chief. With incredible barbarity the
Indians refused to permit her to bring a 2cwt.
trunk containing her trousseau, so she resolved to
make a bold dash for freedom. But how ? Ha !
the Tank ! Upon its placid surface a canoe
floated. On the farther side lay liberty and a
long vista of profitable engagements in leading
rbles. Instantly MJaud Williamson’s mind was
made up. Shrieking appropriate defiance at
Potted Bear, she leaped wildly into the canoe. A
few strokes of the paddle and she would have been
out of danger. . . . The canoe toppled over !
. . . One scream ; one airy parabola; one
splash ; one pair of moccasined legs seen for an
all-too-brief instant above the surging waters;
one convulsive kick; one total disappearance !
Maud Williamson was Tanked !
* * » *
The audience held its breath ; the Tank
held Maud Williamson. It knew Maud was not
sticking to her lines ; she was only gagging ; but
what a delicious gag ! The Tank embraced her
coldly, yet O how warmly ! Potted Bear looked
uneasily over the edge, but could see nothing ; for
the Tank was hugging Maud under the lee of the
canoe. Painted braves ran to and fro; the
Prairie King and Potted Bear buried the hatchet
near the orchestra, and fraternised in the bond of
a common anxiety ; and the Tank hugged on. It
knew it would never get such another chance, and
the violence of its embrace quite took Maud
Williamson’s breath away. At last somebody
dived in and brought her up, and somebody
brought her round, and she pluckily came on
again and was cheered as she deserved to be. But
the Tank was desolate and inconsolable. The
management put a bridge across it, and King
Hedley rode a horse across the bridge, and the
bridge gave way, and King Hedley clung to the
railing with one hand and potted Potted Bear and
his minions with a revolver m the other, while the
horse dropped into the Tank. But the Tank was
not deceived; it knew the difference, and threw
out the horse in disgust. The curtain fell on 160
tons of Grief weeping through canvas sides—there
was not a dry ton among them.
* * * *
Yes, there was some sort of a play, but on
the opening night it didn’t matter in the least
The audience was absorbed in Maud Williamson
and King Hedley and the Tank, especially the
Tank. The Tank is still the feature of the drama,
but it plays its part sullenly, in a blighted spirit!
AH lta hfe and joy departed when it lost Maud
Williamson.
** * *
At Sydney “Majesty’s” “Two Little
Vagabonds ” approach the end of their mournful
course; and at the end of next week “ A Royal
Divorce ” will be granted by Mr. Justice Tither-
adge and co. At the Royal George Rignold
started another season of military drama on
Tuesday night, after this paper had kindly but
firmly gone to press ; consequently notice of what
exactly George did with “Tommy” is postponed
with reluctant gladness. And the Tivoli still
renders its celebrated double bill every evening
and an audience which is usually expected to pay
every bill it gets waxes quite enthusiastic over the
novelty of twice bills for once cash. The manage-
ment announces that the tremendous combination
must positively expire to slow music in a few
nights only.
** * *
“ The Brand of Cain,” at Melb. Royal, is
an undeniably awful drama, based upon the
ancient ballad story of two brothers. The
brothers of the drama were probably Mrs.
Quinn’s Twins in the first instance. They grow
so like one another in form and feature, face and
limbs, that, ’spite their Varied “clobber,” the one
whose forte is singing hymns gets taken for a
robber. H. R. Roberts plays the hero in two
alternate capacities. Sometin.es he figures as a
desperate character, addicted to dropping tourists
down a Spanish chasm, and shortly afterwards he
is a pious and rather effeminate sort of widower
with a nonconformist conscience and one fair
daughter. It transpires casually that the pious
twin must have turned his fatal resemblance to
account, years ago, by marrying his brother’s girl.
The plot gives no details of this old love circum-
stance, but judging from a remark passed by the
wrong Roberts, the girl was originally captivated
by his appearance, whereupon the right Roberts
came along with exactly the same appearance, and
a more respectable behaviour, and married her for
her money. YVhich accounts, more or less, for the
other fellow being the bane of his twin brother’s
existence from that time forward.
• * * *
The sins of Roberts the Ruffian are visited
freely upon his relative’s head. A defunct tourist,
resurrected from the chasm in Spain, turns up and
denounces the model widower as a man who cut
him down when he was descending into the
bowels of the earth by a rope, to secure a bag of
diamonds “as big as cherries.” Also, an evil
accomplice, who had added to the horror of the
chasm scene by stabbing Roberts the Ruffian in
the small of the back, is unable to discriminate
between the two Robertses when he meets them
anon.. Ruffian Roberts was dead, strictly speak-
ing, in the first act, but he returns to London
along with the indestructible tourist, and applies
dynamite to his nonconformist brother. Luckily,
the explosive goes off at the wrong moment, leav-
ing Righteous .Roberts and his daughter un-
unharmed amidst the fragments of Ruffian
Roberts. Also, the fragments of the evil accom-
plice lie scattered thereabouts. “ The Brand of
Cain ” is not a drama to be taken seriously, and
where the tragic characters make a mistake is in
forgetting to laugh at their own misdeeds. H. R.
Roberts supplies most of the acting. As a quick
change artist he achieves complete success, whilst
in the ruffianly half of his dual identity he far
surpasses Roberts the Righteous. Miss Maggie
Moore brightens up the agony with a brogue, and
the rest of the company seem to be knocked out
of memory by the dynamite explosion.
** * *
“The Gay Parisienne,” at Melb. Princess’s,
was so thoroughly in touch with Cup sentiment
that money had to be turned away from the doors
on several occasions last week. As an entertain-
ment for those who have backed the winner, and
feel determined to enjoy a good larf, “ The Cay
Parisienne” is quite equal to any other musical
comedy. It. is wild, without being obtrusively
witty, and it contains sundry suggestive hints
concerning ladies’ underwear, which, as all experi-
enced playgoers know, are even superior to the word
“ dam ” for theatrical business purposes. When
Miss Ada Reeve plays at buying four yards of calico
from Coleman, and Coleman, having heard the
lady’s whispered statement re the object of her
purchase, says “I suppose linoleum wouldn’t do?”
it is then that the people who went to the theatre
for a good larf feel quite certain they are getting
it. Miss Reeve deals verv cleverly with this class
of work, and is bright all the time. Bert Gilbert,
in the Prenchman part, doesn’t lose weight on
further acquaintance; Coleman, as the kilted
masquerader, is a more shining light than at first,
and the great gathering of other well-known per-
formers goes for a good deal, especially on the
programme. One or two of the comparative
strangers don’t go for much, but, if they were
omitted from the sum total, their absence might
be felt. “The Gay Parisienne” marks a great
change in the taste of the Melbourne public, and
will doubtless revel in prosperity for some time to
come.
** * *
The Alexandra season was to end this
week (Wednesday) with a benefit to lessees Wilson
Porbes and Brskine Scott, who have worked hard
and honorably to keep a roof over the heads of a
very decent co. They have tried all sorts of
dramas— good, bad, or indifferent, paying more
attention to stage-management than their audi-
ences were disposed to appreciate at the time, and
if they should give their luck another chance next
year they will deserve to reap some reward.
** * *
Professor Bristol and his intellectual horse
show are proceeding peacefully at Melb. Bijou.
The evening audiences are small, but the matinees
seem to be popular, and the fact that Bristol's
horses and mules can give many points to the
average performer that sleeps in a stable will no
doubt become generally known when the show has
gone away. It will hold the stage until the 19th,
and then travel around with a tent.
** * *
Manager Rickards has taken a few weeks’
lease of the Bijou, from the 20th instant, on which
date the enterprising Henry R. will introduce his
Sydney Palace Theatre importations to Melbourne
notice The Biographe, Miss Fanny Wentworth,
Phil Newbury, Miss Lilian Tree, the boy soprano,
ventriloquist Emmett, and prestidigateur Morritt
are to be the leading items on a programme that
is not intended to distract attention from the
other Rickards show at the Opera House.
• * * *'
Meanwhile, the Opera House is putting up
attendances and working the horsey possibilities
of the cinematograph for all they are worth The
Cup-race, like the Derby and Caulfield Cup be-
fore it, was flashed upon the sheet six or seven
hours after Gaulus had got home, and the picture
did more than reproduce the beginning and end of
the Flemington struggle. It reminded the audi-
ence of the gloom that prevailed when the num-
bers, went up. There are not more than two hat-
waving figures in the foreground, and the only
person visibly enjoying himself is a harmless idiot
who appears to have jumped up at intervals in
front of the operator whilst the negatives were
being reeled off.
* sfc * *
The Axemen’s Carnival, held in the quad-
rangle at Melb. Exhibition, was unhappily such a
financial frost that the men who won plenty of
cash on “ paper ” will, it is sajd, get naught but
glory for their reward. Race-week in Mel-
bourne appears to be quite the wrong time
for a wood-chopping show, anyhow, apart
from the fact that the general management of
the affair broke down when the manager was
unavoidably called away. Therefore, if the
United Australasian Axemen’s Association is to
derive any benefit from the patronage of Gov.
Brassey and Gov. Gormanston, and the vice
patronage of other distinguished elderly gentle-
men, they had better send along their little
cheques forthwith. The poverty of this muscular
Association is a sad matter to reflect upon. Every
honest chopper deserves his hard-earned chips
especially in a city where politicians prosper by
rolling logs and grinding little axes. For instance,
F. 0. Mason, who won the Speakership, the other
day, will draw his prize-money reg’lar.
At Poverty Point .
A charity-concert given by the Hambourgs, at Melb.
Town Hall, the other week, was a subject for much foolish
remark by the press. The Hambourgs were profusely
thanked for their generosity, whereas chief credit for the
affair should have been given to John Lemmone, who sug-
gested the concert in the first instance, and carried it
through to a successful issue. Lemmone, being practi-
cally the “proprietor” of the Hatnbourgs in Australia,
was the actual giver of the £2OO odd, profit from the
matinee, and little Mark, recognising this fact, was
astonished to find the kindly action of the local artist
getting no honor in his own country.
The Potter-Bellew performance of “ Francillon,” al-
though it gave much pleasure—not to say considerable
delight—to the “beastly kawlonial” public, Was* seem-
ingly, damned by the London critics. The piece, we are
told', “ is not one that appeals to the tastes of an English
audience. All the wit and brilliancy Of the original have
been lost in the adaptation, and there is a pretty unani-
mous opinion that Mrs. Brown-Potter is not equal to the
character of the heroine ; while Mr. Bellew gets but faint
praise for his rendering of the husband of the jealous
countess." To which The Bulletin would reply that the
alleged super-excellence of the French original is a ques-
tion quite apart from the charm of the English version.
The play, as we saw it for the first time in Australia, was
bright and interesting in comparison with the average
society play by Pinero, Grundy, or H. A. Jones, and Mrs.
Potter appeared quite equal to the heroine's character in
its Anglicised aspect.
There was quite a bustle on the stage of Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney, one night, when it became known that
a real earl was calling on one of the leading performers
—male. The boy who took the card up could not remem-
ber the name—thought it was Hardface, or something
like that. Somebody cuffed him for such an impious sug-
gestion, and all waited expectantly. By-and-bye some-
thing in tan boots waddled along, and was bowed out of
the door with great empressement. The girls crowded
around to know who it was, but the callee waved them
off majestically, saying : “ It will cost you fourpence each
to speak to me ; I have just had a visit from my old
friend, the Earl of Ilardwicke. I knew him well in Eng-
land." A pity that actor left so soon ; he might have
gonp bail for his noble friend, and kept him out of the
beastly colonial quod.
Harry Rickards’ Cine, pictures of Melb. Cup race were
received in gloomy silence by a crowd that had failed to
get on to Gaulus, and was harrowed all over again to see
its money cantering in with the tail of the procession. A
popular win is all right in the Cinematograph, and would
be an uproarious success if ’Arr.v could arrange to pay all
bets over again nightly for the sake of verisimilitude.
As already explained, Bert Gilbert, the galvanic French-
man in “The Gay Parisienne,” and Miss Ada Reeve, the
Firm’s recent importations, are man and wife. Bertie is
quite a youthful-looking Johnnie, and Ada is a pocket
Parisienne with a copious smile. Ada's name used to be
Beatrice, but Beatrice is not a good name for a Gaiety
girl; and, besides, Miss B. Reeve sounds lugubrious.
Mr. J. A. Patten, a born librettist, some of whose jeu-de-
mots verse has appeared in The Bi lletin', is now employ-
ing his marked talent on behalf of M’Mahon Bros., at
Sydney Lyceum, in connection with the forthcoming
pantomime.
“ One who knew him ” as “ a splendid fellow ” writes
that William Henry Maddocks, tragedian, came to the
Princess Theatre, Melb., in 1859, “and, if my memory
serves me right, Avonia Jones arrived at the same time,
and was to have played leading lady to him, but of this I
will not be too positive.” “ Hamlet ” was put in rehearsal,
and billed, but the new man did not act, being seized
with cancer of the upper jaw. Our informant visited
Maddocks in the hospital. The poor actor, bandaged up,
could not speak, but wrote on a slate about a cruel opera-
tion he had undergone mostly without chloroform. He
only survived a week.
. Dear Bulletin,— The first act of my Napoleon play
appeared in the Imperial Review, May, 1890. The idea
was to give Miln a London part. The writing is prose,
on Sardou’s model, only to illustrate the action. It begins
just where Wills does, but Metternich appears as the
second leading part, instead of Talleyrand. Otherwise,
the treatment is very like Wills’s. Anyone would say my
piece must have been written after seeing Wills’s. Dates
may be compared. I think that the play of “ A Royal
Divorce ” had not been mentioned in any way then. I
take more credit for the mock heroic blank verse of the
supposed extracts, in the Imperial, from “The Girl
Queen,” a play on the loves of Queen Victoria and Prince
Albert. London Dailv News gave it about a column. I
only learnt this from a reprint in Melbourne Standard,
treating the production as English.—Yours, “Demos”
Palmer.
Perhaps the neatest and prettiest cycliste in Melb. to-
day is Miss Nellie Sheldon, the recently-imported English
song and dance artist, who is nightly fetching bald-
headdom at the Opera House, and of whom a portrait is
printed in this issue of The Bulletin. Miss Sheldon’s
repertoire comprises oongs which are principally of a
frisky nature. Combined with advantages of thisdescrip-
tion, Miss Sheldon possesses two other advantages of
which the public are permitted to enjoy a glimpse when
she points her dainty little toe at the electrolier.
Wing: “Barry Sullivan, it is stated, gave up his
tenancy of Melb. Royal over Miss Kvte, daughter of
Ambrose Kvte, the proprietor, who objected to Sullivan’s
courtship of her. I have heard that she followed him to
England, but probably this only meant that she took a
trip some time afterwards.”
Dear B.—You ask, “ Who are the 1 Cowan Sisters,’
anyhow?” Hush! They were one of Harry Rickards’s
instalments of imported artists a few months ago. Isn’t
that sufficient guarantee of their brilliancy ?— Binoc.
Tenor Philip Newbury tells an interviewer that he was
once saved from drowning at Jersey by the unfortunate
reeently-dead Mr. “Lily” Langtry. Another narrow
squeak for the warbler’s life was when, after making a
spring for the mail-van of his departing train, the mail-
man at the same moment, closed the door, and Newbury
had to hang on to the handle outside for 30 terrible miles.
Holdar M. —Grateful for information furnished by B E
re fate of plays advertised as hatched by local authors’
P revlou 3 problem remains unsolved. If, at
’ tuse Productions merely serve to balance thi
If' tl . n^ * nu F nm ers baggage until a more genial clime ig
offo tfle . faot °f their birth hardly needs such con*
mstent chronicle otherwise than in the export-column of
the commercial newspaper. Admitting the food for re*
e tion in the statement about that creation, professing
; ~0 0 0r a, ’ ( l origin, being refused unless London
1 lty was alleged : the distance-lends-enchantment ex*
pianation, said to be supplied by Australian managers fot
this attitude, probably cuts both wavs-hehCe the im*
plied foreign appreciation of our busy It.'E’s, As for theper*
sonal question introduced by your correspondent, present
scribe is content with one retaliatory blow at thesuggested
speculative patriotism (!) of the rising minor actor in
l a !*J acent pi ay-person. For the rest, a
plea of guilty of being a stranger to stage-land—while
innocent of any pessimistic scofif-is hereby recorded.
You re looking grahd, Jones. Been to
the seaside? ” “No, but mother-in-law has.”
Frotn Klondyke :
One saloon in Dawson has a bell swung over the door
outside for the convenience of those liberal individuals
who may want to “ gin up the whole town.” Anv person
so disposed has but to pull the rope, and the whole popu-
lation responds. K v
Vic. Premier-presumptive Isaacs—Hebraic
—went to the opening-Stihday mass at Melb. St.
Patrick s. Whereat a “ Prodistan ” paper gruhibles
over the Attorney-General patronising a Sunday
paying show. But Ikey went in oh the nod.
H. : “ lie Herbert Booth and Westralia.
actor Knipe figured conspicuously
on Melb. Exhibition platform, with ‘General’
Booth, on his first visit. They say Knipe was
trying to persuade him to buy an island off the
W estralian coast. ”
Newspaper-manager to editor of a “great
daily”; “What’s the use of reviewing books at
this end ? The publisher can get it better done in
London —better literature, better insight, and
more of those little personal touches about the
author than you can get here. Just look at this
column-article about Ding-Dong’s new novel. It’s
exquisitely written. Why should we pay a man
here to write a worse review?” “Looks like
Ding-Dong’s own writing.” “What matter?
We’ll get paid for putting it in as a review—instead
of having to pay for a worse article.”
There is real grit and novelty, and a real
Australian atmosphere of heat and flies and sand
•and blanky, in the clever drawings of J. A.
Commins, which, photographed by the well-
known Sydney Arm of Kerry and Co., have been
transformed into characteristic Xmas cards to
send to distant friends. There are still touches
of the amateur in Mr. Commins’s art; but the
vigour, and motion, and reality of some of his
pictures leave many a better draughtsman sigh-
ing, as Bulletin readers have been able to judge.
Country agents and salesmen should certainly
write Kerry and Co.
Melbourne people had almost forgotten
that Bertram Mackennal was sent to Europe at
the expense of a Fund. The other week there
came a bronze statuette from the clever young
sculptor, cohsigned to Frank Stuart, who is sup-
posed to hold it in the capacity of trustee for the
Mackennal Fund subscribers. The subject is
“Truth,” and the modelling and artistic senti-
ment of the figure of the bold young woman mid
nodings oh couldn’t be finer. It is a little figure
to see and remember. The unsatisfactory part of
the work is the arrangement of Truth’s long hair,
which appears to have got caught in a pair of
spiky and inexplicable wings. It is not easy to
say where the tresses end and the wings begin,
nor does the theory of wings for Truth seem justi-
fiable. Philosophers reckon that Truth merely
walks hither and thither upon the earth, and very
slowly at that.
The report that the hulk of the Osprey has
been found, if it be true, affords the solution of
what has been a mystery of the sea for more than
20 years. The Osprey, it will be remembered,
was the strangely-rigged three-masted barque on
which the Australian Tichborne claimant declared
he had been rescued from the wreck of the Bella.
His story of his career, up to the time of that
wreck and from the time he left the Osprey, made
a narrative which would have established his claim
to theTichborne estates if he could have proved that
he had been rescued from the Bella by the crew of
the Osprey. This one missing-link in his chain,
however, made his entire story worthless. The
Osprey disappeared in the latter part of the year
1875, and was not heard of again until a few days
ago, when the well-known wrecker, Whitelavv,
discovered on the coast of Vancouver Island the
hull of a vessel on which could be made out the
name Osprey. It seems that this is the barque
which ran into and sent to the bottom the steam-
ship Pacific, with all but three of her three hun-
dred and odd souls, in the latter part of 1875, a
short distance below Cape Flattery.—S.F. Argo-
naut.


R. BELL & CO.’S
• - British Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtainable Everywhere.
Aus. I
Rbps. )
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
The KOEBSTZ
PATENT
c< Qittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors' Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 Ourrie-st., Adelaide.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
Refreshment Rooms
(v/nder contract)
STOCK
ONLY
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
.4us. )
Reps, j
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
“GOOD AS GOLD.
SIKIPSOII’S SULKIES
AND THE NEW
Easy guckboard.
75 Kino Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
PERTH— Robt. Wolfe, Murray-street.
GERALDTON—A. Meadowcrqft, Marine Terrace.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Broken Hill Junction report for the half-
year to the end of September is the most humiliating
document issued since the revival, four years or so ago.
It is a confession, without purporting to be one, of terri-
ble miscalculation—and something more. Seven months
ago a creep occurred in the mine. To the ordinary ob-
server with any knowledge of mining the movement was
extremely serious ; blit the statement was officially put for-
ward and reiterated that the thing, so far from being seri-
ous, was to some extent distinctly beneficial, inasmuch as
it permitted of safer and cheaper working. In their
recort six months ago, in fact, the directors said:
“Your board has the assurance of the mine manager
that on the resumption of work below operations
in stoping will be facilitated and considerable economy
promoted.” And a few weeks three and six
were mentioned on different occasions at the beginning
was to suffice to get everything into order again. Now,
over six months afterwards, the general manager pre-
faces his report to the shareholders with—“As you are
aware, at the commencement of the half-year we had a
very serious collapse in our stopes at M'lntyre’s shaft,
extending from the 675 ft. to the 400 ft. level.” How could
they be aware of it ? How, at least, without disbelieving
the general manager? Still, it was very serious. “New
drives,” quoting the manager in this present report,
“ had to be put in at the 675 ft., 550 ft., and 450 ft. levels,
the old drives at the 550 ft. and 450 ft. having collapsed the
full length of the workings—viz., 150 ft. from shaft south
and 140 ft. north.”
But the figures in the financial statements are
even more striking. The half-year was begun with
£37,944 to credit of profit and loss. Ore and concentrates
sold this half realised 128,572, against £93,470 in the
previous half. Yet though but one dividend of £5OOO was
paid, only £3119 remains to be now carried forward. Cer-
tainly the creep is not responsible for swallowing up
the whole of this very large sum, though it is entirely
responsible for the comparatively miserable extraction of
ore. Again and again Tim Bulletin has warned share-
holders and others interested in Barrier mines to pay no
heed to “ estimated surpluses.” Last half-year the Jun-
ction swelled its “ assets ” by estimating that a consider-
able sum was to be got from surpluses on shipments. It
now has to debit itself with £9371 —“defichncies on esti-
mated surpluses.” The London auditors of the British
B.H. Co., it may be remembered, simply declined to cer-
tify to a sheet containing an entry similar to that con-
tained in the Junction report six months ago. Further,
at one swoop £11,250 is now written-off for “depreciation
and bad debts, and provision for income-tax.” The
directors explain : “ As the mine assets and the smelting
works at Pt. Adelaide have hitherto been standing at
their original cost, yet directors have taken this oppor-
tunity of writing-off an amount of 25 per cent, for depre-
ciation.” Land and plant at Pt. Adelaide—the smelting
works—cost £16,475; for depreciation £4475 is now
written-off. The co. used these works for a few months
many years ago, and there seems no reason whatever to
suppose that it will use them again, for a long time to
come, at any rate. The furnaces were valuable in the
mine’s carbonate days ; those days are no more. Whether
this tardy writing-off is, then, anything like sufficient is
a matter concerning which most shareholders are likely
to hold a different opinion from that implied by the
present action. But, anyhow, what is the value of docu-
ments which confessedly have contained such absurdities ?
And with how much confidence are we inspired with re-
gard to the present document ?
Nor does this more than briefly suggest the
charges which the management of the B.H. Junction
brings against itself and its predecessors. Take two
more instances. The general manager, Mr. Phillips, is
describing the work that has been done in the manning of
King shaft—a working long idle. “ We have standing
reports in the office,” he says, “ of a lode at King’s 300 ft.
level 40ft. wide ; but on examination the lode was found
to be from 4tt. to 6ft. wide.” Still, that may be passed ;
Junction management in the old days was a fearful and
wonderful thing ; but the public had begun to think that
it had all been changed. Again, the manager is “ not by
any means satisfied with the result of the present jig,”
but does “ not propose to make any alterations, seeing
that our new plant is well under way.” Yet this is the
plant (in The Bulletin stigmatised a mere makeshift
when it was erected) about which we have almost weekly
and half-yearly read it that it was doing good and satis-
factory work.
For the future in the distance the prospects of
the Junction are good still. For the immediate future
they are no better than they have been this last half-
year. The co. has “ sundry creditors, including
provision for income-tax ” of £11,121. It is over-
drawn at the bank £403. It has liquid assets
amounting to £6137, including £133 in cash. Its
liabilities over liquid assets are thus £5388. It has
a contingent liability of £4OOO in re new plant now being
delivered. Further, a good deal of partly unproductive
work still remains to be done in the “ creep ” section and
elsewhere before extraction on the old scale can proceed ;
and then it cannot proceed on the old class of ore. The
Junction’s second boom-days have passed. Six months
hence, supposing all things to go fairly well in the mean-
time, it will take its regular place on about the same level
as Block 10—a few grades, that is, higher than Block 14,
the South, or the British ; jn point of quality only, of
course, since as to quantity nothing but mere surmises
can be indulged in.
* * * •
B.H. Central —the Sulphide Corporation (Ash-
croft process) mine—is preparing to do still more “ on its
own,” independently of the works at Cockle Creek, which
continue to give disappointing results. Large concen-
trating mills have just been added to the works on the
mine ; and most of the product will go to Europe, whither
for some time past half the material has been shipped.
» * * *
North Central, practically abandoning hope of
striking the underlay, is now following indicators—
“ stringers ” is a less grandiloquent word, but it generally
expresses something nearer the truth—after the manner
of the Consols. But the situation is not so favorable for
these barely-connected bunches of ore ; and, anyway, that
sort of “mining” is unadulterated gambling with the
odds at about 20 to 1 against even moderate success.
* * * *
Emmaville, N.S.W. —“Several wolfram shows
are being worked here with more or less favorable results.
Miners complain of not being able to get any reliable in-
formation as to the commercial value of wolfram.” It
was ever thus with all metals of which the consumption
is limited, and, as a rule, between the price to the pro-
ducer and that to the person who actually uses it there is
a gulf fixed which only the rapacity of metal-brokers and
smelters can bridge. From working wolfram, bismuth or
antimony mines—may the Lord deliver us !
* * * *
In face of the continuous running of the battery
and good reports from the mine every week, the Birthday
mine at Parkes, N.S.W., has made another call—the 14th.
No savee !
* * * *
Wyalong, N.S.W. : “ The warden has received
instructions from the Mines Dept, to deal with lease ap-
plications on their merits. The instructions also apply to
applications for partial suspension of labor-conditions on
leases generally. It is thought here that this decision
of the department is the thin end of the wedge for the
introduction of capital on the field.” The Bulletin wants
to know who is making an ass of himself this time—the
Mines Minister or the mining coi respondent ? From the
wording of the par., it looks as though the Minister
escapes. “On their merits ! ” Booh !
* * * *
Grolconda, N.S.W. : “Will continue to break
down stone till we commence crushing.” Great mining
country this.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek Consols: Battery again shut-down,
and a big slump in shares. Many queries are now being
put about the finding of a lot of copper in the amalgam
recently, for which a reward was vainly offered.
» * » *
Cooma (N.S.W.) reports the find of some speci-
mens at Bushy Hill ; that they “ created some excite-
ment” —a most unusual thing for specimens to do ; that
one of the finders has sold right out—usually a very wise
thing to do, especially with Cooma specimen-shows.
* * * «
Milton (N.S.Wi), the land of milk, has now a
copper-mine. “ A parcel assayed at the Illawarra works
gave 28 per cent, copper besides small quantities of gold
and silver. An assay at Sydney gave 30 per cent, copper.”
Look at that, now—and all the big copper-mines of the
world are under 5 per cent. Yet in the poorest copper-
mine of the world it would be a remarkably easy matter
to get 30 per cent, assays, which are a delusion, more
especially when made for the benefit of milkmen.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin, —You print two depreciatory
pars, in re two hydrauliking enterprises on the Shoal-
haven. The first is, I understand, an English venture, the
other local. In re the first- speaking from a considerable
experience of the London mining-promoter and under-
writer—l respectfully submit that they are more than
capable of taking care of themselves, and the B.P. is by
no means the fool it is sometimes deemed at this end.
As to the second, or Braid wood, scheme, why discourage
people who are spending their own money, and who, pre-
sumably, also know what they are about ? My special
object in writing-, however, is to say that I consider the
depreciatory remarks made about hydrauliking in the
Shoalhaven are undeserved. That there is along the
valley of the Shoalhaven a track of auriferous alluvial
deposit of considerable depth and width, and between 30
and 40 miles long, is unquestionable. That hundreds of
thousands of tons of this “ wash ” have been treated in a
most primitive way, the excavations show, and, as work-
ing diggers cannot work for nothing, presumably their
labor did not go altogether unrewarded. I submit,
also, that no single co. has spent ,1100,000 in attempting
to treat this enormous drift, though the Spa Jessop
wasted many thousands over a pumping scheme which
any practical hydrauliker could have told them from the
start must prove abortive. On the other hand, I main-
tain that a well-devised and properly-conducted gravita-
tion scheme would treat the Shoalhaven material at a
cost of from Ito 2gr. per yard. That there are large
areas possessing the principal desiderata for hydrauliking
-—payable gold, potential high head, and hundreds of
feet fall from tail-races—is demonstrable to any experi-
enced man. I Lave no interest in either of the schemes
criticised, but am largely interested in endeavoring to
prove the Shoalhaven the large permanent goldfield which
I am convinced it is.—S.A.
» * * •
From the writer’s correspondent, who has been
to Klondyke, getting back to ’Frisco just one month ago :
“ I made the journey across the country through the
Alaskan Territory into the Yukon River region, and
walked nearly all'the way. I had a horse and packed my
stuff. I assure you it was a very hard journey. The
mines there are not as good as represented. This, of
course, one expects to find ; but, on the whole, they are
good. The great drawback to that country is that it is
frozen to bed-rock, which is 20ft. deep, and it is a
country that never thaws out—except about a foot
or 18in. of the moss on top. The ground is frozen
the Lord only knows how deep; holes have been
sunk 50ft., and still it is frozen as hard as an anvil.
The method of mining is by the burning-out process.
Thej' sink a shaft by heating rocks on the surface, then
lower them down and pour water over them ; the hot
water thaws the ground, and then they scrape out the
thawed portion, and keep on repeating that process over
and over again. When bed-rock is reached, they put
some wood against the face, and as it burns the dirt
trickles over it and covers the fire, and that holds the
heat in and it thaws into the face some six or eight inches
during the night. Next morning that is taken out and
another fire built. And this is the method of mining !
You will understand that the ground must be very
rich to pay for this sort of thing. You can only
do this in the winter, for in the warm weather
(which lasts just about two months) they cannot
work underground on account of gas, and if they sink
a shaft, the ice melts and runs the place full of water and
mud. So it is impossible to do any drifting (driving)
there except in winter. The dirt is washed in summer.
Provisions are very dear ; it is almost impossible to buy
them at all, and one earns every dollar he makes, no
matter how much it is. I do not believe that your Aus-
tralians could stand the climate, because the winter is so
severe. The thermometer stands from 20 to 70deg. below
zero all winter. When it is no colder than 20deg. below
they consider it fairly good weather. The snow is from
three to seven feet deep. If these mines could be worked
by the ordinary process of sluicing, they would pay very
well indeed. In sinking a shaft you may get on to some
frozen dirt, and then have about 2ft. of blue ice, and
then a 1 ttle more dirt and ice mixed. It just looks as
though this country had been suddenly frozen up, or else
as if it had never been thawed out. I never saw anything
like this region, and I have travelled over some pretty bad
countries ; this takes the cake. Along the coast, there is
a better climate, and I think they are going to open up a
very good country. No doubt they are going to have
quite a boom there, this year and next, and there is going
to be a deal of money made and business done. Like
Westralia, there will be another lot of “ wild cats ” put on
London market. People in the U.S. are greatly excited,
and they are forming all sorts of companies here, also in
London. But, when it is all said and done, I must say
that this country has a great deal of merit, and Klondyke
alone will, I believe, produce four or five millions of dollars
next year. This, of course, is not very much, considering
all the blow. However, the country I travelled through
is gold-bearing, and not a hole has been sunk anywhere,
and I think I shall return next year and do some work.
One thing, this country is well supplied with water and fuel
—you can get a drink of water anywhere. If anything, there
is too much water in the warm weather, but in winter the
creeks freeze up solid. I lost 401 b. on this journey north,
but am much better for it. I could walk almost any dis-
tance now and feel like a lightweight (usual weight 18st.).
There were no bad results from the trip except that your
clothes don’t fit when you get back. If you feel like
making the trip I will be very glad for you to come along,
It will anyhow be an experience you never had before
and probably will never want again. lam going to tackle
it again next, spring. . . . The closing-down of silver-
mines has made it very dull in some of the districts of
Colorado, and I see little hope for the future of that metal.
Everybody, including myself, is now hunting for copper,
and i think that next year I shall be able to open up some
good copper-mines in Alaska.”
* * * *
Yabber, in Melb., at the reception of delegates
of the proposed mining-exhibition to be held in London :
J. S. Butters—* 1 commended the movement. It should
erive a great impetus to mining 1 , and should divest it oi
the * wild-cat ’ element.” What can Butters, of all men,
possibly know of “wild-cats”? Somers Vine: During
the last two years the faith of English investors had been
rudely shaken with regard to certain Australian mining
properties, and possibly if a properly-constituted chamber
of mines had been in existence, much that was to be re-
gretted might not have happened.” J. Lovvles, a Bull
M.P. : “ There were 420 Westralian mining eo’s registered
in London as against 210 for all the other Australias
put together. He had interests in the West, but
he felt that it was not the oniy field for
good mining investments in Australia. What stood
in the way of investors at present was the deplorable
want of information. They had an abundance of mining
experts in London to advise them —black-and-white ex-
perts —and there had been a larger percentage of the
black species.” All very sensible and nice, no doubt, 1 ut
the “oat’’-mine and monger will continue to flourish and
will always be with us. “ Cat ’’-mines have one very dis-
tinguishing qualification— cheapness —and between the
price at which they can be got and that at which at times
they can be sold by the aid of a “ black ” expert and a
lily-**white” London promoter, there is a gulf fixed
which human nature cannot bridge.
* » * »
W. R. Wilson, who, The Bulletin is sorry to
say, is dangerously ill in Melb., has won the appeal made
by the London and Globe Finance Corporation against
the decision to pay him £48,750 for the non-allotment of
7500 Lake View Consols shares. Even in this deal the
L.G.F. crowd show their cleverness —in getting Wilson to
define the issue to the value of the shares at a certain
date. Had he sued for the shares alone the result in
money would be nearly double, for to day that number of
shares are worth about £90,000. As to the merits of the
case, the writer may have something rather important to
say later.
« * * •
In the failure of that old Melb. firm a bank, a
trustees co., and three big merchants are mainly in-
terested. There will probably be 20s. in the £ for trade
creditors if justice is done.
• • * •
Leigh’s Creek, where has been made the only
solid attempt in S.A. to develope a coal-mine, is in
extremis. In spite of a reconstruction four years
ago, less than half of the 40,000 shares are now good
on the books, and the co. has only £lOO in hand, though,
since it was formed in ’9O, over £16,000 has been spent in
development. The reduction in freight on fuel to Broken
Hill from the seaboard cut away from Leigh’s Creek the
small but increasing Barrier trade; and the final blow
came when Govt, refused to use the coal on the G. N. line.
Yet the fuel is, undoubtedly, of fair quality already and
was getting better, and some day it may be an important
factor in developing the far-inland copper and other
mineral fields. The co. is, however, utterly sick of wait-
ing and fighting. , , *
The Menzies Barossa mine (11 miles from Gaw-
ler on the Para River, S.A.) will have 40 head of stamps
at work before Xmas, and Managing Director Menzie (dis-
coverer of the W.A. field called by his name) hopes to in-
crease the batter}’ to 100 head within the next 18 months.
Stated that 3dwts. will pay all exes., and leave a margin
for the creation of a reserve, and it is confidently expected
that the stone, taken as it comes, will average half an
ounce to the ton. This is the only big gold-mine now in
active work in S.A., and many prayers are offered up for
its success.
* * * *
It is now certain that in many S.A. districts
the coming harvests will be quite a failure—and it is not
expected that more than 25 per cent, of the seed wheat
distributed by Govt, early this year will be returned. In
the regular rainfall areas, however, the crops look pro-
mising, and good prices for wheat and hay are assured.
A W.A. correspondent : The Victoria South
mine, controlled by the Water Trust people, rails all its
high-grade ore to the Trust’s big batteries at far-away
Northam ; seconds and thirds are sent to the Mt. Burgess
battery. The local papers contain paragraphs relating to
the great work done by the Northam battery—Bo stampers
in full work, ore coming in from all quarters, gigantic
success—(all these for the edification and mystification of
John Bull). It would be as well for shareholders to have
on an early date full details of yields and expenses (in-
cluding, of course, trainage) at the respective mills
named. Has the Victoria South ever lost on any parcel
of ore it has had crushed at Northam ?
• • * *
Last month production from Lake View Con-
sols mine, Kalgoorlie, wa595650z., made up by crushing
3652 tons of ore, the cyanide treatment of 1944 tons of
tailings, and contents of a few tons of rich concentrates
shipped away. The production of the Associated Mines
for the same month was 23220 z. from 1700 tons ore. This
was got by direct cyaniding, and some gold is yet to come
from running the tailings over amalgamating plates to
take up coarse gold missed by cyanide. In addition, some
1000 tons ore were shipped away for smelting, the con-
tents of which is estimated at about 4000 oz.—making a
total production of over 6000 oz. Truly the lines of
managers Callahan and Irwin have fallen in pleasant
places since they left N.S.W.
Black Flag Proprietary, W.A. : “1500 tons,
112 oz. A fairly low-grade one -for Westralia ! Bull paid
a heap of cash, and spent many thousands in the erection
of a 60-head modern Fraser and Chalmers’ stamp-mill.
How nice it must be to pay £4O a ton freight on machinery
going to a less than two dwt. mine?
Once more the public are told that the Golden
Zone mine in the Hannan district is going to come out all
right, that the shares last week rose some shillings in one
day because of a rich strike in a neighboring mine, and
that the G.Z. is driving for the same lode.
* * * •
Golden Bar, Coolgardie—“ A partial clean-up-
-170 tons, 740 z. The gold from the plates was not included,
hence the low average.” Now, what does this really
mean ?—the gold absorbed by the plates, or that no
amalgam was taken off during and after the crushing?
Always some excuse. None given for the regularity of
calls,' of which some holders have grown so tired that
more shares are advertised for sale.
* * * *
One big Eastern official expert wired the resig-
nation of his £l2OO a-year billet, in order to go nap on
the new find at Kanowna, which he describes as “the
richest thing on earth.”
• * * *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
• * * *
Published, and in W.A., too, of the Oroya mine,
Kalgoorlie : “ The most shocking waste of water ever wit-
nessed on the field is now going on at this mine. If the
water was obtained free of cost it would be a shame to
waste it in the manner in vogue on the Oroya, but when
it is remembered that every gallon is purchased, and is
used, according to common report, in treating low-grade
ore, it would not be at all surprising if the water-bill were
found to be greater than the value of the gold won from
the stone. Day after day this folly is being repeated, but
apparently the authority on the mine is so divided that
it is impossible to introduce any reforms.”
* • » *
Westralian gold-return for last month, 75,6900 z.,
thus beating the record three months in succession, and
the return for the year is likely to double that of last.
And yet no boom !
* • * *
Kalgoorlie : “ The whole of the workmen em-
ployed on Hannan’s Reward North mine were lately dis*
charged. It is alleged that when the lode was struck
they were the first into the market, and have received
notice in consequence.” Well, someb dy must be the
first, anyhow. What guarantee that the next batch won’t
do likewise if they yet a show ? A miner who can make
a few pounds in that way can afford to get the sack every
time. Such a chance comes seldom, and when it does
there isn't one man in a million who wouldn’t take advan-
tage of it—if he had the money.
* » * *
Anticipations in London and realisations in
Westralia. When the nohle Mr. Frank Nicolas, who is
often confounded with Prof. William Nicholas, manager
of Burbank’s (much to the latter's chagrin), was in Lon-
don last year, the shareholders of the W.A. Development
Group met at the Hotel Cecil to hear him talk of the
great richness of their mines and the divs. they were
going to draw under his guidance. His speech filled
three columns of the Financial Times. He (as there re-
ported) predicted great things for the Mackenzie, Arma-
dale, Orotava and Dorothy mines, admitted that they had
had one or two failures, but of these—“ no attempt had
been made to float them or to make them appear any-
thing but what they are.” But of the others : “There is
not one but has been proved to have sufficient ore to last
for j-ears ; not one that has not been shown by bulk crush-
ings to have highly payable ore, ami not one that is not
capitalised so moderately as to enable substantial dividends
to be paid.” Not only this, but he gave the ounce to the
ton this and that mine would go, received the cheers and
thanks of the meeting, was banqueted, and went
on his way to W.A. rejoicing. Instead of drawing
the foreshadowed steady and substantial divs., the share-
holders are now probably thinking deeply over the
following realities. Armadale: Battery of 25 head and
other machinery, erected at enormous cost, sold at a tre-
mendous sacrifice. Dorothy : “ Yesterday the Dorothy
lease, which is situated a few’ miles south of Coolgardie,
was sold by the bailiff to satisfy a judgment of the local
court. The price realised was only £22. The purchase-
money covered all the tools on the property, and the
buyers are satisfied they will make a good profit.” No
doubt the sellers in London are also abundantly satisfied
—that they will make a good loss! “The sale of the
Mackenzie mine, which had also been advertised, was
postponed.” The writer is now awaiting Nicolas’s
(M.1.M.E.) next appearance at the Hotel Cecil. Why, too,
in Heaven’s name, is it that papers with the long and
honerable career, independence, and sense of humor (w f e
smile !) of the Financial News don't once in a while give
their readers a treat by reprinting in parallel columns
some of the really good things promised for W.A. mines
only a short .year ago, with the sales of the same mines
since made by auction by bold, bad bailiffs to satisfy
“measly” £25 creditors?
• • * *
Despite the flapdoodle lately talked in public by
Capt. Oats, one of the early managers at Southern Cross,
W.A., about the present glories of Kalgoorlie (the Capt.
was comparing it with poor Coolgardie) being due to hard
work and enterprise alone, the fact remains that Kal-
goorlie has become great by luck in the finding of big
phenomenally rich mines. Any amount of Bull and
Australian money was spent in and around Coolgardie
without finding such mines, simply because they didn't
happen to be there. The Coolgardie mines placed in Lon-
don were mostly swindles. Even the Londonderry, which
had a marvellous surface patch, was bonded at a price
the owners never dreamt they would get. Why? Because
the promoters thought the sensational gold got out of a
small hole on a big reef would enable them to so work the
B. public as to place the mine at more than double the
price they were paying; the only risk was a £lO,OOO
deposit, and they put it up. It- was a noble gamble. Can
Capt. Oats explain why several of the Kalgoorlie mines
now valued at millions were originally sold by well-known
miners for a few thousands? One Sydneyite declined the
Brown Hill lease at £llOO. If Coolgardie has left any
self-respect it will not allow itself to be shown up as the
only sinner, but will undertake the very easy task of ex-
posing right up to the hilt that Kalgoorlie was no better
than she ought to be, that she owes her greatness to
nature’s treasures, so concealed when compared to
Bayley’s Londonderry and other W.A. mines as to turn
“cat-mongers’” lies into solid truths, make enormously
rich men of mining fools, and leave poor indeed many of
the pioneers, including even the discoverer —Pat Hannan.
* * • *
There is to be a brush-up in the returns from
the Murchison till the end of the year. The Golconda
will help the most; after a long spell, crushing has been
begun again, and 620 tons have given 15450 z. Also, there
is a little stir about the Day Dawn.
v * * • •
The question asked in S.A. Leg. Assembly as
to the truth of the report re importation of silver half-
crowns, florins, and shillings made in Germany, was
raised by Tiie Bulletin several years ago. Whether true
or not, it is evident that in Melbourne and the principal
Vic. towns there are almost as many brand-new’ silver
coins of 1896 date in circulation as old ones. It is only
two years since a firm of Chinese merchants in Melbourne
had to account for a large shipment of shilling pieces
(identical in quality and make with those coined at the
British Mint) which they had received from China, and
which were found to have been manufactured elsewhere
than at the British Mint. If silver drops to 2s. an oz. the
profit might induce an enterprising foreign manufacturer
to lay down the £BOOO to £lO,OOO plant necessary to go
regularly into “ the business.’’
* * * *
A blasphemous farmer to Hon. G. H. Reid, P.C.,
“per favor of Bulletin” : —Dear Sir, —I can't make my
farm pay, owing to the recent very severe seasons. Of
late my expenditure is larger than my income. I have
tried the usual system of book-keeping and cannot make
ends meet. You would do me and my neighbors a great
favor if you would kindly forward particulars of your
spot-cash scheme of book-keeping. Under your system
I think I could “make ado of it.” Awaiting an early
reply, your everlasting slave, G. H. Hayseed.
• * *
Be recent Yic. advt. : “Wanted a thoroughly
qualified butter-maker ; wages, 255. per week.” A Melb.
correspondent writes : Many such have been appearing
recently, and if, after all the butter bonus business, that
is all that can be paid to a qualified butter-maker, who
has to hold an engineer’s certificate and work for 12 or
14 hours per day, Sundays included, up to his neck in
grease, it is extremely doubtful if it was worth while to
start the butter industry at all. The writer was the third
man in succession who had to give up the management
of a so-called good creamery (1000 gals, per day) being
unable to keep himself after paying for wood, oil and
horse and trap to take cream to railway. In fact, he had
to live for the last week or two on rice and milk.”
» * * *
Again the W.A. Premier has announced that
the Government intends to carry out the Coolgardie
water scheme, “if it gets the support to which it is
entitled.” Ten times the quantity of water expected
has been found in the mines of Kalgoorlie, but the ex-
perience of nearly all mining camps is that the quantity
reduces with time, and it looks as if Kalgoorlie mines
will have much less water below the 300 ft. than above it.
The sooner the water business is faced the better.
* * * *
Perth (W.A.), Wesleyan Church, whose pro-
perty has been rushed up to an estimated value of £BO,OOO,
is about to spend £40,000 on the erection of capacious
shops along the street frontages, and it is expected that
the speculation will be splendidly payable.


d
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. . Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
SYDNEY.
“CORTO” ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OP THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
EST See the name CORTO on the hands, and beware of imitations,
WATSON S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
[?]lestin
COGMAG
The ship Phos still provides “copy.” A
Hobart Bench the other day sent two of the crew
to gaol for refusing duty. Their complaint was
that they were compelled to eat cockroach soup or
go hungry. Appeals to the captain and their
consul were unavailing, so they struck work. The
magistrates (one of whom was the aforesaid Con-
sul, who admitted having seen cockroaches in the
Phos soup) told the sailors that they had “not
taken the proper course to have their grievance
remedied,” and—fourteen days. Despite the
horrors of the shipping law, none but V.D.L.
magistrates would pass such remarks and such a
sentence on justly-protesting foreign sailors. Yet,
after all, gaol food is not so objectionable as stewed
cockroaches.
* • • •
Ranjitsinhji was the lion of the lawn and
saddling-paddock, at Flemington, on Cup-day,
quite eclipsing Gov. Brassey and the bearded
woman ; but wails of feminine disappointment
followed the boomed Oriental wherever he went.
Ranji, in spotless flannels, may be moderately
picturesque at a distance—but never, under any
circumstances, could he be anything like as lovely
as his portraits. In a dark suit and a straw-
decker he is a very ordinary-looking colored
gentleman, and on close inspection he is found to
be somewhat deeply scarred as though from small-
pox. Ranjit is not even a prince, but the fact is
not advertised, as it would materially detract from
his value as a show cricketer. Any man who is a
good cricketer is a draw, but a prince who is good
for anything is a phenomenon.
Judging by the treatment of the daily-
press representatives at Gov. Brassey’s big ball,
H.E. has decided to introduce the Westralian
principle of giving the reporters a glass of water
at a side table while the crowd feeds. The first
pressman who arrived was met by a gorgeous
flunkey who bailed him up with a lordly air, and,
learning his business, swept out a gloved fist—
“ Back-door—up the back-stairs, and you’ll find
the room for you reporters.” With much trouble,
the man of sentences discovered an out-of-the-way
door leading up about five flights of stone steps —
greasy to the foot and redolent of cabbage-water
and cooking. At the top of the stairs was a long
passage, and, at the end of this, a large room just
under the roof with half-a-dozen beds shoved in a
corner to make room. There was no ventilation,
and the place had apparently been cleaned last
during the era of Latrobe or Johnny Fawkner.
Here it was that the dozen daily pressmen—all, if
you please, in the mandatory evening-dress—
gathered for the pleasing job of “making up the
names.” In a far corner of the room flickered one
faint blue flame just making visible a row of
planks on trestles, in an open space between the
beds. A loud, concerted growl resulted in two
kerosene lamps arriving, and, without ink, the
most miserable job of a pressman’s lot, five hours’
long, was commenced. During the whole of those
five hours the work was carried on at top-speed,
yet not so much as a glass of water or a solitary
sandwich was proffered by the individual who had
made it compulsory for visitors to the servants’
bedroom to wear swallow-tails.
Some of the cards presented by the guests were
a lovely reflection on the intellect of the “ society ”
holders. Though the name of the character alone
was required, many of the dancers gave lengthy
costume descriptions on the backs of their cards,
and half-a-dozen of the male professional beauties
even had the cheek to scrawl a neat and ungram-
matical paragraph, to the effect that the writer
“looked handsome” or “wore a striking cos-
tume.” One of the hawty youths who thus
described himself had three shots at spelling the
character before he let it go, and was then a mile
out.
What a farce is the pretence that a Gov.’s ball
is a social function, at which H.M.’s representa-
tive and local sassiety are veritably host and
guests ! Fully 100 visitors to Gov. Brassey’s ball
were waiting on the steps when the doors opened
SUDDEN DEATH.
THE VISITOR : “ What's the death-rate of this town?”
THE RESIDENT (glancing towards one of Sydney's steam terrors): “Well, I should say about
twelve miles an hour!”
HER FIRST HILL.
at 8.45, and some of these (ladies) had been kick-
ing their heels in the cold for a full half-hour.
Dancin'? was marked as 9.30 on the invite, but
what private individual would keep his guests
waiting without a seat, and without even the pro-
verbial mat to stand on ?
* * * *
At the Brassey fancy-dress ball a constable
approached the wife of a mighty colonel, and told
her, in subservient tones, that if she required his
services in any way during the night he was at her
disposal. The lady thanked him most graciously,
and said she would not forget. Then he disclosed
himself as a certain gallant majaw.
* * * *
A few weeks back, a city policeman, on
beat at 2 a.m., encountered a stylishly-dressed
woman, very drunk, bumping aimlessly at the
side-door of a pub. At the watch house she was
found to be in possession of a bag containing over
£3OO in notes and sovs. With just enough sense
to give her name as Jane Smith, or something
like that, the prisoner slept in the cell until suffi-
ciently recovered to shift to a neighboring hotel,
leaving the usual =£s security. When the case of
Jane Smith was called there was, of course, no
appearance, and a £1 fine was accordingly entered ;
but later on the arrestee, who proved to be a well-
known actress, rolled up again to find how she
had been punished. When proffered change for
the fiver, the lady produced another note of the
same denomination and, instructing the police to
give it to the Home for Fallen Women, swept out
into her carriage with the air of a duchess.
A drunk, too far gone to speak, see, or hear was
lodged in a Melb. watchhouse cell, the other day,
and lay in an unbroken sleep for about 12 hours,
when a second man, only slightly and hilariously
bibulous, was also locked up. The new arrival,
trying to find the softest plank in the dark,
stumbled over his prostrate fellow-prisoner and
woke him up. Now thoroughly sober, but unaware
of his, whereabouts, the first guest of Her Majesty
resented what he considered an assault, and,
jumping up, “plugged” the new arrival vigor-
ously, at the same time calling loudly for “police!”
Watchhouse keeper and reserve man rushed to the
cell and found the latest drunk on the floor with
the other sitting on his chest pounding him.
“ What are you doing to that man ? ” asked the
constable. “He’s robbed me,” explained the
prisoner—“look here,” he added, pointing rue-
fully to his outturned pockets, “lie’s done me in
for everv cent I had.”
* » « •
Another “Mac” appointed to medical
staff of Sydney Prince Alfred Hospital. Though
nominally offered to competition, the thing was
regarded outside as cut-and-dried. Sandy makes
a gey glide sawbones, nae doot, but this begins to
look a little too much like a second New Caledonia.
* * * *
According to Grafton Argus, the s.s.
Kallatina was, on a recent trip, practically taken
possession of by 19 prisoners who were being for
warded from Darlinghurst to Grafton Gaol “ in
charge ”of three warders ! Their irons were
taken off, and they roamed at will about the
vessel, singing and shouting, demanding drink
from other passengers, and even, in one case, en-
deavoring to intrude into the ladies’ cabin. If
this is true, surely even Botany Bay justice might
have refrained from subjecting these men (some of
them lifers) to such a cruel temptation to make
that dash for liberty which, if it failed, would be
afterwards so vindictively and unreasonably
punished.
* * * *
The Captain who was to command one of
the Australian regiments in England did not
reach Ome until a fortnight after his men, and in
his absence a young lieutenant was in command.
During their first week in England invitations,
addressed to “ the Commanding Officer,’’ came in
by the dozen from all the dukes and lords in the
kingdom—enough to last anyone but a military
buck for a lifetime. The commanding officer for
the time being, realising that as soon as the cap-
tain arrived his show of getting any of the invita-
tions would be even as “ Buckley’s,” took a day to
answer them, and (so the story goes) accepted all
the very nicest ” ones in his own name. He did
nothing for the rest of his stay but swagger round
with P.Gs. and so on, while the captain
had to be satisfied with what his thoughtful
subordinate had been good enough to leave him.
Which was not bad young ’an on his first
trip.
Mr. Magarey, the Adelaide agent for
A. F. Calvert, is still in doubt as to whether his
principal intends to pay the A* 1000 expense in-
curred during the search for the ill-fated Wells
and Jones. Up to now the replies to his letters
have appeared evasive and unsatisfactory.
A LOST CHAMPION.
BILLY (showing the new hid round): “ You ought
to ’are seen the bloke what’s cornin’ down the
street play cricket. I tell yer straight, if it
’adn’t been for smokin’ and the women, ’e’d
run rings round this ear bloomin’ Ranjam
Jimmie!”
Whatever H. M. Addison may be in
other respects, he was an excellent chairman of
S.A. State Bank, and the greatest public loss by
the Nixon case is the necessity of his resignation
(remarks The Bulletin’s Adelaide correspondent).
His friends have determined that in future they
will quote his case as an insuperable precedent for
the dismissal from office of every public man who
goes astray. In the past many similar peccadil-
loes have been winked at in S.A. —as this one
would have been but for the aggressive presence
of the woman voter.
« * • *
The Fiji Customs authorities treat im-
proper importations most disdainfully. All such
are shot over the reef—the reefs which surround
the group are the very safest of barriers; any-
ROUND THE COAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is just a little sobbing
As the boat’s about to start;
And a little extra throbbing
At the region of the heart.
And he feels that he’s a sinner
To desert her in that way ;
But it doesn’t spoil his dinner,
For they haven’t left the bay.
There’s a little fall and flurry,
As he helps a girl to rise ;
And he says she’s “ not to worry,”
And he thinks “she’slovely eyes.”
Then he draws a little nearer,
To protect her from the breeze,
And he tries to make things dearer
With a tiny little squeeze.
And his voice is soft and mellow,
For he’s got a lot to say—
An insinuating fellow
Is this creature of to-day.
Melb.
M. F. KEMP.


nSww6TBN*r-^.
"• fHOTO-. OUTFITTERS-'
6* KING S'! SYDNEY
•er<
A,rp... j_- u —,
Tf/f f/ft/y f BUY
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
fiXPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms —FREE
C ale do nian Lique nr Whisk j
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
-DOSE’S CELEBRATED
eye lotion
STANDS AT,ONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; used with mar-
vellous success in the London Moortield Eve Hospital.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-
street, Sydney. 43?“' Open all Night—also Sundays
and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
Liverpool ai)d Loijdop
globs li)S(iraoce Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
. Twenty-eight Thousand Hounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
ship*
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about,
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Cumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Katkr, Esq.; ant'
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia -
62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
thing at all passed over these is never seen again.
A German once landed in Suva with a parcel. of
guns. These were considered unlawful for native
trade, and positively dangerous for Europeans to
handle (they were invoiced too cheap). They did
not give the foreigner his guns back, but took
thenPbut in a punt and dropped them over the
reef. Another time a book-fiend arrived with a
huge case containing books, photographs, &c.,
which the austere, gilt-buttoned officer considered
in toto as obscene. The whole package was
treated with the same courtesy as the guns. Even
now the corpses of indigent natives and executed
criminals are consigned to the shell-fish per this
coral wall.
* * * *
S.S. : “ To me the most significant feature
of Flcmington lawn on Derby and Cup days was
the great number of fat, elderly men with slim
and pretty young women. nu ran against them
all over the place, the sweet girl radiant in a
lovely gown that probably cost more than the
nice young man could earn in three months ; the
fat, iron-grey gent, with a contented proprietary
air, keeping his prize well in tow. Cup-day, no
doubt, is responsible for many May and December
matches, and the fair damsel is induced to say
‘ yes ’ to the paunchy senior suitor earlier in the
year by rosy visions of an adorable frock for the
Cup.”
X * * * *
They blame the linotype now : “ Major
Wardill introduced the Englishmen, and their
health was toasted in an infernal glass of wine. ’
Thus a Melb. paper ; but the hapless scribe wrote
“ informal glass of wine. ’ Maybe the machine
can’t lie.
* * * *
It was a sight to see giant M‘Kean, Mel-
bourne’s elephantine attorney, holding conversa-
tion with Prince Najal of Hyderabad in the car-
riage-paddock on Cup-day. The Prince’s English
was very rocky, but he must have found Mac s
quite as lucid as old Hebrew. “ Shure, did ye
sa-ny ye have a lether t’ the jintlemahn ? ” said the
lawyer, and he said it often, and was informed in
reply that his colored Highness thought Positano
a certainty.
'* * * *
One enterprising person, who had some-
how or other got possession of an invitation to the
Brassey Eancy Ball, made an honest penny by
turning up as an advt. for a much-boomed brand
of groats or something. Which opens the door to
a fine industry. Possibly the Govt’ouse ball of
the future wiil be merely a field wherein “ Blue
Boluses for Bald Bounders ” will battle for
supremacy with “Moses’s Mixture,” “Blank’s
Pills,” and other prominent nostrums for the
regeneration of health.
* * * *
The very latest idea in mayoral munificence
comes from S.A. :
Striking figures in the crowd at the first cricket-match
against the Englishmen were the members and officers of
the Semaphore Corporation. Mr. Deslandes (the Mayor)
hired a drag, and supplied all the councillors and officers
with white cricketing- hats, and thus they were driven to
the oval.
But, then, The Bulletin knows Deslandes to be
an undertaker ; so the idea of lending special
head-gear before setting out for a drive came
natural to him.
• * * *
Be the recent fining of a batch of small
urchins, at North Sydney, for the horrible crime
of “throwing sand against a church ” during ser-
vice, many people would like to know why the
tabernacle should be more carefully safeguarded
against disturbance than the hospital. The cab,
for instance, that is municipally compelled to
A BOLD ENTERPRISE.
NIPPER MALONE: “ Stoush ’em? Not me; I ain't on.
RED HEARN (with fine contempt) : “Gam, what yer frightened
of? Two white men’s ez good [?]z three bloomin’ Chows
any day!”
crawl past the house of prayer may rattle full-
speed over the racketty woodm blocking beside
that house of suffering and death, Sydney Hos-
pital.
* • * *
In Hyde Park, Sydney, is to be seen an
old man placarded with the following legend, I
wish you would not pass insulting remarks about
“My Aflietions. lam willing to prove to anyone
that I am Blind ! ”
ONE OF MARIE CORELLI'S DOVES .
FATHER (to nine-year-old son, who has been to aparsonical lecture on Palestine) : “ Well, sonny,
and how did you like Mr. Smith's lecture?
SONNY: “ Oh, it wasn't bad; at least, I mean it was good enough-but you wouldn't put your
ears back and rush it, dad.”
A certain Australian potentate, when out
on a biking tour, does not hesitate, even if there
be a hotel close by,, to stop at any private house,
knock introduce himself, and demand refresh
ment. This, frequently repeated, went far to
disgust a private secretary, who took the first
opportunity of moving on elsewhere.
The occupants of a smoking compartment
of the Southern (N.S.W.) mail-train one night
lately, were surprised to see portion of a m
garment flutter in the window, the snowy robe
was grabbed, and next moment shrieks and yells
and wild tugs came from the adjoining compait
ment which was full of ladies, Just then the
train rushed into a station, when it.was foundi that
the tug-of-war was over a feminine night-gown
which a young lady had been airing put of the
window, to take the dampness out ot it.
* * * *
Drunk in omnibus drops half-sov. into pay-
box Driver draws his attention to mistake, i e
drunk: “S’elp me, I didn’t mean to-hic-
shvvindle you.”
In one Australian university
a noticeable increase, is observed
in the use of the double eve-
glass among senior students. Ihe
cause may be failing sight from
bad lighting of reading-rooms and
lecture-rooms, or it may be the
desire of the senior student to
get the peculiar physician-look or
surgeon-frown before he gradu-
ates, or it may be, and most likely
is, owing to the fact that a certain
demonstrator, who works at a
salary of £5 per annum, is an
oculist, whose yearly income is
closely under or over =£3ooo a year.
Two showers of “ red rain ”
fell in Beech worth (Yic.) district the
other day. For four days before
this occurred blinding dust-storms
had prevailed throughout the Dar-
ling Downs and Baroo country
of N.S.W., the wind coming from
the north. No doubt cause and
effect, the coloring particles m
the water being probably dust
from wind-tormented squattages
well up towards the Queensland
border, five or six hundred miles
away. So dense are the dust-
clouds on a “ bad” day in that
quarter, and with such great force
are the atoms driven, that, though
most of the. sheep have lately been shorn, the
fleeces from those which were exposed to it in
open country will at the next shearing show
the marks of this storm. _ That, at least, is to be
expected from past experience.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— A par. in your pages of
August 21, which I have just received, discusses
the alleged cleanliness of J. Bull. Now I have
always understood that J.B. was fairly on
water. Was it not Svengali who said the English
must be very dirty, seeing that they took a bath
everyday? Anyway, be the English never so
bad in this respect, they cannot beat the Yankees.
After a 3000-mile railway journey 1 stopped at a
hotel in Indiana, with about an inch deep of dust
On me “A bath ?” I asked the boy who came to
take my baggage. “Yes, sir.” He disappeared,
returning in a minute with a large jug of water.
After a large amount of talking, I made him un-
derstand that I wanted something to lie down in,
even if it were only the old time-honored wash-
tub. “D’ye see, the boss has only just bought
the late proprietor out, and he hasn t had time to
fit out such things yet. However, he is going to
have one by next summer, because a number or
our guests have been asking after it lately.
“Hoop-ray! Cleanliness next to Godliness ! --
Veldt, M.A. College, Michigan, U.S., Oct. 4, J 7
» • * *
E.D. : Abortive efforts of one White to
get off a paper on evolution before Vic. Congrega-
tional Union once more shows how scared the sects
are at the idea of a combat between Genesis and
Darwin —how they shudder at the bare notion of
Adam and Eve having swung from that apple-tree
by their tails. The Union blocked White’s paper
every time. The Church hates this theme. Left
to choose between the monkey and Moses, it
cleaves to Moses, and, to placate the unconquerable
monkev, adopts monkey whiskers as a sort of
tacit admission of his claims.
* * * *
The Wages of Sin:—7s. 6d. a week.
Editor-Majah Reay, of Melbourne
Hevenin’ ’Erald, is firing off a series of
lectures at different places, descriptive of
that well chawed-out subject —the Jubilee
in London. The Majah is full to the
muzzle of that glorious event, and his
audiences seem to take him very seriously
indeed. Nothing pleases them more than
the lecturers statement that the British
aristocracy are distinguished for the sim-
plicity and unaffected ness of their man-
ners. And he puts this before his
listeners as a circumstance that took him
up short, and quite upset his precon-
ceived ideas upon the matter. The
Majah gives one the impression that he
would gladly shed his last drop of blood
in defence of an affable dook,
* * * *
The W.C.T.U. Convention at Bal-
larat has been talking of policemen. The
prim delegates have a feeling that the
she-peeler would know best how to deal
with depraved young hussies in big cities.
Apparently the saintly ladies of the
W.C.T.U. are actuated by an earnest
desire to deliver the common bobby from
evil, believing, as they do, that he is led
into temptation when he takes charge of
the forward minx with a rorty little
twinkle in her eye. “ How would we
like our husbands or brothers to under-
take the duty ? ” asked one flushed dele-
gate, and a fierce sniff ran through the
room, accompanied by a facial expression
that meant: “ I’d like to catch them at
it! ” No decision was come to on this
point, but if the W.C.T.U. members
could be prevailed upon to become police-
women the average man would go to
almost any extreme to avoid arrest. He
might even become virtuous.
Ed. Bulletin, —Concerning that rumor of
a proposed marriage between Dhuleep Singh and
the daughter of the Earl of Coventry, it seems to
me that the secret antipathy the Caucasian feels
against any colored race is not so much a matter
of racial hatred, prejudice or sentiment, as simply
—smell. Especially in regard to —let us call it
Love—the powerful influence of the olfactory
nerves has never been duly appreciated. A vast
percentage of human beings fall in love through
the nose (no pun intended), and the nose will be
the main factor in preventing promiscuous inter-
marriage of races, that would thereby suffer for
selective reasons. Why has nobody ever written
—but, hold on, I will do it myself.— Y. Kotze.
[While the writer is at it, let him explain the
“ secret antipathy” of the Caucasian female to the
Chow. —Ed. B.]
* * * *
Melb.: “The Advocate prints over A
hundred pictures of the R.C. churches, schools*
parsonages and convents in Victoria, apropos the
opening of St. Patrick’s Cathedral. This makes,
truly, a prodigious impression as to the growth
and continued progress of the church, its vigor
and sap, as versus decadent Protestantism, on
every hand. For it is the simple fact that Protes-
tanf'sm in Victoria, unless the Salvation Army be
such, does nothing more than struggle to keep
alive. All, positively all, its Melb. city churches
appear to be approaching the moribund. And
what a ghastly catalogue of the dead ones —like
Chalmers’s, formerly the tub of Cairns ; Ramsay’s,
in Collins-street; the John Knox, Swanston-street;
the Congregational in Victoria parade; tottery
Wesley church, and plenty more. Meanwhile,
Archbishop Carr rips ahead with two big new
churches, the West Melb. and the Why
cannot the other side put up a worthy Fitzsim-
mons to, at least, challenge this ecclesiastic
Corbett ?
Vic,: “Melb. Church of England Grammar
School is another of Bishop Goe’s failures. Indeed,
there are threatening rumbles of a burst in nearly
all the high-toned institutions, unless the wind be
raised more effectively. Principal Palmer comes
to the rescue of Wesley College, after rumors of
its closing. The Wesleyan Queen’s College (Uni-
versity) has a fearful debt, <£HO,OOO. In like
manner, =£lo,ooo has got tied round the throat of
the C. of E. Grammar School, more especially
through the stupidity of building an expensive
chapel for the boys on the premises, where the
head-master is forced to preach, as a precaution
that he Goes orthodoxly, without any of the mis-
chievous errors of Colenso, Darwin, Spencer —or,
worse still, those of Henry George, Ben Tillett, or
anything of that school, whereby Prof. Morris,
Higinbotham’s son-in-law, was ousted from this
college. Bishop Goe, on the advice of Old-scholar
Deakin, Prof. M‘Coy, and others, has just promul-
gated a new scheme of management.”
* * * *
Miss Elsie Lander, who is taking a com-
pany to the Rrisbane Theatre Royal to play melo-
drama over the holiday season, is a young English
actress, but, like many others, she made her
greatest hit in the United States, Bora at St.
Heliers, Jersey, the little Channel Islander
played in English provincial companies for a few
years, but when her family came to Australia
abandoned the boards and turned to other pur-
suits. Misfortune—her American press admirers
call it good fortune —drove her back to the stage,
and, taking five promising plays by an Australian
author, she left for New York. There she
played character parts with much success at
Niblo’s Gardens under Harry St. Maur’s stage
management. Finally, the well-known touring
manager, Saunderson, engaged her as his leading
lady, and for over two years she starred with hup,
winning golden opinions all through the West.
An accident compelled her to rest, she re-visited
her friends in Australia, and came to the con-
clusion that, having now completely recovered,
she could charm Australian audiences in the plays
which proved her greatest successes in America.
At all events she means to try, and the Brisbane
season will see her first appearance in Australia.
Miss ELSIE LANDER.
Photo., Crown Studios .
Sydney University has in the course of its
existence obtained bequests from six women, the
gifts totalling =£10,202.


t
}
Food
Tmxfy
We
® ®Jze
>
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &o,
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
GREAT ARE SOME
PHYSICIANS.
BUT FAR GREATER ARE GOULD’S
TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS,
FOR THEY CURE AFTER PHYSICIANS
FAIL.
So say the people ? The great surprise of the present
day, and one who is most to be pitied is the man with a
weak stomach and a sluggish liver, and who can’t eat
this, and can’t drink that, is miserable and feels disagree-
able, broods over nothing, and can’t see enjoyment in
anything ; sympathy is a nuisance, and friends a bore ;
one day a big appetite, and next day sorry and a great disin-
clination for food. Such is exactly how thousands of
people feel in this colony, and you are likely one of the
thousands. Up to a few years ago stomach and liver
troubles were almost unknown ; but to-day it is the ex-
ception to find one who has a good, strong digestion. In-
numerable cures have been tried and tried by sufferers
without avail, that is up to a short time ago; but now,
owing to the efforts of some physicians in the United
States, a cure has been discovered which not only tones
the digestion and stirs up the liver, but the blood is
cleared of taint and face pimples, heart palpitation, con-
stipation, piles, &c., speedily become a thing of the past.
This preparation is put up in the form of small pills for
convenience sake, and are called Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver
Pills.
You will very likely say, Oh ! this is another patent
medicine. This is true to a certain extent; but not a
patent medicine as the term is usually used. Gould’s
Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are a pharmaceutical preparation,
the formula of which has been improved on, until now a
preparation has been gotten which will bring joy and
happiness to many a home in Australia. Price, 2s. 6d.;
six bottles, 14s. 3d., from chemists and storekeepers or
from the Australian Branch of the E. A. Gould Sons and
Co., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 9, 1897.
Mr Dear Myee—
The audience at Florence Schmidt’s day-time
concert last Wednesday made up in warmth what
it lacked in numbers. Flowers were abundant; a
blue lyre was the most striking trophy. The vein
of public interest in the newest soprano has been
worked for all it is worth by the gritful Miss
Schmidt, who has done what no other vocal be-
ginner has done here before —worked up four Town
Hall appearances entirely unsupported by social
props, and relying solely on the strength of her
programmes ; but to boom her farewell financially,
since_ she wishes the European hall-mark on her
training, the usual “large and influential ” com-
mittee would come in usefully. Miss Schmidt
sang two original songlets composed for her by R.
Goring Thomas, and her other three arias had been
sung by the brilliant soprano successfully on former
occasions.
Several recent “happy couples” have gone
overland to spend a quiet honeymoon at Fleming-
ton. They are attracted by the gorgeous new
corridor car which seems to have been specially
built for parties of two. Each compartment is
upholstered in bridal-white brocade, and the
carpet is soft and luxurious, and there are jewelled
mirrors and expensive brass work, and a door that
closes tight on the dainty crib ; one extra-special
saloon bursts into blue plush and wicker furniture.
Lately Redfern has had a festive appearance at
the starting of the Melbourne express, of which
this glorified car forms part, with bridesmaids
flitting about with sweet-smelling posies and
highly-tailored best men, and much rice spilt and
trodden under the unromantic feet of the travel-
ling public, and a glamor of love’s young dream
thrown over the prosaic mail-train. Miss Good-
enough, who was married to Mr. T. Lindsay, at
the Arcadia Hotel, the week before last, has been
at Flemington in a flutter of happiness and French
muslin; and Mr. and Mrs. Mark Sheldon chose
the same sequestered retreat for their honeymoon
paradise.
Miss Ada Stacey, the bicycliste who met such a
terrible death in the Waverley-road by coming
into collision with a tram, had only ridden a wheel
for a month. A mere beginner and she didn’t
hesitate to ride in the great death-trap—Oxford-
street !
Mark Hambourp's favorite, “ Poco a Poco,” by
Franchette, has been published. Strummed out
by the soulless schoolgirl the waltz would be
ineffective, but it repays study, being much more
difficult than appears at first sight. “La Gitana,”
a mazurka, by T. Tourrier, is a commonplace and
lifeless tune in well-marked time.
In a batch of songs from Ricordi and Co., in-
cluding “ Sweetheart Dick,” by C. Blackett, the
“Troubadour Ballad,” by Hillier, and “Last
Year’s Roses,” by F. Leone, the last stands out
as the most tuneful. “ Bygone Days,” by M.
Wellings (Nicholson and Co.), is a useful little
drawing-room ballad, the piano not too difficult,
the voice part not too high. A “ Polonaise,” by
B. Wandlandt (Melb .), is a festive piece sugges-
tive of foreign revelry. The “Tivoli Album ” for
next Xmas has already arrived, containing many
recent Tivoli triumphs and other popular alleged
music, also some of the best-known marches of
Sousa, whose airs flash round the world like a
cable message, and are strummed and banged and
whistled everywhere. “ Washington Post ” heads
the list, but the directions for dancing the fashion-
able jig, given at the top of the page, are calcu-
lated to hurl a ballroom into confusion and drive a
conscientious M.C. to despair. The lady is
directed to stand facing her partner, and both
start off on the left foot. A few bars after such a
start would make dancers’ tracks as complicated
as a cyclist’s road-map. {i"
A Maoriland tenor now in Sydney used to be
pestered to sing at charity concerts mainly got up
to advertise the benevolence of the promoters,
until he hit on the neat device of offering to con-
tribute three guineas (the price at which he valued
his services) to the object, if members of the com-
mittee would throw a guinea apiece into the phil-
anthropic pool. That vocalist was never called
upon to fork over the amount. He talks of re-
peating the expedient here.
The bride of a certain gilded young Australian
was consigned to him from ’Oirie recently—to be
married on arrival if equal to sample, I suppose.
On her way out she actually objected to being
known by her maiden name. She was “ the future
Mrs. X.,” if you please. It was X., X., X., all
the time, until at last a fellow-passenger asked one
of Judge Icefrog’s daughters: “Who are these
X.’s that we hear so much about?” “Well,
really,” was the reply, “ I can hardly tell you. We
have never called on them, and I don’t think we
evah shall! ” She turned, and the f. Mrs. X. was
standing behind her, having heard all.
The Inspector of one of the N.S.W. school dis-
tricts wants his pupil-teachers—male and female—
to wear uniform. It is to be presumed there will be
some distinctive badge besides the back hair.
I don’t think there’ll be much catch-on in that
W.C.T.U. suggestion that married women should
simply tack the husband’s name on to their own.
What chance would Miss Buggins then have of
writing herself Cholomondelev, or Mary Jane
Stubbs of blossoming into Miss De Montmorency ?
Also, which name would the children take, or
would they take both ? In the latter case, a
married woman, four generations from the start,
would have 32 names to carry about with her !
An astounding story is current in Melbourne
re the love-adventure of a very select young man
who comes of one of the Naicest imaginable local
families. At a fashionable hotel he met a lady
who said she belonged to a certain high-toned and
well-gilded set of people whose name you see with
a perfectly damnable iteration in the “ society ”
columns of the daily papers. Well, the young
man became engaged to marry the lady, and wrote
to his mother to announce the fact, adding that his
prospective wife had £2OOO a year of her own,
that they would start for Europe presently, and
spend a year on the Continent. He further said
that his intended was travelling with her aunt—a
perfectly charming old lady and very like the
daughter. But he remembers that he never saw
aunt and niece together, and is now of opinion
that when he thought he was talking to his
aunt-in-law elect he was really speaking with
his sweetheart artfully made up as her own aunt.
Also, the bride-that-was-to-be, to whom the young
man gave some very valuable presents, has disap-
peared from the hotel, leaving behind in her
trunks—ironical woman ! —nothing but the bushel
of letters written her by the young man aforesaid.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“In the days of Gov. Loch, the gardens of
Govt. House used to be thrown open to the guests
on ball-nights, and couples might wander by the
smellful Yarra or into the Domain, or anywhere
out of the fierce light that beats upon a ballroom.
With the advent of Gov. Hopetoun, however, all
was changed, and, with an austerity befitting a
magnate of the Scots Kirk, this youthful lord care-
fully closed every opening, right up to the venti-
lators, and left sassiety to stew in its own gravy
on even the hottest nights. Under Baron Brassey,
however, it is pleasing to note a return to the
humanitarian principles of the ill-named Loch,
for, on the night of the big ball, the doors were
opened as in the days of the boom, and feminine
sassiety was once more free to roam whithersoever
its ‘ boy ’ might desire.
“ At the Brassey ball, the new Speaker, F. C.
Mason, famous, in the ordinary way, for a black
velvet collar to his frock coat, which makes him
look very like an out-of-date ’Arry, burst forth in
kingly garb, topped by a huge crown, and de-
scribed himself as ‘Great Britain,’ for this occa-
sion only. Why Great Britain, nobody could say.
One never thinks of Mr. M. as a.suitable successor
to the good lady who had a jubilee not long ago.
The lawful owner of a portentously grave coun-
tenance chose to appear as the jolly ‘ Bacchus,’
and a well-known sassiety matron rather para-
lysed onlookers by her get-up as ‘Night.’ A
better title would have been ‘Shades of Night,’
for she had seemingly enveloped herself in blue
mosquito-net to keep the flies off. A ‘ Svengali,’
several ‘Othellos,’ ‘Father Neptune,’ and
‘Father Christmas,’ were disguised beyond recog-
nition by even their dearest friends, but it was
sad to notice how many of the faces that
ought to have been put out ot sight were
allowed to remain quite as obvious as usual.
“The women who fancied they resembled Miss
Ferrar, and went as Mercia, were a quite distress-
ing crowd of Early Christians, with rank, “ rat-
gnawed ” tresses a-hanging down their backs, and
not a ghost of a spiritual expression to pull them
through the character. In one case, at least, it
was absurd to think of Mercia being eaten by the
lions, unless the noble beasts hadn’t tasted horse
for a week, and were absolutely famishing.
“The only Julius, after dazzling all beholders as
Romeo in fawn tights at the Brassey ball, retired
into hospital for a serious—not dangerous—opera-
tion which he postponed until after the vice-regal
revel. His Juliet was Mrs. Percy Chirnside, one
of the evening’s belles, whom it is the correct thing
just now to admire. She has much golden hair
which was hanging down her back, but she flat-
tened the front effect by a carefully-netted fringe,
and had a wax-dollish loveliness.
“ The- most-boomed personage of the Cup spree
this year has been the ‘black-eyed Indian Princess,’
as she is always labelled. The title recalls Vol-
taire’s remark about the ‘Holy Roman Empire,’
because the veiled houri isn’t black-eyed—she isn’t
Indian, and she isn’t a princess. Her optics are a
blueish tinge, her complexion is tallowy, her Arab
husband’s rank about answers to that of an English
baronet, and her father was English. Wrapped up
like a parcel in a few yards of obviously Western-
manufactured silk, and an all-concealing veil, she
has waudered into all the festivities, but, as she
doesn’t play speaks with any man except her legal
owner, and shrinks even from talking to other
women, she retains her Oriental mystery. Two
attendants generally play suite to this Eastern
lady and her lord, dressed in slop-tweed suits and
scarlet fez caps.
“Orientals are un-vulgarly reserved. The
women are veiled and the men reticent. “ Ranji ’
is a very shy bird who flutters away from the
strange hand and quietly flicks off the salt which
society tries to put on his tail. He is an under-
sized ‘chop-dollar boy.’
“ This year’s garden-party, a regulation revel of
Cup-week, was a monster fete which scooped into
its net all the little social fishes as well as the big
ones. All the world was there, but not her hus-
band, for most of the sparsely-scattered men were
R. C. bishops and such. The world now in man-
less Melbourne is distinctly feminine; whole
families of women tramp about at every day-time
show, and dismally sit around at evening parties
with never a man. Consequently there has been
much mobbing of celebrities. One of the most
stared-at was a relative of Her Ex.’s, a London
society beauty wedded to a Guardsman, who
glorifies her plain ‘ Smith ’ into four syllables and
has descended into the midst of the gaiety with
many sensational frocks and a determination to
have a good time. Lady Brassey was in grev—a
favored tint this year ; the daughter of Sydney’s
figurehead wore pepper - and - salt silk ; Mrs.
Freeman Thomas kept Mr. F.T. adjacent most
of the time, and was remarkable for her
new style of black lace sash. A pretty
foreigner had one of the many ‘sun-pleated ’
skirts, which style has descended to the ’Arriets
at ’Oine, so snortful English visitors declare ; but
is the newest craze here. The smartest women
with baggy bodice, drawn-in waist, big hips and
frilly flounces, were shaped like cracker bon-bons,
and were all toiletted by contract. It is the cor-
rect form among the Melb. Naicest women to
belong to a toilet club, and three times a week to
be crimped and curled ; they don’t disarrange
their hair between visits to the dresser, and sleep
uncomfortably in their coiffure. A feature of the
show was the carriagelessness of the guests ; the
pompous barouche-and-pair days are evidently
permanently gone. One family, temporarily sub-
merged but now struggling tooth-and-nail to the
surface again, whose carriage used to be one of the
most gleaming of boomers’ equipages, trudged
meekly out of the grounds this time and humbly
trammed it.
“ On Steeplechase-day the frocks were gay and
bright and mostly encores of previous successes.
The most conspicuous chiffoning adorned a grey
gown in multitudinous frillings half-way up the
skirt, and was a walking ad vt. for its wearer’s es-
cort, who keeps a frock-shop. Also, quite the
best of the übiquitous lavender-color gowns was in
the trade; the parallel tucks on the silk-muslin
bodice were its chief glory. The vice-regal femi-
nine contingent presented some contrasts in size
when the Vic. C.J.’s daughter, who inherits the
Stephen plumpness, paced the terrace beside
lengthy Miss Sylvia Darley. The two Brassey
nieces duplicate their costumes usually, and their
father is a typical J. Bull. Several youths and
maidens not connected with Govt. House occupied
the box, which was less-exclusively official than
ever before. A Sydney visitor in fawn, hooped
around with pink, accompanied her mother, in
black-over-green; another wore a wedding
outfit-frock in navy blue with a wormy-
white pattern. One large woman appeared
in a ridiculous straw bonnet, tied an artless
white sash around her ample waist, and looked
like a giant baby in a pantomime; a flat
green plate for a hat and a pinkish dress gave the
sister-in-law of our only Bart, a salmon-salad ap-
pearance. Several stout women were entrapped
by the ‘rich ’ look of pliss6 silk, and were conse-
quently upholstered like stuffed sofas. Fashion
always ignores the fat woman. An innocent in-
fant’s robe-like gown in white silk, flounced
with lace, was probably the most expensive on the
la,wn. Summing up the spectacle sartorially, the
disjointed gaudy-blouse-and-skirt costume still
lingers, but is dying hard; glaring colors and
screaming hats are also have-beens —leaders of
style now array themselves in neutral tints —but a
fad that threatens to be overdone is to trim hats
with green cereals : one girl’s vast hat bore a
wheat-crop that, threshed out, would yield several
bushels per acre, and a railway-official’s wife wore
a bonnet shaped exactly like the one Britannia
rules the waves in.
“ Woman’s contempt for her sister woman is
recklessly shown in the dressing-room at Fleming-
ton on a big day. ‘ Make-up ’ material is supplied
by the V.R.C. in prodigal profusion, and the
chemical beauty hustles through the crowd, secures
the necessary material, and proceeds to thicken
her eyebrows, or heighten or tone down her
color, with a magnificent disregard for criticism.
All day long there is a knot of animated frescoes
about the rouge-boxes and other fittings, and some
extravagant creatures put on several complexions
in distinct layers during the afternoon. It would
be really interesting to know what it costs the
V.R.C. for pearl-powder, and red paint, and
scent, &c., on a Cup-day. It used, by the way, to
cost a good deal for cut-glass receptacles, but the
club has grown wise, and these are now all chained
to the walls.
“ Thanks to a miserable morning and shocking
predictions by the Wragge fraternity, Gaulus’
year will rankle in the memory of woman as ‘ The
Dowdy Cup.’
“ First-comers had prepared themselves for the
worst, and at one time the costume-show was
scrub, rag and bob-tail enough for a Christian
Endeavor Convention.
“Later, as the shadows flew away, the early-
birds shed rain-cloaks and preened flattened
feathers, while the Nicest arrived in flights,
weather-proof, in coats and skirts or solid black
brocades, with such redeeming touches as dressy
boleros and brilliant head-pieces ; but throughout
a glorious afternoon the trail of the rain-fiend’s
morning malice was on the Lawn and over it all.
“Even the Govt. House party got their plumes
draggled. First thing Gov. Brassey’s daughter
did when she arrived in the shower-swept vice-
regal pen was to rectify various minor mishaps to
pa’s race-finery. Also, throughout the the frugal
clan, ‘there was sighing and moaning on ilka
green loaming ’ re poor ‘ uncle Albert’s ’ badly
blistered hat. The grief was infectious, and
everybody within earshot felt sorry for uncle A.’s
hat. Lady Brassey, still haggard and worn
from the effects of her accident, had donned a
black-brocade skirt for the Cup, with an eye to
wet grass ; and wore a cut jet bolero over her
white accord eon-pleated lisse blouse. Her toque,
with its upstanding loops of cerise ribbon, smacked
decidedly of the ten-and-sixpenny bargain table,
and her parasol, to match the ribbon aforesaid,
was openly resented by one or two of the horses in
the bird-cage when Mr. Sep. Miller led her
lydyship around just before the Cup race to
show her Bundook in all its glory. Misses Cox
and Darley, too, judging by their hats, had taken
an over-despondent view of the weather. Miss
Dorothy Brand emerged from her macintosh to
look pleasant in pale-blue and white silk, and a
leghorn flop with cream chiffon and tips.
“Mrs. Freeman-Thomas, who had made up
her mind to chance it, was the belle of the
bunch in black brocade, the skirt flowered
with pink, the deep-pink bodice blushing through
ruby-spangled net. The crown of her pink straw
hat was half-buried in mauve-tinted roses, and
here and there from her long neck-chain hung all
manner of cute little trinkets, prettier even than
those tiny, jewelled fal-lals which make Miss
Elliott Page envied by all the girls on the Block.
Lady Holled-Smith, that reminds me, sported a
pet of a ‘ pansy watch ’ at the races, and several
jewelled belts were worn. Mrs. Fred. Fairbairn’s
was gold galon studded with coral, and the same
dark-eyed Bananaland belle lent brightness to her
magpie silk and ivory satin by a deep yellow hat.
Brilliant-hued satin straw, by the way, was the
feature of race millinery. Mesdames Freeman-
Thomas, Everard Browne, Ernest De Little, Lady
Holled-Smith, and dozens more of the smartest
watched the Cup run with fleeting blushes on their
cheeks born of rose-pink hat-briins. Orange and
green were equally popular, red evidently on the
wane.
“On the whole, I believe sashes were the plums of
the show. Not ribbon, but made sashes, muslin
frilled with chiffon silk edged with lace orr iceversa.
Nothing too airy for waist streamers, from lace or
lisse scarves to gauze flyaways. Sometimes the
sash costs more than all the rest of the costume
put together, and brides, prescribing these costly
flimsies for their attendant nymphs, are expected
to order and pay for them along with the wedding-
gown. Apropos of trousseaux, no self-respecting
silk sleeping-robe is now made without quantities
of cummerbund. Fashion-prophets predict that
the sash-craze will soon affect all feminine under-
wear. But— ‘ I dinna ken hoo that can be,
Jeanie ’ unless, indeed, we all take to tea-gowns.
The very thought makes one feel embonpointy.
Perhaps the Moorish estimate of beauty is coming
in along with waistless Empire styles. The
Indian princess,’ who, by the way, turns out to
be an Arab (although one society journal describes
her pa as ‘ a British General ’), reminds one that
Moorish mothers, living not so very far from
S^ over their daughters with a stick
hoc' "f morning and make them drink
basins of camel s buttermilk to fatten them. At
least, so says out-of-date old Mungo Park.
Premier Turner’s daughter came along to
■, guttle Saturday-shopping Eton
**kirt,. thereby proving herself (in view
e ram) the inheritress of dad’s canny
common - sense as well as of his features.
e latter department, plump, round-faced
y , . has, perhaps, the best of the bargain,
1 , u &", m thus complimenting her, one doesn’t
no action in going to the fancy ball
"i, ,] i' SS au —Amy Robsart. Still, nearly
„ i ry w ye se c hose a rdle about 40 years (more
ess) too young for them, so what could you do ?
£.ven in a masquerade, a woman doesn’t relish
p sing as a sort of grandmother to artless hordes
ot Juliets whose wrinkles have been filled in with
a trowel.
Mrs. Attorney-General Isaacs, tall, graceful,
and young, chose less rashly than most, neverthe-
less with all her advantages she had her work cut
out wien she elected to lead the Olympic lancers
as Juno, Queen of Heaven.’ She was only a
comparative success amongst hundreds of dismal
aiiures. it is usual for the press to ecstaticise
ver the brilliancy of the scene on occasions when
sassiety is more dressed up than usual. But the
truth remains with us always. A fancy-dress
ball is merely an amateur theatrical show, and
thems'eR 1 " 8 ' &S & ru^e ’ ma^e painful objects of
If the Baron bold, as some people suspect, got
up his fancy ball to set society by the ears, he has
succeeded splendidly. Husbands asked without
wives, brothers taken, sisters left, the democratic
.Brassey alphabetical-system hopelessly hashed !
Heavens ! to hear the uninvited ninety and nine
sounding their tocsins ! The veriest worms are
turning. Scribes, hitherto steeped in reverence
deities of this world, actually suggest in
bold black print that ‘ the vice-regal clerk on the
invitation job ’ must have got off for dinner and
afterwards (presumably plethoric with pudding)
jumped inadvertently from ‘B ’ to ‘X’ in the
visitors book.
Sassiety’s bitter cry just now is ‘ Give us back
our Wallington.’
More or less substantial boots were naturally
a sine qua, non of the recent rainy Cup. One sweet
young thing in true-blue paddled over the damp
grass in satin slippers, to match ; but goloshes
were in the ascendancy with the masses, which
bears out the contention that it was a ‘ dowdy Cup.’
“ Tourist Albert Brassey, at present in Mel-
bourne, is a sparse, grey-moustachioed, young-old
patriarch, with winning little ways of winking
the other eye and showing his teeth insinuatingly
as he talks. Maybe when they were boys together
he annexed his pretty playfulness as an antidote
to big brother’s gloom, there being less pecuniary
inducement to take himself and his career
seriously than in the case of son and heir Thomas.
Nowadays, so far as one can see, the brethren
prefer lone-hand frisks to fraternal communion.
Nevertheless, they can’t conceal a strong family
likeness, common characteristics being short tem-
pers, long tongues, and paternal pride.
“ Not only does Gov. Brassey carry on with his
youngest cherub as if she were his one ewe lamb,
but whenever his eye falls on pretty Mrs. Free-
man-1 homas his face lights up, and Mr. Pickwick
himself couldn’t look a nicer, more benevo-
lent old thing. For her part, the crisp belle in
question has quite the air of successfully exploit-
ing dad s soft side, and walks in silk attire, so to
speak, whenever one sees her —far, far more than
can be said of all the family belongings.
“ At the Clip, the Miss Brasseys, as sar-
torially simulated sisterly sympathy in twin cos-
tumes of black satin, picked out with piebald silk,
and sterotyped toques wreathed with conven-
tional pink roses. Mrs. Skeffington Smythe (fact,
names are stranger than fiction), harmonious in
grey and white, shared the carriage of honor with
her hostess. Local society - scribes identify the
lady as one of the beauteous twin-sisters presented
at Court the same season as an equally lovely
sisterly brace, brothered by Aide Neville.'
“ Some of the costliest Cup-costumes owe their
being to paying gravel in the Golden West. One
Coolgardie visitor candidly confessed as much by
the color of her gown—satin the color of new
sovereigns sparkling under black gauze.
“ The mention of ‘ gravel ’ suggests Bananaland
and its gold kings. The Misses Dempster and
their married sister, who keep house for their be-
reaved brother-in-law, Mt. Morganaire Wesley
Hall, did the Flemington lawns in black and
white. There are three Misses Wesley Hall, by
the way, ‘catches ’ of the future,’ pretty children
generally dressed in white, white satin frocks,
quaint Empire bonnets and chiffon fichus, and
white kid boots which, for heedless young wearers,
must take plenty of pipeclaying.
“Mrs. Frank Murphy, daughter of another
Mt. Morganaire (M.L.A. Callan), came down
from Brisbane on her honeymoon trip, visiting her
relations the Duffys, and seeing the Cup, cn
passant, in a trousseau frock of gauze over pale-
blue silk.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Photographic Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC. OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc
The New Pocket Kodah, price 21s .
SPOOLS OF FILM fok 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
lift
a 'h it
mi(
/// m
mi
<•111
wm&m
V?
Uln
mil
CM
tm
835#
use
5.7
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
. - . LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W. BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Premier Turner may now be seen reading
i»is correspondence while walking along the street.
Australian Premiers are bom in bunches.
Reid, Turner, and Braddon go back to 1894;
Kingston, Nelson, and Seddon to 1893.
“Mr. Gillies, M.L.A., as usual, walked
about alone and smoked cigars.”. The Age re
Derby day. No man is alone who is smoking.
By the death of Mrs. Scott (widow of the
late Hon. James White, who lately married Oapt.
Scott, of the N.S.W. Permanent forces) a young
Sydney solicitor comes in for .£l O,OOO.
London correspondent : J. Butler, late of
Melbourne Age, who was in London as an Aus-
tralian Press representative at the Diamond
Jubilee, is one of the many young Australians
bound for Klondyke.
The new Victorian Speaker, Mr. F. G. MASON.
Photo., Talma, Melb.
Cabled that “ Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs.
Gazetteer intend leaving England for Sydney on
18th April next. ” All things come to those who
wait. Only five months more, and Australia will
be able to rest at breakfast-time.
Once, when a very junior barrister was
defending a prisoner before Judge Windeyer, he
riled that gentle Judge by continually referring to
“My unfortunate client.” At last, Ventosior
pulled him up with, “I quite agree with you
there, sir.”
A member of the Bathurst Suttor house
was an Australian poet of the camp-fire order. A
huge mass of his eccentric manuscript still sur-
vives. Luckily, he drew an income from the
Suttor property, and was thus able to give his
heart to digger minstrelsy.
A well-known N.S. W. barrister, addressing
the jury : “ My client was not to be intimidated !
He took the bull by the horns, and indicted him
for perjury.” And, on another occasion, “My
unhappy client received the seducer into his happy
home. He placed a serpent in his bosom, but it
stung him behind his back.”
A Syme simile, verra Scotch :
For anybody with half an eye can see that to abrogate
the powers and prerogatives of the newspaper at this
time of the day would be as disastrous to society as it
might be to banish the use of small tooth-combs.
Evidently Dawvid has no high falutin' notions
about the province of the Age.
A renegade Wesleyan parson, turned
Church of England, was in the Anglican charge
of Fiji when Hercules Robinson came. Parson .
“I suppose, Sir Hercules, you will have Divine
service, at the inauguration, after the rites of the
Established Church?” Hercules: “No, sir, I
shall not have any service at all, but, if I did, it
would be that of the brave Wesleyans.”
“ American-English Ambassador Kernel
John Hay,” writes a Bulletin correspondent from
England, “ has lived to repent perpetrating ‘ Jim
Bludso,’ complimentary reference to which is
dinned into his ears at every social function he
attends. The joke is that Hay himself is rather
ashamed of a die-to-save yarn which comes peri-
lously near anti-climax. Some of the choicest
Amurkan humor lies in Amurkan would-be senti-
ment.”
The lately-deceased Fish, M.H.R. for
Dunedin, was a humorist, with heaps of leather
and a voice of brass. After an election, once, a
supporter accosted him with, “ Look here, Mr.
Fish ; before the election, every time you saw me
you stopped and shook hands. Now, you ignore
me altogether.” “ Well,” said Fish, “ the fact of
the matter is this: Before the election, I’ll kiss
your big toe; after the election, you can kiss
mine.”
The exit of Graham Berry recalls the cir-
cumstances of his first entry into Parliament. In
July, '6l, a vacancy occurred for E. Melbourne.
Edward Cohen and one “Pat’ O’Brien were
candidates. Before the day of nomination the
Heales Govt, was beaten on a motion by Dr.
Hedley, of Gippsland, and Gov. Barkly granted a
dissolution, which was to take place in a few days.
Cohen and O’Brien agreed that it would be use-
less to incur the expense of an election under the
circumstances, and they agreed to nominate a
gilded absentee, C. H. Ebden, then on his way
from England. This arrangement did not give
general satisfaction when disclosed at the nomina-
tion, and M. D’Arcy, publican, of Swanston-
street, proposed Graham Berry, then among the
crowd at the hustings. The show of hands was
in favor of Berry, and the Cohen-O’Brien party
not demanding a poll, Berry was declared elected,
and took his seat that night, introduced by Heales
and J. H. Brooke, now of the Japan Herald.
Next day Parliament was dissolved.
N. : “ The most ferocious enemy Graham
Berry ever had was long-demised Garratt, of
Geelong. This man pursued him, in and out of
Parliament, like a sleuth-hound, and was egged-on
by a conscience of double-distilled piety. When
Garratt got a Royal Commission, he thought he
had ‘ copped ’ Berry out. The most absurd
rumors were circulated about Berry having gone
on his knees in tears, and all that. Garratt used
to go about boasting he had stabbed the balloon
and let out all the gas. He stuck at nothing.
Yet Berry emerged triumphant. The thing was
overdone. Politicians said the beam was a gnat.
Berry entered on the most glorious period of his
whole career, and holy Mephistopheles retired to
Geelong cemetery.”
Seng Chai, an important personage among
the Lambing Flat rioters of 36 years ago. died
last week at Cowra (N.S.W.). Chai was sent to
Lambing Flat as part spy and part detective.
The dispute between the diggers and the Chinese
had developed into bitter civil war, and Cowper,
the Premier of the time, sent to the locality a
little army of artillery, infantry and mounted
police. Chai’s duty was to report the designs and
doings of his countrymen, so that the Govt, forces
would be able to operate without adding to the
already deplorable plight of the yellow-skins. He
did this work fairly well, and was four years
afterwards employed by Government in confiden-
tial capacities. But, like most men who take up
such work, he often came in for blame from both
sides.
“G. 8.,” on a dynastical question:.—
Dear Bulletin, —There is a movement afoot at Ballarat
to erect a monument of some sort to the memory of King:
Billy. If this foolish thing is done the wrong man will
get the honor, as usual. The nigger recognised by this
young and credulous generation as King Billy was not
the genuine article. In the early fifties he was a waif and
stray of the Buninying tribe —loafing around for six-
pennies and drinks. One day on the main road he dis-
covered the king—the real royal Billy—drunk and
sleeping under a tree. Here was an opportunity for
collaring a throne and a dynasty with one stroke of a
waddy. He did what has been done over and over again
by the King Billys of history : he killed his liege lord,
and, taking from his neck the brass insignia of his rank,
placed it around his own. Then he walked into Ballarat
and levied tribute. In those day's men were busy with
other matters than revolutions involving the rights and
wrongs of royal houses, so his claims were not disputed.
He was asked by some people where the king was ; but he
satisfactorily'disposed of their curiosity by the statement
that “ King Billy along gone a hell—this feller King Billy
now ” —and little more was said. However, his claims were
recognised by Salmon Wilson, who himself was a pre-
tender to descent from King Alfred and kinship with Her
Gracious. So let the movement rip along.— G.B.
Mr. Percy Nall, who has
gone missioning to India, is a son
of Sydney D.T.’s efficient sub-
editor, whose “serious” turn is
understood to be responsible for
that paper’s “ Religious ’’column,
though not, it is to be presumed,
for its appropriate juxtaposition
with the “ Humor ” department.
He saintly sub-editors (rarce arcs),
the gentle Poole, when “ sub ”-ing
Melbourne Age, used to be so
severely exercised over foreman
Blackham’s lurid language, that
stormy old B got into a ludi-
crous habit of appending, in a
small, meek voice, to his most
hurricane objurgations—“ Er
that is—so to speak, Mr. Poole!”
It was Melb. Argus which
officially slew Judge Windeyer—
with its brutal, gentlemanly sub-
leader comparing him with bloody
Jeffreys, at the trial of Alice
Lisle. That Argus article cut
Windeyer to the heart. It ren-
dered impossible a continuance
of the aggressive support he had
previously received from the Re-
spectable' Press of Sydney—it
focussed the Australian public eye
on his uncounted judicial sava-
geries— it wrested from him his
coveted Privy Councillorship. It
is noteworthy that the recently-
published Apology of the now-
deceased Judge was made to
“E.S.C.” (Mr. E. S. Cunning-
ham), leader of the Argus staff,
now in London,
A memorial to deceased
Baron Von Mueller should
gratify the spirit of that grand
old toiler, who asked nothing
from the public save honorable
recognition of his life’s work. In
appealing for memorial funds the
Baron’s executors repeat the
statement made in a Bulletin
par 12 months ago, that he was
greatly “ soothed ” in his eleventh
hour by the gift of a first-class
grave-plot from the trustees of St.
Kilda cemetery. Any mark of
distinction for the botanist was
dear to old-man Von Mueller.
As he lay on his death-bed
nothing could have given him
greater pleasure than the arrival
of an undertaker armed with
authority from the Vic. Govern-
ment to execute the Baron’s personal order for a
gilt-edged coffin.
Innocence in high places. Some time ago
N.S.W. Chief-Justice Darley was trying a man-
slaughter-case on circuit. A policeman giving
evidence was asked what prisoner said on his
arrest. “He said, ‘Where is my (sanguinary)
hat ?’ ” The Crown-Prosecutor did not seem to
notice this, and the C. J. interposed, “ But that
is very important ; I understand the prisoner
asked for his bloody hat; now, if his hat was”
Here counsel “ rose to explain.”
Its shocks the average admirer of the (God-
fearing Ministry to read in the sporting-records
of early Maitland the following list of knuckly
pugs: “Black Perry, Bill Sparks, Isaac Gorrick,
Bungaree, Pat Curran, Nick Brunker, Huff, Paddy
Sinclair, and Yellow Jimmy.” Nick Brunker !
Who was Nicholas ?
The late millionaire Neale, of Sydney,
bequeathed—in amounts ranging up to <£sooo
.£13,000 to ten lawyers—and, it would ap-
pear, <£2s to his cook! Which is strictly
in accordance with the eternal unfitness of
things ; because, however much the spoil-
scooping fraternity may help a man in the pil-
ing of his coin, it is only by leave of his digestion
that he can properly enjoy it. The genial
Dailey was wiser in his generation. “ I have
met with a terrible misfortune ! ” he said
once, in serio-comic distress, to the present
writer —“ I have lost my cook! No more
of those exquisite little fish-dinners, those
marvellous curried prawns and devilled
oysters ! But, one poor consolation, at
least, is left me —we parted the best of
friends: poor soul, I kissed her both
cheeks and gave her my benediction.
An old man named Sykes, found dead
in his bed at a Melb. pub., the other week, was
reputed to be a brother of SirTatton Sykes, a one-
time famous Yorkshire sport and pal of the Prince
of Wales. Sir Tatton is quite ancient history,
but this Sykes, who drew remits, from ’Ome, may
have been a genuine black sheep of the family,
exported to Australia in the old orthodox way.
Australia, as a dumping-ground for black sheep, is
going out of fashion. It isn’t as far away as it
was, also the British aristocracy finds the country
to be much too healthy for prodigal nephews.
The fashion nowadays is to send ’em to places
where they are more likely to die unobserved at
an early date. '
A down-South old-timer to The Bulletin .
An acquaintance of O’Shanassy’s tells me he called
Duffy “the biggest scoundrel unhung. He said he naa
taken this viper by the hand, and done e ye r .ythmg for him,
even taken the leading part in getting that freehold pro-
perty at Hawthorn, the Melb. suburb, which cost £2OOO,
subscribed in order that Duffy might be qualified for Par-
liament. It was a profound grievance with O Shanassy
that he fancied the R.C. Church clung rather to Duffy
than to him. Therefore he only left it £lOO all to be
employed in masses for his soul. Duffy was essentially a
Jesuit! and sent a favorite son to be educated at the Jesuit
College of Storiyhurst. A cardinal difference between
him and O’Shanassy was in O’Shanassy’s being a professed
loyalist to England, while Duffy was the rebel to the
backbone and spinal marrow.”
SAVED BY A NIP.
Marvellous escape of Michael O'Rafferty , of the Dingo Arms.
Each of Vic.’B Speakers, since old Peter
Lalor, has had the bad luck to be connected with
some bung bank or other. Mat Davies’s Mug-and-
guile Bank is a recent event, and both Bent’s and
Berry’s transactions, though of lesser effluvium,
are just as close at hand. But the financial
trouble of Frank Mason, the present Speaker, was
away back in the 70’s, just after he first left his
schoolmaster’s billet, on H.M.S. Nelson, to enter
Parliament. Mason was then a director of the
Provincial and Suburban Bank, and its smash
deprived him of nearly every penny he possessed.
Canon Rich, the C.E. pastor of Darling-
hurst gaol, thinks that his successor in office
should be a plain “reverend.” A modern
Barrington composed a distich in which lne
Word of God at the can(n)on’s mouth figures,
and the pleasantry has been so contagious that the
canon’s ministrations even on the gallows lose
gravity.
COCKY'S GOT HIS BISCUIT
(A backyard sketch.)
There was killed in a Vic. mine, the other
day, William Bradley, an elderly miner, who had
known in a conspicuous degree the ups and downs
of mining. Years back he was manager of Koch
and Hilderbrandt’s (now Lansell’s 222, at Bendigo)
and afterwards of Burrowes’ Freehold. Then he
took heavy tributes, and made a pot of money out
of the New Chum and Victoria ; played it up on
other tributes and mining specs., and so got back
at last to hammer and drill. But Bendigo gave
him a “good funeral,” anyway.
Time was when Kipling was anathema
maranatha to the gentry of the black robe. They
voted his ballads “vulgar” and his yarns im-
moral ” ; he was “an unsaved worldling, only
one degree less obnoxious than Zola himself. But,
mark the change. The “Recessional Hymn ' has
been published, with its cant refrain—an effusion
which, had it appeared eight years ago, would
have caused scarcely a word of comment, but at
which, now that Rudyard has been hoisted to
fame by appreciative (if unregenerate) millions,
the parsonic person holds up his hands and unc-
tuouslv exclaims, “ How treuly be-eautiful ;
calls Kipling “the great poet of the British
Empire,” and preaches a sermon from said refrain,
on to which he grafts sundry Divine maxims. So
Kipling has conquered the realms of darkness and
light, and, willy-nilly, is canonised a saint of the
second magnitude.
Butters the perennial (Melb.) is arranging
a smoke-night picnic for 40-year-old colonists.
Butters himself has been, o\ ( r that time in these
parts —counting Fiji in, Baillie and Butters were
in business in Melbourne in the early fifties.
Baillie died at Levuka or thereabouts. Butters
lived, to mystify Thakombau, and play at
Government.’ Afterwards he ran the great dia-
mond, and was “ had ” properly—the only time
on record. A wonderful man. Age has no show
with him. He is as he was 30 years ago. Wears
the same sort of coat —blue frock, Amurican
shoulders ; hasn’t a wrinkle or a grey hair ;is as
vain of his foot as ever, and with reason. A step
as elastic as when, ages since, he trod his native
heath. And always has a young and handsome
wife. Is that the secret - ? David, the King-
just so.
S. V. Winter, ■ general manager of Melb.
Hekald, is going ’Ome. He has never been out
of Australia before, but as his - editor, Majah Reay,
has been introduced to Queen Victoria and hob-
nobbed with dukes, Winter feels in duty bound to
do likewise. S.V. W. is the champion —let us call
jt—objurgatorof Australasianjournalism. “Sayyid
Burgash in a tantrum” was a mild-mannered man
compared with him. He can objurgate for an hour
on end without twice using the same oath. To be
present while S. V. Winter stood by the “formes”
in the old days when foreman Bannon was
“ making-up ” was a liberal education in the great
Australian art of anathema. The present writer
has heard it debated whether Winter was English
or Irish, but has always maintained that he was a
true-born Australian. No mere foreigner could
swear like that.
“A journalist stationed at Berlin, and
who knoweth all things that move, has sent me
the following explanation of two apparently-un-
connected and believable accidents,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent. “On a recent
cruise of the German Emperor’s yacht, Hohen-
zollern, a triviality and a fatality occurred.
William, the Lord’s anointed, got a black-eye
from a bit of loose rigging, and Lieut. Hahnke,
one of his A.D.C’s., biking at Odde, Norway, off
which the yacht lay anchored, was run away with
by hxs machine, and dashed to death over the
cliffs. He got almost a royal funeral—he had
earned it. The G.E. is noted for his contempt of
women and his steady, moderate p’raps, devotion
to Beer. These yacht trips are mere drinking-
bouts, to which only seasoned swillers are in-
vited, and thus it is that scandals re “ divine
service ” being celebrated by the royal crank and
other dotty-isms have had their existence. It
was one evening after dinner, and in the heavy
drinking, that the Emperor made a terribly-in-
sulting remark about Hahnke’s mother, the wife
of General Hahnke, Von Moltke’s friend. Like
a man the lieutenant blackened his Sovereign’s
eye, and, like a fool, next day committed unmis-
takeable suicide. P’raps he knew his autocratio
master too well, though.”


Mr. R. MAOANSH, Commercial Hotel, Murrum-
burrah, writes: “ I could not sleep soundly, and the
result was that I felt tired and low-spirited all day. I
suffered intense pain in the chest after eating, and
sickness after meals was a common occurrence with
me. I heard so much of Loasby’s “ Waiioo ” that I
was induced to try it, and now you may add my name
to the list of former dyspeptics who have been com-
pletely cured by that wonderful remedy.”
LOASBY’S “WAHOO " price 2 6 every-
where, or post free from
Loasby’s “ Wahoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
> “ TWO GOOD THCIMGS ”
, . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s W orcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
CHEAPES F T h, and h °h P as A SAUCE ia the moat DELICIOUS, the
PTrKTirsi a™ ? ALE of a, *y Sauce in the World. HOLBROOK’S
• are se ' e °ted ENGLISH Vegetables, prepared in PURE MALT Vinegar and can hp had
m Onions, Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow from all first-dass Grtcerl g ’
Wa l ®B : JJ r - jAMES 0. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Agents for Victoria. ... ... ... ... Messrs. Wm. Peterson & Co., Melbourne.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the neiv Vegetable Anti-Vat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLINE
REGISTERED
It is the only safe cufeIoTcORPuiENGY 'VT* ** ° n J h ° UBands of CaseB '
according to directions. Males and fern->u,= i I I ? lso cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
Stout people who pantand grow red in 6 lost f . rom 15 to 20 pounds a month, and kept in splendid health.
re-absorbing the fatty .issue,, „.,ki,, K the
vegetabk°fat-reducer know? *" ° r fe “ ale ’ and is the only hannleBS entir^
°^ UC S.t mi ? ts 411(1 Pateut Medi oine Vendors. Price, 35., 55., and 125.,
*“ sM>le ® oruquid form. The lan/eat hntfioa „# i,
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
Aboriginalities.
A 44 lapidary’s ” romance, as told to a Bul-
£mtin man. He was sitting on his heap of broken
metal, eating mutton sandwiches and drinking
beer out of a billy—a regular 44 hatter ” type. Did
it never occur to him to get married ? No, not
exactly, but he was pretty near the same as being
married once. He was breaking on the roads, in
a rural district, and took up with a “bloke”
whose hut was handy to his tent. One night he
was in the bloke’s hut i( doin’ a pitch,” when the
bloke was mending an old coat. Noticing how
handy the latter was with the needle, the “ broker ”
asked him to tinker up his old trousers. The bloke
said he would, and the old trousers were stripped
off and handed over. 44 An’ I jes’ perched round,
sociable like, m my boots, while he patched up my
duds. Well, that was all right. Nex’ day, I
shifted down to another pitch, an’ what do I hear
on the follerin’ Sunday but that the bloke was
dead, an’ it seems he was a blanky woman all
along. That’s ’most as bad as bein’ married, mate,
ain’t it ? ” ’
* * * *
In the days when the Georgina River was
called the Herbert, Jack Skuthorpe (of Leichhardt
relics fame) and his partner were looking after
their cattle on some country they had taken up on
that river, and, running short of rations and
ammunition, Jack’s partner started in to Stony
J™’ some 300 miles, leaving Jack with but
half-a-dozen cartridges. Seeing only one man,
the nigs, grew saucy—whereupon Jack hit on a
brilliant idea. He got his boy, a Herbert River
native, to explain to the myalls that his boss had
only to point his finger at anything and it would
go bung.” Then he strewed round the camp
bits of poisoned beef, which were at once pounced
upon by the hawks, and when one gave evidence
of feeling uncomfortable, Jack would point his
finger at him ; presently down he would drop.
After the third hawk died the myalls departed,
believing their turn would come next. Jack was
known to the natives as “Good Many,” possibly
from the number of nigs, he had helped to dis-
perse but probably from the number of 44 fairy-
tales he used to pitch.
* • * •
How would it shape in a N.S.W. country
journalism prize competition paragraph :
The present champion pea-picker at Carlingford is Mr.
William Mobbs, son of Mr. George Mobbs, sen. He tried
an experiment last week at Pennant Hills in a bed of peas
to see what he could pick in a certain time. The result
Mist NELLIE SHELDON.
Photo,, Barroni & Co., Melb.
was over 10 bushels in seven hours of small pod peas. He
says if any of his Carlingford friends think they can beat
tnat, he will be very happy to meet them any time for a
wager.
* * * *
The screaming incongruity of prevalent
child-naming is nowhere more apparent than
in the bash. After a storm Aubrey Clifford,
Douglas, Beatrice, and so forth—ragged, wild-
haired and bare-legged—may be seen rushing,
whooping and yelling, to the filth-laden gullys and
wallowing with squeals of delight in the muddy
water. Claud Stanley grubs stumps, digs d ins ;
Raymond Clarence repairs the roads ; Harold and
Leslie are cursing, tobacco-chewing teamsters ;
Grace Naomi, gnawing a “ror” onion, sits serenely
amidst an accumulation of filth with a 3d.
novelette; Mona May is a muscular masculine
damsel with coarse hair and a red skin glowing
c .T 1 ..y through a cloud of freckles, who boasts her
a bill ty to ride, fight or swear with “any man;”
and Olive Vivienne plods about the farm attired
in the greater part of a blouse, the lesser part of a
skirt, and a pair of large feet encased in an ancient
pair of man’s boots. No wonder the Naicest are
falling back on “simple names.*
* * * •
The other day, near Barcaldine, a man
driving a waggon, laden with some three tons of
hardwood, slipped and fell. The wheel passed
over his legs close to the thighs, and bruised him
severely. Never a bone was broken, and the
tough Centralian resumed his journey im-
mediately.
* * * «
Boondingee : “ 4 Ben Hall ’ can’t be
‘counted a bush-song,’ for an old friend of mine
told me, long ago, that he had heard 4 Ben Hall ’
(or 4 Sam Hall ’). sung in London pubs, before he
oame to Australia (much over 30 years ago), with
the 4 Damn your eyes ’ refrain and all. Real bush-
songs (the words themselves are proof of their
Australian origin) are 4 The Wild Colonial Boy ’
(Jack Dowhng) and ‘General Sessions They’ve
Gone Past/ both of which I well remember hear-
ing sung in the country 20 years ago. But they
are both mere doggerel, and utterly unworthy of
immortality, except as curiosities.”
* * * *
Something about a Barcoo shepherd. In
the latter end of the ’7o’s, 44 Old C ’’ was
P.M. at Blackall, on the Barcoo. Blackall being
a very bush town, his worship did not go in for
orthodox P.M. rig, but, adapting himself to
climatic conditions and local fashion, wore only a
dark Crimean shirt, in addition to the usual pants,
bluchers, and slouch felt hat. This outfit, with a
water-bag of more than ordinary dimensions, and
his coat hung over his arm, completed the P.M.’s
uniform as he appeared en route to court. At his
heels a mongrel, a waif which had originally taken
to kindly Old C by reason of the fact that,
seeing a vagrant dog hungry in the alleged street,
the old man had 44 shouted ” for it at the butcher’s.
In this trim Blackall’s chief magistrate was not a
bad impersonation of a Barcoo shepherd, and a
drover passing through Blackall with sheep, and
inquiring for a hand, had the P.M. pointed out
by a local joker as “the very man he wanted.”
The drover rode up to C . “Good day,
mate. lam Mr. S , in charge of Bobiang
sheep, and can give you a six months’ job at forty
bob a week ; so pack up smart and come down to
the camp.” “Yes ? ” replied his Worship; “and
lam Mr. C— , m charge of this town, and can
give you a six months’ job at nothing a week ”
(pointing to the look-up). “So pack up your
swag and clear —unless you want the job.”
R. : “ Apropos ‘ Ponte ’ on
bush inter-marriage (Oct. 16).
In the Mornington peninsula,
Yie., close to Port Phillip Heads,
is a big district wholly populated
by Pattersons and Oairnses,
descendants of two patriarchs
who settled there long ago. So
mixed are they by continuous
inter-marrying that they have
to be sorted out as Tom’s Jack’s
Jim’s Peter Cairns, and Dun-
can’s Murdoch’s Donald’s Will
Patterson. In the local state
school the teacher makes all the
Pattersons sit on one side of the
school and the Cairnses on the
other; yet such is the facial
resemblance of the youngsters
that the teacher is never sure
whether they have sorted them-
selves out according to order or
not.”
* * *
Nothing refreshes the
bucolic mind so much as an ac-
cidental mistake in defining
the sex of an animal. “ Was
the bullock wild ? ” asked soli-
citor Levien in Tamworth court,
the other day. “Yes.’ “And
was its mother a wild bullock
also? ” Tamworth is still laugh-
ing, and for a year or two the
local booksellers have no chance
of selling a copy of Mark Twain
or any other humorist.
* * *
X.Z. : “.Re rabbits climb-
ing trees, &c. ‘ Balmalcolm ’
asks how would a Scotch game-
keeper swallow the statement
that rabbits can swim the
Darling, when it is running a
banker? Well, he’d swallow all
right, for he would know that,
when beasts swim, their action
is precisely the same as when
walking on land, and he would
also know that all mammals—
if not, indeed, all four-footed
beasts —can swim. How would
‘ Balmalcolm ’ swallow the state-
ment that I have seen a hen swim
across a pond 20ft. wide by 80ft.
long, for no apparent reason but
that she wanted to get to the other side and was
too lazy to walk round dry-footed ? That’s as
good as his acrobatic rabbits.”
• * * *
To show what fly-flats some countrymen
are. Jim and Dan had come down with stock and
put-up at a decent Melb. pub. one night. The
landlord, hearing them say next morning that
they were going out to the yards to see the boss,
said, “Stay where you are, and I’ll speak to him.”
He rang-up and got the answer back. A short
time after both men told him they were going to
leave. 44 What for ?” said the landlord. “Well,
it’s about time,” said they, 44 when ye take us for
a pair of mugs—trying to kid us ye been speaking
to the boss. It’s the confidence-trick ye’re trying
on.” And off they went.
* * * *
The tale of a Gulf squatter. During the
Batavia River rush two diggers started overland
from Croydon. Getting out on the Mitchell they
resolved to call at station, as their ration-
MALCOLM M‘EACHARN, Melbourne's
Mayor.
Mrs M'EAGHARN, Mayoress of
Melbourne .
Photos., Stewart Co., Melb.
bags were empty. From directions received they
guessed they ought to be somewhere near the
station, but, towards sundown, coming across an
old yard on a lagoon, they camped and made a
fire at one end of a hollow log. Presently, hear-
ing a coughing noise in the log, they went to the
far end from the fire and were astonished to see a
man crawling out on his hands and knees. From
his appearance he had apparently been there for
days. In angry tones he asked what the blazes
they meant by setting fire to his premises. On
being assured that they were only camping there
for the night and were making for station, he
said loftily: “ This is station. lam the
owner, and I make it a rule never to allow
travellers to camp so near the head-station; so
you’d better git.” They gat.
• * * »
Coolgardie advfc. -
rpiiß Lad)’ who sailed into Weddell’s shop, close-
A hauled on the port-tack, rum laden, rolling
heavily, and making about three points leeway,
please leave address, and the canvas bought will be
delivered.
* * • *
A Coolgardie bar-belle returning from the
Jubilee with her employer was much admired by a
young Anglican clergyman until, one day in the
Red Sea, the parson remarked that “it was very
hot, but very nice and interesting doncherknow.”
Said the fair one, “Hot, yes—the apostles were
mad to live in a country like this.” Then, noting
the shepherd’s anguish—“ Don’t you know who I
mean ? The people we used to read such a lot
about at school. Of course they could go about
dressed in a sort of sheet, but we can’t. You
wouldn’t like to see me in a sheet! ” Whereupon
his reverence “retiah’d.”
* » * *
The manager of a large Sydney financial
institution was unkindly recognised recently,
thus: A country bumpkin came in requesting a
loan on security, but he was hard to deal with,
and, to thaw him, the manager suggested a drink.
Thinking to delight the man with his affability,
he donned a long coat and shining topper and took
him to the Metropole instead of treating* him in
his own sanctum. Drinks were called for and
drunk, when the manager found he had left his
pocket-book in his other coat, and laughingly ex-
plained this to the barman, who was acquainted
with him. But Mr. O’Cocky from the Big Scrub
was on the alert. “ I’ve been had that way
before!” he shouted, and bolted as if the devil was
after him.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must an /.ear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted , whether sent by po t or handed in,
ana in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(oj any province) accompany.
Conmda: The Bulletin doesn’t profess to give
a writer all his copy is worth it only .rives what his
copy ,s worth to Tim Bulletin. The man who writes
signed contributions for The Bulletin has under certain
fair and clearly-set-forth conditions the privilege of subse
quently re-publishing those contributions for his own
s p e p e ? flt ' r„ W-T .-n : . V l hy ? 0t write t 0 the local ‘'ace-club
. .... ..Long Un : Thanks Kea : But you can’t get
away from the fact that a pig did swim ashore with a lffe-
litae from the Kanieruka. The idea that a pig “ cuts its
throat with its fore-feet when it tries to swini ’’ is a super
stition. However, perhaps pork gets along best in brine.
...... H.G. . Some will do very well H.B. : Kindly send
address E A.F. (Brisbane): The E. A. Flower replied
d Fa e ce n fM P°R\ Bri pi ane ’ b "n frOUl Albert Park - Melb.
...... t ace (M.P.R.). Please call Sam.: The NSW
Judges will, on his own application, disbar a barrister of
but^thev 11 win" U a ' ,d make him into an attorney,
Enili.h LT , “ot-they say they cannot-disbar an
English-made barrister and enrol him as an attorney
Jf.K.U. . Verse impracticable. Story better hut not
quite up. Sorry can’t answer questions asked ’ M T • (1)
Returned accordingly. (2) Certainly, when good enough?
......E. W. Lane . Graceful mediocrity Jiff • Good
K y ’ Bo a th y p n " l6d V -p'. : Should like further de
hti B K- th f'o °r one ’ and > If one > which ? How long
qh?niH I I JeC V- ( L< T S : Not Point enough b *
WTO ha v® t 0 f sk a law >' er ; you may as well do that
F I ■ X raeto ° staggery. Temora races—can’t say
w' H ’ ' u d .° under vvofully—and chew your 'ideas
before you ve bitten ’em off TV- Good in
but we like all meat W. J Lynch ■’ “ P npm "
‘■just below the border-line.’’"xmas. ‘‘R’’%tVwe
K s d '. l Tno bUt £ arns ,, no speeial reference to Reason
bl V? bl in;'V
S3S-i;
elaborated Australian : Not quite hopeless ; metre
very ncketty ..H.G.S. ; “ Long-’un ” had a short shift.
.M.G.G. : Sorry cannot say anything in favor
r.J.H. : You flounder painfully'. Get a clearer notion
first of what you want to say, and you’ll say it a lot
S ettel, i\ v - : Only good in patches S.O. (Tas.) :
" s a^ le XZ - (Sydney): Yes ; no .
Thos. N. (Q.N.R.) : Some old, all unprintable Jemso :
It happens that John Dennistoun Wood, after Michie,
Q. 0., the oldest member of Vic. bar, is not of English but
of Tasmanian birth K. : Two sides to every question.
One blessing of the Chow laundry is that the two-shirt-
ana-collar man can change his soiled linen and put on
clean. No parcel, no intelligible, any-
how ...W. : That alleged witticism of the late Judge
i lB years 01d....CJ.E. : S.A. Parliament is now
about two years old, and will die in the ordinary course
of events m March, ’9B W.L. : Too long for merit
Aged 49 and unmarried : Pathos; no poetrv Igno •
Not quite good enough Grant B. : Good idea; wants
handling .a.D. : “ Plantagenet ”at counter
Ul.il. : Kingdom wants more dramatic telling in
longer space. Waiter: Unusable. P P.G • Some
points; but, on the whole, you’d better fall over a rail-
way-cutting when a blast is going off W. : Blue yarn
of date 9765 B.C.—declined E.C.M. •NO 1 NB •
Invalid poem pole-axed T.D. : “Silliger” point not
worth space Machete : None up .... F.W. : Screed too
long and little Bulletin interest .. F.L.P • Neither verse
nor drawing good enough G.W. :It is evident, from
Mr. Locks own words, that the mine filled with water be-
cause it was unworked, and it was unworked because Mr.
Lock chose to offer the men less than current wages
He was the only striker in the case. If any mine-owner
can claim exemption from labor conditions on the same
considerations as Mr. Lock obtained his, then the “ labor
conditions ” become a dead letter.
The old order changeth giving place to the
w in municipal matters, and the incoming Mayor
of Melbourne, Malcolm Donald M‘Eacharn, is not
a ponderous potentate who drbps aitches on the
floor, or refers proudly to the time when he had
only tuppence in his pocket. On the contrary, he
wears a waxed moustache, and is otherwise calcu-
Jij'ked to run the city show on Madden—meaning
Chief Justice M.—principles. His verra Scottish
name is tempered by the fact that the firm of
Mi Ilwraith, Mi Eacharn and Go. started business
as ship-owners in London, migrating to Aus-
tralia when the subject of this notice was still
a very young man. He is now a few years
short of 50, and comparatively juvenile at that,
.things have always gone well with the firm in
Australia, according to all accounts, so it . was
Tv/r Ute ni- n T^ e natura l order of such matters that
Mr MeEacharn came to marry a daughter of
millionaire J. B. Watson. By so doing the
Mayor-elect has given Melbourne sassiety a
chance to pay its respects to the Mayoress with
exceptional fervor, and should Providence some
day see fit to place a * handle ’ before the
name of MeEacharn—and Providence has it
in view, The Bulletin supposes—the lady
will share her husband’s greatness in her own
right, so to speak. The new Mayor can afford
to enjoy himself in office; but he is rather
troubled by a newspaper rumor to the effect that
he prides himself on the possession of a silver
tenor. As a matter of fact, he has felt sorrv for
his voice ever since the elders of the kirk offered
to supply a way-back pew gratis, as an inducement
for him to retire from the reserved stalls, where
his warble, they said, was driving the rest of the
aristocracy away.


SoftCaoVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO;- per 14-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or Sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
S32SS
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
FRANZ JOSEF
pHiSEN jbajti
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LA6ER B€€R.
A Sharebroker's “ Tip.”
It is not always safe to take advice from even
the best of sharebrokers, but when it results from
experience, as in the case of Mr. L. W. Wells,
Sharebroker, 78 Collins Street, one cannot fail to
recognise its value. Mr. Wells is one of Hobart s
prominent Sharebrokers, and his numerous friends
and acquaintances know that he never advises
without a knowledge as to the value of the invest-
ment, and he does not hesitate to advise Warner ■
“ Safe ” Cure for kidney and liver diseases. He
says: “I gladly give my testimony to the valu-
able properties contained in Warner’s ‘ Safe
Cure. Some years ago I was attacked by severe
and acute pains in my back, which almost doubled
me in two. Severe headaches, accompanied by
palpitation of the heart, loss of appetite, with a
frequent desire to urinate. Upon medical advice
I gleaned I was suffering from kidney complaint,
and was induced to purchase Warner’s ‘ Safe
Cure, with the result that after taking four
bottles I waß able to resume my duties in this
city.”
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Speoifio for Live*
and Kidnet Disease.*
GOLD FROM ENGLAND.
A shipment of Ogden’s Guinea _ Gold Cigarettes
is advised by the incoming mail steamer. The
Society smoke.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be bad in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
YOUNG (SIRLS. ■
and boys are generally eager to spend their pocket-money on other
things than tram-fares ; yet how much money is spent m this way
every week? The quickest and healthiest way backwards and
forwards from school is on a wheel, and the safest way is on a
very good wheel. Young people
look best ...
after their own interests who persuade their parents to provide
them with an ARIEL Cycle fitted with Dunlop Tyres, an so e
them to keep their pocket-money, their good ooks, and then good
health. The wittiest and the prettiest girls in the colony are
generally to be seen
onxr
ARIEL CYCLES
and the only firm who sell them is the Austral Cycle
Ae-ency Ltd. Would it not be a good plan to write for their
Catalogue ? you could then show your parents the machine you
want, and explain our system of easy payments.
are tflao Addresses :
Adelaide -Randle fr*.**-
SPORTING NOTIONS .
Archie Yuille’s up-to-date edition of the Aus-
tralian Stud Book should send a thrill of mterest
through this continent, owing to the recent Hinglish com-
plaint that Newhaven’s pedigree is n ? fc J
on the mother’s side. The Stud Book is the local Bum
Pbbrasb of horse aristocracy. It traces noble
right back to the origin of the thoroughbred and
nishes the necessary guarantee of blue-Wood which
foreign buyers toSK
it is distressing!: to le »rn that m. • . . s * ut) i<i horse-
o’ nights cursing the lazy or constitut J stock. The
breeders who neglect to register registra-
trouble is very littlepe.-nmm, and theoort
tion is nothing at all. ° om ® . rirn f eßg ion as not to
indifferent to the dignity of ook when it conies
sent volume contains 670 pages auu to v
guineas. * • *
I» oJellm| th«T right 'jWMJSS'ESSS
f."S“ ™ J,. E fo *p\t .t "«»WfVo C S“£.M
“V; c=n“ «n«. in ti.e n,.r
lu?»r«. %« rt.wjrd, ftudS
iifeSSs
running. *
's.L.iiSSffi' do" “««m£ SStU 7; I«»
wife’s stummick. She wuz damn tad. I. _. „ Oh, m
«M d y ! oath l-bffi 5 it !°j leB 1 e8t a miss|d a tailor. There’s a
good’ole a’und’ed yards off. Good-day.
Another one. Same individual, a little further
cssiifesfgSxES
“«—■ “s;
flaWn®? Ah whin they come nosin’ about ’ere, and
Don’t crack. Helll' missed a good un.
Even when a man stands 6ft. 4in. it
is seldom that he can turn the soale at 17st
without appeal ing and being clumsy. Yet
to glance at the figure of Dr. W. J. M.
Barry, the Irish giant now tossing huge
masses of iron over the surface of sunny Aus-
tralia, nobody would know he was a giant
were it not for the comparative insigni-
ficance of surrounding objects. Barry hails
from the fastnesses of Tipperary, where he
was born 35 years back, and where his
prowess as a weight-putter and Rugby
footballer earned him fame before he opened
his Quain’s Physiology preparatory to a
'medical course at Queen s College, Cork.
Taking his degree there, the massive Barrj
began practising at Southport, Eng., and
people at once began to wonder why Ireland
was less downtrodden. Among the Saxons,
Barry recommenced hurling weights about
despite the fact that so small an island as
England is manifestly unfitted for such exu-
berant conduct. However, after losing
several hammers in the German sea and a
couple of shots in St. Georges Cha.nnel,
Barry’s aim perfected, and in competitions
he scored off the hated Sassenach with
vigor. Dividing the shot-putting cham-
pionship in ’Bl, Barry carried it off the two
succeeding years, putting up 42ft. lOin. on
the last occasion. The 161 b.
ing championship he won in 85 with 108 ft.,
but by four years later he increased j} l ® d lB '
tance to 130 ft., and at ’92 he established a
world’s record with 137 ft. Even this he has
recently succeeded in passing with 138 ft.
10in., which still stands as a world s record
for the wooden-handled, iron-headed harn-
mer. Flanagan, a compatriot of Barry,
holds a record of 157 ft. with a lead-and-wire
hammer, but the English athletic world re-
fuses to recognise this Yankee innovation ; and anyhow,
Barry met and beat Flanagan during the present year.
Phil Sheridan’s definition of a cricketer: “A
voung man with so little brains that he must devote all
Chas entirely to cricket.” This definition has some
notable instances: Spofforth in his palmy days used to
eat drink, talk, and sleep with cricket, and Banjitsinhji
will’ stop night to talk about the noble game.
In Melbourne, the worst cycle-trap is the pace-
rviaVimr tramcar The wheelman tires of hanging on,
“ndSots ptst it on the other track A close-up car
coming in the opposite direction makes the order absolute
for divorce of man ,
K (Melb.): “To show how the Chows must
bribe the police. A man so like a policeman that no
strange tote-man will play with him, no pubs, will open
for him on Sunday. This man, an utter stranger to John,
bought a ticket in six different, lottery-shops and no
n?,p?Hons asked. Tickets are openly bought by men,
women, and children, Sunday and every other day. No
wonder some of the Chows blaze with diamonds.
Some pleasing statistics for the'owners of old
nags At Rockhampton it costs 6s. a head to ho'l down
old'horses About 9 gals of oil worth ls. 6d. a gal. can be
obtained from a fat horse; hair will fetch m 2s. 6d.;
hide 78 to 14s. Considering that you can buy abundance
of old screws at 10s. apiece and less—there should be pos-
sibilities of profit in this business. ,
An ardent supporter of athletics in Southern
N.S.W. boasts of having onoe biffed Peter Jackson. T
Dr. W. J. M. BARMY, the Irish Giant.
Sears, photo
A S in showing Peter round town, struck an oyster-
saloon and, shortly after, a man in it. Peaceful Peter
tried to mediate, but. his cicerone’s blood was up, and he
adjured Peter to “ Lemmego or I lit you I He landed
Peter on the chin and found himself being carried home
in Peter’s arms, the darkie laughingly saying The only
man that has hit me on the chin in ten years is worth
taking of.” * * *
Mac. : “Jim Meenan used to tell a yarn of
another set-to he had near Gundagai. Riding along the
road he found a bullock-team pulled up on a bridge oyer
a creek. Bullocky, asked to move, talked fight, and Jim
got off to have a go. After about five minutes bullocky
stopped and pulled off his vest, when Meenan stopped—a
hot one on the jaw. Five minutes more, and bullocky
stooped again to take off his shirt—and again Jim got it
on the jaw. When bullocky stopped a third time to
null off his singlet Jim got on his horse and orossed the
oreek lower down. Bullocky hadn't learned from a book.
• * * *
Cyclists doing long rides almost invariably put
on flesh Between Menzies and Adelaide the mite, vir-
gin went from Bst. 91b. to9st. : W. Coleman (he who out
the telegraph line) also added to his weight; Mather put
on 171 b I but Murif did not vary so much—he lost a
trifle, in fact. Virgin, by the way, like Murif came from
Broken Hill, but has been a few months in Westralia.
Fitzsimmons is giving Corbett a dose of the
sauce whioh the latter ladled out for so many years.
Fitz. says he is done with fighting, so it is no use anyone
challenging him, and if Corbett wants a fight badly there
are Sharkey, Ohoynski, Goddard, and others to oblige
him. Fitz. is said to be coining money with his enter-
tainments.
A. 0. Maolaren has apparently been offered a
billet in every Australian college of note.
* • » *
Some of the Melb. undertakers give commission
on orders. V.R.O. course; dead jock, taken in cart to
casualty-room. Tall gent, stops driver, takes out his
pocket-book, lifts his hat and says: “Beg pardon, sir,
oblige me with name and address of the unfortunate
youth. It’s fearful sad.” Driver: “ Are you a reporter,
sir’” Tall Gent. : “Oh, no, I am travelling for Stiffem
and Co., the cheap undertakers. Please accept our card.
The ambition of the Graziers’ Meat Co. (Bris-
bane), recently collapsed, was to raise a cricket-team able
to hold its end up against all comers, and any cricketer of
repute was certain of a billet upon application ; but
results show that a crack cricket-team doesn’t reduce the
overdraft. In the good old days, before the smash, at
least two Sydney banks ran on the same lines, and
Buckley’s show was the man’s who could not play cricket.
An officer of one of the banks aforesaid impudently said,
in his letter of resignation, “ I much regret that the fact
of my not being a cricketer, or related in any way to the
general manager, compels me to look further afield.
f Continued on page %4)-


AN UNSPOIL ABLE APPETITE.
“Labor, therefore, has every inducement to conciliate the British investor, and should be the last to discourage or frighten him away.” —DAILY TELEGRAPH.
DAILY TELEGRAPH: “Now, you mustn't hit him with that stick or you’ll frighten him away.”
N.S.W.: "Aha! I guess he wouldn’t be here if he didn’t want something to cut!”


letter to The coroner’s
ORDERLY
The lettei
tan u follows ,
66 Buclclngham-itreet, Richmond. (
Sit. Datidaon. ,
Dear Sir,—As it is my intention to alee# In the
Verra to-night (Monday), I thought Chat I would
drnpyou a line, n will bt between Prinees-bridga
and the Morgue. There will be a pair of crutches
found close to where 1 go in.
SM .
* JJ of C° Agl^'
i* l ' y c y*
■ » >*
lk‘^
:■* e , f * 4 ,
i s ' -.<7 /I
■V /I
f.yS' ]fitet-c ( and /nslt/-ue,t~ /*-•£_
" Is . \'A 'r/ffjNl '\KS
_-- \\\\vS
1
i vV-
lyte
c/e ces
Icvcct*
OUR FIREFIGHTERS
Late evening Chief Officer
PStein received a note asking whftlUP
his Eminence Cardinal Moran, of 9y&*
ney, hi 6 Grace Archbishop Carr, his
Grace Archbichop Lineban, of Auckland; ♦
and the other prelates\ of the Komar*
Catholic Church, at present In Met*
bourne, together with visiting and Vic-
torian clergy, might pay. tht station A
yisit of inspeotion this monalng.
.■R. l S ?
v . 3*5 \o& t** tt
* fWVO' *
«s:‘<^»>
, sKpyj.
h -fpf , <>'.
H'" U‘"J »r„V-
-s?*&* t
•pr j-r
~7xj?Senue 7c*l/s.
hoc?/oofrovct-for "Me 7am k-
Cj *r*u/,~H
o7Ae/■ fear^rc-.
TZc/-ne/~. <?seaf Scoit! J Can't contend en.ujA
~to - n. ,
.EE JNUfc RETURNS...
THE OCTOBER JIG URES.
A SERIOUS DECREASE.
- The Treasurer wore a doleful countenance
yesterday, the revenue £or last month not
i£?*f coming up to hia expectations, but
At, has fallen away at a rate which quite'
.ttston.'ehed him, and makes any prospect of
a discontinuance of the ..percentage redue-
tions m the salaries of officers in the higher
classes of the public service exceedingly
dubious so fax.aa.thia.year is concerned. 4^
Tfflee TurnFDr t M
a 1 N‘ 6
f tx/T' \
I'EI/VARG
u r
Tali fidelity's
1 — ff es j 'f°^- e,r / J f ~ Ur *~'
Com bine, cl w «•
Co-la-Jcl Jo u-f'otot
all <7/ddes- "
11 I -0/
l "if .
I -IK^
i ,<
' txscx s au'fe—
£ 7° orL
otS ca &o •
r SIV\
|^ji(
J
MELBOURNIANA.


Menelik of Abyssinia has been made a
G.C.M.G., and Premier Turner is only a
K.C.M.G. Existing companions of Mick and
George should petition Her Gracious to draw the
color-line.
OGDEN’S GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES
Are made of pure Virginia Gold Leaf only, no
foreign perfume or admixture whatever. Bon-
Ton smoke.*
THE BOSTON SHOWER.
When one is hot and dry as summer dust, a
shower bath is probably the most welcome form of
refreshment possible—if obtainable. But even in
our city homes this is not always available, while
it is not too much to say that away back in the
country many thousands of would-be cleanly
people know of no shower save that which is
Heaven sent, when
The hooded clouds like friars,
Tell their beads in drops of rain.
The lack of a good water supply, want of space,
and, not least, the expense of fitting up a room are
some of the causes preventing the general posses-
sion of what is both a luxury and a necessity—a
111 Jil i . .r'limp |B
•v
>
I
pod shower bath. There are few difficulties,
however, which modern ingenuity cannot over-
come, and we give an illustration of a cheap,
compact, and satisfactory arrangement by means
of which anyone—be he an isolated selector or a
city man m cramped quarters—can enjoy to the
full all the healthy comfort of a good bath. The
Boston Shower (introduced by Messrs. M. Moss
and Co., Wynyard-lane, Sydney and Melbourne)
can be fixed by anyone, anywhere, in a few
and the pump connected with it, worked
with the greatest ease, gives a continuous down-
pour, having a force sufficient to throw water 150
feet. A single bucket of water is ample for a most
satisfactory shower. The simplicity and small
cost (375. 6d.) of the Boston will appeal to all ex-
cepting those who do not need a bath, and of such
we may say “Everyone is as God made him—and
sometimes a good deal worse.” — Sydney Mail
Oct. 16, 97.
“Black Swan” Tobacco.
TRY IT.
This Famous American Brand, manufactured by
WATSON & McGILL, Petersburg*, Virginnia,
is now on this market, and can be obtained
in BLOCK and POCKET Pieces, from all
TOBACCONISTS and STOREKEPERS
STOTT ai)d HOAR€
(ESTABLISHED 12 YEARS),
REMOVED TO LARGER PREMISES,
Martin Chambers,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
ti, ‘Remin<;ton
TYPEWRITER
OUTNUMBERS as 3 to 1 the COMBINED FORCES op COMPETITION.
It Keeps Pace ' "
M,chine, '“ d “ mbi "“ w»
lO all Speed CopteSts
the REMINGTON has coins, out “top.” Why? Because it i<* sr. o .™
writer niPUlate ’ meclmnisro bein K more simple than on any other TypZ
<1
Missing Friends.
TiIHOMAS H. HOY, or GEORGE F. HOY,
-L of Great Yarmouth; write to
0. J. HOY,
Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Public Notices.
PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD.
50 Young-street,
. Sydney, 29th October, 1897.
A C TTTWT^T 3 t^^T,? XAM1 ' N 4 TI( - >N of Candidates for
JUNIOR CLERKSHIPS in the Public Service of the
Colony will be held in Sydney and at various country
centres, which will be fixed as far as possible to suit the
convenience of candidates, on the 20th DECEMBER next
and four following days. The estimated number of
appointments to be made is 25. Candidates must be not
less than 16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day
of examination ; of good moral character, and in sound
?, e - rs 2 ns alread y employed in the General Division
of the Public Service will be admitted to the examination,
pioviaed a £[ e does not exceed thirty years,
lhe subjects m which the candidates will be examined
are • Handwriting, English (dictation precis writing 1
grammar, and composition), Arithmetic (full course),
Geometry (Euclid, First Book), outlines of Physical and
Political Geography, and the Geography of the Austral-
asian colonies m moderate detail; English History from
the middle of the eighteenth century to the present time,
especially with reference to the colonies and depen-
dencies. Candidates will also be allowed to take any
two but not more than two, of the following subjects
Mathematics, English—a prescribed author—(the same as
that prescribed for the Junior Examination of the current
year—Tennyson’s “ Gareth and Lynette ” (MacMillan),
Latin, French, German, Elementary Chemistry, and
Elementary Geology. Application to attend the examin-
ation must be made on a form for the purpose, which can
obtai, ‘ ed the office of the Board, and must reach
rP e l lot lan the Ist December, 1897.
Candjdates will be required to pay an examination fee
of 10s., which must be lodged with a clerk of petty sessions
o 6 T J" easur .y> and the receipt therefor forwarded to
a* 1 ?- Secretary of the Board with the form of application.
A list of registered candidates, with centres of examina-
tion, will be published in the Government Gazette after
e u- 1 ? 1 i tor the receipt of applications has expired, and
candidates will also be advised direct of the place at which
1 1 1 ■ The regulations and copies of the
papeis set at the last examination can be obtained at the
Government Printing Office and the principal booksellers.
Jj.y order of the Board.
J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
333 T ROYAL WARRAKTT
or ARPOIKTTMEIYT to TRE
QUEEW.
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE ”
I'-;
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SUPPLIED TO ALL
SODAWATER, & c .
THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
MINERVA TONIC
The Value of a Testimonial
a
$6
wm
*W'm At
m
m
m
Is in the integrity of the
giver; and the best guar-
antee of this, his record and
position,
From that standpoint the
testimonials of the Minerva
Co. are unique. Every one
of them carries on the face
of it the hall-mark of un-
questionable genuineness;
and in order to invite the
fullest inquiry into this, the
Company offers to any per-
son who will prove to the
contrary the sum of £lOO
sterling.
In Mr. L. HART, whose portrait and signature is here
presented, we have a gentleman who has filled the important
position of Government Photographer in New South Wales,
and who is now a lecturer in the Ballarat School of Mines, Bendigo
School of Mines and at the. Working Men’s College, Melbourne.
And with these guarantees of his bona fides, Mr. Hart
testifies to the benefits he had derived from taking Minerva Tonic
m the following eloquent words :
Having taFen your Tonic at intervals during the past two years, I have
( P^ easure in being able to certify that it has been a distinct success. Acting
on the recommendation of my medical adviser to take a tonic when necessary,
(( t c h°se the Minerva, and have every reason to be satisfied with the result, so
(t muc h so that I always keep it in the house. When, from stress of work, I feel
{{ run down, I have recourse to the Tonic, which invariably has the desired effect,
“as after a few doses lam right again for some months. Feeling that this Tonic
has done me much good, it will be a pleasure to recommend it, and I have no
“ objection to your publishing this report.
[Signed)
11 Affleck-street, South Yarra,
Melbourne.”
MINERVA TONIC
IS A PERFECT RESTORATIVE AND A
NUTRITIVE PREPARATION, AND IS
INVALUABLE FOR
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Prostration, Loss of Energy,
Mental Depression,
Anaemia, Insomnia,
Impaired Memory and Vision,
Irritability, &c., &c.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
MINERVA COMPOUND IRON PILLS (Yellow) are the greatest
Blood-Enrichers in the World.
MINERVA LITTLE NERVE AND BRAIN PILLS (White) are
a Nerve and Brain Tonic of unequalled value.
MINERVA LITTLE LIVER PILLS (Pink) are the Best and Most
Pleasant Aperient known.


COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM, MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
neasure of the general strength.
m
■ v
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
*To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“Gentlemen,—
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it. —Yours, &0.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
FISHER’S TONIC
—ia THE—
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Fauldinq & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
ftny Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CrobrocatioQ-
~~ DRINK
p€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr.
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Ylo.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
iv''***.'-'
&
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It Is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU GANHOT OVERSTATE ITS GREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT * I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case ot one ot
my friends SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twentv-five vcars, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. h>y
Se use of ENffI'FRUIT SALT ' he uow ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK—I remain yours faith-
fully,-J. W. Neil.”— (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil , Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
** two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now lam RESTORED to MY USUAL HEAL! H; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine each Bottle , and see
Without it, you have been imposed on by a
CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT.
I COR Till. ESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
6
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
NEW SOUTH WALES-
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
aafiV’ SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers „ £i Is- »»
Cloth Bound Books £lOO
SEND TNS TOP PORTION
GHTSOAPI
/T 0
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to LEVER BROS., LTD., 63 PITT ST. t SYDNEY.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
illßlill
PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP .
Sold, Silver, [ead Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING etc., etc
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemoke, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ore 3 of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN
HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
Managing Director,
Mutual Lim Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
—THE-
Most Useful Ointment in tlie World!
Bar IST one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproductionof tliecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application wiU relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, eta,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’^
Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chromo
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D.: —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening ; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony foe
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows:
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonio, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Bow’s Steane’s Wine
;.S a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
hildren, for it raises and strengthens depressed
ystems without producing a temporary excite*
nent to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
-ake
ROW’S STEANE’P WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
lelicate persons. Young Ladies can take thia
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
lure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
rONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
;he cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. Ab an anti-febrile is unaur*
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.


ONE CERTAINTY. ...
Not disputed by Dibbs, Lyne, Reid, or any other
Treasurer—
Billy Tea is the Best Value in the Market.
THE CORRECT TIP ALWAYS is
billy tea.,
and IT IS VERY TIPPY, TOO.
THE BILLY TEA is still FIRST FAVORITE.
needs, no gambling dodge to retain its proud position as
THE LEADING TEA IN AUSTRALIA.
Ask for the good old BILLY TEA. One cup of BILLY
is better than a trip to the Mountains. Yea ! Verily !
Try GRANUMA for Breakfast.
IT CUBES INDIGESTION,
—AND IS
THE BEST PORRIDGE MEAL IN THE WORLD.
N€W YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ESTABLISHED 1845. PURELY MUTUAL.
Assets - - £38,513,664.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA
(With Power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, &c.):
The HON. SIR JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
G. C. WESTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia:
76 3Pit/fc Street Sydney.
IHOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Countr
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY * CO.
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers, *
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE smr
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Motion Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mi. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff. r
KSF” Sales Held at the Auction /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Walter Bk milky & Co., 324 George s't
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
saoo * our CHIEF.’
. . THE
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
King O’Malley has introduced into S.A.
Assembly a Bill to enable juries in certain cases
*o fix the maximum term of imprisonment (pre-
sumably within statutory limits) to be inflicted
upon the prisoner. Good, as enabling the jury to
say now guilty they think a convict.
November is an unlucky month to attempt
s<^J riersau lt from the left of the Speaker on to
the treasury benches. In 41 years of Parliament-
ary gymnastics, no Leader of Opposition in N.S.
Wales has jumped into a Premier’s shoes in the
month of November. Lyne’s luck prodded him
in November.
. M‘Pherson, leader of the S.A. Laborites,
w so ill that unless he takes complete rest he must
utterly collapse. The Charleston feud was a great
trouble to him, and he finds it hard to safely steer
Detween Opposition Downer’s seductive solicita-
tmns and Premier Kingston’s pronounced coldness
and indifference.
About three weeks ago N.S.W. Lands
Minister Carruthers declared the whole of the
Mercadool selections—the subject of the big Land
Board inquiry—forfeited. A. few days since the
same Minister issued a notice reversing the for-
feitures. It would be interesting to the general
public to know why the forfeitures were gazetted
in the first instance and reversed in the second.
The prospects of pretty little Bowen are
brightening. The other day a deputation of 11
M. sli.A. interviewed Bananaland Minister for
Kail ways re connecting Bowen with the Northern
railway. Philp says Townsville doesn’t care if
■Bowen docs get connected with Charters Towers
and every good Townsvillian echoes the boast—
and shivers m his shoes. Premier Nelson brutally
■ays what nearly everybody thinks: “ There
mightn’t to be any Townsville at all.” And
Bananaland at large wonders when it’s going
to derive any benefit from the .£300,000 already
lavished on terrible Townsville’s unspeakable
Breakwater.
The S.A. Assem-
bly Labor-members
who show signs of
breaking away from
Kingston are M'Pher-
fion (chairman), Wood,
Price, Poynton and
Roberts. The other
seven are still faithful
to their old love, des-
pite the wiles of the
enemy. Even if Dow-
ner won over the
whole strength of the
Labor-party he would
not be sure of a majo-
rity, because, as they
trend towai’ds him,
the less pronounced
Oppositionists show
signs of seceding to
the Govt., who have
now a very solid in-
dependent following.
Ed Bulletin, —
A sound, simple and
inexpensive way of
making up the elec-
toral rolls on a one-
man - one - vote basis.
Every man to be com-
pelled to register him-
self on reaching 21, as
births are registered
now ; his name being
placed on one general
roll and also on the
roll of the district
where he lives, the
latter to be changed
on qhange of residence
if desired without
fee ; to be removable
only on death, lunacy,
or permanent im-
prisonment. Immi-
grants to register
themselves after, say,
six months’ residence
in one electorate. -
Failure to vote with-
out good cause to •
entail disfranchise-
ment ; re-registration
to be allowed after
a certain time on pay
ment of small fee.
Similar system for adult-vote. This would also
allow for representation of minorities. —F. Croson.
John Downer, bitterly, in S.A. Assembly:
“ What is the good of the Independent Party ? It
always supports the Government.”
Kingston has now
held office as S.A.
Premier longer than
the aggregate service of
any previous Prime
Minister. On his birth-
day (Oct. 22) he had
completed four years
four months and
seven days of con-
tinuous service, the
next greatest total
(4 years 2 months)
having been reached
by the late Henry
Ayers, who was head
of five different Minis-
tries.
Published, and
never officially denied
by the Crown Lands
authorities, that by
payment of a paltry
survey fee, Tas. saw-
mill owners may “ con-
ditionally purchase,”
and thus evade the
regulation departmen-
tal charge of so much
per axe for a timber-
getter’s license. When
all the good timber on
the “c.p.” is cut out,
and just before the first
purchase - instalment
falls due, the land is
forfeited and a fresh
selection applied for.
It comes vastly cheaper
than paying the license-
fee, and assists the
timber industry in the
most Vandemonian
fashion. Genuine set-
tlement is effectually
scared off by the tree-
stumps and desolation,
and the Isle of Bad
Dreams remains
simply remains.
William Lane at Glasgow : “Civilisation
takes away our land and gives it to the landlord ;
it takes away our machinery and gives it to the
capitalist ; it takes away our honesty and gives it.
to the lawyers.”
SOCIALLY OSTRACISED.
"O h , he was ve p nice until he got in trouble with a married womans
How interesting; who was she? ”
“ His wife!”
A peculiar use of parliamentary privilege
was made in Maoriland recently, when a M.H.R
was exempted, upon the Speaker’s certificate, from
a nswermg a judgment summons for .£7B—said to
the amount of an hotel-hill.
A MINING ITEM.
PUBLICAN : “ Don’t give any more ‘tick ’ to any oj the miners working at
the White Elephant.”
BARMAID: “Why?”
PUBLICAN : "Because she’s going to start crushing on Monday."
The Age, defending itself from the attacks
of John Hancock, M.P. :
In the newspaper the public know that they possess an
arena in which everyone who is qualified to speak is heard
without favor and without price.
It very one who is qualified to speak”—a compre-
hensive reservation. And Syme is the big Joss
who sits in judgment on the applicants’ “qualifi-
cations.
More Bull annexation—of course in the
name of Morality. Cable :
inTh?-°f C - rS of « ?° yal Ni ? er Co have reached Bendi,
m the interior of the Niger country. They are the first
Europeans to visit it, and the officers say that horrible
rites are in full vogue there. They consider Bendi is the
natural trade centre of the district, and ought to be
secured by the British. b
Horrible rites—m list be Put Down. Trade-Centre
—must be grabbed. Amen.
Ever-mighty is the quip. Protectionist
M. P. Schey (eager to discredit Premier Reid’s
pol'cy): Will the Premier furnish a full return
of the suicides recorded during the present Free-
trade regime ?” Drawly Reid (fixing in his eye-
glass and lazily looking round the Protectionist
benches) : Can’t give a full return until after
the. hon. member and his friends have gone
through next general election.”
Of late there have been continuous quarrels
JP a^)or ranks, and there are daily rumors of
the threatened secession of societies from the
party. Several labor M’sP. are not even on
speaking terms, except to the extent of calling
one another liars and traitors. A general election
just now would provide an eye-opener for demo-
crats, and until a strong independent liberal
organisation is formed by-elections will continue
to be a gift for Fatman.
Sydney Irishmen held their preliminary
98 meeting last week at the corner of “ Pitt and
Castiereagh-streets, ” as one orator remarked. And
O’Brien-lane was not a stone-throw off. Pitt
Castlereagh, Jemmy O’Brien and the Irish Re-
bellion altogether once more. A Tipperary boy
brought down the house in Dublin regularly bv
singing— J J
If ever ye’re goin’ by hell,
Take a long look in the corner,
An’ there ye’ll see Lord Castlereagh
An’ Jemmy O’Brien, the informer.
Ihe humors of legislation. Bananaland
Assembly, it is well known, possesses a very sub-
stantial anti-separation majority, and yet this very
Assembly last week passed a most astounding
motion in favor of separation. Kidston, ML A
had brought in a motion to the effect that the
question of separation be referred to the electors
of Central and Northern Q. next election. Curtis
moved an amendment that three-fourths of Kid-
ston s motion be omitted, and words substituted
therefor asserting the desirableness of separation for
N orthern and Central Queensland. And the House
aid assert the desirableness of separation on the
casting-vote of Speaker Cowley— to the horror of
Curtis, who only wauted to cook Kidston’s motion
T couldn t be found when the division-
bell rang. A thin House and preponderance of
Northern, Central, and Labor M.’sL.A. explain
the matter.
The newest bush proposal in S.A., where
State-helped settlement on the land still proceeds,
is suggested by the much-advertised success of
Peter Waite, at the Ohara experimental saltbush
blook. “ Instead of taking so much rent from the
poor squatters, let the Govt, work a few thousand
miles on the minimum-wage, profit-sharing
system ” —that is the idea in brief. But, so far, it
is discussed seriously only in bush-land, where, of
course, nothing ever is discussed in any other way.
Cardinal Moran :
And, though I mention the name “ Commonwealth," I
must say that I cordially dislikt it. Although some of the
enthusiastic supporters of Federation refer to Shakes-
peare and other old writers who use “Commonwealth’’ as
a general name for State, yet, since the Cromwellian era,
the word “Commonwealth ’’ has expressed a clearly de-
fined idea, and that idea is one that would be repugnant
to the best interests of Australia.
Was the Cardinal talking as the Irishman who
naturally hates Cromwell, or as the Tory who
hates Republicanism ?
Melb. : Listening to Cardinal Moran, at
St. Patrick's, one inevitably reflected on his can-
didature for the Federal Convention. Not for a
moment can I suppose it possible that this was a
mere impulsion his part. Rome does not act in
that way. Fancy Card. Vaughan standing for
the Commons, or Card. Gibbons for Congress. It
would be a scandal. No, take it from me that
Card. Moran’s action emanated from Rome,
whether or not on his own advice. The object
was to teach the Australian and American Re-
publics that the Church would claim the right-of
ecclesiastics in Parliament, as in the French
Assembly. Nor do I suppose Card. Moran was
far out as to the degree in which even Catholics
would refuse to vote for him. His. mind is Ovid’s
Temple of Fame, in catching all the voices. Some
fools whispered ‘Vanity!’ The Cardinal might
bite his lips, but they were sealed.”
Mr. Daniel Kerr, chairman of Vic. Parlia-
mentary-candidate Wintle’s committee, writes re-
pudiating that somewhat eccentric gentleman’s
imputation of insincerity ; and, while endorsing
Ihe Bulletin’s opinion that W. is “too good for
politics, suggests that he be now “relegated to
that obscurity from which ” — &c.
America once more. K. M. Marquis, on
Senator Powers’ ranch, Sunnyside, Montana, with
a Wolseley machine has shorn 275 sheep in one
day. The previous record was that of R. J. Howe,
who, at Alice downs, Q., shore 237 sheep by the
machine in the gold-medal contest of 1893. On
the same occasion he shore 321 by hand in a day
of eight hours.
Ayrshire Downs station, near Winton,
Q., holds the record Australian artesian bore, the
depth being 4438 ft., or only 842 ft. less than a
mile. It also contains the deepest string of 6in
casing in Australia—37o6ft. The flow is 800,000
gallons daily of splendid water, equal to rain
water. lor height of flow above 6in. casing the
record is held by Quambetook, Q., with 54in.,
Amslie s Block bore, near Richmond Downs, run-
ning a good second with 52in.
NO BUYERS.
At Vic. Congregational Union’s recent
session, Rev. White asked leave to move that
the doctrine of evolution, as applied to the physi-
cal, mental and moral nature of man, was in direct
opposition to the _ revelation contained in the
Bible, and frustrative of the plan of redemption.
Pathetically humorous is the notion of half-a-
dozen smug mediocrities, in black coats and
monkey beards, passing votes of censure upon the
everlasting nature of things because it won’t
cram into their little tinkered creed-pot.
A BANK FAILURE
is a possible occurence, Ogden's Guinea Gold
Cigarettes never fail to give satisfaction. Pure
and mild.


EBY
, ' at All his
ESTABLISHMENTS
Tur i Anirc^
FAVOURITE
ffw >v .--I
: v
II S 1
gjj
L&.I
FASHIONABLE IN STYLE
ELEGANT IN SHAPE
■ ;^^ irAn
EXCELLENT; IN WEAR
AND ,N FRONT OP ALU
■■ -,• . -X-ii ■>':
EUROPEAN OR AMERICAN
Qooos at LOW OOWN PRIDE
EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
and also at his Branches in the City, Suburbs and
Colony.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
6 A &L~*>
CjU C
Ha
<**
4iCWt. ;
&W:
9fu^^**'W v ®
( ftu. -tactOt
ta^<A4^
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Daudriff, Prevents
Hair Falling* Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair Perfectly
Harmless, Glean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
snd its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i-, 2/6 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,, LTD,,
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
A NOVELTY!
! ALL KINDS OF .
SYNTHETIG SCENTS
Three in elegant case jg
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
AV *
Va Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers, V 5 /a
or direct from
rp WILLIAM FRANKLIN, late of Stanley-st., North
' Adelaide, will write to H. VVREFORD, Harrington-st.,
frospeot, S.A., he will hear important newa.
J *
I
i iiii
m
illllllllilllllllllllliillHlll
1
VioIif>S-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
APto Harps.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child cau
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
tyotitb NaripopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitatior
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordeops & CopcertipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Boyal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
(JditarS & tyapdolipes-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AristoQS & PolypljooS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Baod l9StrGfi}€ot& of all kiods
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TERMa
338 George-street, Sydney.
D unlops:;;
First in 1888.
FOREMOST
\ EVER
\SINCE
A
ALL
'ABOUT
Dunlop
Tyres”
GRATIS & POST FREE.
THE cyccine DERBy. ..
The One-Mile Australasian Championship
won by
R. WALNE
ON
Duniqp. Tyres
L
"» DUNLOP-WELCH RIMS.
The combination that wins all Championships and holds all
Records.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
Also at
Swanston-st., Melbourne;
Franklin-st., Adelaide;
King-st., Perth;
and Christchurch, N.Z.
For
Tyres.the best
RJM ISTHE
DUNLOPy
WELCH,
p \
ES>y
Dunlop
Tyres^
PERFECTED
FOR CARRIAGES
©FALL KINDS.
“ Easier to win a woman than lose one.*—
Talleyrand .
E. W. O’Sullivan “ writes to deny that he
was ever bombastic enough to say that Gladstone
could not beat him for Queanbeyan.”
A “cold, hard world ” at Klondyke, where
for three months (Dec. to Feb. last) the ther-
mometer never showed less than 32deg. of frost,
and got down twice to 23 below zero.
Ranjitsinhji meandered around Gov. Bras-
sey’s fancy-ball in the unconvincing garb of a
cricketer. What a chance Ranji missed —of
tripping in as the White-eyed Kaffir !
Sydney Health Board’s Sept, return shows
that the month’s percentage of condemned cattle
was nearly 3, and that out of 4270 pigs slaughtered
5 per cent, were diseased, though out of 75,000
sheep only 10 were found unfit for food. Mutton’s
“ the only wear.”
“ Was that proper conduct of him, as a
local preacher?” asked a recent Sydney divorce-
respondent of a man whom he had caught kissing
his (respondent's) wife. Whereupon the holy
nian explained that he had kissed her merely “ as
a sister in the Loard.” Nyum !
Dear B., — He Burns. Caledonia does
mourn at the attempt to displace his laurels.
Although they don’t go out of Scotland, it is like
finding a dozen little hillocks where you thought
you had a mountain to boast of ; and Burns was
Scotia’s sole poetical mountain. —J.F.D,
At Sydney Central police-court, the other
day, aman called on to find securities against com-
mitting a breach of the peace said: ‘‘Why, your
Worship, they say I’m not a peaceable man ! How
can that be? I’ve been bound over ten times to
keep the peace.”
The she-missionary shamble business is
again making sign in China. A pity, both ways
—for there’s no doubt that the “ martyr’s crown ”
contingency is a considerable factor in this craze
of apparently otherwise sane young Australee
women to be “ expatriated, with the chance of
being slaughtered.”
The end of the world is surely at hand !
In a S.A. up-country police-court, the other day,
the manager of Sutton’s big Anlaby station sum-
moned some shearers for breach of agreement.
Defence —the sheep were wet. Information dis-
missed. Thereupon the manager was sued for
wrongful dismissal, and ordered to pay £5 com-
pensation and costs in each case.
Living like a fighting-cock ! The Smith-
field (N.S.W.) nuisance - inspector applied lately
for an increase in salary his screw is now
JR a month ! One alderman having enquired
what he did for this regal honorarium, the greedy
official pointed out that it was part of his duty to
face sundry persons of noxious calling who
threatened to “ plug ” him if he ventured to inter-
fere with them. “ How would Alderman Hall
like that? ” the pathetic applicant concluded.
Messrs. Swallow and Ariel, Ltd., Mel-
bourne (perhaps the largest firm in their special
line in Australasia), have signed a contract for the
sole Victorian agency of Hunter’s Paw Paw Sauce,
and it is the first time this large firm has under-
taken to distribute another firm’s manufactures.
Mr. Hunter and Bananalanders generally no
doubt feel highly gratified at the success of this
unique tropical product.*
At last sittings of Sydney Divorce Court a
man was seeking a divorce on the ground of his
wife’s desertion. He gave evidence that he
‘‘ found out something ” and went home and taxed
his wife with it. “What did you say?” queried
the Judge. “ I told her I knew it, and then I said
to her, * Get to (Sheol) out of this ; ’ that’s what I
said, your Honor, ‘Get to Sheol out of this.’”
“What did she say?” “She didn’t say any-
thing, your Honor, I didn’t wait; and then I
went to a funeral. When I got home she was not
there, and she never came back.” Petition dis-
missed.
A curious light is thrown upon American
detective methods by the descriptive bills of
Frank Dunham, the record - murderer of seven
people inside of five minutes, now posted in all
the Australian detective-offices. These bills are
adorned with the portrait of Dunham, and, after
a detailed description of his person and habits,
comes an undertaking from Jack Want’s friend,
the ’Frisco chief of police, guaranteeing, in the
event of a capture, not to attempt to “ cut ” into
the reward. Criminal pursuit in Yankeeland
must indeed be in a parlous state when one cop.
has to gi ve another a guarantee of the “ bunce ”
before the second will exert himself.
The other day at Sydney Quarter Sessions
Judge Murray tried a man on a charge of stealing
his mistress’s cash-box. The defence was that the
accused had taken the box simply as a warning to
prosecutrix to be more careful in future, and that
he had intended to return it to her. The Judge,
in summing-up, told the jury that this remark-
able defence reminded him of a country bank-
manager who, when charged with robbing his
bank, said he had merely taken the money as a
practical joke. “ The funny thing about it,” said
his Honor, “ was that the jury too said it was a
practical joke.” After being out for but a few
minutes the jury said “ not guilty,” and found in
this case as well that the accused had played a
practical joke. Example is better than precept.
A glaring instance of the heartless manner
in which S.M. Herald frequently neglects its
firmest friends has been evoked by last week’s
meteor. It reported that
The mayor of Sydney saw a magnificent meteor this
(Tuesday) evening; he was in the garden surrounding his
home.
furthermore, that
Mr. Washington Soul saw the same meteor from Parra-
matta.
likewise, that
Mr. Palkard was driving over the Parramatta River
Bridge, and at 20 minutes to 8 p.m. he saw a very large
ball of fire pass overhead from west to east.
But no letter was published to assure the com-
munity that the meteor had been observed and
identified by E. J. H. Knapp.
“ Mac Schwindle ” to The Bulletin ;
Dear Bulletin, — The clannish exercise of the power of
the dominant Scotch “push” in Sydney University Medi-
cal School has long been a public scandal. But the Mac
Parritches’ latest atrocity “lays over” all previous efforts.
For the vacant position of junior assistant surgeon at
the University Hospital Prince Alfred there were
several candidates from the rising generation of medicos,
among them an M.D., M.S. (Lond.)-probably the only
possessor of such a distinguished surgical degree in N.S.
Wales. This was backed by testimonials from some of the
most eminent English surgeons, and a record of 12 years
experience in London hospitals. Among the rest were
several brilliant British and Australian graduates. The
students looked forward to being taught by the distin-
guished Britisher aforementioned, but were fairly para-
lysed when the joint committee of the Senate and Hos-
pital Board hoisted the son of the boss Scotchman
(Chancellor of the University) into the billet, without
even the formality of a discussion. This happy youth
has a very ordinary Edinburgh degree, and, if I am cor-
rectly informed, has had about a year’s experience as a
house surgeon. Also as a teacher he must labor under a
disadvantage to which it will be chivalrous not to specifi-
cally allude


Banking. Public Companies, See.
Money to Lend.
FIIKTIIER REDUCED KATES.
PAWN BROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch 262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every .£1 to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, ip*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
TITEST AUSTRALIAN LAND AGENCY.
The undersigned has now opened a department for
the Sale on commission of land at Perth. Send particulars
as to price, &c. No sale, no charge. Immediate loans on
deposit of deeds. ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Valuator under R.P. Act, 250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE UNIVERSAL LAND -
-AND—
- DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Fixed Deposits received for a term of years at liberal
interest. -
Advances made on Freehold Securities, Bills Discounted
on deposit of deeds, and all financial business transacted.
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
1,949,500 0 0
1,191,934 0 0
1,949,500 0 0
Total 5,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
Loudon Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
ttie United States, Hamourg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; coilecis for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
On debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other hanks; issues dratts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE!
INTERSECTION
HUKTER,BLIGH £ CASTLEREAGH SIS,
SYDNEY.
© © GO OO
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
©©o © © ©
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
FRE E -ALBERT'S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : — Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
45s, 60s, 90s, and 105s ;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 24s, 36s, 45s,
54s, 75s, 90s, 135s, and
150s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
I8s, 25s, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60r and 90s ;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, '5s and 90s;
Concertinas, 5s, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 Iving-st., Sydney.
T)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle llazor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
:3s. 6d , 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
nost free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
M IOEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A; Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 187 S.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and uiients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Bathe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rpHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
* LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. i. £1,705,363 13 5
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up ~ .. 44,636 6 7
Reserve Liability of Share.
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,786
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addision. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edineades (pro). New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. VV. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. 11.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. VV. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland j|ational gank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 455,361 17 7
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ;A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.’
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against' Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per eent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capil al payable by Shareholders 500*000
Total Capital .. ..£3 000.000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up ... .. £2,974, SO J lOs.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Ksu., J. P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L. A.;
George Mean's, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager; Henry Giles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Jos’ke.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Itishopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in -Brisbane.
Tl>is Company
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo, ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st. , Sydney, and 405 Collins
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code—Moueing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 337, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Ashley, Friday, November 12, 5 p.m.
Cargo only.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 13, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tuesday, Nov. 10, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE V
PORT AUGUSTA )
Ashley, Friday, November 12, 5 p.m.
Cargo only.
Buninyong, Tuesday, Nov. 16, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 16, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 13, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 16, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 20, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 13, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 20, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURB HINT FAKES TO ALL POKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Ss SONS, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
X|INGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most lavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Slreet ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under. Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £2o to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particul irs applv at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
—VIA—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TVESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
'M/C*
4/V
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists,^melbournk'’
MenourneOreTesting & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Bitrbiiige,
COMPANY MANAS; R 3 AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELIIO UItNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
-alian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted'
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent—B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Bullarra (from Melbourne)
Saturday, November 20.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney) Tuesday
November 30.
ALBANY, \
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to l
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Bullarra (from Melb.)
Saturday, November 20.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, November 30.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) abouf
November 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
November 12.
Best <£■ Cheapest lloate to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For XiozidLoxx.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker £ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at I owest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A- U■ S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE - Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LI‘!E OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare-London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Svdney;
JOHN SANDERSON'& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS &, CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMEIiS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
. ckj lui JLU&. iteburn ucKec-s a
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Line:
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages fron
Europe, America, ele., can be prepaid in the colonies J
MERGELL, Gen, Agent, Ex. Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney


E 23
g -VV.:
ns’s Hotel and Marble Jar
AND
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
()•
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
0 —
Hotel and Cafe have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depot, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
(Jprifrht Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
it prices that will 'effect a saving of 50 per cent, as .compared with’buying them froni dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms m Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. Tho sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
t>a-ss wires copper
covered. The clavia-
turo (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires aro two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, henco
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
be nad in walnut 01
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. Tho touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing Q J
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in tho treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to tho voice. We take risk of loss in transit. Ine P ric ® 1 _•
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of a * P
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of wwld-wido . cMtebnty, uovern
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BrjAlilv & CvJ. LjLU •» is
Street, Sydney, and throughout New Sontli Wales.
HUNTER’S KURANDA
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce.
PURITY.
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
in
this
New Sauce,
it being
A Purely Fruit
and
Vegetable
Condiment.
PAPAIN.
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
ATTENTION ! DYSPEPTICS.
Indigestion is at the root of more than half of our present day bodily ailments,
accentuated, as it is, by the almost universal habit of stomach drugging Simply
stated, these distressing symptoms and their consequent evils are directly due to the
inability to properly digest the food consumed. No amount of medication can aid this
most vital and important function. The proprietors of HUNTER’S PAW-PAW
PRUIT SAUCE knowing that their Piquant Relish contains a large proportion
of PAPAIN (the’most active digestive ferment known to Medical Science), claim
that DYSPECTIC TORTURES are entirely BANISHED by using their sauce
at meal times, besides which, its palatableness greatly enhances the enjoyments of
the table.
Manufactured only at Hunter’s Steam Preserving Works,
CAIRNS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Hunter’s - -
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from all the leading WHOLESALE (WOOERS, and from all the
leading KhlAiiuJßiitS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., 20 Loftus-street, Sydney.
:r,o^-:d
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
gg
S 8s
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HIT AD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Reoresentative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Telephone, 26 KoGARA3—connected with Sydney Exchange.
THe “ Xjicls House Hotel, ’
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes. LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH, On the Banks of Botany Bay.
THE FAVORITE HEALTH RESORT. IJTTTT4Rn
LOFTY BEDROOMS,’ and Luxuriously FURNISHED DRAWING ROOMS, READING ROOA ,
ROOM and BATH ROOMS. tv,
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties carefully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Pnvate 1 D
etc. aSnecialitv. Grand Halt will accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths alsos Elect tic
and Hot Salt Water Baths (a Sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints), only one minute s walk fiom 10 e . B
Boating ; also, splendid Stabling Accommodation.
Terms- From 861- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
“ LICK HOUSE HOTEL,” or 16 York street, Sydney.
SFECIA.L NOTICE
■WE beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying from us
* V direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manufac-
turers —not dealers.
OUR BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
dash rail and lamps, £7 15s. Our Special 3 SPRINO STICK
SEAT SULKY, silver dash rail splash-baards and lamps, £8
17s. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGIES, includin'* break and lamps,
£2l. ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather,
including break and lamps, £26. LADIES PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l.
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices
z
NOTE OUtt ONLY ADDUESS:
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street. NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sjd y.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article — , . n «
A. Soycr’S BakiQS Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Loiv Pates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoQ N-SoGl
158, ISO, and. 268 Pitt-street, Sydney ; and at
Church-street, Parramatta.
AGENT for the followin
Poker Macbii)£S
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES,
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH
A 1S °’ SEND FOR OUR PRICE LTST OF CIGARS
Best Value, in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
direct importer of tobacco, cigars
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CANT
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
—AND—
CIGARS
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MANILA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
SIMMONS
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.


Packets
■JLIEARS
s««i
°U*l. |V>
PURE
MUD
nulaclured by
a a
Payerne
Is.
WITH
COPYRIGHT BOOK
How to Disinfect
SENT.FREE
The Sanitas C 2 L-.jl
U Bethnac Green
lonoon
e*
Th
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—64 King St., Sydney.
•Agents and |
Depots j
Everywhere.
Agents and |
Depots j
Everywhere
Something new in saddles. We now offer the option
of the celebrated Brantford Hygienic saddle, soft as
velvet. We will fit them to Red Birds, if desired.
Oh, yes 1 Red Birds always lead in improvements..
Tiie Red Bird is the mount of the people who like
to be in good form. Its graceful design and beautiful
crimson finish make it the ideal wheel for cyclists of
the better class.
When you see the crimson wheel, that’s the Red
Bird or an imitation.
The best price to pay for a cycle is the price of the
best cycle. There has never been a broken RED
BIRD frame in all Australasia out of the many thou-
sands in use. You can now understand why it is
better to pay for RED BIRD quality than pay for
repairs.
The New Models have arrived with their little oil-
bath bearings, adjusting alignment, bottom bracket,
and indestructible frames. These are only a few of
their many improvements.
There are some new things no better than the old,
but every added feature of the famous Red Bird
cycles is a positive advantage.
The new Red Bird is improved beyond all others ;
its little oil-bath bearings and adjusting alignment
bottom bracket, make that cycle as superior to all
others as the pneumatic tyre is ahead of the solid.
It costs money to perfect a cycle like the Red Bird,
and therefore they cannot be sold in competition with
the products of the repair-shop manufacturer.
Red Bird cycles never require repairs, and are,
therefore, selected by the cyclists of the better class.
An ounce of protection guarantees a pound of satis-
faction. All Red Bird cycles are backed by a guar-
antee with a reputation of 20 years’ standing.
We do not offer you the product of a repair-shop or
a plough-factory. We have made our reputation in
manufacturing the best bicycles, and produce the
famous Red Bird as a bicycle thoroughly and under-
standingl.v made. Its fine points—such aa little oil-
bath bearings, adjusting alignment, bottom bracket,'
and indestructible frames—complete a bicycle as
superior to others as the pneumatic tyre is ahead of
the solid.
Don’t be fooled by the festive bicycle salesman who
is trying to convince you that other cycles are as good
as the Red Bird.
He won’t hesitate to tell all sorts of yarns stating
that Red Bird cycles can be bought at any price, and
that they are cheap wheels, and do not stand the test,
and other fairy tales of a like nature.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE * MOTOR C 0 Limited,
• 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
The hippodromey character of the Melbourne
Cup struggle, which always discounts its sporting interest
for new-churas who know aught of horse-racing on the
bigger English courses, was this year more noticeable
than usual. The 29 starters seemed to run themselves as
closely as possible to the rails, consequently they were
soon so “well strung-out” that the tail-end ones, and
even the horses hanging together in the middle bunch,
couldn t be expected to thread their ways to the front
without the assistance of very good luck. As a matter of
history, none of the early back numbers, barrino- Gaulus
and Coil, ever got near to the fore, and, also as a matter
of history, it may be noted that the two “cracks,” Posi-
t -^ m^er^e > who did hold prominent positions in
the first quarter of a mile, were never dangerous after
their jockeys had taken a steadying pull at them. Little
Aurum got away well, and remained in the leading divi-
sion all the time, whereas his Derby conqueror, Amberite,
after running beside the St. Alban’s colt for a short dis-
tance, was “eased” back into a place where the mud
“yin? hoofs bespattered him, and where, as
the result shows, he might just as well have
been buried. This sort of thing* makes punters’
fancies and horse - prophecy in newspapers appear
unduly ridiculous. Here we saw the winner of two
Derbies and a Caulfield Cup mixed up with a crowd
of commoners, whilst Aurum, Gaulus, and The Grafter-
horses that he had lately “smothered ” —were havino- the
finish of the race to themselves. A muddy course is at
all times apt to upset calculations, but this couldn’t be
accepted as a reasonable excuse for some of last week’s
Melbourne Cup running if it were not a general rule with
jockeys to court, rather than avoid, the risk of getting
“ shut in,” or “ shut out,” or “ interfered with.” The
boy on Gaulus had the sense, seemingly, to rush his horse
away from the ruck at the time when the pace of the
leaders had slackened, and thus he was able to get within
a possible winning distance of them before they began to
run the last six furlongs in sprinting time (lmin. 16sec.)
The warm pace towards the finish settled the chance of
The Bulletin’s tip, Coil, who didn’t begin to make up
much of his ground until the horses in front of him were
going their hardest. Coil finished neck-and-neck with
Bundook, not more than a length behind Aurum, and of
allthe top weights he was the only one to make a respect-
able show. Positano finished sixth, and Delaware (lame)
was scratched on the morning of the race.
Some of the interviewing questions put to jockey
Steve Callinan after the Cup were manifestly superfluous.
For instance, the young man couldn’t very well answer
“ Yes” to the inquiry as to whether he had fancied his
chance in the two-mile race, otherwise he might have
been asked to explain why Gaulus started at 8 to"l for the
Hotham Handicap, three days before, and merely dead-
headed with Canoona for third place, behind Metford and
Surge. What sort of chance could Gaulus have on his
recent Melb. performances—“ nowhere” in the Caulfield
Cup, and a dead-heat with a third-rater for the Hotham
Handicap? Nevertheless, owner and trainer Forrester
%J°ld bis friends to back the horse, and his starting price
m the big event ranged from 10 to 14 to 1 only.
The Victorian crowd of punters, bearing in mind
how Bill Forrester’s pair ran second and third for Glen-
loth s Cup-in-the-mud race, might have turned their
thoughts to Gaulus and The Grafter this year, but they
didn’t. Probably not one in a hundred" of the local
guessers put £1 on either of the Gozo horses from Sydney.
Many of them lost money over other Sydney fancies—
Positano, Amberite, Parthenopseus, Fucile, and even
Toreador, for these had, at one time or other, done some-
thing that looked promising. But Gaulus and The Grafter
—how could the uninitiated believe in them?
The daily press can’t be accused of endeavoring
to open the public’s eyes to the glorious uncertainty of
turf “form.” In days of yore it was usual for a Cup
winner’s performances to be set forth in detail under-
neath his pedigree. This wasn’t done in the Gaulus case,
anyway. It would have been somewhat painful. Why
gall us with hard facts concerning miraculous improve-
ments in “form” now that the V.R.O. stewards have
abolished their ancient right of holding retrospective en-
quiries ?
Melb. Argus put the Gaulus matter very
sweetly in a casual paragraph : “ Followers of form could
hardly fancy Gaulus for the Melbourne Cup after his
Hotham Handicap failure, but those who supported the
Sydney-sider so heavily for the two-miles race evidently
knew that the running on Saturday need not be taken too
seriously.” Ye gods ! Can the Argus tell The Bulletin
whether the Melb. Cup running of certain horses is to be
taken seriously? Also, will the respectable daily journal
try to imagine the effect of the par. aforequoted upon the
feelings of any constant readers who may have backed
Gaulus for the Hotham Handicap ? People did back him
for the H.H., of course, on the strength of his being
notoriously fancied by the stable for the Melb. Cup. Is
the fact that a horse has been supported for a very big
race to rank as a sound turf reason for not taking him
seriously when he runs in a small race three days previous
to the great event?
The Messrs. Miller swore by the chance of their
Bundook—a hollow-backed, angular son of Carbine—for
Melb. Cup. Had this rough ’un stayed in front a little
while longer sassiety would have waved its silk bell-
toppers and lace-edged handkerchiefs with great enthu-
siasm, for sassiety was “on it” at about 40 to 1. There
were four sons of Carbine in the field, and the writer of
this little par. decided to back three—Amberite, Clarion,
and Fucile, leaving their hollow-backed half-brother to
struggle along without his assistance. And when he
(the W.O.T.P.)saw the one Carbine scion that he didn’t
back coming round the corner in front of the field—well,
he cried “Bundook!” in a tone of voice that sounded
very like bad language.
Dreamland holds the record for Melb. Cup
failures. The well-meaning animal has started in four
successive Cup races—’94, ’95, ’96, ’97. Three times out
of the four his colors have been prominent for about a
mile and a-half, or longer, and each time he faded away
when the real business of the meeting commenced. Some-
oody dreams Dreamland every year, too, and yet the
orse’s inability to land the dream remains unabated.
Here and there one heard a foolish remark that
The Grafter could have won the Melb. Cup if he had been
wanted to beat his stable-companion. Nevertheless, that
desperate struggle between two horses running in the
same interest was the “whitest” and healthiest incident
of the Flemington meeting. The Grafter’s jockey ap-
parently didn’t yield a single inch to the other fellow.
The greasy going for the Cup was all in favor of
Aurum, with his large feet, and crack in one of them.
* * * *
Gaulus is still another instance of a horse doing
well after easing-up in his work. He was eased-up for a
few days after his knocking about in the Caulfield Cup,
and a proposed gallop with Positano on the Thursday
before the race was spoiled by the English horse refusing
to try, so that the only good run he had before the Cup
was in the Hotham Handicap.
* * * *
The second “e” in Eleusive, W. R. Wilson’s
filly, is puzzling the papers. They all had it for a time,
and then the Argus (“ The St. Albans Gazette ”) dropped
it. Now it turns up irregularly. Her dam’s name is
Eleusia. Hence the second “ e.”
* * * *
This is the sort of thing that encourages punters
to persevere. The Grafter wins the Coburg Stakes, at
rlennngton, on Derby-day. He carries Bst. 21b., starts
first favorite, and wins the mile race from the jump. Then
( 7st - runs prominently all the way in
the Melb. Cup, and gets beaten bv a head onlv. Two days
later. The Grafter is asked to carry fist. 31b. in the Spring
Handicap (IJ4 mile), and he naturally starts first favorite,
this time he never gives his backers the least hope. He
runs nowhere” all the way. Then look at the running
of Aurum with Amberite 1
* * • *
Dear Bulletin,— l don’t fancy that Gozo de-
serves very much credit for the stoutness of Gaulus and
Ihe Grafter, his breeding is not attractive on either
side. Wild Oats, the sire of Gozo, was a big, non-staying
horse who used to roll in his gallop at the end of a fast
race. Considering that the Melb. Cup winner and runner-
up are own brothers, it seems only reasonable to attribute
their stamina to the dam—a Musket mare.—Studdy
* * . *
Aurum s defeat in the Derby is now definitely
decided by the “ talent ” to have been due to an unfor-
tunate collision with another horse during the race.
There were six starters for the Derby. It is asserted, too,
that Key would have beaten Aurum and Amberite for the
Flying Stakes last Thursday had she not been unlucky.
there were five starters for the Flying Stakes. Tun Bul-
letin would suggest that Australian horse-racing be con-
ducted for the future on the tournament svstem. Why
not play the game in heats—two horses to 'race for each
heat-jockeys to toss for positions and a foul to disqualify,
as in boat-racing—first prize to the winner of the greatest
number of heats? That’s what the Turf must come to if
punters are to continue to take an intelligent interest in
the “sport.” Meantime, Aurum’s Derby catastrophe
should warn tipsters against predicting the result of any
race which isn’t reduced to a walk-over.
t Tbe V.R.C. stewards held an inquiry into the
alleged ” (a local newspaper thought it necessary to use
the term “alleged”) inconsistent‘running of Surge at
flemington. Surge (7st.) ran in the mile and a-half
Veteran Stakes on Thursday. He was never near the
front,, and he finished 20 lengths, or more, behind Posi-
tano and Bundook, who ran a dead-heat. On Thursday
the same Surge (6st. 91b.) ran in the mile and three-
quarters V.R.C. Handicap, meeting Positano and Bundook:
on 161 b. better terms. Surge this time was in front all
the time, and he won pretty comfortably from Positano
and Bundook, the pair happening to run very consistently
with their previous form. The explanation of Surge’s ex-
traordinary reversal of form was considered satisfactory
by the stewards, and indeed it didn’t call for particular
inquiry. Dozens of similar cases pass without causing any
unpleasantness except to the public who try to pick
winners.
Parthenopaeus (9st.) ran for the Spring Handicap
on Thursday, distance 1 j mile. His starting-price was 12
to 1, and he made no show in the race. On Saturday he
carried 9st. 4ib. in the Final Handicap, run over the same
H-nnle course, and won it comfortably. This time Par-
thenopseus started at 6 to 1, although he was meeting a
much bigger field than before. s
They stewards—they are beginning to get quite
severe, doncherknow—held an enquiry into the Par-
thenopseus peculiarities, and they decided that a
trainer and jockey had' apparently defeated the
ends of sporting justice, unbeknown to the two book-
makers who own the horse. So the naughty pair were dis-
qualified for ari uncertain period, and the stewards one-
supposes, passed a vote of sympathy with the bookies.
The Bulletin’s remarks upon Wait-a-Bit’s-
recent uneven performances were answered last week by
the bursting of an abscess in the ’orse’s ’ead. And yet-
the touts had been unanimous in stating that Wait-a-Bit-
seemed to “thrive on his work.”
* * * *
Whernside, who won the two steeplechases at
Flemington last week, is the modern Redleap of the
Miller stable. A gigantic horse, and a splendid jumper
he wins his races all the way at a pace that brings most-
of his pursuers to grief.
* * * *
No doubt as to Melbourne being t!: ■ champion,
middle-weight show town of the /orld. Races, cricket-
match, and other outdoor sports t/gether must have been
patronised by 25 per cent, of tho- population on Saturday
afternoon, and at night three >deatres out of five—not to-
mention halls—were crowded. How much money did
Melbourne spend in sight-szeing last week ?
* * * *
The discoverer of the A.M.D.G. “ tip ” for this:
year’s Cup was the same lady who figured out the 1,8,9 4
coincidence in Patron’s year.
♦ * * *
Cantle : “ Turf coincidences. Guy Fawkes a
Steepler, was foaled on Guy Fawkes day, and killed’on
Guy Fawkes day, at Flemington. What odds would a-
“ book ” give, this time last year, versus two horses by
the same sire and dam being first and second in Melb
Cup ?
* * * *
London Referee says that tho reason JVTerman
started at so long a price for the Lewes Handicap was
that the astute crowd behind the Lily didn’t back it on
the course, but let the S.P. merchants in for one of the
biggest jobs of the season. The Bulletin always had a
diro idea that Lily knew a thing or two.
* * • *
The flat at Flemington becomes more and more
a great gambling ground. At the meeting just past, three-
card-men, pea-and-thimble-riggers, and race-gam e-runners
swarmed, besides a host of shilling, sixpenny, and even
threepenny totes, in addition to the usual crowd of
bookies and sweep-promoters. One smart young, red-
haired woman ran a 3d.-tote “ all on her own,” and did
good business. By the way, what sort of a fix would the
poor backer be in with a woman bookmaker who should
welsh him? He could hardly “ take it out of her hide ” 1
Per contra, on the hiil on Cup-day pencillers were com-
paratively scarce ; it was almost impossible to back a-
horse just prior to the Cup, so much were thev rushed.
* * * *
Stoddart and co. did nothing wonderful in'
their match with S.A. (writes Tiie Bulletin’s correspon-
dent). At the finish the wicket was cutting up, and with
120 runs to the good and five wickets to fall the Wheat-
landers had much in their favor. The match shows the-
strength of S.A. batting and the weakness of the English
bowling. Clem. Hill played all of them with ease, and
was never troubled. He gave not a solitary chance and
banged the Englishmen all over the Oval.
Ranji is a wrist-artist. His cutting and glancing'
impress) but in driving he is far below Hill. Ranji., hov£
ever, pleads that Australian wickets are a revelation to-
him. He says they are six yards faster than English
pitches, and one must depend not on the eye so much as
on correct timing.
Had S.A. fieldsmen fairly taken their chances-
England would not have made 200 in the first innings.
Kanji. was dropped in his second over, Mason was
dropped before he had made 20, Storer when his score
was 45. These mistakes cost S.A. 279 runs. Jones’
average of 7 for 190 was splendid, considering the fact
that in all six chances were dropped off him.
Lyons will probably play "himself into the test
games. He played solid chanceless cricket against Stoddart
and co., and made none of those streaky strokes of old.
Further, he has reduced his bulk, looks well and strong,
and is keen on getting into the big games.
There was much feeling in Adelaide over the
abandonment of the match. It was advertised to be
played out, but, when there was no chance of more gate-
money, Wardill and Sheridan hurried the team over to
see the Cup. It is stated that Stoddart*s personal inclina-
tion was to finish, but he is by no means boss of the
concern.
The gate-money of the match amounts to nearly
£l2OO. £541 was taken on the Saturday, representing
nearly 14,000, an easy S.A. cricket-record.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin,— lt is really remarkable
how successful Australian batsmen have been against
Richardson s bowling - at any rate as compared
with English batsmen. From 1894 up to and in-
clusive of the match just finished, England v. S.A.,
more than half the innings of a hundred or over
played against the Surrey crack have been played by Aus-
tralians. This is the more remarkable because during
that time Richardson has taken part in 130 matches, in
only 18 of which was he opposed to Australian batsmen—
i.e., during the period mentioned the Australians have
played more hundreds (viz., 11) in 18 matches than the
pick of England (viz., 10) in 112 matches Hill has
reached the century three times—2oo, 150 not out, and
118 not out; Iredale twice —140 and 108; Gregory twice —
201, 103 ; whilst Giffen, 161; Trott, 143 ; Darling,Tl7 ; and
Graham, 105, have each got there once. During that
time no English batsman has notched two centuries
against Richardson, though Ward, Grace, O'Brien, Gunn,
Bainbridge, and five others reached the hundred once,
the highest being Ward’s 163. Ranji has never got a
hundred against Thomas ; neither has Shrewsbury, nor J.
T. Brown, nor Wynyard, nor M’Laren. And it must be
borne in mind, too, that English players for the most part
meet Richardson when he has only the Surrey bowlers to
help him, whilst most of the Australians’ big scores have
been got against Richardson supported by the crack
bowlers of England. The only Englishman to get a cen-
tury against Richardson under similar conditions is the
champion, W.G., who scored 118 for the Gentlemen
against the Players at Lords in 1895.—Hugii Boylk, 4th
Nov., ’97.
• * * *
_An incident of the Ranjitsinhji boom. One
night in Adelaide a thin, dark-moustachioed gentleman
was seen walking down a main street. The news went
round that it was Ranji., and, in no time, about 500 men
and boys were following him down street, cheering the
while. The dark foreigner seemed surprised, but he
smiled, and bowed, and raised his hat, and walked on.
But the crowd would not stand that. They insisted upon
having a speech from the illustrious cricketer. The great
man went on ; he, apparently, did not Court popularity.
The crowd, now numbering quite 1000 persons, followed
him for about a quarter of a mile, cheering itself hoarse,
the gentleman always graciously acknowledging, until, at
last the procession reached a street corner. There the
great cricketer stopped and removed his coat and put on
an apron. He was Miltiades Demetrius Smith, ice-cream
merchant.
Stoddart and co.’s first appearance at the
'M.C.O. ground last Saturday gave no suggestion of
startling deeds to come from the English bowlers.
Neither Hearne nor Hayward strikes one as being nearly
as deadly as the little Briggs of ten years ago. Wain-
wright is a mere deliverer of fast “ tripe”” as com-
pared with the Lohmann we remember, and nuggety
Hirst is a poor substitute for Peel on a hard wicket. As
for Richardson, it is yet early to say that he can’t repeat
his previous successes. When he gets rid of some super-
fluous flesh and grows re-accustomed to Australian fine-
weather wickets, he may become the same fiery old Tom
as before, but he certainly hadn’t any terrors for Bruce
and Charley Macleod on Saturday. All the same, the
shilling crowd may have been rather premature with its
satirical cry of “ Keep Richardson on " when Bruce was
putting him to the boundary. The indefatigable long-’un
was a failure at the outset last time, but he finished with
a good average, and if he has merely mislaid his sting he
will find it again presently.
Hirst is a valuable member of the team for
show purposes, anyway. He seems to be almost up to
Briggs’ best form in the field ; also, his kangarooster style
of trundling gives variety to the game. Hirst, a left-
handed little fat man, starts proceedings with a low-
comedy skip. Hearne is an easy, graceful, uneventful
bowler. Hayward hugs the ball against his stomach in
the first stage of his journey to the crease. Wainwright,
who is always changing’ his fast pitch, seems to trust to
luck rather than judgment.
Bruce’s 88 was a great comfort to the selection
committee, seeing that, the stomachless solicitor had been
generally adjudged unfit for a place in the team. Slow
and cautious at the commencement of his innings, Bruce
made things lively after the four o’clock adjournment,
and saved the day’s play from scorn. It looked as though
the Britishers, at this time, were bowling to suit the
multitude.
The expenditure of =614,000 on improvements at
the M.C.C. adds much to the spectacle. A new two-
storied stand makes an important wing to the old original
structure, which has also been lengthened at the other
end. The right-hand portion of the inembers’-reserve,
seen from the opposite side of the ground, presents the
effect of an amphitheatre filled with women, the millinery
display being all the more gorgeous by contrast with the
rest of the reserve, extending towards the score-board,
where men only are permitted to sit and smoke in peace.
The women have lost their promenade, but they get far
more seating accommodation than of yore, and give a
finer show in the mass. Male enthusiasts are bound to
approve of the present arrangement, for they can watch
the game to their hearts’ content whilst appreciating the
collective glamor of their wives’ bonnets from a distance
that lends enchantment to the trimmings.
» • * *
The Victorians made 30G in tlieir first innings
against the Englishmen ; and when Tim Bulletin went to
press on Tuesday afternoon the latter were all out for
250. Ranjitsinhji was got rid of in slips off Trott, by
Trumble, when at 13 only. Hayward was the only man
who failed to get double figures. The Vic.’s second
innings started with the loss'of five wickets for 95—in-
cluding Graham, Bruce, Trott, and M'Leod.
• * * *
The Axemen's show at Melb. Exhibition Oval
didn't get half the encouragement it deserved. The con-
tests were so splendidly fought out as to raise the excite-
ment of the crowd to the highest pitch. It is doubtful
whether such powerful barracking has been heard since
the good old days when football boomed as that which
rose towards the end of the Championship Chop on Cup-
night. The fitst four men all finished within ssec,., and
that operating on logs 6ft. 4in. in girth, and, as the last
few blows rang and the stems grew narrower, the excite-
ment rose to fever pitch, and the audience yelled and
clawed the shoulder of the man in front in the good old
football style. Meanwhile the supporters of the competi-
tors were carrying to them fancy tidings of the opponents’
positions ; and when young Buckingham’s block at last
divided there was a cheer which was almost a roar.
Properly managed, wood-chopping eon tests should become
regular events of real public interest, and they have the
advantage over ordinary athletics, inasmuch as the work
is in itself directly useful, which even their best friends
cannot claim for sculling or football or cycle-racing.
Reeves, the ex-champion, finished third ; the
second man, Mclnolty, of Korumburra, being the sole
choppist of any note in the whole show who did not hail
from Raspberry-land direct. Both second and third men
are said to have suffered from the edges of their axes chip-
ping, while Buckingham’s finished intact and the divided
ends of his log were as cleanly shaped as the sides of the
axe itself. Unluckily, Chellis, of Tas., reckoned a cer-
tainty by many of his fellow-axemen, chopped his foot
during the afternoon and spent the evening in the hos-
pital. He left word to challenge the winner for £5O
aside.
Buckingham, the champion, is, as are indeed all
the competitors, a splendidly-built man. Of the 28 years
behind him he has spent nearly all in handling the axe
and 15 in competition chopping. He is a native of
Burnie, Tas., an axeman by calling, but is educated,
highly intelligent, and much above the average man in
his walk of life. The sporting axiom that “ they run in
all shapes ” is upset by a glance at the competitors, who
are invariably big, broad, and muscular, and with arms
uniformly developed to a far greater extent than among
any,batch of other athletes. Axeing as a.sport is almost
distinctively Australian, and is more deserving of support
from all who boast their Australianism than biking,
stoushing, or cricket.
* » * »
Lucifer, the symmetrica] ’Murkan strong man,
and Jack Graham, middle-weight champion of Victoria,
wrestled out their little difference the other night in Mel-
bourne for £lOO and the championship, and this time the
younger man had a comparatively soft thing on. Lucifer
was out of the doctor’s hands, and in splendid training;
Graham was still beefy, but looked powerful enough to
try a fall with an Egyptian obelisk. The men wrestled in
“RANJI” (THROUGH CHINESE GLASSES).
Say ! Me no savee allee fuss !
Who Lanji! Me no savee, no !
Him alien, allee same as us !
Bub you give Injun man a show 1
All li’! Me lite ’em home an’ say,
Go buyum bat an’ buyum ball’
An' plaotice clicket ev’ly day,
An’ come Austlalia makum haul.
They lite an’ say we welly mad,
An’ poll-tax him too bally high ;
Me tellum show that Lanji had.
An’ bling a clieket team, all li’!
MALVA.


AtN.S.W. Wheelmen’s Carnival all the prin-
cipal events were won on Dunlop tyres ; vrhile Beeston-
Humbers won, among other notable events, the big’ plum
£3OO handicap, and the 10 miles scratch race.*
* * * *
Piles and How to Cuke them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Dep6t for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE « KESCEXT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell•»’ Kins-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor -
. GEO. W. ELLIS.
" TX7E have much pleasure in informing the
; '' General Public that we are enabled to offer
; them this season, the choicest assortment of
EXmas and New Year Cards
- it has been our happy lot to handle.
- The VALUE this year is extraordinary, and the
- QUALITY of the Cards highest procurable.
- The following is an Advance Price List: —
: PACKET CARDS.
: The “ IVY SPRIG ” Packet of 12 Xmas and
’ New Year Cards, post free, 3d.
: The “ROSE GARLAND” Packet of 25
l Xmas and New Year Cards, post free, 9d.
1 The “ EMPRESS ” Packet of 50 Xmas and
1 New Year Cards, post free, Is. 3d.
[ BOXED CARDS.
r A choice assortment of Autograph Cards —10
r Cards, with envelopes, at Bd. and Is. 3d., post free.
The “STANDARD” Box of 20 choice Cards,
post free, Is. 6d. The “FINE ART” Box of 12
Cards, post free, Is. 6d.
LOOSE CARDS.
6d., Is., 25., 35., 45., 55., 65., 9s. and 12s. dozen,
post free. We are most careful in selecting Cards
for our Country Customers. We take care to send
them well assorted.
Photographic Views of the City, Suburbs, Gar-
dens, Uarbor and Mountains, 6d. and Is. each.
In Calendars for 1898, as usual, we are in ad-
vance both as regards variety and price. Prices
from 3d. to 7s. 6d. each. Post free.
Turnover, Drop and Block Calendars in Scrip-
ture, Poetical, etc.
Collins’ Diaries for 1898 from 6d. to 4s. each.
Please note: —Xmas Cards posted not later than
Nov. 15 arrive in London in time for Xmas Eve.
HORDERN BROTHERS, Direct Importers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), SYDNEY.
rpHEKB AKE other <GOOD BICYCLES, but
if ONE sb Easy RIDING and SERVICE-
ABLE as tJie ■'
MASSEY-HARRIS.
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
18*7.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
RntNCH Depots - 245 Collins Street, Melbourne; Sss George Street, Sydney s
BEIJ Queen Street, llrisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Latest Novelties if? Pianjoijd Rifygs-
Quality j Finish, Durability Guaranteed.
lBc. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7 109.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals Ofr
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
iBc. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £3 15s.
iBc. La Parisienne.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
18c. Gipsy.
3 Fine Diamonds, £2 63.,
£3, £4.
1 Fine Diamond, with
8 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £1 Ids.,
£2 65., £3.
POST FREE,
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s, £5,
£7 10s.
i.Bc. Buckle.
1 Fine Diamond, £2.
i Fine Sapphire, Ruby <
Opal, £1 15s.
18c. Band.
1 fine Diamond, 40/-, (30/-,
100/-. Ruby or Sapphire,
30/-, 45/-, 60/-. Opal or
Pearl, 25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
18c. Single Stone.
1 Pitte Diamond, £10.
Smaller Stone, £3 10s., £5,
£7 10s.
Send Size of Finger by a Piece of Wire or a Hole in Cardboard;
WE HAVE 1000 OTHER DESIGNS OF RINGS IN STOCK.
%
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER,
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6dL f & 1/- each; 1
FOR MAKIN6 DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS,
IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE;
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything'. .
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
UkROIUTSM S HEWS CIR
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Sc Stores.
- Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Works :
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London
• and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO E, SON, L CHAPMAN ; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
KING OF
JL ES
Price,
£l2 ioa.
TN€ ROAP
THE MOST WONDERFUL VALUE EVER OFFERED.
SPECIALITIES.— WeIdIess Steel Tubing through-
out, Gear to Order, Handle-bars 3 shapes, Oil-retaining
Barrel Hubs, Frames 24 and 26 inch.
CATALOGUES POSTED. EASY TERMS.
I. PHIZ ACKERLEY,
“ Phiz » Cycle W orkS*
DRUITT STREET (Next Town Hall),
SYDNEY.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Gd-Lightly Kind):
Mamif. fcy the Ames & Frost Co., Chicagfi.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputatioti.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Coni-
fort and Speed in your wheel, (myan i i rwi PERIAL 1
Duplicate parts always in stock. lmrt ■* ",
We will supply AGENTS arid DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (orily carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), arid if riot as represented and catalogued, w»
will refund money arid all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasid:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
THe ACMES.
Sole Agent: J. ffi. Maud,
5i5 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“ DOWKtDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart*
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES^
..CLEARANCE SALE..
UJolf American High ]|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. KS" Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
MACK LIN
hENLEY
OhJMLEY
L ADBANT
BOULEVARD; al+o
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
OYER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
Bicyaes.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4|in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New <£ls Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(srcYille TCirQer Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
Peafocss
and HEAD
NOISES
.Vilson’s Common 0 1 ; _ . » _ J
Sense Ear Drums I<V^CI
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
ind Head Noises, where medical
kill fails. The only Scientific
Vural Sound Conductor. Safe to
vear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended oy physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING-, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
three styles, and, after three short, sharp contests, Luci-
fer retired with the belt and the stakes; evidently hb
htight cheerfully have undertaken to put the veterart
uowh a dozen times in half-an-h Our. Lucifer is now look-
ing for other experts, and there is hope of a niild wrestling
revival in Smeilbdurtie.
i ♦
Member of crowd reading “collect” sporting
telegrams irt window Of Charters Towers tobacconist :
Who owns this ‘ collect,’ anyhow ? I see the un-
fortunate has rurt fourth in four races.”
* « * *
A perennial Cup feature is Wimpole, of the
George Hotel, St. Kilda. Melbourne expects its Wiinpole
to tike tip a position at the paddock etid of the grand-
stand terrace in the character of sweep promoter, and the
ltori-grey identity is bound to do it. Tickets in these
sweeps are £1 each, the number of entries being limited
to the number of starters for the Cup—2D this year. A
swaying- crowd seems to fight for the privilege of giving
Win-pole a sovereign, and, in order to avoid bloodshed, he
opens a second, a third, and perhaps a fourth sweep,
booking the names in columns of 29 —or whatever the
number of starters may be —So that each line of names
may have its own distinguishing humeral, and all the
Sweeps can be draWrt at once. Cup-day must come father
hard Upon Wiinpole, who doesn’t even get a vote of
thanks for his labor. Bht he couldn’t possibly shirk the
job, except by stopping aWiy from the Cup. In years of
yore this ftmateur sweep business was ruh by a cronk
cirowd, ahd after two or three experiences of the prize-
money going astray, somebody dragged Wimpole to the
fore, as a guarantee of good faith, and the public have
been thrusting their “quids” upon him ever since.
* * * *
Horse-breeders now do as well—if not better—
with their stunted stock than their big horses. Nearly
all the good ponies are leased to their trainers on shares
Of the prize-ntortej’ ; and a good investment some of the
PWhers find it.
tf * * *
A statement has been made by the chief
veterinary officer in India that “Walers” now suffer
more than formerly from ringbone and roaring. He put 9
the trouble down to the indiscriminate use of unsound
stallions. Australian horsemen say ringborie is no more
prevalent than elsewhere. It usually starts from an in-
jury to the ligaments of the pastern, and bony enlarge-
hieht starting, it eats its way down to the foot, when the
joints become fixed and the horse an incurable cripple.
As regards roaring, this country is particularly free from
the trouble, And it is hard to find an instance of a
Whistler, a disease so common in England. It would be
idle to say roaring is not hereditary, as the get of a
fashionable N.S. Wales trotting stallion dearly all roar
badly when extended, but the cases are so few and far
between amongst the thoroughbreds that it is extremely
Unlikely our studmasterS would pick upon an unsound
horse in that respect to breed from. An old English
groom ortce told the writer that most Of the cases of
roaring in the old country were caused by using a severe
hearing-rein and curb whert breaking in the colt, to make
him carry an arched heck and high crest. This distorts
the larynx, and the horse Whistles when exercised and
breathing hard through the stricture.
* * * *
It takes a very small, properly-directed blow to
knock out an untrained man, arid a favorite little joke of
the late George Hill’s was to give a man, in play, a quick
jolt oh “ the mark,” and make him gasp again. One
day, at Larry Foley’s, Hill playfully poked a dead-beat in
the manner indicated, Wheh the man collapsed, and all
their efforts failed to bring him round. Larry guessed
the than Was foxing, but Hill Was very much concerned,
and kept saying, “ I’m sure the mart’s hurt, Larry.” “I’ui
ttfraid so, tho,” said Larry, “ and thebe’s only one thing
for it, we’ll have to slit his ears to bring him round
and, goihg for a razor, he entered the room stropping it,
When he Walked over to the miserable one as if to operate
the rrtse acted, and the dying nian sat up with : “ If you
touch mb, Foley, I’ll have the law of yer.” Hill was so
relieved that he give the than half-a-sovereign.
* * * *
, Cyclone-bowler Jones, no-balled once by umpire
Phillips in the Adelaide match for throwing, maintains
that “ throwing ” is a physical impossibility with his great
pace. There seems to be something in the argument.
Nearly every howler whose action has been questioned in
past days had a sloW delivery.
* * * *
The Sydney Wheel Race was won by W. J. C.
Elliott, Sydney manager of Austral Cycle Agency, on a
Beeston-Humber with Dunlop tyres.


In the*.<
Rain Storm
the man got very wet. The wetting
gave him a cold. The cold, neglected,
developed to a cough. The cough
sent him to a bed of sickness. A dose
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, taken at
the start, would have nipped the cold
in the bud and saved the sickness,
suffering, and expense. The house
hold remedy for colds, coughs, and all
lung troubles, is
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BV
!Di\ «X. O. Ayer & Co.,
IiOWELIj, MASS., U. S. A.
Sold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
Ladies.— Call and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
! s. KOWLEY Ss CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
1
: -
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents in Australia for
STURTEV ANT’S FANS,
FOR BLOWING, EXHAUSTING,
VENTILATING, &c.
MINING MACHINERY
and MINING SUPPLIES,
—INCLUDING—
Dick’s Celebrated Frue & other Vanner Belts.
Please A ote Our New A ddress :
£4 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
435 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drun -
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
Educational.
Dontal College & Oral Hospital
or VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds , Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
From Natal Advertiser :
I, George Downward', who was fined 10s. for being
drnnk, beg to return thanks to William George Down-
ward for publicly notifying that I am in no way connected
With him or his family.
It. ■ “Ad Anglo-German co. hasbeefl. formed
to acquire Bathurst Island; off the north coast of
Australia; and there grow ihdiarubber and
the latter of which is iri huge demand
for srriokeless powder; &C; The camphor-tree
flourishes well everi in Victoria; near the sea-coast;
Also, frdm the Mdretoii Bay fig; which grows
splendidly in and round Melbourne; a really good
second-grade rubber may be got."’
Prof. A. Jacobi, of New York, tJ.S.A., d
physician df world-wide the other day
reported td the Association of American Physi-
bians, a case ih which the patient’s temperature,
tested ih every possible way; rose tt>l4Bdeg. Fahr.
as the feverish result Of an injury, ordinary blood-
heat being 98. Hereupon Df. W. H. Welch, of
the Johns Hopkins University, arose and told how
patient Galbraith, of Omaha, put up the record of
171 deg. for some hours. Had Galbraith gone a
little further he would simply have been boiled by
his own fever-heat.
Duffy’s last slab of autobiography deals
with J. H. Brooke, of whom Vic. democrats would
gladly know more, Brooke was an architect and
engineer. He designed the old Melb. Exhibition,
William-street, on the present site of the mint,
the law courts having replaced old Govt. House.
In politics, as Lands Minister, "Brooke introduced
occupation licenses, a whilom triumphant piece
of illegality, which foiled the squatters, and gave
Duffy the main hint for his Land Act. M‘Cul-
loch, as a squatter, hated Brooke, and, in his com-
pact with Heales, the Radical, for the piebald
Cabinet, expressly excluded Brooke, who, in a
huff, went off to Japan, where he has since
flourished as a newspaper editor and merchant.
He was the first Radical who really or visibly laid
a hand on the ark of Victorian politics. Evi-
dently he inspired Grant, who became Lands
Minister on Heales’s demise.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. fid. everywhere.*
A ghastly find was recently made by some
stevedores while unloading an American grain-
ship at Glasgow. A dead body, almost black,
was found, having, presumably, been shot in with
the grain at New York. Which story recalls the
scare among the patrons of a certain brand of stout
some dozen years ago, when it leaked out that
one of the brewery hands had suicided in a
monster vat before it was “headed up.” It was
never known when the discovery was really made,
but lots of people “ swore off ” stout about that
time.
Coolgardie Warden Finnerty has very pro-
perly taken the Afghan under his special protec-
tion, and doesn’t intend to see him imposed on.
The other day, his Worship said it had been com-
plained to him that a certain solicitor—name not
given—-had recovered some money for an Afghan
client, and refused to part. He advised said
solicitor to settle without delay, or he (Mr. E.)
would know why. The result has been quite a
flutter in Gent.-one circles; an indignation meet-
ing of members of the guild was called, and a
resolution passed to call the attention of the
Attorney-General to the P.M.’s action. It was
contended that his Worship should mind his own
business, and not presume to judge on a case till
it had been brought properly before him, and both
sides allowed to have a say.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I’l ice, 10s. Od.
Sole Agents :
The Result
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George- st„ Sydney
% M
S 3)
MASCOTTE.
MASCOTTE
mm
CJoihbines Strength, Purity and Solubility, A breakfast
Cupful of this delicious CoCoa costs less than one farthing.
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING* & HEALTH!UL BEVERAGE.
[Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of air >ol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHEB & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle —D. Cohen & Co.
tori
fS
m
Cellular
Athletic
Shirts.
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling,
Boating, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/-and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-.; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
. . Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New)
Address: /
73 & 75 King Street,
(near York Street),
Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
I
s
i
s
m
y
n
i
i
: ■
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United. Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE—362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LA UNOESTON —Hedley Button.
Has No Bibbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Lse.
Send for particulars of Tree Trial.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
the most deuciois sauce in the woki.d.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
'aTivunnv crtos
sxxxxoa xo SMorniH
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Proprietors I
&
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i and 2 - eacli.
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Aleuts for New South Wales:
CO., KENT and MVKRI’OOf STREETS, SVDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
1 British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


1
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
GS-E OIF6. G-E STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tlje ALFALiME HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has much, pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain*
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, — I have much pleasure to inform you that a
eourse of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney RullEtln, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr RassmusSen. —Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
ybUr Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A. Much-valued Testimonial fi*om One of
Australia's Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1898.
To Herr R'ssmus-en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
f have derived arrest benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. r UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Butt >n writes later: - “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to seeadoctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
Bpeaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
ease was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal hind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
[rom General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
feagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
******
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr *-A'Mtjssen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfahne Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, nut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
oil my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, _ ■
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Inteicolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters.thus—PßOPßlETOß,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmossen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Haring for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
p.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica, I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and 1 will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9,3/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of (he liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a gnat lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
niedioines. When I came to Sydney T had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw' a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of jour
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
tinder God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N;S. W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very i hankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that I was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubis this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Youry
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERE, RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE
REMEDIES.
AWARDED,
TWO COLD
BISS** 65
EDALS
<£ %
m
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 2Ss. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars rtquired.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
'SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes Cs. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HKRR R will Post his Valuable Book>
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist iii Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERK. RASSMUSSEN’S
REM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any A DEVICE desired, arid all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Branches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
I Queensland
Ne w Zealand
l
r Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
\ Charters Towers— Royal Arcade.
01 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
South Australia :
Adelaide—ls 4 Bundle Street.
Victoria :
Melbourne —150 Bourke Street.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street-
Fremantle —Henry-street, next corner of High-st.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st


The Earl of Hardwicke, whom the young
man Harry Picker stands accused of personating at
Sydney, is the strongest Equity name in English
history. The first Earl, whose family name was
Yorke, began as a solicitor and climbed to the
Lord Chancellorship of England. As an Equity
Judge his career was unique. No decision of his
was ever reversed. Only three of his judgments
were re-tried, and in each his decision was con-
firmed.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING at 8. SATURDAY MATINEE at 2.
The Sensational, Sympathetic, Successful Play,
((
Two Little Vagaboods-”
SATURDAY, Nov. 20—“ A ROYAL DIVORCE.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
YCEUM THEATRE,
1 Sole Directors
SYDNEY.
MacMahon Bros.
BTH WEEK BTH
Of the New Policy—Popular Plays at POPULAR PRICES.
Every evening i every evening i
The Great Sensational Drama,
“TH€ PRAIRie KING.”
Always the Startling Prices—2s, Is and SIXPENCE.
T
OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRAL ASSOCIATION
INAUGURAL CONCERT.
thuraday Afternoon, 18th November 1897
At 3 o’clock.
Conductor—Mr. ALFRED HILL.
Violin Soloist—Mr. J. R. KEERS.
Miss EDITH O. KING, Mr. W. BURNS-WALKER.
TICKETS—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Return of Sydney’s Established Favorite,
Mr. Greo. olc3L.
THIS EVENING, at 7.45,
The Wonderfully Successful Modern Military Drama,
“ Tonjnjy Atkios-”
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at the
Theatre office. Day sales at Power’s Cigar Divan.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success of the latest arrivals from London,
Joseph—The Waldrons—Ettie-
Continued Brilliant Success of
Lillian morrlt. chas. dilLon. frank yorke.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
tpilE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Managing Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Last Nights of Mr. Harry
RICKARDS. The AVOLOS-3.
The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee Pictures
Chas. Coglll. j. w. winton. athas & collins.
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON.
And the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, & 6d. Plan at Allan’s, Collins-street.
Matinee Performances every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m.
FRANK TNORNTON.
03X1 TOUR.
ADELAIDE, BROKEN HILL, Etc.
EIGHT WEEKS. >
Theatre royal, melhourne.
Lessee ... Miss Maggie Moore.
General Manager ... Mr. H. R. Roberts.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of the OLD FAVOURITE,
MAG6I€ MOOR€.
13&- POPULAR PRICES. ... Plan at Allan’s.
NEW PRODUCTIONS WEEKLY.
jpitINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
TO-NIGHT, at 8. WEDNESDAY MATINEE, at 2.
The intensely amusing farce in 2 acts,
“Tbe Gay PariSieoQQ.”
By George Dance and Ivan Caryll.
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
BT.TO U THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the sole direction of Prof. T. A. Kennedy.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING, at 8.10 Sharp.
Prof. D. M. BRISTOL’S
Marvellous Educated Horses, Ponies Sc Mules.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
Family Matinees Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
at 3 p.m.
Before Starting
ft
f
52
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Remedy for Sea-sickness.
|y Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer ; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2a. od. and 4b. 6d. ALL COLONIES
Also at thb
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
PROSPECTUS
OF THE
Householders’ Co-Operative Stores, Limited
(To be Registered under the Provisions of the Companies Acts).
CAPITAL - - - £30,000.
Divided into 25,000 Preference Shares of <£l each, and 5000 Ordinary Shares
of each.
U'HE PREFERENCE SHARES will be payable ss. per share on application, ss. per share on allotment, and the
balance will be called up as the Directors may deem requisite in one or more calls. The holders of the pre-
ference shares will be entitled to receive out of the profits of each year, after due provision has been made for payment
of bonuses on cash purchases by shareholders, a PREFERENTIAL DIVIDEND for such year at the rate of TEN
POUNDS PER CENTUM PER ANNUM on the amount paid up on the Preference Shares held by them respectively.
2500 of the Ordinary Shares shall be issued as fully paid up to the Lessors of the premises hereinafter refered to as
part consideration for the granting of the lease thereof, and in consideration of a substantial reduction in the rent for
the first seven years of the lease. The remaining 2500 Ordinary Shares are offered for subscription only amongst the
applicants for Preference Shares as hereinafter provided, and shall be payable as follows : —ss. per share on applica-
tion, ss. per share on allotment, and the balance will be passable in such sum or sums as the Directors may determine.
Every applicant for Preference Shares shall be entitle to apply for One (1) Ordinary Share for every Ten Preference
Shares applied for, and any balance of such Ordinary Shares not taken up may be issued by the Directors from time
to time as they may think fit. The holders of Ordinary Shares shall be entitled to receive ONE-FIFTH OF THE
NETT PROFITS OF EACH YEAR as a dividend for such year after payment of the before-mentioned bonuses to
cash purchasers and the dividend to holders of Preference Shares. After providing for the above bonuses and divi-
dends, the residue of the surplus profits in each year will be appropriated for the formation of a reserve fund, and for
further dividends amongst the preference shareholders in proportion to the shares held by them respectively.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS.
Hon. J. F. BURNS, 38 Pitt-street, Sydney. E. W. PERKINS, Esq. (Messrs. Perkins and Williams, Pitt-
M. 0. OOWLISHAW, Esq., of Messrs. Cowlishaw Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney).
3 Macquarie-place, Sydney. EDWARD L. SAMUEL, Esq., 6 Post Office-chambers, Pitt-
O. B. PAYNE, Esq. (late Messrs. Payne and Sandford, street, Sydney.
Sydney).
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. DIBBS, GIBSON and PARKER, ELDON-CHAMBERS, PITT STREET.
BROKERS AND FLOTATION AGENTS :
HARDIE AND GORMAN, 133 PITT STREET.
OBJECTS.
This Company is_ being formed to Establish Large Stores on Modem Co-operative Principles, and to extend the
System of Co-operation in directions not hitherto undertaken in this colony.
It is intended ultimately to Supply all Requirements to Householders for Family Consumption and Domestic Use,
and to Cater for Supplies to Hotelkeepers.
The following Departments will be opened as soon as possible after the Company is formed :
1. MEAT AND POULTRY.
2. FISH ANN GAME.
3. VEGETABLES AND FRUIT.
4. PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY.
6. GROCERY AND PROVISIONS.
6. WINES AND SPIRITS.
7. HOUSEHOLD AND KITCHEN UTENSILS.
8. GLASS, CHINA AND EARTHENWARE.
9. CUTLERY AND PLATED WARE.
10. BRUSHWARE.
11. BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING.
12. TABLE AND HOUSEHOLD LINEN.
13. COAL AND WOOD.
14. PIANOS AND MUSIC.
15. ORDER DEPARTMENT.
16. PIPES, TOBACCO AND CIGARS.
It will be the aim of the Directors to extend these Departments as opportunity occurs, so as to embrace all the
branches of a GREAT UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS’-ESTABLISHMENT, similar to those which have been worked with
phenomenal success in London and elsewhere. It is contemplated to arrange, as soon as possible, an interchange of
membership with one of the large Co-operative Stores of London, so that visitors to Great Britain who are share-
holders can obtain all benefits accruing therefrom. Most of the purchases of imported goods can be made from the
original sources of supply in the Home, Continental, and American Markets, thus saving all middle profits, and
enabling the Management to give every advantage to purchasers.
Arrangements will be completed soon after the capital has been subscribed to procure from London or elsewhere
a manager of large experience in modern co-operative systems of business.
An agreement, on behalf of the proposed Company, has been made to lease for 21 years, on advantageous terms
numbers 159, 161, and 163 Pitt-street, Sydney, adjoining the Government Post Office and Hoffnung’s Warehouse’
having a frontage of 80ft., and comprising 6 floors and basement. The premises are attractive, commodious, and
centrally situated close to the steam and cable tramways, near to the proposed Government Electric Tramway’ and
are eminently adapted for the conduct of a very extensive trade. The following particulars speak for themselves as
to the success achieved by similar Companies in London and Sydney, and there is ample evidence to warrant the
expectation of a great success to this Company.
“ A.”—ARMY AND NAVY CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, LONDON.-This Society ( vide report), which has been
markedly successful, had sales during the year of £2,895,608 on a capital of £60,000, leaving a net profit of £l3B 282
which, together with amount brought forward, enabled the Directors to distribute £156,606 ; out of this sum £9O 000
were paid as bonus to shareholders, leaving £25,337 to carry forward.
The following is an extract from an English newspaper published after the last half-yearly meeting of thp ARMY
AND NAVY CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETYLord Ebury presided on Monday at the annual meeting of the Aitov
and Navy Co-operative Society, Limited.” He said that “the year which ended on January 31st was the first in
which the Society had turned over £3,000,000, and the profits justified a dividend of 200 per cent, on their share
capital. Their sales, together with miscellaneous revenue (16544) had amounted to £3,051,060 which was an
increase of £llB,OOO for the year. There were over 17,000 shareholders on the books. It was unanimously resolved
to celebrate the completion of the 60th year of the reign by devoting one-fiftieth of the Society’s net profits to obiects
of charity.” J
“ B.” —CIVIL SERVICE AND SUPPLY ASSOCIATION shares of 2s. 6d. each, increased by profits to £1 naid
have received in dividends 10s. or 12s. 6d. per share for each half-year for the last twelve years. F
“C.”—ARMY AND NAVY AUXILIARY CO-OPERATIVE STORES.—This Society paid 5 per cent for 1884 and
10 per cent, for the next two years, 12J per cent, for 1886-1887, 20 per cent, for each of the four years 1888 to 1891 ’ and
25 per cent, since. ’
“ D.’’-CIVIL SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.—This Society, though limiting its operations in
Sydney principally to the sale of Groceries, Wines, and Spirits, and certain food supplies, &c and with a naid un
capital of only £6993, made sales during the half-year ended 31st January, 1897, aggregating’£so 834 ’3s Id and
showing a gross profit of £11,783 4s. lOd. for payment of expenses and for distribution to shareholders in dividends
and bonuses on purchases, besides carrying forward a substantial balance. These £1 shares are now valued at i'l
each in the market.
Taking the last-named Sydney business as the nearest possible example, the Householders’ Co-operative Stores
Limited, with its more extensive and varied departments, and with its much larger capital should amrrep-ate sales
from £150,000 to £200,000 per annum, and should yield large profits for distribution to shareholders and bonuses to
purchasers.
Shareholders will be entitled to a special bonus according to the profits earned on the amount of their cash nnr
chases, and it is estimated that these will equal fully 10 per cent. It is further contemplated to inaugurate a svstem
by means of which the general public, whose supplies are purchased from this Company, may eniov in a lessor
degree, the privileges and profits of co-operation, thus ensuring a constantly increasing business J
It is the desire of the Directors to enrol the largest possible number of Householders as Shareholders
Preference in allotment will be given to applicants for the smallest number of preference shares
If the whole number applied for by each applicant be not allotted, the surplus amount paid on aimlieation will bo
appropriated in payment of the whole or part due on allotment; where no allotment is made the aDDlication „
will be returned in full. 11 money
The only contract entered into is an agreement to lease the premises hereinbefore referred to whiVh
the sth day of November, 1897, and is made between SIGMUND SINAUER, LOUIS HENRY NAtWant ARomm
HOFFNUNG, SIDNEY BENJAMIN FRANCIS-HOFFNUNG-GOLDSMID, and ALBERT HENRY NATH
at Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, under the name, style, or firm of “ S HOFFNUNG and i 111 8 '
one part, and ERNEST WADDELL PERKINS, of 122 Pitt-street, Sydney, Solicitor, a Trustee on behalf o Hi!
Company, of the other part; the agreement may be seen on application at the office of the Solicitors
The costs of flotation, including brokers’ commission, will be defrayed by the Company or3 ‘
Prospectuses and forms of application may be obtained from the brokers or solicitors.
Sydney, sth November, 1897.
The Householders’ Co-Operative Stores, Limited
(To be Registered under the Provisions of the Companies Acts).
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Provisional Directors of the HOUSEHOLDERS’ CO-OPERATIVE STORES, LIMITED (to be Reg )
Dear Sirs,—l enclose herewith the sum of £ being application monev fm-
PREFERENCE SHARES in the ABOVENANED COMPANY, and I hereby request you to allot Vw U ‘ ;
shares upon the terms of the Prospectus, and I hereby agree to accept the said shares or anv smaller of
be allotted to me ; and I authorise the Company, when registered, to register me as the holder of shares may
Name in full
Address
Date 111!!!!!!!]
Signature 111!!!]!]
The Householders’ Co-Operative Stores, Limited
(To be Registered under the Provisions of the Companies Acts).
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Provisional Directors of the HOUSEHOLDERS’ CO-OPERATIVE STORES, LIMITED (to be Reg )
Dear Sirs,—l enclose herewith the sum of £ beinv armlirafi™,
Shares in the abovenamed Company hereinafter referred to, and I hereby request you to affotTe FIVE mmov
SHARES in the abovenamed Company for every Fifty Preference Shares allotted to me - and Twl , OR P INAR Y
the said Ordinary Shares applied for, or any smaller number that may be allotted to me’ and I accept
when registered, to register me as the holder of the said Ordinary Shares. ’ utnonse the Company,
Name in full
Address '
Date , !!!.!!!
Signature
Publications.
I | ENRY FARMER’S Operatio Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
'Crown Diamonds,” “Luerezia Borgia,” “William
jell, “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Masohera,” “II Trova-
tore, Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
ktew^mxjsicT
orn ” Waltz, by Henry Laski, compose/
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and, Bottoms,” a right merr.V
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse ’
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, W.
WTOW & CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
E3lliott’s
INVESTORS’ SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors, It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
CPWIN €LLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
„ 377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE,
O-eo. Robertson & Oo. f
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers So Stationers,
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
. . Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, ana the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
JT. _A_. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Business Announcements
uni
THE
Chicago
HAIRDRESSING
SALOON
AND
TOILET CLUB,
290 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The alterations to these premises are completed. The
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Rooms will be found replete with
every Modern Toilet Appliance, and none but first-class
Operators in attendance.
Ladies’ Hairdressing in all the
Latest Styles.
Manicuring and Massage of the Face, Neck, Arms
and Head by thoroughly Qualified Experts
... A Speciality.
Hair Dyeing Sc Hair Work of every description.
CHARGES MODERATE.
SPECIAL TERMS to SUBSCRIBERS.
An Extensive and Varied Stock of Toilet Requisites,
Perfumery, Natural Hair, etc., at Reasonable Rates.
Open from 8 a m. till 6.30 p.m. daily
(Saturday included).
Note the Address-
-290 Collins-street, Melbourne
(eight doors east from EHaabeth-streefc).


FINNEY, ISLES & CO,
Are dLOStNG-OUT at SUBSTAN-
TIAL REDUCTIONS in all departments
a Large Assortment of NEW, FRESH,
FASHIONABLE GOODS. Residents
of town and country should call or send
for and secure some of the BARGAINS
now Offering. They can’t afford to let
them pass.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
BRISBANE.
MELLIH
FOOD
Is noi Farinaceous and
Is entirely free from
Starch Ond Dane Sugar*
When added to diluted fk>W’s milk it produced
h complete aiid perfect diet, adapted for the
Strong as well &s for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
siiDpiies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
Converted ihto a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
ihay be obtained Of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
HAIKMtESSEKS AND WIGMAKfrItS
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have oil hand a large
Varietv of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mir ors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s, 6'd, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Seal pets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 «ft 682 (loorge Street, Sydney.
A
1 ’ '-sM
mi
O
O £2
r
> o
L V
Yf l
Pi
X
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable t<r a fine for smoking
here.”
Okrman Tourist: “Zen vy? You say schmolce signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
'PALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
Printed at Ballarat that E. 0. Witherden,
who “in the early days worked with Mr. D.
Syme, present proprietor of the Age in the
Egerton mine,” has gone into retirement in Gipps-
land. Mn Witherden has beeh on ’Change most
of the intervening years;
Prof. Efenry (3. Marty at Toronto meeting
of the British Medicdl Associatibh :
Tendons taken from the tail of tide kangaroo are
greatly to be preferred as surgical sutures, since they are
smooth, even in any variety of size, have never been sub-
jected to decomposition, are much less difficult* of sterili-
sation, while in strength they exceed in equal weight that
even of a silver wire. When properly chromocised, they
hold in the tissues about three months.
This after trying buffalo, moose and caribou ten-
dons, in addition to catgut and silver, and finding
all wanting.
Prof. Koenig, of Gottingen, plagued by a
sudden inroad of bugs in his bedroom, sealed up
its windows on the inside, set a plate containing
2oz. of corrosive sublimate on a chafing-dish,
locked the door ahd sealed it up oil the outside;
Four hours after, he entered holding a cloth over
his mouth and nose, so as not to inhale the mer-
curial vapor, ahd opened the windows to air the
room. The floor was coveted With corpses of ali
sorts of unpleasant insects, Next day he re-closed
the windows, and burned some sulphur in the
room to pick up any odd inercury in its atmo-
sphere; Then he had it aired and cleaned afresh,
and his plague was dead for ever. He has since
found the same method a splendid success after
contagious diseases such as scarlet fever, measles,
and the blood-poisoning and erysipelas of hospi-
tals, and records that he has never had a single
case that could be attributed to remainders from
previous cases.
“ Shenstone ” to The Bulletin
Tiik Bulletin’s oft-repeated contention that “ temper-
ance ” philanthropy has no bovVels, artd that the Cold Tea
Cult meads principally brass-bOdnd selfishness, needs
hardly any stronger backing than the “ Pitiful Story” re-
cently related by Sydney Sunday Times of an industrious
and effective laborer for the “ cause ” who was sacked by
a certain religio-temperanbe organisation because he sd
recklessly squandered his magnificent emolument of £1 a
week that, ih addition to supporting his large family, he
couldn’t keep himself glossy and plump and generally
parsonically-prosperous-lookidg enough to reflect due
lustre ori the “work.” Physically almost wrecked bv
toil, anxiety, and poverty—the man nevertheless bravely
essayed “ the country ” in search of casual employment,
with the inevitable result that he found himself
laid low by sickness far away from the family to which, at
the time it received the miserable news, came also its
landlord’s ultimatum that it must either pay-up or be
sold-up. Ah attempt thefetipoh made by a friend to get
the temperattce bodies to do sOhiething for their whilom
trusty servaht resulted in the extraction from the united
organisations Of NrS.W. Of —half-a-sovereign ! All df
which, anyhow, Was only what was to be expected from
the sordid Gospel of Pop. Bung mearts human nature,
give-and-take—broad spirit arid open hand ; Pop means
narrow heart and closed fist—frosty Soul and mangy in-
gratitude. Bung, by the hands Of men, serves you with
life and sympathy and the superior liquor-article ; Pop, at
the hands of the inferior Womafl-artiole,, provides yc u
with “soft stuff,” and soft head, arid h ird heart, and the
malice of all uncharitableness.
A Boon To Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if writteri
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plari
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Davevston, S.A.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue. *
“Champagne-milk” is a new patented
“ soft ” French drink. Sweeten skim-inilk with
syrup, add a flavoring, sterilise by oxygen gas,
and aerate with carbonic acid gas. Something of
the kind ought to catch on among cyclists.
<3-0 TO HELI.-
lUOLANI) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (id.
illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis. ——
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZAUETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S. W.
A BOON to SYDNEY
\VE
Ou\
l*° S T LLE &
rs
v
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Boffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MFG. CO., 62 Queensland Offices,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
OF VITAL INTEREST
TO MEN, YOUNG & OLD.
DR. IRVING’S Brochure, “WORDS OF
WISDOM,” fully explains the wonderful
Homoeopathic Treatment. Thousands have been
PERMANENTLY CURED after trying all
other means. If you have been humbugged and
disappointed, write to-day for the Book and 5000
testimonial letters, posted FREE, SEALED and
WITHOUT MARKS.
Address : DR. IRVING CO.,
Corner HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
X
Iff*
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stajes of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Harden^
Destroys Aphis and Other
Harden Pests,
Preserves Furs, &c M from
Moth,
Kids Dogft Oats* and Fowls of
Parasites-
Harmless to animal life.
CAUTION-—Bewette of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
SVoUVIIW/
jo 2hVjvg<S
Jl ?alo) Sw9n<o
iaKnoM ftnyjyr
vrixvV/,^
fWTFCT^
J/ U d AlW3fi r
JP^Vd.
MELBOURNE.
Catalogue?
o<ry POST FREE v'B*’
WATCHES'CIocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
WEDDirJc £ CrißisTEpJirjc Presents
HNEV^MAiSI• 1755177-Fll7AßFtrf St.
OPPOSITE C:P.Q:
MELBOURNE.
Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
jgotaialla, Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
g—g oda/l la. XXams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
<’AITTIO!V.— It. having- come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other,Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholes alb Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYI»NEY.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind IVEiI! s.
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing. *
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY k THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St..
Sydney.
What is_ Health?
~tßheumatism, Sciatica,
■**' - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stare-'**
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
ffeame’s Bronchitis Cure,
Those who have taken this medicine Are amazed At its
wonderful influence.. Sufferers from dny form of broii-
:hitis, distressing cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse-
less, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
irid immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
.lolds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
md it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
i dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
“ Mr.’ W. G. HKARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attac-k
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
lay and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains iff ihy Chest, and I gdt so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption, t had a lot of tnedicinfiS
of different kinds, but nothihsr did me any good until;
reading in the Age of ytiur Bronchitis Cure,’ 1 got A
bottle, and after taking two closes I was ninth improved.
After taking two bottles the Cough and flight sweats left
me, my appetite returned, find 1 was able to get lip ; and
am now in good health, for which 1 am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all itjy friends. —
Tours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from Asthma until 1 was 17 yea Is old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Ilearne'S Medicilifi
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this itiedicihe,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and sirice theii, which
was in the beginning of iBB3, 14 years ago, I have (lot
had the slightest return of it. The Medicihfe. flUitfl
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommfehdihg it,
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.” .
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cute, add we Certify that it wfts peD
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances Which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 53
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. fid. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution* —Genuine Chlorodynes.
Every bottle of this well-knoWH
Remedy fof COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears ori
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IhE Illustrated London news of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it* ahd its general applicability to the
relief of A large number of. simple ailhients forihs
its best recommendation,”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing: demand
PROVES Vyond the possi-
bility of a JjOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing: " T e prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
SULPHUR PILLS
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
DEFINITELY CUBE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
, 55 Elgwwst.. MELBOURNE.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NerVoOS WeakQeSs -
AND
Ccrehro-Spioal Diseased
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands o)
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist then?
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.


For Unquestionable Evidence
as to the Marvellous Curative Properties of
lr. WILLIAMS’
Fnrc mis - file runs
Mead the True Report of Cures Effected as stated in the
Undermentioned Cases:
A Positive Remedy for Anasmia, Locomotor Ataxia,
Rheumatism, St. Titus’s Dance, Neuralgia, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, etc., ete.
Anaemia Eats Up Vitality,
WHY SHOULD GIRLS RENOUNCE THE
PLEASURES AND COMFORTS OF
LIFE?
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS FOR
PALE PEOPLE WILL CURE YOU.
(From the Takrangower Times, Victoria.)
“ My daughter had been strong and healthy
nntil about two years ago,” said Mrs. Bowe, of
North Maldon, Victoria, to our reporter, “when
she grew very pale and thin. She became weak
and low-spirited, lost her appetite, her sleep was
troubled and restless, and the least exertion
fatigued her—in fact, she had to take her sister’s
arm lor support when out walking. She was of a
wonderfully active and cheerful disposition before
this change took place, and the alteration, there-
fore, caused us great concern, and medical aid was
CD
X
sought, but
no good re-
sulted. Seve-
ral medicines
were tried,
but she be-
came weaker
and more list-
less every
day. The doc-
tor said she
* was suffering
from anaemia
■ or poorness of
the blood.
We then be-
came serious-
ly alarmed,
and consulted
different me-
dical men,
who pre-
scribed, and
told Miss May to take as much exercise as pos-
sible. She being fond of flowers, naturally
turned her attention to the garden, but had
to abandon the work, as the least exertion ex-
hausted her. Often, when I thought she was out
taking exercise in the fresh air, I have found
her in the drawing-room with her head resting on
her hands, and in a somnolent state. Then, when
disturbed, she would steal quietly.to her room,
and remain there for hours at a time. At this
stage we became extremely anxious concerning her
health, and again sought medical advice, as we
thought she was going into a decline. It was of
no use, though ; nothing did her any good, bhe
was then so thin and weak that the slightest exer-
tion tired her. She also suffered from severe
cramps in the legs.
“ Friends then recommended patent medicines,
and two or three kinds were tried, unsuccessfully.
“ At last I decided to take her away to the
country for a change, but just as I was about to
do so I saw in the Tarrangower Times an adver-
tisement about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, and noticing that people with symptoms
similar to those of my daughter had been cured, I
determined to give them a trial.
“ After using half-a-box a great improvement
was noticeable, and after using three boxes she
regained her appetite, was able to sleep with com-
fort, and was so strong and well that we con-
sidered there was no necessity for her continuing
to take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. So she discon-
tinued them. I honestly believe my daughter’s
recovery was due to this great remedy. She is
now as well as ever she was in her life. She has
a fine color, is able to eat and sleep well, and
can take any amount of outdoor exercise without
feeling fatigued. I feel very grateful to Dr. Wil-
liams for my daughter’s recovery, and would like
to have the case made known, as it may indu.e
others who suffer as my daughter did to try this
remedy to their benefit, and thus perhaps bring
sunshine and happiness to their homes.”
Great satisfaction has been expressed by Miss
flowe's large circle of friends that she is again en-
joyhig good health, and able to take her accus-
tomed place at local social gatherings.
A Nasty Fall.
11 About six years ago, when residing in Hobart,
Tasmania,” said Mrs. Nellie Denver, of Countess
Cottage, Double Bay, Sydney, to a reporter, “ I
had the misfortune to meet with a serious accident,
which happened in the simplest manner possible,
as I will endeavor to relate. On leaving my house
by the back gate the bolt slipped whilst 1 had hold
of it, which caused me to fall very heavily, which
I subsequently discovered had seriously injured
my spine, although, strange to say, I felt no ill
effects for about two years after. I then com-
menced to suffer from great weakness and dizzi-
ness, and an intolerable feeling of exhaustion ; in
fact, I felt so nervous and uneasy that I feared to
cross the street, alarmed that I might meet with
some accident from a passing vehicle. Not at first
recognising the really serious condition to which
I was reduced, I did not seek medical assistance,
but, when I at last became aware of my serious
'A
A
condition, I was persuaded by my friends to go
to the Sydney Hospital, where I remained two
months, without receiving any permanent benefit.
On leaving the hospital, I again rather neglected
my state of health, and, on applying for re-admis-
sion, was informed that my case was perfectly
hopeless. Being, unfortunately, not over-blessed
with this world’s goods, I obtained admission to
the Newington Asylum, where I remained seven
months. Yet, still I got no better, being unable
to swallow any nourishing food. I then took
two courses of electric - baths, for which I
paid six guineas, and, after them, with the
exception of some slight alleviation of my suffer-
ing, I cannot say that they did me much good ; in
fact, I could not even walk, so I returned home
feeling very despondent, and imagining that there
was no cure in store for me. One day, on reading
the daily paper, I noticed an account of a mar-
vellous recovery effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People, and considering that this
case (the one of Boilermaker Jarvis, suffering
from locomotor ataxia) closely resembled mine, I
determined to make a trial of them, and sent a
boy from the house to buy some for me. I ex-
perienced relief after the first box, and have
steadily improved ever since; my appetite re-
turned, and I ceased to suffer from that terrible
feeling of nervousness. lam now in my seventh
box, and can confidently assert that 1 am most
decidedly improved in health. My friends also
notice a marked improvement in my condition,
and this I entirely attribute to the health-giving
properties of Dr. Williams' Pink Pills ; in fact, it
must be solely due to them, for I have tried no
other remedy. The proprietors of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pdls are at perfect liberty to make whatever
use they may think fit of this statement, for I feel
deeply grateful for the benefit I have derived from
them.
4.
Unsolicited Praise.
GRATITUDE OF A NEWTOWN
INHABITANT.
It is an old saying that one volunteer is worth
ten pressed men, and when we receive unsolicited
testimony as to the value or efficacy of any par-
ticular article, we are inclined to place double
value on such voluntary statements, more especi-
ally when they hail from old-established and
respected men of business. It was in view of the
foregoing paragraph that a reporter interviewed
Mr. Charles Green, Provision Dealer, of 4 Alice-
street, Newtown, who for the last four years has
been a martyr to indigestion, accompanied by the
dry, hacking cough.
A reporter, on making himself known to Mr.
Green at his pleasant home in Newtown, asked :
“ Is it true that you have been suffering for over
four years from indigestion, Mr. Green? ”
“ It is, indeed, and it has been so bad at times
that I have often felt tempted to go up to a
stranger in the street and get him to punch me in
the back. I have often had friends to do it, ; and,
simple as it was, it gave me relief for a time.
“Did you have any other ailment at the time,
Mr. Green ?
as/
_
Wk
-=.l
mm
fmzm
“Yes, I also
suffered from a
nasty cough in
the summer
time ; it was also
on me on and off
for about the
same as the in-
digestion. As
an example, I
would cough and
immediately a
lot of thick black
phlegm would
fly up into my
mouth. I pre-
sume it came
from my chest,
on account of the
ticklish feeling I
would feel there. For that I have taken numer-
ous concoctions, including cod liver oil, which
did me no good, but now X am thankful to say I
feel grand, and hope the cough will not return.
In one sense I miss it, as I have been acquainted
with it so long, but it is a very welcome miss.
“To what do you attribute this marvellous
happy alteration in your health, Mr. Green?’
“To one Medicine alone, and that is Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, for from
nearly the first pill I felt relief and an improve-
ment in my appetite. I went steadily on taking
them, until I got as I am now, and there doesn t
seem much the matter with me now, does there ?”
“Indeed, no, Mr. Green, you look the very
picture of health and strength.”
“I feel so, and I assure you that I have such
unbounded faith in their restorative properties
that I have recommended them to plenty of my
customers, numbers of whom are taking, them,
observing the wonderful improvement in my
health and condition. Why, I have actually
gained 141 b. in weight since taking them, and I
continue to put on weight daily. I learnt of them
first through an advertisement in one of the
papers, and I can truthfully state that they have
done all and more than I expected them to do. ”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills create new blood,
build up the nerves, and thus drive disease from
the system. In hundreds of cases they have cured
after all other medicines have failed, thus estab-
lishing the claim that they are a marvel among
the triumphs of modem medical science. The
genuine Pink Pills are sold only in boxes, bearing
the full trade mark, “ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.” Protect yourself from imposition
by refusing any pill that does not bear the regis-
tered trade mark around the box.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth?
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, ropy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeak c. ease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents and guardians rest a great re'
sponsibility at the time their daughters are bud'
ding into womanhood. If your daughter is pale,
complains of weakness, is “ tired out ” upon the
slightest exertion ; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side ; if her temper
is fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
of the most dreaded of all diseases —Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills upon the approach of the period of
womanhood, and thus avoid all chances of disease
or early decay.
4
Rheumatic Gout: A Master
Mariner’s Escape.
(Shields Daily News.)
Case of Captain Holland, Master Mariner, Dock-
wray Bank, East Holborn, South Shields. Expo-
sure to the weather had so crippled him that he
was totally incapaciated for active exertion by
rheumatism and rheumatic gout, from which he
had suffered for nearly nine years. Three doctors
had treated him without effect. He suffered daily
the most agonising pains in limbs and body.
There was considerable swelling in the joints, and
altogether he had a most miserable time. Hap-
pening to come across an article in a newspaper
describing the cure of a similar case by Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, he resorted to the same means
as a last hope of recovery. Asked the result of
this proceeding, he said : “I took one box of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills, and have only been visited
with the pain once since taking the pills, and this
was a slight attack, which a few pills speedily dis-
pelled. I feel myself a young man again.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a sure remedy for
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Paralysis, Locomotor
Ataxy, St. Vitus’ Dance, - Nervous Headache,
Scrofula, Chronic Erysipelas, etc. They are not a
purgative, but they restore pale and yellow com-
plexion to the glow of health, and are a speeifio
for troubles peculiar to the female ; while in men
they effect a radical cure in all cases arising
from worry, overwork, or excess of any nature.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are abtainable from all
leading chemists, or from the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Company, Queen’s Place, Sydney, who will
forward (post paid), on receipt of stamps or post-
order, 1 box for 2s. 9d., or half a dozen for 15s. 3d.
INK
’ILLS
O
This is an exact repre-
sentation of the only
genuine package, which
is in a wrapper of white
paper, printed in red.
Inside the wrapper are
Dr. Williams’ Direc-
tions for use, enclosing
the wooden box or tube,
which is about two inches
long, and a shade larger
round than a shilling.
In this form alone are
they genuine. In case
of doubt, it is better to
send direct to the
Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


“Kameruka ” to The Bulletin :
All sea-going vessels should be compelled to carry a
rocket-apparatus with necessary line and gear. Time is
of the utmost value in most cases of shipwreck, and as
soon as the ship's position is ascertained, if a line to shore
will be of any use, rocket communication could be
established at once. The rocket brigade on land is all
very well, but ships mostly select places where there
isn’t any, and it isn’t always an easy matter to rouse out
the men—perhaps in the middle of the night, and hunt
up the horses required for the lumbering rocket-carriage
—after which, perhaps, a good many miles have to be
travelled to the scene of action
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The. firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Spring BCids l>aV€ BCirst
MARK FOY’S.
A RIOT OF LOVELINESS.
•iii iilli
ttirJii
is
■
r g
Si
r
rrw
ir i
H
H
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash,&c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARO’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra,
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
W
H
H
H
OWAKD’S Banjos, from 12s. 0d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (1 tone), from (id.
to 1 guinea,great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel WhistlesTl000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tam
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD'S American Organs, for cash or on,
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
H
OWARD'S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to.
21s., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra,
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30,
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S .Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
U OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from lid. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
HOWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,_
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass..
and silver ; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated £
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass#
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra,.
W.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
( With the Usual Apologies).
In the same old iron shanty, looking bold as bold
can be,
There’s a tow-haired girl a-serving, and I know
she’s fancy free;
For the dust is o’er your boot-tops, and the cruel
bells, they say:
“ Come you back, you Eastern Johnny, come you
back to W. A. ! ”
Come you back to W.A.,
Where you’ll thirst the live long day ;
Can’t you hear the glasses clinking for each
shilling you must pay ?
On the fields of W.A.,
Where “ dry-blowing ” is the play,
And the “girls” are like the “boys” are—having
quite a taking way.
Her jealousy was yellow, and her fits of envy
green; . . ,
But her name I daren’t reveal it, very queer though
this may seem; . ,
And I heard her first a-talking of horses and the
loot, . TT _ ,
And a-blowing powd’ry kisses to a W.A. galoot :
Awful larry, full of whisky,
But she called him “ nice and frisky ’
When he kissed her where she stood—oh he was
so “ game and risky ”
On the fields of W.A., etc.
When the dust was on the bottles, and their con-
tents “ going slow,”
She’d take her nip of whisky and murmur d n
the show,”
With her feet upon the counter, and the paint
upon her cheek,
She would sit and watch for “Johnnies,’ and
swear it seemed a week.
Yes, she’d swear it seemed a week,
In that weary, beery reek,
Where the flies made life that lively no human
could be meek
On the fields of W.A., etc.
But she’ll put that all behind her —into limbo,
far away ;
When she’s hooked a guileless hubby she’ll be
happy as the day ;
Sipping “ gold-top ” (’stead of whisky), smother-
ing down her bar-room yells :
Once she starts to be the lady she’ll soon rank
among the swells.
Yes, she’ll rank among the swells,
Where a fellow-feeling dwells,
And all ante-nuptial lapses banished are by
wedding bells
On the fields of W.A., etc.
With a nerve as tough as leather, and a face as
hard as stones,
Not a ball or dinner-party but she'll pose as
Hyphen-Bones;
Dancing here, and prancing there, quite the leader
of a band,
The afflatus of her presence always like draught
beer—“ on hand ” :
Flinty-faced and baubled band,
Never fear she'll be “ on hand,”
An older-soldier-matron from our newer, freer
land
On the fields of W. A., etc.
She’ll be settled where the “ boys ” are, where they
have a frequent “ burst ” ;
Where are only Nine Commandments, and a
“ girl ” mail have a thirst.
O, the wedding-bells will do it, they will ring her
past away,
Chiming out a sweet hiatus to the matron made
that day
On the fields of W.A.,
Where they have the charming way
Of accepting as quite vestal half the shunned of
yesterday.
On the fields of W.A.
Where “ dry-blowing ’ is the play,
And the “ girls ” are like the “ boys ” are—hav-
ing such a taking way, etc.
Coolgardie, July, 1897.
A Shattered Illusion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My friend insisted upon my going, and used this
unanswerable argument: “ To come to Paris with-
out seeing that, is like going to London and not
catching a cold.”
The truth of the latter connection struck me so
forcibly that I yielded. We took a cab, and my
friend, who resides in Paris, told the cabman to
drive to the Moulin Rouge.
I expected to be shocked. Nay, more—l began
to want to be. I was grossly disappointed.
Our destination turned out to be a large imita-
tion windmill—its revolving windsails gorgeous
with electric-light, shaded by red globes. Behind
this was a large garden and restaurant. In the
centre, a band-stand and band playing quadrilles.
On the left, a gigantic elephant, with a theatre
“ inside of him.”
The place was packed with people, mostly ladies.
Between the band-stand and the chairs, in the
open space, some women dancing a quadrille.
They danced in fours, and in doing the various
figures they raised their garments —but they had
tights and frilled undergarments, same as at the
opera ballet where we had just been. That was
all—except the garters. (Why is there such
fascination in garters ?)
My friend looked at me as if for appreciation.
I said: “Is this all? Why, Jimmy M'Mahon
gives us all this in the Cinematographe in
Sydney.”
He took me up the elephant’s leg into the
theatre inside. Two francs extra. “ Now I shall
be shocked,” said I to myself. It was the “ Danse
du Ventre,” and when it was finished my friend
looked at me as before. I said, “ This is chaste.
You should see a Maori haka in the King
Country.”
We strolled out and sat down at one of the
little tables. A couple of young ladies came up
and sat near us. They were gaily dressed, and
had their hair pulled up and banged like Cleo de
Merode, whom we had just seen at the opera.
(But then the opera is a most respectable place.)
One of them said: “Me spik Anglishe. Pur
exemple : E u-lee to bet, earl-ee to r-r-r-rise, make
a man ’ealty, velty and vise.” We bought them a
drink (champagne served by the glass at 50 cen-
times) and strolled away. Again iny friend
looked at me and I said—“ Nothing ! nothing at
all. Either of those ladies might be a countess as
far as manners and behaviour are concerned.
Why, I have seen a Clontarf picnic in the old
days.”
He said no more, and we drove to the Cabaret
du Ciel (the “Heaven-Pub.”). In a dirty little
room painted to represent the interior of a church,
with long tables down the centre, there was a
pulpit at the side and a band-stand in one confer.
A band was playing, and male attendants, dressed
as angels, with faded Roman costumes and dirty
gauze wings, droned “ Venez, mes freres et mes
sceurs ! Assei/ez-vou:s, mes soeurs et mes fibres ! ”
For there were ladies, too—Amurcans —who came
with Amurcan gentlemen.
When we were all seated, the angels brought
vile beer in small glasses and collected 60 cen-
times a glass, and a man in monk’s costume gave
us from the pulpit a burlesque sermon dealing
with the life of a pig.
At the conclusion of this the lights went out.
“ Now we shall see something,” I said to myself.
But it was only a series of living pictures thrown
on a glass.
Then we were invited to go upstairs. There
was a universal “ Ah ! ” and audible “ I guesses ”
from the Americans. But all we saw upstairs was
a representation of the demoniac effects familiar
to Sydney as “ D’Arcy Reed’s Ghost.” A young
gentleman was invited to ascend the platform. He
sat in a chair, and demons and fairies came forth
(the latter had much more clothing on than the
opera ballet). The demons encouraged the fairies,
who tempted the young man with dances and
gold.
Next we went to the Cabaret d’Enfer (the
“ Hell-Pub.”)—a dirty little place: coffins for
tables, little candles burning on them ; same bad
beer at same price. All round were pictures on
the walls. Lecturer begins. Pictures represent
various subjects —battle-pieces, a monk praying in
a cell, a girl with a guitar, a bull-fight. As the
lecture proceeds the pictures change, and the sub-
jects become skeletons. Ghastly enough, but not
“shocking.”
Then, each with a lighted taper in hand, we
proceeded through a series of black tunnels, sup-
posed to represent catacombs, and eventually
reached another little theatre, with a long tunnel
before us on the stage and a coffin upright at the
end of it.
Gentleman requested to stand in the coffin.
Then “D’Arcy Reed’s Ghost” again. The gentle-
man became paler and paler, shed his flesh, and
was turned into a skeleton. Next, a young lady
went up. She sat upon a little platform, and
presently two babies appeared on her lap. Then
she seemed to have nothing on but corsets and
skirt, but developments stopped at that.
Then a young gentleman went up. He sat
down, and a “ D’Arcy Reed’s ghost ” young lady
danced in and began to undress before him..
“ Now or never ! ” I said to myself, but it was
never ! She hadn’t got very far with the opera-
tion when she disappeared utterly. The young
man came back and they threw the ghost lady on
again to show him what he had missed. He
said : “Oh, Id, Id I Si j'avais connul” and there
was a shriek of laughter.
Then we went home, and, as we sat down to a
bit of supper at the hotel, my friend said : “Well,
what do you think of it ? Aren’t you glad you
saw it? Isn’t it a thing everyone who comes to
Paris ought to see ? ”
“ Yes,” I said—“ even the clergy ! Why, man,
I have seen more nudity at a swell ball or a bicycle
race, if that is what I was expected to see. In
fact, although the French are, in their own gay,
lighthearted way, a naughty lot, I have. seen more
lewdness and heard more filthy suggestion in one
half-hour in a London music-hall than I could in
Paris in a whole year—if that’s all you’ve got to
show.”
CORNSTALK.


Are you blessed with
Boys?
d
IF SO,
Our Suitable Suits
a Strong at Knee and Stout
at Elbow, to fit 8 to 12 years,
HALF-GUINEA,
are well worth seeing at
Hordera Bros., Pitt-street (Only)
(Economy is Nature’s first lav & >
P.S. Sc N.B.—We have also School Suits at a Cn
The ©NLY GOLD MEDAL
» 'sgS//
Wk
X
1
REPUBUQUE
JLIQJ
FRAM
& F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
The Everlasting Nay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For ages men have pondered what has proved the
Ages’ burden—
If life be worth the living, if its honey be not
gall ;
If Right be duly glorified, if just men win the
guerdon,
Or “Vanity of Vanities” be sum and end of
all.
And quaint fakeers of East and West with mystic
rites baptismal
Sing loud and long an ancient Song of Joy and
Jasper Sea,
A wondrous tale of blissful pale beyond the Deep
Abysmal
For him who bends a supple back and gives
fakeer a fee.
I looked around the coasts of Life and read the
message graven
By countless wrecks of noble craft on every
mile of shore,
Though here and there a tiny ship ran safely into
haven
Because the gods forgot themselves a moment and
forbore !
And everywhere the men I meet raise plaintive,
endless clamor
Of battling in the market-place for dole of daily
bread,
Of days devoid of beauty, of a sky bereft of
glamor,
Of weary body battling on when heart and hope
are dead.
Came one I knew, in days agone, with many a
gaud resplendent—
A crafty, blear-eyed worldling, “flown with
insolence and wine ” ;
I left him in the splendor of his diamonds and
his pendant,
And thanked the stars success like his was ne’er
success of mine.
And some there be who altars build of starry-eyed
Ambition,
Who cling to Honor’s garment in the hope to
clutch her crown,
Who sow to win the mob’s applause and reap—
the mob’s derision,
What time the “ swinish multitude ” shall
madly tear them down.
“ But happy they who live for Love,” ye cry in
hopeful chorus ;
Ay, happy for the few brief hours our hearts in
dalliance play ;
Ay, happy while the wizard wave his purple
pinions o’er us
To leave us weeping o’er the urn of ashes cold
and gray.
For some I know to whom this Love was draught
of fiery fusion
That poured with dreadful potency a virus
through the vein ;
And Love, at best, can ne’er be more than god-
devised illusion,
A day-dream sweet of Paradise where earth is
barren plain.
We pine for Power and give therefor our life-blood
in oblation
To feed that awful altar where the fires of
Mammon glow ;
We seek for Fame —the crowd’s acclaim — a
moment’s exaltation,
A name engraved on mountain peak —in melting
mountain snoiv.
Yet well I wis how fair is Earth to fleeting mortal
vision
(As fair she shone a few short hours before the
Deluge morn);
And well I wis what Night was hers, what pangs
of parturition.
What throes of Death environed her when Life
was newly born.
And ever “Is it well?” we ask—while up from
valley vernal
Sings Heart in yearning hopefulness her Ever-
lasting Y ea !
While Intellect despairing cries from heights of
Truth Eternal
Through Heav’n and Earth and Nether Deep
her Everlasting Nay ! -
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Pirihira.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Pirihira was a hundred years old—lean,
wrinkled, toothless, and nearly blind. Her back
was bent double; her head, as she stood, was
raised but two feet from the ground. Her arms
were as thin as the black stems in a flax-bush ; her
hands were like a hawk’s claws—she had one talon
missing ; it had been broken off short, leaving
only a stump. She walked as nothing else walks
on God’s earth. Shuffling, scraping her naked,
bony feet along the ground—her right claw grasp-
ing a long manuka stick in the middle—she pro-
gressed somewhat in the manner of a crab,
somewhat like an anthropoid ape.
Pirihira’s voice was more guttural than a man’s :
it was the voice of a frog. When she croaked, she
wagged the stump of her maimed talon, by way
of emphasis, at the listener ; and, with but little
encouragement, would tell the awful story of that
mutilated claw.
Pirihira had an atrocious idea that clothes were
almost superfluous to people of her ago. In the
heat of summer it was her custom to go about
half-naked. The sight of Pirihira’s back was
sufficient cause for a nightmare ; a glimpse of her
breast was a nightmare itself. She lived in Tohi-
tapu’s kainga, where she was always in the way,
and often short of food. When she was not at
home she was at Villiers’ pa— she was one of his
protdgies— where she had the run of a detached,
unused back-kitchen. There was her lair.
Therefore, when Villiers declared his intention
of journeying to Ingarangi, that far-off country
from which no traveller returned, Pirihira was
smitten with grief, and Tohitapu’s kainga rang
with her cries.
The pakeha took his wife and daughters with
him, and his house was shut up. He said he
would return in a year or two —but the Maori
mind finds it hard to reach so far. The Ngati-Ata
“ tangied ” for him as if he were dead.
When the tangi was over, Pirihira begged, bor-
rowed, or stole a little sucking-pig from hergrand-
son, Patopato. It was the only little pig left over
from the feast.
* • » •
Yilliers had a maiden sister, as prim and
proper a person as all England could produce.
She had led a sheltered life beneath the shadow of
the South Downs, occupied with the education of
female youth. Also, she was impecunious.
Her nieces were told to call her Aunt Cornelia.
She became their governess, and taught them
French and German, calisthenics and deportment
—and they thought that Ingarangi must be another
Reinga, which is the Maori Hell. They wished
they had never seen the place, but their mother
said—“ Hush, hush, girls. We shall be going
home soon.” Imagine their consternation when
they were told that their Aunt Cornelia was to go
home with them.
* * * *
When Yilliers returned to Te Rapa, there
was great rejoicing in Tohitapu’s pa. Tohi’, ac-
companied by a proper retinue, came to congratu-
late Te Wiria on his safe return, and to present
the compliments of the Ngati-Ata hapu.
When the dusky savages ranged themselves
upon the front verandah, Miss Cornelia sought
her bedroom, that sanctuary which had never
been desecrated. Pirihira was not at the levee.
She had been ill.
* * * *
Miss Corney was religious. To her, mirth
was an offence, and laughter a sacrilegious thing.
She had strange ideas of the extreme value of
food, and thought it “ too priceless a gift of God
to be eaten in the ordinary, prodigal, ‘ colonial ’
way.” Also she believed in the divine use of the
rod. And the Villiers girls prayed for an earth-
quake, even if only a little one ; they petitioned
Providence to erupt the nearest volcano. But the
gods were on a journey, or asleep, or something.
* * * *
Pirihira’s pig had grown immensely fat.
It could not squeeze itself through the door of
Pirihira’s raupo whare. It was so fat that it
could not stand—a whole side of Pirihira’s hut
had to be pulled down to give it egress. Then
four men carried it down to the beach and placed
it in a canoe. Pirihira’s two great-grandsons
paddled her and the pig over to Te Wiria’s pa.
It was night when they reached Te Rapa. The
boys helped the old woman ashore, and moored
the canoe. They could not lift the pig—it could
not lift itself—so they left it where it was. All
three camped quietly in Pirihira’s lair.
• • * *
With the first streak of dawn, Pirihira
awoke and commenced to croak. She wanted her
great-grandsons to fetch up the fatted pig. The
boys said they could not do this without help, and
the pakeha people were still asleep. Arguing
loudly, Pirihira walked round the house —the boys
following—and woke the pakeha people up.
The Yilliers girls immediately recognised the
croaks of the old makutu wahine, and went down-
stairs to greet her. There was a great re-union on
the front steps.
With all the sweetness of maidenhood, the
girls asked Pirihira if she would like to see their
mother. They pressed her to see their mother.
But Pirihira needed no pressing to see her “ mata
Wiria ”■—it was what she had come for.
Carefully they guided the ancient witch into
the house, and assisted her to ascend the stairs.
Safely at the top, she was shown a half-open door.
Pointing to it they said : “ Hacre, Pirihira, haere
in there.” Pirihira entered.
The room was dark —the blinds and curtains
were drawn. A figure lay in bed, wrapped in
tranquil repose. Pirihira could see nothing ; so
she raised her voice and whined in high falsetto,
“ E mata Wiria, you have come back, you have
comeback.” There was a gentle stirring of the
bed-clothes. Pirihira felt her way to the bed-
side, and laid a loving claw upon the sleeper. “ E
mata Wiria , I have brought your pig, I have
brought your pig.” The tears streamed down
Pirihira’s cheeks—tears of joy and affection. She
laid her other claw, the maimed one, on a bare
arm that had strayed outside the sheets. “Hi
mata Wiria, it has been fed on kumera and
peaches, on kumera and peaches.” Pirihira peered
with her sightless eyes close into the pakeha
sleeper’s face; shrivelled brown features were
pressed against white ; nose touched nose.
The morning sunbeams streamed through
the crack of the blind. A shriek, as of a soul
in Hell, rang through the silent house. A
white figure sprang from the bed, burst from
Pirihira’s loving clasp, and shot from the room
like a rocket.
The old uiakutu wahine groped her way down
the stairs, in her crab-like, anthropoid fashion,
and went to see about getting the pig up from the
beach. No white wairua was going to frighten
her—she knew too much about ghosts.
* * * *
Miss Cornelia packed up her traps that
selfsame day. She did not even stop to taste
Pirihira’s kumera-ied pig. She said she was not
going to stop to be eaten alive by cannibals. But
she had extreme ideas of the value of human food.
ML.
ALFRED A. GRACE.
“ Ought the man who has lost £50,000 in
some pastoral experiments to know more about
them than the man who has made £50,000 through
those same experiments ? ” Depends ! If you
want to get information for your own guidance,
go to the man who has made the money; but if
you want the information to lay before the
Government or a land-board in an appeal for re-
duced rent, or before working-men for reduced
wages, then put up the man who has lost the
money to pose as the authority and do the talking.
More than one such “ authority ” is helped to make
a pretty fair living in this way. —P.
Is there no satisfying America ? The
American Naturalist briefly describes a new
American earthworm (Mecjascolidcs amcricanus),
a brother of the giant earthworm of Gippsland
(Megascolides australis), which is said to be very
abundant around Pullman city, Washington,
U.S.A., and to make burrows over 15ft. deep,
also to have more kidneys, or what pass for
kidneys in worms, than any other worm on earth.
Melb. University Professor Spencer will now have
to arise and barrack loudly for M. australis ,
hitherto regarded as the world’s prize worm. The
man who writes this has put a foot-rule over a
Gippsland worm which went just a shade less
than 7ft., and was as thick as a laborer’s thumb.


"distinguished testimony.
His Honour, William P. Courtney, Mayor of Lowell, writes under date October
31st, 1896, of the benefit he derived from Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
. .
Wmmm
I
mm
■a®*
k
I
YZ
m
wlH'S'
m
w
iw
'/■
“I have great faith in the healing virtues of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, be-
cause it has helped me. The medicine cured me of indigestion, which had
troubled me seriously for several years.
"Since I began taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla my appetite has improved,
I have slept better, and in fact my health in general has been greatly
benefited.”
We take pleasure in reproducing above the portrait and testimony of
Mayor Courtney, whose services in the cause of good municipal govern-
ment have been recognized in his recent election to the mayoralty of his
native city for the third year in succession. His experience is the same
as that of thousands of other people, of all sorts and conditions, who
have found freedom from sickness, and restored health and strength in
the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.” There are many worth-
less imitations seeking to profit by the world-wide reputation of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
See that the name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is on the wrapper, and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer ft Go., Lowell, Hass., TJ. S. A,
THE LAST OF SIX
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
Leading Hotels.
Visitors to ■■■■——
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
OTJBEKT’S HOTEL,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform his
friends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines. Good acoommodation for travellers.
iE-SHS*.
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYtiNPY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
rerms
From 10s. per Day, and
.£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
■ ■
■EX IK
THE GRANH CENTRAL
OPPOSITE 9.AO-
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E ST Sbr. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
BOOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
Business Announcements.
TTTV. :A*Va*(3’h Telephone No. 427.
VV JHtSJie3.CL S Head Office : King & York sU
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Company.
Despatch Store : Washingfcon-sfc.
near Druitt-street.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 eaoh,
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, i/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked tip, per or.
We are the eheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wijzell,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps (or full Price list,
Prompt attention'gjvjsn to Country Ordsr*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
P ILLS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinem
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Kverywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is Ud, and 2s 9d each.
a?
%.(
ii-
A^l.
/
u' \
,-:• -
o°^
AFTER THE BIRTHDAY DINNER.
Lady : “ Now, Willie, wouldn’t you like to take some of the plum-pudding home
to your little brother ? ”
Willie : “No, thank you ; I have about all I can carry now l ”
ROOK OF NATURE
j -F —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, po-t free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free,. 1/6.
Amours op Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Abbe Mourbt’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koc", post free, Is 3d.
komance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, p«>m Is 01.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2b ; post, 2S 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id.
Heptamkron. unexpurgated, French stones, post,
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plat* s, 3s 6d ; post-, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be. by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, llmnance of Love and
Passion, post 2s; A Wily Widow, po-t "2>
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, 1,6 post.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Maria Monk, ls6d; p>st, ls9d.
The Serpent Tempter her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posieil. My Uncle Barbassou s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern -thj ;b tb: a ties. Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works »f Rabelais, faithfully translated from
lire French, unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
tiaiioiis bv Gustave Dole. 2s 61.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
E' i'cate One s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
privat e book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain*
j,.,(r ;,|| the tricks and dec ptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public, amusement, Is'; post
free, is 3d.
Tiie Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price; Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is: post, Is 4d.
The Wife's Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SEPPLI ED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LIST'S.
SEND
SIR
BEAR,
Cheap Boolt Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3^l.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
a blessing in every family.
° A 7 S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
Ihweu not a countrvin the civilised world where
ieooOTw/h Vlr fif 68 ° f t s ese aTand medicines have not jeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
recognised 1 tl^ r beneflcent . action is at once
recognised. I ullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Man*
factored only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Kg'” Pur-
If ° U <1 ' lo ° k . * ™ he Label on the Boxes and Pots.
epurh)us^ reSS 18 n Oxford-street, London, they are
/--THE—'
Ballet Girl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and. Domes*
tic lifp
Post Free X/-»
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
. , , of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars and
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Onlv of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
ABE —
w.
&
so
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
A CHOICE SELECTION
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
{
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
“THE BLOCK,”
83
York Street, SYDKTEY.
Collins Street, MELBOURNE!.
WortbiQgtoQ PCiri)pii}g Ei)gii}€ Corppaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
■I ??•;
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTH INGTONi
TRADE MARK.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies ;
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ , , ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WOK.THINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
of
The MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies') ■ the
0F BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more);
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING. ;
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET
is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
Agents
SBMD ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STISUET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.-
H. PATESON, Manager.
SOMETHING OUIT€N€W!!
\f/ j
Pi
IBS
smmm
,$U 'tP
mu*
FOR THREADING PIPE.
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINARY
STOCK.
OSTER PITEDT ROJUSTIIBCE DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
r, without running back over the finished threads
One stock will thread and cut off from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to *
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - -
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
THE
ALL SINGEK
SEWING
MACHINES.
ALL STNCER SEWING- MACHINES.
Batho’s
Baking pQ W |jQ ri
INSOLVENT ESTATE V
-—OF — **
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GTJNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading- Guns, best twist barrels
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners compiete
Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
wrth all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5
on ii i it, , , each, complete.
6 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished with all the latest
fsKytar«l?SMS’l™S„“oSfrir ohln ”%^ Ol 0o '" p lS ,e ' rai.redWuriOsea.-oomplete.'
reduced n £s e ss a each. DUCk GUnS ’ 8126 b ° re ’ best tWlst barrels - walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price £l5,
6 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very best quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 15s
idnttVv? sup P)’, ed fo . r the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address m any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun
BooQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGH'S or COLDS (recent or chmnW
T, INFUTOZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthl, T&kUbg S“he
lhroat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoQQiQgtoo’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver. ’ ,on ’
Is. a Boat.
